

IDEW-A-lEVS the WHISKY
4
4S
Minin
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—POB—
utractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
V- KS BUILDKRS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
—-
HOEluftLllX.
*
pdley s Orient fjotsl
pTomeew;
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowicl & Son Lid., 117 York St., Sydney
J. & H. McLaren have made a careful study of the requirements
Of the AUSTRALIAN MARKET,
And now
produce a
TRACTION ENGINE
specialty adapted for use on Station
and Farm for Ploughing, Clearing
a«nd for illustrated d.<«> iptiv.- Lista to Sole Agent*— land, Driving Pumps, Saws, Chaff Cutters, and other Machinery.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
X
Take it back.
I must have --
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
LINOLITE
(LINE O' LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES.
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current.
Sols Agents for Australia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Victorian Depot: 46 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Ci/t U fy&t.
HOSE.
For
STEAM, OR ROCK DRILLS.
DELIVERY, SUCTION,
Send Your Enquiries and ORDERS to—
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER
Telaphone Not. 882, 2438. 27 9 COOfgO Stl*oot,
Work* «t
SILVERTOWN,
ESSEX, ENGLAND.
CO.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSACHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
30 PITT sthbbt, s-3r:D:Kr:Ei'sr.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’* BEST
OIL ENCINE
IRRIGATION PUNTS
SUPPUED.
AUTOMATIC ICKITIOM.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED,
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
O-fAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locamotlve,
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer. Bquatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Ilitif-tr&ted Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction En gin esc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St,, Melbourne.
—■
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
the
ANNUAL SALE
Crockery, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
&c., is now in Full Swing.
Including Several Bankrupt Stocks bought by Mr. A.
"arris on his recent World’s Tour for Bargains.
iHARRIS&G
(Wholesale and Retail J.
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Mfilhnurne.
Watch Melbourne Dally Papers for Detailed Prices at this
Sale, which will astound the Public and the Trade.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready - Post free.
CO
HEEIDON SPA WATER. Has been tbe
corner stone of recuperation to many.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
V01.28.—N0. 1448.]
[Thursday, November 14, 1907.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TWO EXCELLENT GIFT BOOKS.
DISTINCTLY AUSTRALIAN.
gum-tree brownie
And Other Fagrie Folk of the ]
tions and decorations by Ida
ever Never, by TAREL/UA QUIN, illustra
!. Rentoul: 196 meres (oblon<r): art linen
cover design in three colors, ss. 6d., postage Qd
AUSTRALIAN SONGS,
design by IdaS. Rentoul; 32 pages (oblong) ; limp wrapper in three colors 2s. 6 cl., or basket linen style 55., postage 4d.
WRITTEN, ILLUSTRATED, PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR MAILING ABROAD.
Major Trevor, Problems in Cricket, 6s, post 6d.
Oppenheim, The Conspirators, 2s 6d& 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Nat Gould, The Little Wonder, picture boards 2s, cloth
bound 2s 6d, postage 6d.
Scott Voyage of Discovery, new ed., 2 vols., illustrated
Steel, Hosts of the Lord, “ Nelson’s Library,” Is posted.
Aves, Co-operative Industry, 7s, postage Bd.
Bligh, Pract. Design of Irrigation Works, 255, p, Is.
Lucas, E. V., Book of Verses for Children, 6s, post 6d.
Coates, Self-Reliance, Will Power, etc., 6s, post 6d.
Ohnet, The Oonqueress : a novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Hammerton, English Humorists, 3s 6cl, postage 6d.
Morgan, Alice for Short, cloth 3s Od, postage 6d.
Htggard, Pair Margaret, cloth 3s 6d, postage Od.
Grimshaw, The Strange South Seas, illus., 20s, ppst 9d.
Knight, Oversea Britain, 7s, postage Od.
Lapg, The Olive Fairy Book, 6s, postage 6d.
Law, House Decoration and Repairing, 7s, post Od.
Lady Gregory, Saints and Wonders, 6s, post 6d.
Ransome, Bohemia in London, 6s, post 6rl.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO., PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, pnd all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
<m
in
G.VUJDSO/V.
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS. /
ASK FOR. HUDSON’S-Tahe no Substitute. SOLD IN/ TINS, 1/6.
v,. v hp f „ ken dai i v v,v old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Ferm7 nta tionof the
Food and are thus fielp ul“ Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists or post fv£ fr om the Sole
Manufacturer, HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswichi Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in st^ ps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street London.
P.
THE RED PAGE
FLEET STREET.
Closes and courts and lanes,
Devious, clustered thick,
The thoroughfare, mains and drains,
People, and mortar and brick.
Wood, metal, machinery, brains,
Pen and composing-stick :
Fleet Street now, but exquisite flame
In the nebula ofice, ere day and night
Began their travail, or earth became,
And all was passionate light.
Networks of wire overhead,
Conduits under the sea,
Aerial message from strand to strand
By lightning that travels free,
Hither in haste to hand
Tidings of destiny;
There tingling nerves of the world’s affairs
Deliver remorseless, rendering still
The fall of empires, the price of shares,
The record of good and ill.
Tidal the traffic goes,
Citywards out of the town ;
Townwards the evening ebb o’erflows
This highway of old renown,
When the fog-woven curtains close,
And the urban night comes down.
Where souls are spilt and intellects spent
O’er news vociferant near and far,
From Hesperus hard to the Orient,
From dawn to the evening star.
This is the royal refrain
That burdens the boom and the thud
Of omnibus, mobus, wain,
And the hoofs on the beaten mud,
From the Griffin at CJhancery Lane
To the portal of old King Lud—
Fleet Street, diligent, night and day ;
Of news the mart and the burnished
. hearth;
Seven hundred paces of narrow way,
A notable bit of the earth.
John Davidson (in The Pall Mall Magazine).
FLEET STREET.
Beneath this narrow, jostling street,
Unruffled by the noise of feet,
Like a slow organ-note I hear
The pulses of the great world beat.
Unseen beneath the city’s show
Through this aorta ever flow
The currents of the universe—
A thousand pulses throbbing low.
Unheard beneath the pavement’s din
Unknown magicians sib within
Dim caves, and weave life into words
On patient looms that spin and spin.
There, uninspired, yet with the dower
Of mightier mechanic power,
Some bent, obscure Euripides
Builds the loud drama of the hour.
There, from the gaping presses hurled,
A thousand voices, passion-whirled,
With throats of steel vociferate
The incessant story of the world.
So through this artery from age
To age the tides of passion rage,
The swift historians of each day
Flinging a world upon a page.
And then I pause and gaze my fill
Where cataracts of traffic spill
Their foam into the Circus. Lo,
Look up, the crown on Ludgate Hill 1
Remote from all the city’s moods,
In high, untroubled solitudes,
Like an old Buddha swathed in dream,
St. Paul’s above the city broods.
Arthur H. Adams (in “ London Streets ”).
THE YOUNG AUTHORS' CLASS
CAN the art of authorship be taught?
Is it desirable, or possible, to train a
youth to be a novelist, to bring him
up to the hazardous profession of a
writer of stories ? With her business acumen,
America thinks the scheme is practicable, and,
while leaving the education of novelists to
chance, has already got to work upon the
profession of short-story writing. Whether
the prevailing tenuity of the usual short
story in the American magazines is the
result of, or the excuse for, this scheme may be
left to individual judgment; but the United
States is desperately in earnest. If the art
of the short story can be taught, the United
States means to produce a race of authors ;
several of the universities possess professors
in the art, and classes of embryo authors are
already hard at work. “ Courses in the
short story ” are an integral part of the
training of the American literary student,
and the demand for this instruction has pro-
duced at least a dozen text-books. A recent
article in this page gave some personal advice
to the beginner in short-story composition.
Let us supplement this by the opinions of
Evelyn May Albright, Instructor in English
at the Ohio Wesleyan University. Evelyn’s
opinions are embodied in The Short Story:
its Principles and Structure (Macmillan).
In scope and style, if not in subject-
matter, the Ohio Wesleyan Instructor points
out, the modem short story is as nearly akin
to the drama as to the novel. The emphasis
given to situation rather than to a sequence
of events, the preferences for crises, and
the use. of impressionistic methods are
derived from the technique of the drama.
Evelyn gives much information for the bene-
fit of the short-story class, and illustrates her
argument with quotations from the generally
puerile efforts of her students. However, her
main principles are well based, and the book is
worth study. Evelyn calls attention to the fact
that many people are tempted to begin on a
full scale too far back in the history of the
story, instead of stationing themselves at a
good central point, where the early begin-
nings can be seen in dim perspective as
small as they really are for story purposes.
The story should be conceived, not as a mere
continuous run of events, but in a few
striking scenes, more or less closely joined.
The right cut in the line of action is near the
main incident, before and after. The main
incident may thus ba expanded, narrated on
full scale as it deserves, and the preliminary
action reaching back into the commonplaces
of experience will seem to be diminishing
in perspective. This artificial proportion
acquired by foreshortening is one of the
main mechanical distinctions between short-
story and mere narrative. The writer should
shun the introductory par. The short-story
conclusion should not be descriptive nor
expository. Rather it should be made of
typical narrative material, preferably a de-
cision or an act narrated by the author, or
suggested by the speech of the characters.
The novel aims to show growth of
character. It portrays a certain period, or
the whole, of life—but with the aim of por-
traying growth. The short-story has to do
with change in character—the cross-road,
rather than the main road travelled : charac-
ter at a crisis. Owing to its limitations of
space, it must present characters artificially
isolated from family, from past history, from
the distant future. Of course there is no
such thing as plot in real life. Most experi-
ence does not fall naturally into plot arrange-
ment. So it is the story-teller’s business to
make up in his art for the deficiencies in life.
For the author’s aim is to fashion his material
in such a way as to reveal his mealring, and
; no art can be made without arrangement
of material with reference to purpose.
Evelyn does not consider the love-element
essential to the success of the short-story.
Brander Matthews said : “If we were to
pick out the ten best short-stories, we
should find that fewer than half of them
made any mention of the love of man for
woman (the chief topic of the novel). The
short story, being brief, does not need the
love-element to hold its parts together.”
And how does this Ohio Wesleyan/ In-
structor bring up her little brood of budding
short-story authors ? She kindly provides a
course of suggestions for assignments of
stories and constructive exercises in the art,
from which—for the benefit of Professors of
English at Australasian universities —we
extract a few examples of extemporaneous
class-work.
(1) Write a beginning, introducing a character
in the midst of a story, and rapidly suggesting the
preconditions.
(2) End a story which is read aloud up to the
denouement (e.g., Maupassant’s “ The Coward ”).
Try to follow out the plot probabilities, and get
the inevitable ending if there is one.
(3) Frame an appropriate title for a short and
simple story read aloud by the instructor.
(4) Write an impressionistic description of a
face, so as to suggest the main features of the
character or disposition.
(5) Make two characters from a story previously
written converse on an assigned topic of current
interest.
Evelyn also provides a reading list of good
examples of short stories, classified under
Motive, Plot, Unity of Tone, Character,
Dialogue, Setting, Fantasy, Love Stories,
Pathos and Tragedy, Humor, and The
Author’s Attitude. In these lists—probably
owing to American megalomania—Balzac
occupies equal space with Joseph Dodge
Daskam, Hardy with ‘‘o. Henry,” Maupas-
sant with Doyle, Poe with Mary Wilkins
Freeman. The Bible adds one to the list—
the sfiort-story of Ruth.
,
However, all this may seem to the be-
ginner hardly helpful. What he wants is a
short cut to the manufacture and the sale
of his commodity. And America, the em-
bodiment of business, comes to his aid with
How to Write a Short Stor]/, by Leslie W.
Quirk (Editor Publishing Co., New York
City). There is no sentiment about Leslie
W. Quirk. He is commendably frank, even
distressingly business-like. “ I take for my
theme,” he says, “the writing of a short-
story that will sell.” He is interested solely
in “the saleable short-story,” which he sub-
sequently defines as ‘ 1 nothing more or less
than a good plot draped enough to soften the
naked crudities without hiding the general
beauty of form.”
Nowadays a good short-story is a cash asset.
The demand is steady, the market unlimited, and
the prices good. ... Says Frank A. Munsey :
“The great field to-day is for writers of fiction.
There is not half enough to go round. Publishers
all over the world are reaching out for both short
and long stories. Good ones are extremely diffi-
cult to find, but the supply does not begin to equal
the demand.”
So now to work, and hustle !
If you want to write a short story, and doubt if
you have anything worth the telling, go to bed
early some night, get up with the sun the next
morning, and take a long walk. Now, with the
smell of nature in your nostrils, let your imagina-
tion run “as wild as a spook on a, spree.” Sup-
pose- that oloud up there were an air-ship, with a
kidnapper aboard, and suppose the boy who had
been stolen were the King of Spain. Can’t you
work out the details of what might happen ? Or
suppose that girl over there should come to you,
silently and mysteriously, and place a roll of
greenbacks in your hand,-with the words, “To
pay for your burial.” How would it end? All
this smacks of the sensational, I grant, but 1 am
going at this theme in a practical, manner. I
believe your first story will be sold because of its
plot. Nine first stories out of ten are.... Write love
stories. “ All the world loves a lover,” and editors
are human. But make your love story one of
action. Make it dramatic; melodramatic, if you
will. But wake up your reader; startle the
editor, and make him read it in spite of himself.
Fully three-fourths of all the stories submitted
nowadays are rejected because of weak or trite
plot-interest., . . Outline, in your mind, some
situation, improbable, inconsistent, inexplicable.
Then fit in the characters and incidents necessary
to make it altogether probable, consistent, ex-
plainable. ~. Have a page from a diary, telling of
a man’s undying passion for a woman, flutter to
her feet in some deserted place, preferably from a
balloon, an air-ship, an exploding shell far over-
head, or what you will. There’s material for an
unique love story.
Easy, isn’t it ?
However, Quirk has no illusions.
Even when you have supplied your plot in this
fashion, and written your story, it will not be a
literary production. It will be just the “stuff”
of a hack-writer, just a “ pot-boiler but pot-
boilers sell. . •
Every student of literature should paste
that pregnant apothegm over his desk. Pot -
boilers sell, and Quirk can tell you how
to manufacture thein. For instance, so
much depends upon the introductory sen-
tences, from the view-point of the editor,
that fully three-fourths of the stories sub-
mitted are never read beyond the first page.
The (American) editor’s method is simple :
He scans the introductory paragraph, and if
he finds that the writer plunges into his story at
the very outset he is interested enough to skim
over the entire first page. If nothing is found
that condemns the story, the editor now turns
to the last page, aiid studies the conclusion. If
he finds that weak, the story is returned without
further reading; but if it ends with a quick,
sharp turn, or in a manner that suggests rapid
dramatic action somewhat earlier ini the story, he
dips into the middle and glances over the other
pages; not systematically, but in a hop-skip-and-
jurup manner. Then, if the first promise is ful-
filled, he leans back and reads the story clean
through.
Quirk is fertile in original beginnings of
short stories :
Why not have the girl watching her faithless
lover, ten miles away, through a telescope ? Why
not have the heroine dressed in brightest crimson
and living in a convent ? Why not have the girl
wondering if the man she just pushed into the
cistern is dead ?
Well, why not ?
And suppose you can’t invent plots ?
There’s the convenient plot-broker advertis-
ing in The Editor : “ I buy, sell and exchange
story-plots.”
At present (he remarks) I have on file over 100
short-story plots of different classes; probably
there is one in the lot that is just what you want.
I guarantee their originality. Sit down now and,
write to rrfe ; tell me just what kind of a plot or
story-idea you want. I’ll answer by return mail
and give you ideas of what I have in the line that
interests yon. If you like the sketch of the plot,
buy ifc; if you don’t like it. I’ll take your wore
for it instead of your money. I throw in an
attractive title with every plot I sell.
And this plot-broker is dirt cheap. His
prices (with titles thrown in) range from one
to five dollars. What author would allow
this trifling expenditure to bar his road to
fame ?
But, having written your short story, you
have to dispose of it. Quirk ranks ‘ ‘ the
ability to sell a story nearly as high as the
ability to write one,” and he advises you to
know the market through and through.
You must study the magazines, and carefully
consider the particular magazine that your
story would suit. But, despite its curt
business methods, this little book will repay
study by the beginner. And The Editor,
a New Work monthly magazine, contains
more of these business f‘ tips.”
For a post-graduate course in our Authors’
University we may take as text-book the
rather technical treatise upon Authors and
Publishers: A Manual of Suggestions for
Beginners in Literature, by G-.H.P., and
J.B.P. (Putnams, per Lockley Library).
The initialled authors are obviously members
of the publishing firm; and the book, re-
vised and enlarged, is now in its seventh
edition. Putnams’ set forth the case of
the publisher with fairness. The subjects
treated include the various arrangements for
publication, the value of the literary agent,
and the questions of advertising and copy-
right. For the consolation of the rejected
author, Putnams’ point out that one-half of
the books published each year in the United
States fail to return their cost, and that one-
half of the remainder bring no profit, leav-
ing the cost of supporting the publishing
machinery of the country to be borne
by the publisher’s share of the profits
of one-fourth of the books issued.
Putnams’ disapprove of the literary agent,
on the ground that his chief aim—with
the laudable view of securing to himself
better commissions—consists in getting his
client to change his publishers with every
successive book. Thus the cumulative
momentum of publishing effort resultant
from the books being published in a uniform
binding and style and under one publisher’s
imprint is lost. Books thus scattered among
various publishers do not get the advertise-
ment that results from the cumulative
advertisement of one publisher. Each
book is “ pushed as a separate effort,
whereas the sole publisher of an author’s
work has an interest in emphasising the im-
portance of the author apart from his books.
Such books then have a chance of becoming
44 works,” and that is the first stage toward
1 4 standard literature ” and fame. Putnams’
also point out that no literary agent has
ever been tempted to start. as a publisher,
the inference being that there is a surer
profit secured from authors’ commissions
than from, the more speculative gains—and
greater risks—of the publishing business.
For “ the history of publishing is a record of
erroneous judgments, and publishing falli-
bility is an unavoidable factor in the conduct
of publishing undertakings.”
It seems an unaccountable omission on the
part of the American universities that they
offer no courses for the student who wishes
to become a publisher. Apparently pub-
lishers just happen.
For the Australian kiddie, Tarella Quin and Ida
S. Renton] have thoughtfully provided the real
thing. Gum Tree Brownie , and other Faerie Folk
of the Never-Never (G. Robertson, Australia) is a
delightful book of child stories, with the true
Australian flavor —for surely the continent is big
enough to provide its own fairies? —illustrated, in a
way that will bring joy to any child, by Ida
S. RentOul. There is at present no Customs
duty upon fairies; but, when so happily pre-
sented by Tarella Quin, the Australian kiddie
should need little persuasion to support the
home-grown product. Another delightfully illus-
trated book from the same publishers is .Aus-
tralian Songs for Young and Old, words by Annie
R. Rentoul, music by Georgette Peterson, and
illustrations by Ida S. Rentoul. The scope of the
subjects may be from the fact that two
of the ditties are entitled “Gobble Wobbles,”
and “ A Little Aborigine. ”■
Concluding an article upon G. B. Pshaw, in
which he quotes some remarkable eulogies of the
dramatist by the best critics of Europe, Archibald
Henderson, in the Atlantic Monthly , remarks : Of
one thing at least there can be no question : that
. Bernard Shaw is the most versatile and cosmo-
politan genius in the drama of ideas'that
Great Britain has yet produced. No juster
or more significant characterisation of this
man can be made than that he is a
penetrating and astute critic of contemporary
civilisation. He is typical of this disquietening
century—with its intellectual brilliancy, it 3 ironio
nonsense, its flippant humor, its devouring scepti-
cism, its profound social and religious unrest.
The relentless thinking, the large perception of
the comic, which stamp this man, are interpene-
trated with “ the ironic consciousness of the
twentieth century.”


it
Smart READY-TO-WEAR COSTUMES & DUST COATS
We have DEMONSTRATED to THOUSANDS of AUSTRALIA'S
keen BUSINESS MEN that our READY-TO-WEAR TAILOR-
MADE CLOTHING is infinitely SUPERIOR to that USUALLY
SEEN, our garments having the DISTINCTIVE CUT, high-class
FINISH, and EXCELLENCE of material associated with
costly-made-to-order Clothing.
DISCRIMINATING LADY SHOPPERS have EXPLODED the
FALLACY that SMART COSTUMES, FASHIONABLE BLOUSES,
and PERFECTLY-FITTING SKIRT!* MUST BE MADE TO
MEASURE. They have found FASHION IN HER FAIREST
GUISE at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM where THE NEWEST
CREATIONS ARE OFFERED at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Our Ready-to-Wear Costume Department offers unequalled
opportunities for the fair sex to secure the Season's Creations,
ready-to-wear, and reflecting in every detail the style, cut and
finish of costly Parisian Models. Our range of sizes enables us
to meet the requirements of almost any figure; if desired we
alter to exact fit free of charge.
!*■>?
m.
im
ter*
ii©
TiP/
IBH
sisa
.
'■• V 'Y
ca
Smart Silk Costumes
♦. ♦ AT ♦♦.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'*
No. Kir/.)—Colored Voile Costumes, stylishly
trimmed Guipure and Glace Silk, with Lawn
and Lace Vest and Sleeves, Sky, Champagne,
Grey, Pink, Reseda, Black, Navy—B4s.
Other similar styles—4ss., 555., Gss., 755., 955.
No. 791 —Sicilian Blouse Suit Costume, trimmed
all over Lace and Glace Bands, Cream,
Brown, Sky, Grey, Navy, Black—39s. (Id.
No. 20 —Fancy Stripe Sicilian Coatee Costume,
with Irish Guipure Lace Sleeves, stylishly
trimmed Chilfon, Applique, Chenille and
Fancy Stitching, Coatee lined Silk—7ss.
Similar, in Black and White Checks and
Stripes—(l7s. Gd.
No. G 055/1 —Colored Shantung Kimono Coatee
and Skirt Costume, Reseda, Rose, Navy,
Green, Brown, Champagne—69s.
Similar styles—s9s. Gd., 635.
No. G 47 —Fine Self-Colored or Fancy Voilene
Costume, over Silk, trimmed Irish Guipure,
in the most popular light shades— £5 7s. fid.
And in Chiffon Taffeta Silk, over Silk. Navy,
Bronze, Green, Reseda, £0 12s. fid.
Other Styles in Black Silk Costumes—£6 Gs.
to £lO 10s.
We cannot send Ready-Made Garments
on Approval.
R ™ l Costumes and
WE “ Dust Coats.
No. 976—Stylish Chiffon Taffeta Silk Costiui e,
over Silk lining, iti light Pastel Shades only,
trimmed Irish Guipure—£7 7s.
Same style, with two folds at foot, in light
colored Fancy Voilines over Silk—£6 (is.
Light Self-Colored Voiles, over Silk—£6 10s.
No. 641—Soft Ivory White Silk Brjdal Costume,
trimmed Lace, Chiffon, a'ud Orange
Blossoms —945. 6d.
Similar styles—£3 15s. 6d., £4 17s. 6d., £5 55.,
£6 6s.
No. 1239 —Russian Belted Sicilian Dust Coat,
trimmed Silk and Silk Braid, Navy, Cream,
Sky, Green, Rose —30s.
Same style in Tussore Silk, trimmed Guipure
Applique, 355.
Plain Sicilian, in Navy, Black, Sky, Cream —
38s. 6d.
In Art shades, 535. 6d.
No. 1247 —Smart Sicilian Dust Coat, 7/8 length,
Navy, Green, Light and Dark Rose—23s. Od.
Plain 7/8 Sicilian Coat,* Black, Navy, Steel
Grey, Oxford Grey, Light Fawn, Cream—
19s. 6d„ 255. 6d.
Newest Art colors—3os.
No. 36—Art Sicilian Coatee Costume, trimmed
Chene Silk and Paris Guipure, White Glace
and Lace Sleeves, Navies, Greens and Rose
Shades —755.
0m
m
r
%
m
mi
1239
—.
Send for our SUMMER FASHION PORTFOLIO, Post Free on Application
HORDERN (& SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
I.td.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account bales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.'W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ G-KIP DHOPPEH.
Will Anprape - BOOKS-
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Ranch, Is. Piping Hot ;
Homan Broths ; and all Zola’s;
Is Gd each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Datk Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is v Reynolds’
Court or London Series, is. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wipe, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron op
Boccaccio, 2/6. Hkptamkron. 2/6. Bride op the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits op Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
tiie Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal op French
Art, in 5: Darts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s.(id. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, ls. Scientific Wrestling,
Is.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
1-. King Koko, a Conjuring’ Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. .Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
fWAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
4-B
ME
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply tlie correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer ouly is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta I ercha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods maybe appreciateo,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send vou the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer ? This
vreat offer is only open for a limited time, ■' ~
g Write at once. THE GUTTA. PERCHA TRADING 00., 120 Ash St„ Sydney.
END’S
' ' V
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous,
jilt is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
I QAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked EHO’B ' FRUIT SALT/ Without It you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparad only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.’/FRUIT ’ WORKS. LOUDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPBTXTIOKT.
WINES “ B &“* 0nly ° ! SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HP FREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2s.
We receive hundreds 7 N© MONEY REQUIRED WHftTEYE R-Simply
AiuSnS / send us a post card with full name and address and say you will
oi testimonials / seU the jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the
daily.
We send your pre-
sent by return post
We have no furth
er claim on you
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
if you wish.
: Jewellery c . _ . ,
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents.
for selling 12 articles of
jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our ‘‘ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
Pena for selling
rree only 6 ar-
ticles. We will
send solid gold Pin
as
&
Free
for selling
only 3 articles
we will send you your
choice of any articles pick-
ed from our Catalogue of novel-
ties which we send with the jewellery.
jjOThe party selling the" 12 a--
JT’ I CC tides in the shortest time is en-
titled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
* Address : British Jewellery Co., 907 George=st., Sydney,
or Ring, or lady’s
Solid Gold Pend-
ant and necklet or
Bangle
I Send us your
Kame & Hddress
C'B*
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In 50
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
Ail G.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports.
C.B.
•V
£
Iffy
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 1 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousand of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for a hook of types to .
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, 75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
TWO LEADING BRANDS —-r
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER,
RISK S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Guaranteed Life Preservers. Wholesome and Refreshing.
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
gflEyffEErg Olwllf ipoilil
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
to^«err“f3iaaSS
ComoWnts nSve. nd never can resist the w,uderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pille Must Bear Signature oi


e'
"mi;
/my/,
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
%air Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Prepared by Dr. ii C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.. U.S. A.
IM?N
In consequence or
the great demand, the
Samples of Creme
Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
fresh supplies arrive
we will post a full-
size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/6, or
White,Cream or. Pink
Powder for 2/6.
CLAUDE HEALY. & Co.,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
IF you don’t read THE LONE' HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
As LIVELY as a
CRICKET
I THE EVIDENCE ,
from 13, Yule Street, Petersham, N.S.W.,
July 23rd, 1906.
“My friends did not think I would I
rear my little William who was a (
very frail child from birth. But
I never despaired of his life, for
I commenced giving him Scott’s
Emulsion , when he was only
a fortnight old, feeling sure
that Scott’s would build him up
and make him strong. He is now
as lively as a cricket, he has lost
all his delicacy, and is a fine,
bright, healthy child, which is
entirely due to Scott’s Emulsion.”
(Mrs.) EDITH C. SMITH.
“THE REASON WHYH
LIFE WAS SAVED I
c Scott’s Emulsion went to work
to help nature by filling the little
system with the abundant nourish-
ment which it so badly needed.
Scott’s was able to do this be-
cause of the fine, pure Norwegian
cod liver oil, of which it
is invariably made,
and also because of its
perfect digestibility
attained by the beau-
tiful Scott process of
manufacture—the
secret of which is
possessed by Scott’s
Emulsion only.
TRADE MARK
Make sure of getting this best of all
emulsions by seeing “the fishman
with the fish” on the package.
scorrs
EMULSION
From all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
BUILT HIM UP”
IRISH MOSS
mfi -The best remedy-
FQR "~ INFLUENZA, ■
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton’s CO L °bRONCH IT! S .
and seethaiyou gel it . ASTjH^NTA^
It
EDWARDS' *
HARLENE
sizE4e
TO
FOB
DKG
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
The Finest Dressing.
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 8 96, High Holborn, London, w.c. J!
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
dinnefordU
MAGNESIA.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... Is
Packet of Ten 10<3
It is nice to do the <
necessary cleaning with j
Calvert’s j
Carbolic Tooth Powder j
That is obvious at once from its )
pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
freshness left in the mouth, and of (
course you will soon see how j
splendidly, how easily, and how )
thoroughly it cleans. \
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. )
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
MANY LIVES.
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Ottftridge-s
V £ungTontc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
!
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
PLASMON
COCOA
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment
than ordinary Cocoa.
PLASMON OATS
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of Husk and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment i
with easy cooking.
PLASMON
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE '
TO ,
GOOD HEALTH.
<
Ask for them. '
i
iROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Memories.
My memories abide with me
As dreams from which I, now awake,
Within my languid reverie
The sweetest parts alone need take.
Round broken hopes I do not build
Regrets to make a double loss ;
The best of what remains I gild
Uncumbered by the waste years’ dross.
The ashes of the past to me
Are ashes to be thrown away;
But first are sifted carefully
To yield such profit as they may;
And in the volume of my years
Each leaf doth hold its scented flowers
Fragrant of joy, but dried of tears :
The essence of ecstatic hours.
Within the stress of present days,
Where gain and loss mix tangledly,
A sweetness ever with me stays :
My memories abide with me.
N.S. W.
HAMER.
Harbor Fantasy.
Harbor lights, reflecting, gleaming,
Blue and yellow, scarlet, green,
Boats at anchor, gliding, dreaming,
Glimpse of a Venetian scene;
Music fills the ferry steamers
With a glamor magical,
Only city-thralled blasphemers
Frown upon love’s carnival.
Comes a peal of elfin laughter—
Ah, ’twas love’s sweet eyes that shone!
So may passion riot—after
Come what will—oblivion !
Summer is the wooing season,
Lips unkissed soon wither, cold;
Who’d be guilty of the treason,
Save the miser counting gold ?
Hearts inspire with vague suggestion—
Oh, most exquisite delight!
Is vainglory worth a question
Drifting through Arcadian night
Soft as dreams of love ?—to-morrow
Who cares what regrets may come ?
Passion lives to-night—and sorrow
Dare not come till love is dumb.
Look, the bright aurora lifting
O’er the city minarets !. . .
Loose the tiller, dreaming, drifting,
Soon the heart all sin forgets !
Southern sons and southern daughters
Gliding down love’s firmament,
Drifting down the star-shot waters,
Tranced with fabulous content.
Harbor-lights, reflecting, gleaming,
Green and scarlet, yellow, blue. . . .
What wild thoughts be yours, love, dreaming
The enchanted evening thro’ ?
Sweet emotions, breathless sighing,
Ebb and flow like summer tide;
Look, the silver banners flying
Where the moon unveils her pride !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Song of the Sea.
Once I dreamed I had captured the croon of the
sea,
And had woven it into a song;
The rhythmical, mystical croon of the sea,
O’er deep, booming billows borne ever to me.
By snowy-shod wavelets that splashed it in glee
On the sands as I sauntered along—
That rhythmical, mystical croon of the sea
With its baffling, elusive, sweet song.
And I thought it would lull little children to
sleep,
And would ease every sufferer’s pain ;
The lullaby, rockabye hushing to sleep,
That, drawn from the heart of the fathomless
deep,
Held magic to comfort all mourners who weep
In its rhythmical, soothing refrain—
’Twould lull all the little ones softly to sleep
And would ease every sufferer’s pain.
Then I thought of the wavelets iEolus had wooed
And had won for the sport of the day ;
Had kissed and caressed and with soft nothings
wooed
Then taunted and flouted with epithets rude,
Until, with the fury of demons endued,
They had leapt to the sky for their prey,
Those gay little wavelets yEolus had wooed,
And had then flung in scorning away.
Still my song had no name, though the cry of the
child,
And the moan of the sufferer in pain,
The sob of the mourner still unreconciled,
The shriek of the tempest when passions were wild
When too-trustful hearts are by fancy beguiled,
Had found echo within its refrain—
My song had no name, although mourner and child
Had been comforted by its refrain.
Then I thought how the slow-swelling, incoming
tide
Rose responsive toDian above ;
The slow-moving, far-reaching, incoming tide,
The lover obeying the call of his bride,
Who silently leads him o’er ocean tracts wide,
And the name that I gave it was T.ovq
F ° r 1 tide ght h ° W the slow ' swellin »* incoming
Rose responsive to Dian above.
N.S.W.
MAY KENDALL.


46
/
SYDNEY Show Rooms
56 Put Street.
/Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
(adburyscocoa
A cup=ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
Cadbury’s Cocoa is
not only PUREST and BEST,
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to buy and use. A half tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
beverage it is possible to obtain.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
<CgS3S
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot set
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
mSB m
£n0 s
ffiatchg
i n rv
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
7\ Certifjcate. Given With Each Watch.
Y/,\sou
fe ft9 \V 'B« s
0 E N 4
1892 )r e 63
tsW
1750.
% f /
s
ROTHEftHAMS
la
m
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
VECtfcL UDIIiUR
Scotch whisky
S
m
a
w
m
A
%
z
z
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
TE N YEARS PUBLIC USE HAS PROVED THAT
0 AIN’S
IQ'MLD THAT
J±HT
l _S3
/^EVERFAIIS.
head office -Mutual Life Building, martin Place. Sydney.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . /
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
. Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Oastlereaph Street.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSINC SALOON. ~m TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made urn
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2135.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
V
*!*■
: m
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain anti Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
r
*
m
*,*«■
AVENARIUS
Prevents White Ants, destroys dry rot,
and doubles the life of all timber.
ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Wholesale i E. RICH &. CO* B Lid., Sydney &. Brisbane*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1448.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1907.
Prick 6d.
p~ V »
V MoT oR (s>^PisF&
PRAweD JZy
Hops (j^f/tjTt/Dy]
“WAR IS HELL!” —General Sherman.
General Gordon thinks a motor-corps would prove very effective in war
In the above picture (purely imaginary, thank Heaven.) "Hop’s” understudy has depicted the horrors of an Australo-Aslatic war on motor lines.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Austral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thu Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hoiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tioc columns in length, or, say, 8000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To .1 mateurs in flinch, and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-draum —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
The Central Neivs Agency, Durban , Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Redder-st.„ Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xllfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7Re^^xxlleixaL.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1907-
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories,
grave and gay, by the foremost writers of the
Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black
and White work in Australia, and will picture
the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year,
is the standard epitome of the life of young
Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be
accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.
There is, to the social student, something more
to be gleaned than satisfaction with a pretty bit
of Federal feeling from the recent opening in
Melbourne of a show of pictures by Sydney artists.
Certainly it is noteworthy that the artists of
Sydney (alike with most citizens of that city with
any commonsense) recognise in the dismal shrieks
of Mr. Wade and Mr. Carruthers as to “ Mel-
bourne jealousy” and “Victorian conspiracies”
only electioneering falsehoods of a particularly
unpleasant and unpatriotic type; that the public
of Melbourne gave the artist the proper reward
for their good sense by attending their
show freely, buying freely, and never once
hinting that the product of a Sydney brush
must necessarily be worthless; and that the
Prime Minister of Australia, head of the gang of
“Victorian conspirators,” about whom Mr.
Wade and Mr. Carruthers moan, snatched an
hour from the crowding cares of his life to officially
open the show. These facts have their import-
ance. Less obvious, at a first glance, "but of equal
value, are some other suggestions which the inci-
dent prompts. The Sydney artists primarily
went down to Melbourne so that they might sell
their pictures. Experience teaches that Mel-
bourne buys pictures whilst Sydney does not.
Sales arising from a Sydney exhibition of
this particular collection were disappoint-
ing. So an appeal was made to Mel-
bourne purses, and with a good deal of success.
Streeton, a Victorian artist (who to be “in the
picture ” as it is presented by Mr. Wade should
find a reason for this in the allegation that Sydney
is a barbarous and uncultivated city, far inferior
to Melbourne in its perception of the arts), has an
explanation which is very flattering to Sydney’s
pride. The citizens of the harbor city, he main-
tains, have such a surfeit of natural beauty that
they do not need pictures. Almost every street-
end shows a glowing bit of sea and wooded hill.
Which is very pretty but not quite adequate. Not
only in this matter of picture-buying, but in a score
of other points of social life, Melbourne and Sydney
show a strong divergence in development; and the
line of cleavage widens with each year, so that un-
doubtedly the future of the Commonwealth will
be a good deal affected by the radical points of
variance in the community character of its two
great cities.
* • » *
Had Sydney been built on Botany Bay, as was
originally planned, its development would pro-
bably have been more on Melbourne lines, with
some modification caused by climate; for the
physical characteristics of its site profoundly
affect the character of a city. As it stands,
Sydney is on the shores of the most beautiful little
sea-lake in the world, surrounded on all sides
by picturesque hills, which defy the worst
malice of aldermen to make them altogether ugly.
Melbourne is on a flat plain, stretching back from
a dull and dreary bay, and has no natural beauties
at all. The one site invited man to loaf at ease and
enjoy what Nature had provided ; the other sug-
gested the need of strenuous hustle if a worthy
home were to be created. For the same reason
that the temperate zone gives the best stimulus
to civilisation in that it promises a fairly certain
reward for energetic and thoughtful labor, but,
unlike the Tropics, promises nothing to idleness,
and, unlike the Arctic regions, does not depress
effort by impressing a sense of its futility, the site of
Melbourne gave to its population a constant tonic,
the site of Sydney to its citizens a drowsy sedative.
If it had not been that the early goldfields found
their natural port at Melbourne, of course there
would never have been a great city there. But,
after those goldfields had faded away, Melbourne,
too, would have sunk back, if it had not been that
its citizens had been taught energy by their cir-
cumstances, and set to work to make their city the
great manufacturing centre of Australia. Mel-
bourne had very little natural fitness for manu-
facturing, but the strenuousness of its citizens
compensated for that. They had already got into
the habit of thinking that all things are pos-
sible to human effort. Making a noble city
arise from a dull, flat plain had taught
them their capacity. To a large extent, the Pro-
tective tariff of Victoria was due to the frame of
mind which was created by the struggle to wrest
civic beauty out'of ugliness.
» * * *
The growth of time has accentuated the points
of difference between Sydney and Melbourne. It
shows in a score of ways. Business and profes-
sional life is less strenuous in Sydney than in Mel-
bourne. The climate and the situation suggest
ease to the Sydney man. Civic government is
more effectively organised in Melbourne than in
Sydney ; Melbourne can’t afford to be unkempt or
untidy; her good looks are dependent on con-
stant effort; whilst it is impossible to make
Sydney look really ugly. The family life is more
sedulously cultivated in Melbourne, and social
life is organised on a different basis. Practically
all the entertainments of Melbourne must be in
the homes, the restaurants, the theatres : in Syd-
ney, the harbor picnic is the favored social rally-
ing point. So there is more ostentation, more
ceremony, in Melbourne : more gaiety and happy
irresponsibility in Sydney. Any Melbourne
house of pretensions has a “music-room,” where
the girls of the family may make at least well-
intentioned efforts to amuse guests. In Sydney
the music room is rare, except in large houses,
but not the smallest home is without some
rough gear for picnicking. The Melbourne
citizen is more orderly than the Sydney, and
there is a good deal more of the tendency to
snobbery in his life. The Melbourne man’s re-
spect for all conventions is greater: the black silk
hat, which is the badge of respectability in Britain,
still reigns in Melbourne : in Sydney it is rarely
seen. There is more reading done in Melbourne
than in Sydney, more deliberate effort at mental
culture. Since the weather is so much greyer
in Melbourne, the citizens are forced back
more on their homes, which they try to
brighten with music, with pictures, and
with the observance of a somewhat elaborate
social ritual. The respect for and interest in
Eersonages is much stronger in Melbourne than in
ydney. Any Melbourne citizen can point out
on “the Block” all the big doctors, lawyers,
civil servants, merchants —their wives and their
children. The Sydney citizen knows his George
Reid at sight, and then his interest in public per-
sonalities practically ceases. These are brief
hints at comparison which will suggest rather
than indicate the vital differences between the
two great cities.
* * * *
To generalise, it might be said that the soul of
Sydney was critical, imaginative, careless; of Mel-
bourne, constructive, practical, ostentatious. In
the Australia of the future, one may imagine the
great ideas coming more often from Sydney, the
great administrators from Melbourne. Civic
patriotism will be stronger in the Southern city,
but the divine love of Freedom will flourish more
by the blue waters of Sydney harbor. Melbourne
will be always in danger of her ostentation trend-
ing towards vulgarity, Sydney of her carelessness
lapsing into shabbiness. Melbourne will be
proud of a studied, conscious grace; Sydney
will be adorable in her negligent semi-tropical
beauty. So far no other centres of the Common-
wealth have really reached the dignity of cities.
Adelaide has preserved something of the quiet,
cultured Fabian spirit of the early Wakefield
colonist, but with a larger growth will probably
approximate to the Melbourne type. Hobart, in
some respects the most distinctive of the Aus-
tralian capitals, is not Australian, but English, in
type as yet; when it feels the impulse of pros-
perity, and has a big native-born population, it
may become the chief nursery of Australia’s great
men. Brisbane will, as it grows, follow in the
footsteps of Sydney. Between the Sydney spirit
or the Melbourne spirit, Australia will divide
itself, and the fusion of the two impulses, the
compromise of the two spirits, will be Australia —
and a very sensible, pleasant, well-balanced Aus-
tralia.
THE VOICE OF A MANUFACTURER.
The Bulletin receives this letter from a man in
a small way of business :—
In a recent issue you had an article on the sweat
ing of girls in drapery establishments. These girls get from
5s. a week up (or down). And as that sum is insufficient
to support them, they are necessarily supported by rela.
tives or by someone. You blame the employer for not
paying more, and accuse him of being subsidised to the ex.
tent of the balance of the girl’s keep. But the employer
does not benefit by it. His competitor pays the same
wage, and his selling prices are ruled by the cost of
goods plus expenses and wages. If all were compelled
to pay more, either the public would have to pay for it, or
the rents would be less. I am in a small manufacturing
business. Wages of girls employed are low. If the
minimum was fixed at a fairly high rate by Act
of Parliament, so that both my competitors and myself
had to pay more, I should not mind in the slightest.
Eventually, someone else would pay the increased cost.
If, on the other hand, wages fell, so that girls were pro-
curable for nothing, the actual employer would not
benefit for long. I should be pleased to see wages raised,
provided my competitors paid the increased rate as well
as myself. But I cannot afford to pay more chan others
n the same business.
And to this The Bulletin, with some slight
reservations, says “Certainly.” The only differ-
ence between it and the manufacturer who writes
the above letter is that it believes a remedy can
be found, and easily found; while the maufac-
turer seems to regard the situation with the
hopeless eye of a well-meaning man who feels
that the fates are too much for him.
* * » *
Putting the matter into the smallest possible
space, there seem to be the following reasons for
the abjectly miserable pay of the drapery girl
and the drapery man, and many other girls and
men : —
(1) The landlord takes as much as he can get.
Right here, The Bulletin wishes to say that the
landlord (whether he represents a man to whom
the manufacturer or shopkeeper has to pay rent,
or whether he is the manufacturer or shopkeeper
himself, and the rent is simply interest paid by
himself to himself on money invested in his own
building) should, in its opinion, get 10 or 12 per
cent, on the cost of his bricks and mortar.
He should do this, because he has to get a
fair interest for his money, and he has to
allow for the fact that the capital he in-
vested in the bricks and mortar will vanish
when the building wears out (which may be in a
century or more), or when it becomes obsolete,
and consequently unlettable or unfit for use
(which may easily happen in 20 years). But a
huge proportion of rent doesn’t represent the
value of the bricks and mortar, but the value of
the ground. And the ground shouldn’t have any
value more than it had when the nigger and the
kangaroo occupied it, until a living wage is paid
to the people occupied on it. And a living wage
shouldn’t mean the price of bare, savage, miserable
existence, but the price of civilised existence.
For a girl it should at least mean the price of
decent clothes, with nice hats and boots and
gloves in moderation, with good food, a bedroom
that is airy, comfortable and reasonably pretty,
some literature, some amusements, and a margin
over to save against emergencies.
* * * *
To resume the small print:—
(2) The trader takes as much as he can get in the way
of profit.
Sometimes he doesn’t get much, and sometimes
he gets a Sheol of a lot: —
(3) As much as possible of the balance goes in the ex-
pense of cut-throat competition, because there are two
or six or ten times as many drapers, etc., as are really
required.
The trouble arises out of the fact that, instead of
the draper being made for the people, the people
seem to be made for the draper. There ought to
be just the smallest number of drapers and other
dealers who will suffice to meet the people’s ne-
cessities. Instead, there is the largest number of
drapers and other traders that can possibly live
on the game. The legend of the million or more
of angels that could dance on the point of a needle
was nothing to the fact of the number of drapers
and other dealers who try to dance on the point
of a mere fraction of legitimate trade.
(4) The employee, girl or man, gets what is left.
And the only thing that destroys the beautiful
symmetry of the arithmetical position is that the
girl will die if she is not fed, and will be arrested
if she is naked and has no place to sleep. The
girl, with her desire for food, and her need for
clothes and a bed, or at least a floor, is an
irritating and upsetting factor in an otherwise
simple problem. She has to be paid a sum which,
with wliat she can get from her relatives, or what
she can steal, or what she can owe, or what she
can obtain from strangers by immorality or other-
wise, will keep her alive and in working condi-
tion, and enable her to present a creditable
appearance behind the counter, and at least a
clothed aspect in the workroom. She is a factor
which can’t be put down on a slate, and treated
as a sum, and reduced to a decimal. She is
reduced pretty nearly to starvation, but she can’t
be quite reduced to a decimal. If she is reduced
too much she may wander right off the slate and
into the cemetery, and then all the rest of the
calculation will go to blazes. But she comes
last—always last; and she gets just as little of the
leavings as possible.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s idea of a remedy is to put this
unconsidered human item first— to declare by law
that she (or he, but the position of the she is the
worse and the more pitiful) must be paid a wage
which will not only keep her alive, but keep her
in comfort as a civilised being. Then the com-
munity may sit down for awhile and see what
happens before it interferes again. By doing so
it will gain experience and find out in what
direction it is best to interfere. Something, of
course, must happen —either a reduction in the em-
ployer’s profits (some of him can stand a reduction
and some can’t), or a reduction in the number of
employers and a saving in the waste that arises
through needless competition, or a reduction in
the absurdly inflated ground values and ground
rents, or an increase in prices, or a little of all
four. If the increase in prices is great, then
it will be up to the State to take a hand,
by fixing fair ground rents, as the British
Parliament has done to some extent in Ireland ;
and perhaps by licensing all traders, and
issuing only so many licenses in each line for so
many thousand inhabitants, so as to reduce the
waste through excessive competition; and pos-
sibly by making the processes of distribution a
State affair on Socialistic principles. As the
manufacturer, and even the middleman, are alive
and work for their money, while the ground is
dead and doesn’t work for its money, it seems a
fair thing that the ground should stand a good
part of the loss. But whoever stands it, the fair
wage should be enforced at any cost. And the
high Protectionist tariff goes with it, as a matter
of course, else through foreign competition the
fair wage may mean loss of employment and no
wage at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The High Commissionership.
A rumor takes wing that it is proposed to ap-
point as High Commissioner a gentleman who,
though having many admirable qualifications,
is not an Australian citizen. The Bulletin
hopes that there is not a vestige of truth
in the report. Australian posts should in all
cases be for Australians, provided that there
is no sacrifice of efficiency through giving
them preference. In the case of the High Com-
missioner’s office it might be maintained that an
Australian should be appointed even if a superior
non-Australian were offering; for the moral
effect of having our one ambassadorial post filled
by a “ foreigner ” (and in this relation even a
Briton must be accounted a foreigner) would
be equivalent to an advertisement to the
world at large that there was not in all
the ranks of Australia’s citizenry one man
capable of representing his Commonwealth
abroad. In the scale against that, what can
be counted ? The consideration that by stepping
outside the ranks of Australia’s sons a rich man
could be got who would ‘ ‘ entertain magnificently!”
No more contemptible or sordid reason could be
ad vanced in a national matter. Australia does not
want to win victories in London at the
banqueting but at the council table: it seeks influ-
ence, not in the drawing-rooms, but in the legis-
lative halls. There is no reason at all why the
Australian High Commissioner should not live a
life of Republican simplicity in London and be
the njore respected for the fact that he did
not enter into competition with the Park Lane
Jews in barbarically-splendid entertainments.
Unless some better reason than that of wealth
can be advanced against an Australian citizen
receiving the post, the suggestion to appoint a
foreigner had better be dropped as expeditiously
as possible.
A Sinful Waste of Time.
The N.S.W. Parliamentary session is as yet very
young, but already the order paper is loaded with
various motions to discuss grievances or to appoint
Select Committees to inquire into claims. Con-
sider these few notices culled at random :
Mr. Broughton to move, —That a Select Committee be
appointed to inquire into and report upon the suspension
and claim of Robert Roberts, late bookbinder in the
Registrar-General’s Department ; that the Progress
Report from the Select Committee of Session 1901,
the Report from the Select Committee of Session
1902, and the Report from the Select Committee
of Session 1905, together with the Proceedings of the
Committees, Minutes of Evidence, and Appendices, be
referred to such Committee.
Mr. E. M. Clark to move,- I That a Select Committee
be appointed to inquire into and report upon the claim of
Richard Augustus Willoughby Green, in respect to
certain lands, known as Brumby’s Grant, Gore Estate,
Willoughby.
Mr. E. M. Clark to move,—That a Select Committee
be appointed to inquire into and report upon the claims
of Norman Selfe in connection with designs supplied by
him to the Government for the North Shore Bridge.
Mr. O’Sullivan to move, —That a Select Committee be
appointed to inquire into and report upon the com-
plaints of unfair treatment made by Madame Bell against
the Public Instruction Department.
Mr. McNeil to move, —-That a Select Committee be
appointed to inquire into and report upon the claim of
ex-Senior-Sergeant Vaughan for reinstatement in the
Police Force of this State ; that the Report from the
Select Committee of Session 1896. together with
Proceedings of tii ■ Committee, Minutes of Evidence, and
Appendices be refeii'ea to such Committee.
In some of the cases, that of Robert Roberts, for
instance, there have been already reports from
Select Committees practically stating that the
claims are just. But that does not get them any
“forrarder,” it seems. (The Bulletin knows of
one case where a man was ruined by the
blundering of the Lands Department, and
is now a penniless old age pensioner,
The Parting of the Ways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Preetrade system, as established in England, and
the British Empire, are, in the long run, two incompatible
things—as they were meant to be from the first. It is
for those who think they believe in both ideals, to decide
which they must forego.— London Times.
Englishmen must consider what their folly may cost
them. Going down, as they are, in the several markets
of the world, before the advances of the great Protec-
tionist nations, such as America and Germany, they
are asked whether they are prepared to throw away
Australia. — London Jsaily Telegraph.
Thou art come, O prideful Britain, to the summit
of thy glory—
See the new and stalwart nations marching bravely
on before;
Shall the strength that once was Britain’s only
live in misty story.
Are the pillars of thy splendor to collapse for ever
more ?
Great thou art —-as swollen Carthage, in her proud
and boastful hour,
When her vaunted ships and galleys rode in all
the Punic bays;
So thou ridest on the waters —but the portents
grimly lower—
Thou hast come, O tall Colossus, to the Parting of
the Ways !
Rich thou art in ships and shekels —thou hast
raked the earth for plunder—
Hast thou buried all thy wisdom in thy victims
scattered graves?
For the lands that seethe with paupers are the
lands that soon go under—
Doomed and damned are all the nations that
subsist on hapless slaves.
Thou hast reared a joss of shoddy, fed with sweat
and grim privations,
And thy starving people serve it all their bitter,
care-worn days;
And the power whereof thou braggest rests on
crumbling, cracked foundations —
Thou art come, O lofty Britain, to the Parting of
the Ways!
Are thy kinsmen less than shoddy ? —Wilt thou
hug thy joss and perish ?
Then our paths lie far asunder and thy pulse is
beating slow ;
For our destiny is calling and a standard brave we
cherish —
O Colossus, blindly groping, must the hard-won
Empire go ?
Wilt thou choose the path of folly—going down,
0 purblind Britain,
Going down before the rivals who have spurned
thy CoBDEN-craze ?
Choose thy kinsmen or thy fetich —see, the signs
are plainly written —
Thou art come at last, O Britain, to the Parting
of the Ways !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


though a Select Committee has reported in favor
of compensating him for his wrongs.) The Select
Committee, in fact, represents nothing but a waste
of time, since its report can be, and often is,
ignored altogether. Now the Minister in charge
of a department should have sufficient sense of
justice to propose to Parliament a remedy in all
cases of grievance. To have to appeal from him
to a Select Committee is practically equivalent to
a vote of censure. If motions for the appointment
of Select Committees were taken in that light,
they would not be so common. As a preliminary
reform, there is a great chance for a “ strong ”
Premier to come down and tell the House that he
is going to clean up all Select Committee matters
in arrears by paying compensation in cases where
it has been recommended, as in those of Roberts
and the victim of the Lands department bungling.
♦
The Lean Days That are not Mentioned.
W. Evans rode Apologue in the Melbourne Cup
last week, and earned, probably, quite £2soin3min.
27|sec. A jockey’s pay is thus £4336 an hour,
and if he is a persevering jockey, he will have
£34,688 to draw each evening after his eight-hours
day. Even to those who don’t know what a
jockey looks like in ordinary life, the absurdity
of this sort of calculation need not be pointed out.
Yet, within three days of the Cup last week, all
the papers gravely printed figures of this class.
True, they were not about W. Evans in particu-
lar and the weedy race of riders in general;
they had a more serious mission than that.
There was trouble in the air at Newcastle, and
in order to show what a greedy lot the miners are,
and how utterly unworthy of public sympathy,
the associated proprietors issued a statement
showing the highest and the average earnings at
various mines during the past four months ; and
the Herald and the rest of them stood aghast to
find that mere miners earned as much as 225. a
day. But it was a mistake to print those maxi-
mum figures alongside the average figures. For
instance, at the JDuckenfield the average for
October was admitted to be 10s. lOd. per shift;
but the highest was 17s. sd. Now if one man
earned 17s. sd. and the average for two men
was 10s. 10d., then the other man could
only have earned 4s. 3d. per shift. Therefore,
when a list is published, which mentions the
highest and the average earnings and doesn’t
mention the lowest earnings, and doesn’t men-
tion either that the average is only for the
days actually worked, the public is entitled
to have its suspicions. Such a list is pro-
fessedly issued to guide the public, but its only
real object can be to trap the public into taking
sides against the men. It is the confidence trick
in high places. Nor does it end at this. The
figures are for four months. Now the past four
months have seen previously unheard-of activity
at Newcastle. Collieries have been working 10
days a fortnight that for many a month previously
did not average four days a fortnight. In the
three years 1897-8-9 the average annual value of
Newcastle’s inter-State and foreign coal exports
was £857,110; for this year, on the basis of figures
so far, the total will go beyond £1,850,000. The
coal-miner knows what sort of a calling he follows ;
he knows that it is spasmodic, that a turn of the
tide may bring him down to two or three days a
fortnight. It is only the prospect of the busy
time, when he can get full work at high pay, that
keeps him a coal-miner. But now the public is
asked to forget all about those awful periods of
waiting, all about the months when, day after
day, men turn up at the pit’s mouth only to be
told that there are no orders in, and no work to
do—the public is asked to forget all that, and to
glue its eyes on misleading figures which, anyhow,
apply only to the best-paid class of coal-mine
workmen (who even then have to buy explosives
out of their wages). The Newcastle miners
may be right or wrong; but nothing can
alter the fact that the owners’ plan of cam-
paign has begun with a paltry trick and a
despicable attempt to poison the public mind
against the other side ; and it is that sort of thing
which embitters the men and makes a settlement
difficult, and emphasises the need to maintain an
Arbitration Court that will sniff with a trained
nose at all such statements before it swallows them.
The Wheel and the Tariff.
The Ltne tariff proposes to hit the importation of
bicycles with a duty of £5 per machine. The
result will be to stop the importation of made-up
cycles, and Australian men will be engaged to
build them from the separate parts in this country.
The export of bicycle parts from England has
become a practical monopoly of a Trust. This
combine, exasperated by the loss of trade, has
announced that the selling price of their parts will
be increased by 16 per cent, to Australian makers.
The price is not being raised to the Australian
agents, but they have been instructed to increase
their prices to the Australian makers, under pain
of haying future supplies stopped. At least, that
is their yarn. But Whoever is responsible for the in-
creased price, the object of the move is plain
enough. The effect will be to force up the price
of the Australian-made or assembled machine,
if the makers persist in sticking to the British
parts. What has not occurred to the British
combine is that there is any possibility of parts
being made in Australia. The Victor Motor
Works, of Double Bay, Sydney, and the Mort’s
Dock foundry, at Woolwich, Parramatta River,
have both splendid plants, capable of turning out
parts equal to the best English. If the Australian
makers were to enter into an arrangement with
these firms and the Victorian makers, who also
have the machinery capable of cutting the parts,
they would be independent of the English
makers, as far as the parts of an ordinary
bicycle are concerned. But till Australia
gets an amended patents law they will still be at
the mercy of the exasperated British monopoly, as
far as “ free wheels ” are concerned. Free wheel
hubs are patented, and, under the ridiculous law
that obtains throughout the British Empire, the
owners of any patent can refuse to supply Aus-
tralia with its apparatus, and no maker in the
country dare infringe the rights. Germany,
France, United States, Russia and Italy all insist
that, to maintain a patent right, the article must
be manufactured within the county within a cer-
tain time (generally two years) of the registration
of the patent. If Australia had some similar pro-
vision, the owners of patents would be compelled
either to set up factories in Australia or delegate
their rights to some firm that is manufacturing in
Australia. Meanwhile, there is a fine opening for
a brainy young Australian who can devise a new
kind of free wheel.
♦
The Wretched Logic of J. Cook.
Joseph Cook is about the last of his troglodyte
crowd who simply can’t see things fiscal as they
are. G. Reid has long since recognised that Aus-
tralia is set absolutely on Protection; B. Smith
emerged the other day from a maze of polysylla-
bles to admit the same thing, and others of the
party, though they vote blindly against the
tariff, make no attempt to deny that they are
voting against the policy the people want. Only
Cook clings, with oyster-like adhesiveness and
lack of reasoning capacity, to the idea that the
late Federal elections were all a horrible
mistake, and that the electors hurled tried
and convinced old Freetraders into the outer
darkness from a sheer, overmastering love for
Freetrade. Thus in the Federal House,
G. S. Cake (Macquarie) moved (6/10/’O7) for
a general duty of 40 per cent, on made-up
clothing. Whereat J. Cook rose as one stricken
to the heart, and said, brokenly: “ What! A
proposal of 40 per cent, from a representative of a
Freetrade constituency !” and then subsided in a
hopeless and utterly shattered condition. There-
after all through the debate he was obsessed by
the painful thought that this Cake, the “repre-
sentative of a Freetrade constituency,” had voted
Protection, and it pervaded all his remarks, and
made him miserable and puzzled and incoherent.
Of course, Cook’s trouble in this regard rests
with his premises. He finds it impossible to
realise that constituencies like the Macquarie
have ceased to hold with Freetrade any more, and
he reasons on the basis that they are still the
same constituencies which returned Reidite candi-
dates such as Pumpkin Smith. But the plain
fact is they aren’t. Australia has progressed
fiscally of late years (though J. Cook can’t grasp
it), and the movement has dragged whole elec-
torates along. Cark, during the recent Federal
elections, absolutely scouted Smith’s efforts to
raise the Anti-Sosh spook, and talked Protection
broadcast. And in the final result the electors
flung out the personally popular Smith, and, by
a considerable majority, elected Care, an un-
known man, whose sole recommendation to most
was the fact that he stood for the Nationalist cause.
But Cook doesn’t see this. It’s a curious circum-
stance. In the past, Mr. Cook has had a fine
facility for seeing things that made for his ad-
vancement ; which was the reason of his successive
appearances as Protectionist, Freetrader, Socialist,
Laborite, and finally, Anti-Socialist. Mr. Cook
should see a political oculist, or he will be losing
his seat one of these days ; and that would be the
only political development he couldn’t possibly
sympathise with.
♦
The Choice of Being Shot or Starved.
After all that we have read about the fighting
spirit which impels the Briton of the bulldog
breed to go and enlist in the army, it is interest-
ing to read in the London Nation the opinion of
Henry W. Nevinson, who for fifteen years was
engaged in passing recruits into the ranks. Savs
he :
In that time I passed more men into the regular army
than the most persuasive recruiting sergeant from St.
George’s Barracks, and I never knew one who enlisted
unless he was out of work and likely to remain so. Every
man or boy who passed through my hands into the army
was driven by hunger. ... In a new volume, called
“John Bull’s Army From Within,” Robert Edmondson,
ex-sergeant in a famous cavalry regiment, with twelve
years’ service, maintains in his opening sentence that
quite 80 per cent, of our soldiers enlist through hunger.
“ It is the army or starvation with them." My experience
puts the percentage higher.
Then Nevinson dwells on the soldier’s life—the
shameful pipeclay court-martials, ‘ ‘ less likely to
do justice than a handful of chorus girls”; the
spying military police ; the public executions,
where soldiers are paraded to see a comrade
killed; the wretched food and uncertain pay;
and “the unnatural isolation that drives men*
into practices which infect at least one in ten with
abominable disease.” No wonder that one in ten
deserts, and that the “ suicides in the Army are
nearly four times the suicides in civil life.” Yet
the only alternative to an army recruited from
men who take the choice between being starved
or shot is compulsory training. “Most nations
use force, we use hunger,” Nevinson says. And
Australia will find, as soon as it begins to con-
sider defence seriously, that it is up against the
same alternative.
Dead Men’s Money.
There is one weak spot in the Bill which J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick has put before the IV. S. Wales
Assembly dealing with unclaimed bank and other
balances. He proposes that balances which have
not been operated upon for six years shall be
advertised ; and then, if they are not claimed
within two years, they are to be handed over to
the Treasurer “ for the use of the revenue.” Sub-
sequently, of course, if a claimant can “ make
good,” the Treasurer will hand the money
over. Here was a chance to give a Public
Trustee a start, and Fitzpatrick hasn’t
taken it. Obviously a Public Trustee is
the proper person to have such moneys in his
keeping. The Treasurer will act in that capacity,
no doubt, but the fact will not be made clear—not
one in a thousand knows, for instance, that there is
already a Testamentary and Trust Fund at the
Treasury. The same officer should take charge of
unclaimed moneys in the hands of trustee com-
panies. Those cos. now, under their special Acts,
are supposed to furnish statements “ of moneys
unclaimed for five years which have been in the
co.’s hands during the preceding six months”;
but only last year the Auditor-General reported
that the provision was in one case at least
entirely disregarded—apparently because there
wasn’t a Public Trustee to look at the
matter from the public’s point of view when
the Bill was going through, wherefore the provi-
sion wasn’t made effective. Still, as it stands,
Fitzpatrick’s Bill is good ; and a Bill to consti-
tute a Public Trustee, and to hand over to him
the control of these balances, can follow, if it
doesn’t come now. And with those unclaimed
balances should be handed over the control of
intestate estates and the estates of persons who
have been put under control. Granted that the
present administration of these last may be satis-
factory, yet obviously this management of estates
—a commercial business—is not proper work fora
Lunacy Department. And if there are people
who prefer that a Public Trustee should act as
their executor, then the State should supply the
trustee, and back him up with its guarantee. The
success of the Maoriland office fully establishes
the fact that the demand does exist; for last year
1091 such estates were in the charge of the Trust’s
office, which the Dominion set up years before
it dreamed of a course of Socialistic experiments.
“ Go, and Sin Some More.”
The Law had another long think over Justice
Hodges’ quaint decision in the Aldred divorce
case in Melbourne, recently. Mrs. Aldred, in
applying for a decree, stated that her husband,
after treating her cruelly, had deserted her in 1901,
lea ving her and her children penniless. She had
a hard struggle against poverty, but she had the
luck to meet a man who befriended her, and who,
some time later, asked her to “keep house” for
him. Aldred was apparently gone to the dogs
or the Devil (via the cemetery or otherwise); so,
partly out of gratitude, she consented. Last
year, Aldred still being a-missing, she asked the
Law for a divorce, so that she might marry her
friend, and quit living an “irregular” life.
Having considered the matter at great length,
Justice Hodges opined that this wasn’t a case
where he could exercise his discretion, and
refused the decree. Last week, C.-J. Madden
and Justices Hood and Cdssen spoke at
great length in admiration of brother Hqdges’
decision, and confirmed it unanimously. Doubt-
less they thought they were carrying out the
intentions of the Legislature, but if they will
ponder over one sentence of C.-J. Madden’s
judgment they may have their doubts about it.
oaid his Honor: “The central idea of the
Marriage Act was that a tie of great value should
be broken for great causes only ; the Act was an
instrument to restrain vice, anil to use the Act so
that it should countenance that evil would be to
misuse it.” The “tie of great value” had, of
course, been utterly smashed and broken in pieces
by a wastrel husband away back in 1901; but
that was nothing to them—“the Act was an
instrument to restrain vice,” so they refused the
decree, and practically told Mrs. Aldred to
return and “keep house” for some one for the
rest of her days. That they were thereby encour-
aging irregularity was a mere detail; they were
administering the Law, and the Law they would
unflinchingly administer—with Costs. Always
with Costs.
Hugh McKay and his Protection.
The Bulletin does not in the least degree regret
the fact that it was foremost in the agitation to
secure, for Hugh McKay, manufacturer of Sun-
shine Harvesters, and his fellow makers of agri-
cultural implements, higher Protection. It is
said now, on the word of Justice Higgins,
after the most painstaking and judicial inquiry,
that McKay’s wage scale is too low to be
a decent and humane one. If The Bulletin
had had a foreknowledge of that fact, it
would still have pleaded just as earnestly
for a satisfactory range of duties. The fact that
McKay, or any other manufacturer in the line,
doesn’t maintain a decent Australian rate of
wages in no way vitiates the demand that manu-
facturers should be allowed enough Protection to
enable them to pay decent wages and yet compete
successfully against a foreign importer. That
Protection granted, it is then the business of the
Government to see that its primary purpose is
carried out —viz., the employment, on fair con-
ditions, of Australian labor. This the Government
is already doing; the inquiry before Justice
Higgins was a step in that direction. So soon as
the Government is sure of the position, it should
push home every weapon that “ the new Protec-
tion ” affords to enforce a fair wage rate. High
tariff with low wages is not at all the Australian
ideal.
Cyril Blacket writes :
In your issue November 7 appears a paragraph which,
owing to editorial condensation, has become misleading.
The Forestry Commission is still collecting evidence, and,
as far as I know, has not sent in any report; but it has
been asked hy prominent members of the building
fraternity to recommend an export tax on locally-grown
timber, whilst admitting foreign-grown timber free, with
the avowed object of making timber in Sydney cheaper
and more plentiful. The condensed paragraph makes it
appear that the Forestry Commission has actually
reported as requested—which it is to be hoped common
sense will prevent.
-O
Dear Bulletin, —As you have more than once
pointed out, the way that Newfoundland was
recently treated over the fisheries question by the
Imperial Government may be the fate of our
infant Commonwealth over a matter of infinitely
greater importance. Of course the only effective
remedy, or preventative, is to take adequate steps
to defend ourselves against aggression ; but in the
steps leading up to such a crisis a freer Constitu-
tion might prove of enormous service. To that end
I have for years advocated the limitation of the
Imperial veto. On three occasions the N.S.W.
Political Labor League affirmed the principle,
but not enough support was secured to include it
in the Federal Labor platform. I have again
moved, through my own branch League, that the
matter be placed on the business paper of the
next Labor Conference. I am aware that no
amendment of the Australian Constitution can
be consummated without an Imperial Act; and,
of course, what the Imperial authority alone can
grant it may at will take back, and the freest
Constitution conceivable would be of no use if
suspended in an emergency when most required
to operate. But such a crisis seldom arrives with-
out ample warning, and this provision would pro-
bably avert it altogether by changing our present
wooden bonds for bands capable of stretching to
political infinity without breaking.—Yours, etc.,
Arthur Kae.
From H. «T. Preston and Co., Australian rep-
resentatives of the Nestle’s condensed - milk
people :
Re remarks B. 31/10/’O7. There are at least 10 or 12
condensed milk factories in Australia. In no other coun-
try are there as many factories in proportion to the popu-
lation, and total trade to be secured. The proposed new
duties are not responsible for the development of this
industry, and while the former duty of Id. per lb.
was in force the local manufacturers undersold the im-
porters to the extent of that duty. If the proposed
duty is carried, what further inducement will there be
for additional investment in this industry if former
selling: rates for the locally-manufactured article are
maintained? If they are not maintained the increased
duty must be responsible for the advance. Why
should the opportunity for increased prices be given
if the trade was profitable under former conditions ?
The fact that our company is opening: up factories
in Australia is the strongest argument that we can
use in support of our contention that the trade can
be profitably carried on under former conditions. The
Bulletin refers to “ dumping” surplus goods. There is no
surplus of condensed milk, the world’s supplies
being short, and this perishable commodity has
to be so carefully handled at all times that
it does not lend itself to “dumping.” If the
Id. per lb. duty was sufficient to induce us to come
here, it must be sufficient for our competitors. The
world-wide reputation for the quality of our goods is
alone responsible for the volume of our business, and
never yet can the Nestle Co. be justly accused of any
attempt to obtain a monopoly unless this term can be
applied to a measure of success obtained by fair comneti-
tion in values given.
The last remark is unfortunate : “ The world-
wide reputation for the quality of our goods is
responsible for the volume of our business.” So
this big co. starts off with an admitted handi-
cap—it has had time and opportunity to
build up a name, and a name is worth a great deal
in trade competition. Nothing more than that
need be said to disprove the yarn that what is
enough duty for this big co. with the established
name and reputation is enough for everybody
else. But for a bit more proof, though no more
is needed, take last year’s Australian imports of
condensed (preserved) milk : 10,615,0611 b. That
was with the penny per lb. duty, which Nest re's
representatives say is sufficient to keep the Aus-
tralian market for Australian milk !
♦
Queensland politics are leading up to a big fight
between the Assembly and the House of Fossils.
Matters in connection with the Postal Voting Act
have caused a deadlock, and both Houses refuse
to budge. Fossilism knows it is fighting in its
last ditch, while Kidston knows that, if the old
corrupt Postal Voting Act isn’t wiped out,
Democracy runs a fair chance of having its
throat cut at the next elections. Fat
has also refused to pass the Wages Board
Bill. The Assembly sent this measure up again
the moment it was hurled out, and now the
country awaits Kidston’s next move with interest.
Kldston has two alternatives: (1) he may flood
the Chamber of Ancient Horrors with his own
nominees, or (2) plump for a special session, and
an appeal to the country, with abolition of the
Nominee Chamber as the main Government plank.
If Kidston elects to flood the Upper Chamber
with his Councillors, he will need to use better
judgment than he has in the past. Several of his
nominees have completely turned on certain of his
measures— Hall, Johnson, Beirne and Murphy
being about the worst offenders in this regard.
■ ♦
“ J.R.” : The frantic terror of the Government of
India (and some other people) at a political agita-
tion among a handful of Bengali Babus makes
those who were in India fifty years ago laugh.
There was no question of incendiary speeches in
those days, or of pelting tramcars with brickbats.
The business in hand was the mutiny of a drilled,
disciplined, and fully-equipped army of 120,000
men, with rather more than a full pro-
portion of cavalry and artillery, all trained
to the highest pitch of perfection. On
the other side were some 20,000 European
soldiers, who were completely taken by surprise,
and in most cases isolated, because the telegraphs
were cut, and the roads so beset that, for weeks
and months, up-country stations could get no
news of what was happening elsewhere. At
Meerut, where I was, we had no news from the
direction of Calcutta from the middle of May to
late in August, ’57. We had two European
regiments and plenty of artillery ; but the Mogul
emperor, who was reigning at Delhi, 40 miles off,
with 100,000 fighting men at his back, let us severely
alone till we were ready to go and seek him.
John Lawrence had been recruiting Sikhs in
the Punjaub (they were burning to avenge
on the Hindustani Sepoys their defeat 10
years before); 25,000 mixed Europeans and
Sikhs took Delhi, and the back of the
Mutiny was broken by the 20,000 Europeans
in India before any of the reinforcements sent
from Europe had had time to come on the scene.
The mutineers had everything in their favor-
numbers, surprise, equipment, command of the
roads, and a great superiority in cavalry. If ever
a colored race could beat a white one, it ought to
have done it then, and it failed miserably. There’s
a moral to this plain statement of facts, which it
will be well for some people both in and out of
Australia to learn by heart.
“V
The scarcity of Australi an candidates for ca d etships
in the British navy is harrowing the soul of the S.
M. Herald. The Admiralty is graciously pleased
to take eight every year, if they offer, but the
offerings have only been at the rate of five a year
for the last five years. And no wonder, consider-
ing the terms. Boys to be eligible must be
between 12 and 13 years old. A fee of £75 per
annum must be paid, and £5O pocket-money
yearly provided, and, in addition, an elaborate
outfit. This must be kept up for the whole four
years’ training, and there is no pay to draw till
the youngster is appointed to a ship. Even when
he is appointed to a ship (as midshipman, or
whatever may be the equivalent rating) he will
only get £32 yearly—not enough to pa.y for his
messing, to say nothing of clothes and other
necessaries. As a sub-lieutenant, when he is 20
or more, he will get £9l a year, and he may be
lieutenant, if he’s lucky, with £lB2 a year at 25.
His education will have cost at least £750, and if
he is unlucky he may very easily find himself dis-
missed his ship, which means ruin to him in his
profession. And his training is of no use in tho
merchant service.
Generally the people who barrack for the
wholesale admission to Australia of the colored
brother are the people who don’t know the
colored brother, and in these cases there is
nothing so wholesome as a little personal contact.
This is the “ testimony” of a convert, as given by
N.S.W. S’African Commercial Agent Valuer :
Before I went to South Africa I was fully convinced
that the one thing we wanted to give up was the White
Australia idea. I was of the opinion that it was good to
work our cotton and sugar plantations with Kanaka or
Chinese or Indian, or any other kind of cheap labor. But
five years’ residence in South Africa has convinced me
that the longer we stick to the White Australia policy the
better.
♦ — .
Anstey, Vic. Labor M.L.A., in the Labor
Call intern perately attacks P.M.G. Sam
Mauger for his advocacy of temperance. The
Bulletin does not know what Mauger has been
saying on the subject, but if Mauger exaggerated
the drink evil, there is no reason why any Labor
member should get his hair off because drink has
been attacked. The liquor trade is strong enough
to defend itself. But, in his mistaken zeal for
the liquor trade, Anstey sneers at Mauger’s
work a,s a Protectionist and organiser of the
Victorian Anti-Sweating League. No one has
worked harder to secure employment and
fair wages for Victorian workers than cold-tea
and teetotal Mauger. Anstey’s attack, therefore,
ill becomes a Labor representative. The Aus-
tralian Labor movement is not a narrow class war,
but the movement of the majority of the people
towards higher national life and ideals attainable
by votes and not by revolution. This Mr. Anstey
does not fully understand.
♦
A Frenchman, one Rene Goddard, in an article
on “Japan ” in the Revue Politique et Parlia-
mentaire (10/5/’O7), shows more knowledge of the
real size of the Asiatic peril, as far as Australia
is concerned, than is customary amongst a big
section of people living right here. His main
point is the growing and appalling tendency of
the modern Jap to emigrate to foreign countries
that don’t want him. The U.S.A., which only
had 25,000 of him in 1900, became afflicted with
from 60,000 to 70,000 between the years 1901 and
1903 ; and there are now nearly 100,000 of the Nip-
pon gentry in the Western States of America
alone, despite all discouragements. Canada, after
remaining free for years, has now got far more than
it wants of the small yellow men, the inrush
having started with the beginning of the century.
Hawaii, which only had 24,000 Japs in 1896, has
trebled that total since 1900. Within 10 years
42,000 of the saffron nuisances have swarmed
into the already over-populated island of For-
mosa. There were only 15,000 in Korea before the
Russ-Jap war; now that unhappy country is
infested by 150,000 Japanese, and is misgoverned
lock, stock and barrel from Tokio. The con-
clusion the French writer draws is the obvious
one that Australia—“which of all countries on
earth is the most desirable from the yellow man’s
standpoint if it would avoid the fate of Korea,
will need to be ready with guns, bayonets and
suchlike implements to prod the intruding Jap
into the sea the moment lie arrives.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The retirement of Chris Watson leaves a
large-sized void in progressive statescraft. But
the whisky whose brand represents mental achieve-
ment—-D.C.L. —abhors intellectual vacuum; and
the leader of the progressives must seek cheerful
wisdom from that illuminating spirit. There is
always need for the right brand in the right man.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Melba, sniffing the fascinating dust of the concert
arena, has found it absolutely impossible to keep out of
the same any longer. She has decided to give five con-
certs before leaving - these shores (cwo in Melbourne, two
in Sydney, and one in Brisbane). It’s great news. There
are many Australians who had marked down “ Go to
hear Melba” as the first big item of a European tour ;
and now the mountain comes to them.
“ D.”: Re Melba’s lengthy stay in these parts, a recent
Bulletin par has probably hit on the right explanation.
Nothing is more likely than that the great soprano will
begin to train shortly for Wagner parts. Hitherto she
has sung in “light” opera, sustaining roles—Juliet,
Mimi, Marguerite—which demand much singing in the
high register. With increasing age the top notes of
even the most perfectly trained artists show a tendency
to fray-—not Marchesa herself can avert that. The time
threatens when people won’t crowd the early doors to
hear Melba in the aria from “ Romeo and Juliet ” as they
used. For the Wagner parts the lady will not need her
ultra high notes, but her middle ones must be strength-
ened and made fuller. To achieve that she must undergo
much bulloeking practice, and (because she’s Melba)
there is small doubt that she will. In fleeing to
Ercildoun and Wagner, Melba is, operatically speaking,
coming in out of the wet.
One has to go right ’Ome to get really reliable stuff
about Australian notabilities. Thus the Penny Magazine
(Lo nd.):—“ Naturally, Australia was very proud of Madame
Melba, and she is very much attached to her native coun-
try. Not long since, she returned there, and gave a series
of charity concerts. At one of these she realised £lO,OOO,
and her'father, Colonel Mitchell, was present. Madame
Melba bought three boxes herself at £5OO each, and one
of these she presented to her father, in order that he
should hear her sing.”
The Milo biograph, now showing at Sydney Tivoli,
reveals that master of advertisers, Alec Laing, at the door
of the London Pavilion, arrayed like Solomon in all his
glory. The films in themselves are a tribute to his genius.
Pansy is seen with ’em all on at a riverside open-air
restaurant, whence she motors to the Pavilion, where
Laing and the multitude are awaiting her. The next
scene is her dressing room, where floral tributes are
delivered, and an individual so eccentric-looking as to
stamp him as a journalist is introduced to Pansy. Then
the mere men are cleared out, and Pansy’s two maids
start to get in their fine work. Her hat is removed :
her multitudinous jewels are laid, one by one, on the
dressing table ; one maid goes behind Pansy, and is
seen unbuttoning her beauteous gown, the other maid
-comes to the front to remove it from the wearer’s fair
form. Then, just as the male portion of the audience is
holding its breath, the screen turns black, and from all
over the theatre rises an “ Aw-aw 1 ” of disappointment.
Pansy, as the Velasquez Venus, shows the lady without the
paint she wore when posing in the halls in this character.
H. Vickars Rees, who “ represents ” La Milo (Pansy
Montague), writes this paper that in eighteen months
that astute damsel and her ally Cruickshank have
“ worked themselves into the command of £l5O a week at
the Alhambra, London.” Usually a pill .takes 10 years
steady advertising before success ; but La Milo’s “ Watch
Committee ” scheme—whereby in each town dozens of
local elders were roped in to report on the “purity” of
her show—has proved better than any conception of any
quack pill. In the old country Watch Committees,
coupled with the intervention “on moral grounds ’’ of
Bedstead of The Review of Reviews, are now regarded
as irresistible advertising stunts.
The closing of Bland Holt’s campaign enables manager-
in-front Christie Simonsens to make another attempt at
escape from his theatrical environment. Chris Simon-
.sens has always had a yearning for a field of industry in
which he would not be required to stand around and deal
with “ deadheads ” every night from 7.30 to 11 p.m. He
looks at life through spectacles, and they are not rose-
colored as regards Thespian enterprise. Presumably he
will break out in another sort of billet shortly. In the
meantime he is enriched by a purse of sovereigns, pre-
sented to him by a number of strictly mercantile friends
who have known him as a business man during his long
stay with Bland Holt.
“ Stagecraft”: Re “Mariner ”on “Brewster’s Millions”
and “ Captain” Stirling Whyte’s alleged lack of nautical
knowledge. There is not, and never has been, a single
green light on the yacht visible to the public. The
correct side-light (red) is shown on the port side of the
ship facing the audience, also the usual night signal of
distress (two red lamps, one six feet above the other) is
hoisted nightly. Flags were used only on the first
night because “it was so done in America and Eng-
land,” but, when noticed, were dispensed with by the
management, who knew something of aquatics, and
preferred to do the right thing to following a wrong
precedent. With regard to the sail, “Mariner” maybe
informed that “ Captain ” Stirling Whyte prefers to keep
the yacht under what little sail she carries so as to
steady her in what is, after all, only a moderate blow.
The Besses o’ th’ Barn will leave Australia one Bess
short, cornet soloist Moore having taken a job at Too-
woomba (Q.).
Brisbane had a fly in its ointment in connection with
Mrs. Clara Butt-Rumford’s visit there. The Big Lady
left her brood behind in Sydney, whereat the Queensland
capital was annoyed. It wanted to see Joy weeping when
Ma warbled, and Toy pulling Pa’s moustache with both
fists, and Roy dividing his kisses between the two, and
most of it bought its ticket before it knew it wasn’t going
to see these things ; so now it calculates that it bought a
higher-priced ticket than it would have done had it been
told in time.
Those who know the “ helter-skelter” at various resorts
might have thought it a simple thing. A “ squat and
slide ”is its popular name. But recently it had to be
described in affidavit language in the N.S.W. Equity
Court, and this is what it appears as :—“ The said helter-
skelter of the plaintiff co. is an amusement structure,
from which visitors descend by sliding down, usually on a
mat, by gravitation, an inclined curving trough, leading
from the top of the said structure partly round and
partly away from the same.” The owners claimed that
the “ Alpine slide ” of a rival showman was really the
same thing, viz., “an amusement structure,” etc. The
Court agreed that for the present a helter-skelter is an
Alpine slide, and an Alpine slide a helter-skelter, and
granted an interim injunction. But how it will turn out
in the long run Zeus alone knows.
“S.S.”: I thought when a certain type of vaudeville
song had done with human love and female lingerie, and
had degenerated to the amorous dallying of cats, the
canoodling of bees and flowers, and the amours of the barn-
yard, we must have reached bottom with that touching
ballad recounting the story of two devoted gold fish, as
sung in “ The Geisha.” I was wrong; many lower depths
have been plumbed since then. This song has descended
past the insects, and reached still-life subjects. Now, in
“The Girls of Gottenberg,” Lauri and Fan Dango are
warbling of the love of two sausages. Two sausages in
a butcher’s shop fall in love. There ara rivals and
jealousies, lovers’ quarrels, mutual recriminations and a
sad ending. The song may be comic—l am not sure ; but
in my opinion Lauri’s interpretation of a love-sick sausage
is the best bit of characterisation he has ever done.
“Wang”: Importers are not the only kind of private
enterprisers who scream for suppression. At the early
theatre door I met one of the brigade of small boys who
yelled something that sounded like “ Hereyarprogramme-
ancomicterreadferapenny ! ” I knew it concerned the
destination of the penny, and passing it over received a
programme and a comic-to-read. The comic-to-read is
wherein the swindle lurks. Having piloted Angelina
through the struggling mass to a seat, I turned to the
comic-to-read to fill in the half-hour before the curtain
rose. My language became worse than the villain’s, for
the comicterread contained the start and the middle of
the story, and broke off suddenly where the villain was
rushing with axes in his hands to chop the rope by which
the hero was struggling (with the heroine on his shoulders)
across the bottomless chasm. And I did want to know
how many thousand feet that hero and heroine fell with-
out being smashed. But the end of that yarn was exciting
someone else in some other part of the building, and he
was probably dying to know why the fool took the girl
over the chasm in that ridiculous way.
There are points about marrying into a royal family,
after all. Toselli, the pianist, who last month took on
the jumpy contract of spouse to the ex-Crown Princess
of Saxony, has been offered £40,000 by Caspar, the Copen-
hagen impresario, to give a concert tour of the world.
This is a scoop for Toselli, and on the sound general
principle that there are immense numbers of people pre-
pared to pay big money to hear a performer on the bones,
provided he has the reclame of a royal elopement
attaching to his name, it should be a scoop also for
Caspar.
Frohman, the big N’York and London impresario, has
struck what looks like a bright idea. He proposes that
the great Transatlantic liner companies fit up theatres on
their steamers, so that there may be representations on
the voyage. There is really no reason why not. Already
these huge ships have lifts, self-contained flats, bridal
suites, billiard tables, and a hundred other things that
seemed impossible a quarter of a century ago. A ship-
board theatrical show would pay the promoter most
voyages like a goldfield pub. It would relieve the sea’s
monotony muchly, and be regarded with disfavor by none
but the travelling confidence man who boards these
vessels in quest of gold, and the travelling confidence
maiden in search of marriage lines.
“ Picard” : There recently toured a slice of Maoriland
a show that met with a large order of misfortune. For
an overture to the tour the tent carried away, and the
pole nearly swept a Chow across into Gloryland,
and he remarked “Whaffor!” After things got going,
the strong man of the show challenged the world to do
all sorts of acts, and some of the world went inside, and
a hairy human, with red in his eye and crimson whiskers,
peeled off and threatened to do things in such a forcible
manner that the strongman shot him into the night, and
he landed hard, and then got back in search of Goliath’s
scalp, whereupon that gentleman pounded him hard and
heavy, and then something in a uniform showed up, and
the crowd howled, and demanded something more for its
honest bob. So the contortionist got himself into a knot,
and, being new to the business, couldn’t untie himself
again, after which the band (which consisted of one mem-
ber) got on to the line-up board and challenged the entire
globe to play a brass instrument for £lOO, and the police-
man said the band was drunk, and took it away with him.
The lean, lank, bony man that walked the wire now
walked up to the doorkeeper and demanded his salary in
advance, and w'as dismissed. He explained that he was
thirsty, so he was reinstated, and got on the wire to do
his turn, when the tent blew down again, just as the con-
tortionist got his bones arranged satisfactorily. Up the
tent was hitched once more, and the contortionist tried
some high kicking, and nearly kicked himself out of
joint, as he had replaced some of his anatomy in the
wrong spot, or something. Business was poor, and even-
tually a benefit was arranged, which was a success finan-
cially ; but, alas! the advance-agent got away with the
money bag, and advanced hurriedly at dead of night, and
fled over the horizon, with Goliath, the strong youth,
and the rest of the show in hot chase. But they have
given it best by now, and disbanded, and the orchestra has
arrived out of quod, and is cow-spanking for a cockey.
“ Brad ” (from a Victorian country town) : A travelling
show', including a Japanese juggler, visited our town last
night. When the time arrived for Nippon’s son to do his
turn, he was announced with great reverence by the
manager. (The white performers, by the way, simply
rushed in unannounced, stood on their heads, and spun
round on sundry portions of their anatomy, then scurried
off again almost unapplauded.) The Jap approached as
far as the ring, arrayed in a gorgeous mantle of figured
silk, and attended by two of the tent-hands, who removed
his silken raiment as gingerly as two acolytes might dis-
robe a Pope. I expected to see something thrilling in
the way of juggling, but was doomed to be disappointed,
for, after going through a lot of preliminary skite, Mr.
Jiu-Jitsu threw three balls into the air and managed to
catch tw T o of them again. The ground caught the third.
For this feat the crowd clapped excitedly. After this,
Mr. Nippon sauntered to the edge of the ring, and the
two attendants dashed frantically to meet him, covered
him with the multi-hued cloak, and led him away. He
filled in the remainder of the night peacock-strutting
round the ring and ogling the feminines of the audience,
who seemed to be greatly fascinated by his antics.
London Referee says that it is difficult to get
stage supers in Paris now ; all of them are away work-
ing for biograph firms. (France and the United States
are the great centres of faked picture-film produc-
tion.) The casual stage-hand, at a shilling a night, can
get six times that, with an engagement by the month.
So theatre managers have to engage real actors for their
stage-crowds, and the said crowds have improved mar-
vellously in their acting, but diminished painfully in their
numbers.
“ Melb.”: The Bijou diverged into high game with the
play of “ The Tyrant,” which is a version of Victor Hugo’s
“ Angelo.” Of course, it has to come somewhat from the
eminences down to Oollingwood Flat, but yet it is a
mighty advance on the common melodramatic trash. Do
we not often feel that author and actors are “ poking
borak ”atus ? There is an almost irresistible temptation
to guv, and turn it into burlesque, as Lemaitre did with
“Robert Macaire.” The only drama of Hugo’s familiar
on the English stage is “Ruy Bias,” in which
Fechter was so fetching. Then there is the operatic
version of that wondrous play, “ Hernani.” Five acts,
each a great play. The most daring and stirring of Hugo’s
pieces is “Lucretia Borgia,” which inspired Donizetti.
“ Le Roi S’Amuse ” is turned into “Rigoletto,” so that
Hugo appears twice on the Melbourne boards in a week.
“Marion Delorme” is one of his intensely powerful
works. His novel of “ Notre Dame ” makes a fine drama.
What a lava-flow of invention !
Weird in their diversity are the uniforms displayed
in “ A Life’s Revenge,” now being played in Sydney.
The action is laid in Russia, and the military
gentlemen belong to the army of the Great White
Czar. Yet one (a colonel) is habited in what is, if
anything, the garb of a private in the Prussian service ;
his orderly wears the sky-blue tunic of a French hussar
with a regulation kepi; the rank and file are dressed as
hotel porters, and Prince Boris (regiment or ship un-
specified) affects in one scene the scarlet frogged tail-coat
of a Bank of England beadle, and in the next an admiral’s
frock suiting with gigantic epaulettes and the breeches
of a British foot guardsman. It is all very puzzling, and
creates an impression that the Russian Government has
bought up a job lot somewhere, and is clothing its
defenders out of a discarded comic opera stock.
“Stony”: Saw a disgusting sight the
other day—a lovely woman, robed in purple and
fine linen (I can vouch for the purple, anyhow),
who had for companion a monkey on a chain, a
wretched beast that skipped plaintively along
behind her with a miserable expression upon its
wrinkled chiv. It was a disgusting sight. Science
and theology haven’t quite decided whether man
rose or fell —whether the monkey or the angel was
his progenitor. I never saw any woman leading
an angel behind her on a chain, but the sight of
her dragging the other possible ancestor is more
than enough for me.
“ Cecil P.” : Bully dear, isn’t it about
time that you created a typical figure of Aus-
tralia? Britain has (in addition to zoological
representatives) the figure of John Bull, as well
as that of the lady sitting by the sad sea waves,
with her back hair down and holding a toasting-
fork. All we have are certain buxom young
woman, each of whom will weigh sixteen stone
before she’s forty, and your own “Little Boy
from Manly.” But the kid is no longer quite
satisfactory. He hasn’t grown an inch since I
knew him first. And Australia has. My oath !
Please ask “ Hop,” from all of us, to invent a
typical figure of Australia. Two points are
essential: it must be masculine, and it must have
a cheerful grin. If “ Hop” makes a clean job of
it, I’ll send him a real damper made by my own
fair hands.
“A.Z.” : The par re sailing ship Port Jackson
(B. 17/10/’O7) is like the curate’s egg of glorious
memory. The boys on her were not learning to
be officers, but seamen. They were drawn from
the Warspite, a stationary training ship in the
Thames. She is somewhat after the Sobraon
style, for “ ooor or destitute boys of good
character.” There is a very wide difference be-
tween the training they get and that of the cadets
on a ship like the Ulawarra. The cadets are
mostly from the Worcester, another training ship
in the” Thames, which is really a high-class school,
making a specialty of mathematics. The fees
are £65 a year, and the boys are turned out able
to pass the extra-master’s exam, as far as theoreti-
cal navigation is concerned. Two years on the
Worcester are accepted as one year’s sea service
by the Board of Trade. They then put in three
years as cadets or apprentices—in a ship like the
Illawarra, paying £5O or £6O a year—with the idea
of becoming officers in the mercantile marine.
THE MONEY IN HER VOICE.
“Fweddy and I went to the Town Hall last
night.”
“ Aw. Who “ shouted ” ?
“ Clara Butt.”
“Radium”: Re the futile fines inflicted
on baby-murderous sellers of watered milk. Why
not put milkmen on the same footing as publi-
cans who, on being convicted for the third time
of selling watered grog, are disqualified from fur-
ther holding a license ? A short Act might well
be passed enacting (say) a fine of £lO for a first
thin-milk offence, £25 for the second, and for the
third six months’ imprisonment and disqualifica-
tion for life from holding a milk-selling license.
Spasmodic raids by the authorities effect nothing.
They only make the milk-dealer rush out in haste
and sell more water to cover his loss.
From an old officer :
Bulletin (31/10/’O7) quotes N’York Worlds corre-
spondent on the Jap invasion of Mexico ; for, disguise it
as you may, it is an invasion as real, and perhaps as
effective, as any open attack. The curious thing is that
the World has not apparently noticed the same symptoms
in British Columbia. There can be very little doubt
about the idea at the bottom of the scheme. The three
Pacific States, Washington, Oregon and California, are to
be caught between the blades of the shears, closing from
north and south. The southern blade will be
an army-corps, and the northern one perhaps
only a division, neither fully equipped. They will
certainly be without artillery, but will trust to over-
come resistance by superior manoeuvring. But they
will certainly find themselves out in their calculations,
in much the same way as they did in Manchuria, where
they thought they were going to pouch a big Russian
indemnity without reaching Russian territory. It was
the distances that beat them there, and the distances will
beat them on the Pacific Slope. The two bodies from
north and south would have at least a month’s march
before they could join forces, and if the State militia,
which is pretty well drilled and equipped nowadays, hap-
pened to meet them, it’s hard to say what might happen.
They don’t know everything in Japan.
Geelong (Vic.) apparently owns an extra
amiable lunatic, and several sleepy citizens are
eager to become acquainted with him. Early last
month 38 pairs of fowls, plucked, dressed, and
floured ready for cooking, were found in a bag in
the Botanical Gardens. The police took charge
of the poultry, and awaited complaints from
citizens suffering from poultry thieves ; but none
came. Nobody’s hen-roost seemed to have been
rifled, and no suspicious characters —easily spotted
in Geelong—had been seen about. The mystery
was put away in the proper pigeon-hole, only to be
dragged out hastily the other day when a con-
stable arrived with another bagful of birds, 50
pairs this time, all ready for the oven, as before.
The finds are getting on the nerves of the
“ foorce.” It doesn’t like to see all these juicy young
birds going to waste ; but they may be loaded, so
to speak ; and the Johns daren’t try them on the
dog, because the owner might turn up and
demand his property ; so the tucker just lies
around and invites flies and torments.
“ Loco ” : In these days of motor-car
fatalities, bike smashes, etc., speed judges are at
a premium. In my work—l drive a train engine
.—I find it necessary to have some method in my
madness. When lam struggling up a bank, and
can count the sleeper-ends as they pass under me,
I know I am down to four miles an hour, or
under. If I can count them easily, I begin to get
anxious, for a slip of the driving wheels will mean
“stick up.” When I can count the posts in the
fences (Oft. apart), I know the speed is not over
about 25 miles an hour. When I begin to lose count,
lam getting towards 30 miles. Then I count the
rail-joints ahead (in daylight)—generally 24ft.
rails. They are a guide up to 40 miles in the
hour, but not many can be counted at that speed.
After that the telegraph poles are a slight help.
I have not reached the speed when I can’t count
them —yet. I’ll describe the sensation for The
Bulletin, if I’m alive afterwards. At night, the
fire-box door opened now and then locates speed
and place. Also, the ear soon learns to fix the
speed of the engine from the “ beat,” the size of
the wheel being considered, of course.
Bill the Exploder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 1 v ILL,” said the old man reflectively, as he
r* x puffed in the corner —“ Bill was the
1. -J most careless man with explosives I
ever seen. One moonlight night, when first I got
t : know him, we was walkin’ home from the town-
ship, and he tripped and fell fair on his nose. He
got up with his nose streamin’ blood and his face
all scratched, an’ says t’ me :
“ ‘ That was lucky ! ’ he says.
“ ‘ What was ? ’ says I.
“ ‘ Failin’ on me face ! ’ he says.
‘ ‘ ‘ How d’ ye make that out ? ’ I says.
“ ‘ Because,’ says he, ‘ if I’d fallen on me back
we would have been blown t’ blazes ' ’ An with
that he puts his hand inter his tail pocket an pulls
out three sticks o’ dynamite.
“ Soon’s I felt better we resoomed our way —
me hangin’ on to his arm, in case he stumbled
again. I would have walked a quarter of a mile
behind, only it wouldn’t have been friendly.
“We had t’ pass round a sort of mountain
path, overhangin’ a deep rocky gully, an when
we come t’ th’ centre of it, Bill stops an says .
“ ‘ Wouldn’t it be a lark t’ chuck one o’ these
plugs down ! ’
“ 'No,’ I says, ‘it wouldidt /’
“ ‘ Oh, well,’ he says, ‘ I feel as if I wanted t’
shake things up t’-night—here goes ! ’ An' before
I could stop him, he pulls out one o’ th’ bits o
sudden death an’ tossed it over the edge.
“ I jumped back agin th’ cliff face, an waited
shiverin’.
“ There wasn’t a sound !”
“‘Well, says Bill, lookin’ round at me, ‘I
s’pose that muster fallen inter water or somethin
soft. It’s the rottenest disappointment I ever got
in me life ! ’
“ ‘ Oh ! ’ I says, ‘ is it ! ’
“‘Yes,’ he says, bitterly, *it is. When I
heaved over that stick I was promisin’ meself one
o’ the finest busts up that was ever seen. I was
fairly tremblin’ with delight, an’ I didn't care
what happened so long as things shifted. An’
what did happen ? Why, I might as well have
chucked me hat down f’r all the row it made ! ’ _
“ ‘ Bill,’ I says, ‘ I’ve met one or two fools in
me time ’
“‘Oh,’ he says, ‘you can tell me about ’em
some other time. I’m goin’t’ have another shot
look out! ’
“I jumped, an’ th’ next second there was a
roar, an’ everything in th’ gully—includin’ two
cows an’ a kangaroo —shot up inter the air an’
fell down again. Th’ sky was almost blotted out
with a dusty haze, an’ f r two or three minutes we
could hear bits of rock an’ rubbish that must
have been blowed up fifteen or twenty mile
splashin’ an’ dashin’ in th’ crik.
‘ ‘ Bill sat on th’ crumblin’ edge of th’ cliff,
fannin’ ’isself an’ spittin' an’ sayin’, ‘ IsrUt that
grand ! ’ every time somethin’ fell. I couldn’t get
him t’ come home until he was certain everythin’
was down an’ th’ show was all over.
“ He talked about it f’r th’ rest of th’ week, an’
told me how much good it had done him, an’ how
grand it must feel to be an anarchist. He said he
wouldn’t call th’ king his aunt if he could only
have a good supply o’ dynamite, an’ get a license
t’ chuck it at politicians an’ them sort of things.
“Well, after such a howlin’ success, he went
in f r it reg’lar, and whenever we heerd a noise
like th’ Day o’ Judgment away in th’ hills we
knoo Bill was out enjoyin’ ’isself. He blew up a
whole lot o’ things that didn’t belong t’ him ; but
as his claim was payin’ handsome at th’ time, he
used t’ pay up like a sport.
“ I never knew him t’ do any wilful damage but
once, an’ that was when he blew up Hogan’s bull
that had charged him th’ day afore. It was one of th’
most wonderful things I ever seen. One minute
there was a roarin’ bull, and th’ next there was a
roar an’ no bull !
‘ ‘Ah, but it was a dangerous game ! I useter tell
him he’d be blowed up ’isself some day—told him
over an’ over again ! ”
The old man sighed, lit a match, and puffed
until the bowl glowed red in the dusk.
“ And was he ? ” we asked.
“ He married,” said the old man, very simply.
KODAK.
Lord Roberts writes the preface to a
copious volume on Fontenoy, just issued. It is
by one Skrine, a retired Indian civil servant.
Roberts vividly demonstrates the present bearings
of this study. Fontenoy was part of that terrible
volume of warfare opened by Frederic the Great s
invasion of Silesia. The moral of Roberts is that
Kaiser William is going to play some similar
game. All the trouble arose from the death of
the Austrian Emperor, in 1740, and here is
another Austrian Emperor dying by inches, with
the vultures roosting on the tailboard of his bed.
Marshal Saxe, who commanded the French at
Fontenoy, wrote a book called “Reveries,” with
a singular forecast of universal military service
and Socialism.
“Cross Nibs” sends an alluring pen-
picture of life in his suburb
Was standing, last Saturday night, near Soor Lung s
fruit and produce store, waiting for a tram. Along came
a sawed-off Scotchman with a parcel of fish beneath his
arm, and large quantities of beer or other fermented
liquors in his inner cavity. Suddenly, and without any
warning, one of the most venerable bananas in the State
exploded with a sharp report against the wayfarer s right
ear. Dislodging such portions of the fruit as were objur-
ing his vision, the assaulted one turned towards boor
Lung’s half-caste son and a couple of pals who stood
before the shop front displaying the extended smile.
“Whit bletherin’ misfit,” he demanded passionately,
“banged me aboot th’ heid wi’ th’ stale frit. The
junior Lung, with ready wit, requested him to lodge his
complaint in English, or else engage an interpreter, lo
this the other made the following neat retort: ill tecnt
a hunner o’ monkey mixtures like ve before suppin ma
whusky. Nae doot y’ll ken richt weel when I bash y r
heid fur ye whit I’m speirin’ aboot.” Urged by his com-
panions, Lung now lashed out viciously and smote the
Scot upon the ear. Whereupon the latter promptly un-
wound like a released clock-spring and hooked the senu-
alien with his left and then smashed him over a pile of
pumpkins by means of a right swing. At this stage ama
standing on the footpath intervened. ‘ Eh, mister, he
yelled, “Squeezer Smith ’n’ Pockets wi .as jii fc
bunged away round th’ lane wid yer fish. The Oale-
donian departed hurriedly, leaving m his wake a curren
of robust profanity. Lung turned to the others andsaid,
“’E is’ot stuff; another wood’ner ’n’l’d ’ave met th
ambulance. That second crack smacked aU th lnsh
outer me, ’n’ yer know, ole cobbers, I couWnt expect
Chow stuff to see me through. Here, my tram ajrrivi g,
I boarded it and heard no more.


DEAFNESS and NOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long standing or
whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes : —“ The Earoscope you
Bent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
i The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
br 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
jnate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
! Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
-1“ EAROSCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt St.(D. 26), Sydney,N.S.W.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us showyou how—write for full particulars
to-day —free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jordan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
PRACTICAL TEST OF THE TRYEE AUTOMATIC
RABBIT DESTROYER MADE ON MR. CHARLES
HARVEY’S FARM, CROOKWELL.
Crookwell, 4th November, 1907;
To the Manager, Tyree Limited,
314 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that
the trial of your famous RABBIT DESTROYER took
place on Friday, November Ist. In all, three tests were
made, two in my paddock and one in Mr. J. Keith’s, and a
large number of rabbits were killed in each test. In No.
1 test, a marked rabbit was placed in the burrow, and on
opening the burrow, it was not found on Friday, as the
whole of the warren was not opened ; but on Saturday
morning, when Mr. Lesmond and myself visited the farm,
we could not find any trace of one rabbit having
left the warren, and on opening a small pocket a short
distance from the main burrow we found the marked
rabbit, together with fifteen others, quite dead. I am
very well pleased with the result of this trial, and have
no hesitation in stating’ that the TYREE RABBIT
DESTROYER is the best means of destroying the pest.
My opinion is, that if the burrows are not interfered with,
not one can escape the deadly poison, and, as they remain
in the burrow, no nuisance is caused, and no other animal 1
or bird is affected by the poison. I can confidently re-
commend this machine to all those desirous of wholesale;
destruction of this pest.—Yours faithfully (Signed)'
Charles Harvey.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “A Life’s Revenge.”
Theatre Royal “ Brewster’s Millions."
Her Majesty’s “ The Blue Moon.”
Palace Carter, Magician.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Musgrove’s Opera Co.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Bijou “The Tyrant.”
Olympia Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
Athen.®um Hall “ Robbery Under Arms”—Bio.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Interesting to compare the two mighty
songstresses who foregathered at Melbourne Cup
t’other day. Butt is indolent by temperament—
she shows it in her face, figure, singing method,
everything. She doesn’t hanker after Society as
such ; and has none of the qualities that make a
great hostess or leader of a Salon. Melba is a
mighty, restless worker. Also she is one of the
few women in Europe capable of getting round
her the leaders in the things that matter, and keep-
ing them there. If she hadn’t been a Melba, she
would probably have been a great woman in
some capacity quite apart from the Voice factor.
The contralto, so that she gets her effect, doesn’t
care much how she gets it. Her mighty organ is
unique, and she knows it, and for two pins
she’d decide to sing without ever privately prac-
tising again ; and give up the time thus saved to
water-melons and her family. With Butt, singing
comes a bad third in life’s sprint—both the infants
and the Rumford gentleman being whole laps in
front of Art. But Melba is the artist first and all
the time. The Voice first; Melba, owner of the
Voice, second ; the rest of the world, “down the
course,” a bad third—that’s likely the correct
order of things in racing parlance. Thus
it results that Butt sings amazingly badly
(considering she is Butt) on occasions. But
Melba never. Each note of hers, each tiniest
trill, has been toiled at with meticulous care ; and
furbished up and polished till it shines like clear
agate. Summed up, Melba is an extraordinary
woman, with a Voice attached (the Voice here is
an unessential really, since its possessor would
have been a notable in some other line without
it); the Butt phenomenon is a Voice attached to
one who is just ordinary good family woman, and
who sans voice would have aroused no abiding
interest outside the weighing room of the physical
culture establishment of her suburb.
** * *
“A Life’s Revenge ” was revived on
Saturday night, at Sydney Criterion. It is by
Walter Howard, and is in that playwright’s riper
manner—less horrific than ‘ ‘ The Face at the
Keyhole,” more robustious than “ The Midnight
Mesalliance.” The piece is not encumbered by
any unnecessary top-hamper in the way of plot.
Its venue is Russia ; which connotes ever to those
who know their melodrama conventions, a
welter of uniformed undesirables, over-dressed
princesses, floggings, snow, and serfs, with here
and there a strong cold man of probity, and now
and again a virtuous loving woman. A very
evil aristocrat is Boris Strogoroff, flight Prince
of Marishla. His assortment of strange infamies,
with their bafflement by the more reputable mem-
bers of the cast, constitute the play.
* * * *
Boris is obsessed with a maniacal deter-
mination to marry Princess Vanda Ivyala, though
she hates him and tells him so with extreme
candor. The Princess’ pick is Paul Starovitch,
alleged by the programme to be an artist. The
young fellow’s studio is shown (Act I.) with a few
samples of his work. It is a subtle indication of
Vanda’s entire freedom from mercenariness in
accepting Paul. She who could marry the per-
petrator of such unsaleable outrages has a heart
to pity and forgive, and a soul above wealth.
Boris—not, so far as appears, out of any regard
for Art, but owing simply to jealousy—has
Starovitch dragged from his studio and turned
into a serf. Then he proceeds to make love to
Vanda. It becomes plain, after a while, why
Boris fails so signally to allure. His staple small
talk consists of anecdotes of the various inno-
cents he has knouted to death and flayed
alive. These anecdotes may be lies; certainly
they sound as if they were. But at best
they aren’t pleasing lies, and they are
punctuated with bursts of epileptic laughter that
disquiet intensely. What pure young princess
wants to hear these details of a knouter’s past,
anyway? All through, Boris shows the same
hopeless want of tact. Act IV., for example, finds
him giving a party. Vanda is there; also Bert
Bailey, Edmund Duggan, and others of unim-
peachable integrity. By way of entertaining his
guests—and j ust as in these parts a man might
hire a German band or unloose a gramophone—
Boris organises a flogging. And who, pray, is the
victim? Some negligible tea-canvasser or other?
The member for the district ? The cook ? Not at
all. Paul Starovitch, no less. Absolutely the
most popular man in the house. The awful
futility of thinking to win one like Vanda by such
methods should be apparent. The end of the play
is that Boris gets what he has been seeking
for some considerable time past—a violent
death at the hands of an enraged serf.
Laurence Dunbar, inadequately disguised in a
set of black Astrakhan whiskerings, takes the
part of Prince Boris. He is most convincing, and
would have met with severe maltreatment from
several incensed Anglo-Saxon right-thinkers had
he fallen into the auditorium towards the end of
his performance last week. Princess Vanda!
(Miss Eugenie Duggan) is a gorgeous personage,
and the family jewels, consisting of tiara arid dog-
collar of diamonds, etc., worn at all hours of the
day and night, are alone worth paying good
money to see. George Cross plays Paul Staro-
vitch satisfactorily.
Carter, the American mystery-monger,
now showing at the Palace Theatre, Sydney, is
the genuine goods. It is a big achievement to
mystify for about 21 hours a large body of self-
satisfied Sydneyites. Carter works on lines
originated years ago by Maskelyne and Cook, but
is a big improvement on those mid-Victorian
deceivers. How the lady changes cabinets ;
how Carter, when inside one himself, does the
things he appears to do; how wedding rings suffer
a sea-change into guinea pigs, and guinea pigs
into bouquets—all these are circumstances that
remain inexplicable to the ordinary mind. The
probabilities are outraged with an amazing surety
and completeness. Miss Abigail Price mind-
reads successfully, and shows a touch of neat
humor here and there; and Allan Shaw does a
coin-manipulating act. Because there will always
be people who find their keenest gratification in
seeing something which ought to be in one place—
but which isn’t—transfer itself swiftly to another—
where it has been all the time; and because also there
are those in our midst who prefer seeing basins of
water evolved out of nothingness, or sensate
creatures altered into bits of wood, to any other
form of dissipation, the Carter show will succeed.
When all is said and done, this magician’s most
impressive trick is the transforming of the Palace
Theatre from an empty into a full house.
You can’t get a penn’orth in a Sydney
tramcar now without being surrounded by young
men and women with deep lines in their foreheads
and a pained expression on their tight-drawn lips:
the competition craze has them in its coils.
It was bad enough when it was simply
a matter of supplying Limericks for the penny
papers and the vendors of lolly and patent
pills. But now even J. C. Williamson
has joined the enemy ; he offers five guineas for
information as to the best means of spending
£250,000 in Australia under the same conditions
as afflicted Brewster, of the Millions. Now you
can watch the Miss from the tape counter get as
far as—
There was a young man of North Shore
Whose sufferings from measles were sore ;
But he bought Biggs’s Pills,
Now he’s done with life’s ills—
And then she starts counting her fingers, and
you know she’s come a cropper on the Limerick,
and is reckoning up how to spend a quarter of a
million before Christmas : (Thumb) buy 11 motor
cars ; (first finger), back the Sunday paper mining
tips; (middle finger), make G. Reid Prime
Minister, and then start 17 new factories;
(third finger)—and you’re at the Railway, and
she still has two fingers left. Meantime, at the
Theatre Royal, the original Brewster (Thomas
Kingston), supported by Mrs. Brough and Miss
Titheradge and the rest, do good enough work to
stand without all this buttressing, though even a
good company can’t make the scene in Brewster’s
office anything but tedious.
** * *
“ The Blue Moon,” without being any-
thing prodigious in the way of a musical-
comedy success, continues to do its duty at
Her Majesty’s—its chief duty being to put a
prolonged smile upon the face of the ticket-office.
The stage decoration is admirable, the bogus
Burmese matrimonial agent and general money-
grubber is a quaint creation, and Miss “Blue
Moon ” Murphy’s singing is the work of a true
little artist.
** * *
The Whiteleys and the Molassos still con-
stitute the large joints in the Tivoli’s backbone,
though since last week it has grown another
pretty large item—a monologuist who tells you
how the Sunday-school choir practises for the
anniversary. He adds a bright stroke to a bill
that was already as full of color as an ox-
persuader’s eloquence.
** * *
The story of “Robbery Under Arms” is
being re-told nightly by the cinematograph at
the Oxford Theatre, Sydney. To get the pic-
tures Charles Macmahon roamed the Western
Plains, accompanied by a band of appro-
priately dressed mummers ; and so soon as a spot
was reached whereon Starlight had stuck-up
someone, the apparatus was fixed, and wild,
bloodsome proceedings began, to the infinite
diversion of the natives. To get all this (a film
4500 ft. in length) cost the management well over
£lOOO. And the result now is good.
Musgrove’s Opera Co., having apparently
become tractable again, put in a satisfactory
Cup week at Melbourne Princess’s. The loss of
Greder was very noticeable in “ Faust,” inasmuch
as his successor, Riinger, reduced the Devil to a
quiet little man of no importance, but the change
was not all for the worse. Greder’s stage manage-
ment included an absurd extra scene on the
Bogeyberg, where the chorus ladies gathered
together on a sort of vice-regal platform, and
pretended to be holding out new temptations to
the depressed tenor. The revived “Faust”
omitted this lamentable farce, so the per-
formance took less time than before in
challenging comparison with the best local
traditions of Gounod’s tuneful work. On
Saturday night the co. tackled “The Fly-
ing Dutchman ” for their first time in Mel-
bourne, and on Friday of this week they will
repeat the attempt. “ The Dutchman,” although
not nearly so Wagnerian as the more experienced
achievements of Divine Richard, is not less
German in feeling than his later musical-mystical
plays. You get the solo of inordinate length, and
the long drawn-out pose-pauses, what time the
orchestra is understood to be curdling your blood,
or making your cuticle creep. And there are
some comparatively simple melodies in “The
Dutchman.” Wagner’s plans for excising
“tune” were not nearly completed when he
dealt with Yanderdecken. The choruses—notably
the Spinning Chorus in the second act —are worthy
of the keen Australian voices that sing them in
the Australian native language. Of the principals,
Miss Heinze (almost as bright as a soprano would
be in the prima donna part), Riinger and the
tremoloic Oeser are better placed than Rupp, for
the comedian baritone plays the heavy father who
introduces an embodied spook to his daughter in
a manner that ought to be quite serious. But
Rupp, in baggy striped pantaloons and a
long gaberdine, is a somewhat comic parent.
He robs the scene of its due eeriness. He
reminds one of a Jew money-lender bringing
home a Juggins to tea. The staging is not
even so effective as it was six years ago, and the
apotheosis of Senta and the Dutchman might
easily be mistaken for an octopus painted on
gauze. “Rigoletto” comes into the repertoire
this week. Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro” is
due on Monday, and these with the Wagner
operas will keep the season going until Friday,
the 22nd.
* * * *
“The Midnight Wedding,” at the Royal,
has lost a little of its “comic relief” since the
first night, and is all the stronger for the pruning.
The comedy scenes of this otherwise staggering
drama seem intended to give the audience mental
relaxation from the excitement of business. In
between these periodical interruptions the story
puts a terrible strain upon one’s intellect. It is
loaded with elusive reminiscences of bygone
dramas, and just as one feels almost certain that
Harcourt Beatty was Don Romeo de Bazan when
he got married, on the eve of his execution, to
Juliet Mari tana in the Friar’s cell, he turns out to
be Lord Clancarty, or the Bondman, or some
other son of an unexpected father. Also Miss
Madge Mclntosh gives a highly impressive per-
formance of more characters than one during the
night. The individuality of the actress changes not,
but the situations in which she figures seem to
pop up suddenly from the caverns of memory,
and at every apparition the present writer
murmurs “Fancy meeting you!” To an old
playgoer “The Midnight Wedding” is a be-
wilderment of recollections. And perhaps it is a
play with a purpose. The author, likely as not, is
the gifted proprietor of a matrimonial agency,
where the parson lies in wait for customers. The
first act seems intended to encourage hasty unions
between young people who don’t wish to get
married at all. Anyhow, the play was produced
with a purpose, and the oofsome end of Meynell
and Gunn will be served every evening until
further notice.
The Bijou Theatre (Melbourne) on Satur-
day night last made a new departure with
Somerfield’s “The Tyrant,” the Roman play con-
taining an Italian despot, a Greek avenger, ana
three leading ladies. Other notable sundries are
gorgeous foreign soldier-men and a British war-
ship, and a stock of Jack Tars sufficient to man
a ferry boat. Thisbe is an actress of Padua,
and is loved by the Tyrant. But the
tyrant is already married, and he is also
the proprietor of a young female victim whom he
has tyrannised into a lunatic asylum—so Thisbe’s
chances of being hoisted into the honest-woman
class are slight. In any case, Thisbe doesn’t
care about the Tyrant. She cherishes a strong
passion for a certain Prince Rudolph, who with
characteristically bellowdramatic perversity, loves
Adrianne, ill-used spouse of the Tyrant. The
situation, as may be seen, is fraught with infinite
possibilities in the way of unpleasantness._ Ru-
dolph—with the best and most honorable inten-
tions in the world—is having a chat with Adrianne
when her husband arrives, accompanied by
a posse of minions. There is _ trouble.
A disguised Friar eventuates (he is in reality
the Avenger), likewise the mad girl, who seizes
the opportunity to identify the Friar-
Avenger as a long-lost brother before being
seized and taken once more to her asylum.
Shortly afterwards, Rudolph again gets into a
compromising situation with Adrianne (he is dis-
covered—with the best of intentions —locked in the
lady’s bedroom), and the Tyrant, now really irri-
tated, decides that there must be an execution in
the family, with Adrianne as star performer. Butat
the crucial moment the good old British tars dash
in, salvage Adrianne, and, in defiance of all
the equities, remove her aboard a man-of-war,
presumably to some place where her meetings
with Rudolph won’t be interrupted by coarse and
misunderstanding husbands. In a play whereof
the excitement is tense, all the performers act well.
If any merit special mention, they are the deep-
voiced Ida Gresham, who plays Thisbe ; and
sweet little Beatrice Holloway, the angel wife of
the Tyrant.
* # «
The Maoris at the Melbourne Town Hall
are disappointing. There is none of the fierce
and bloodthirsty Haka, with its fearsome yells,
one expects. For a Poi dance “in full cos-
tume ” the funniest tribe trooped on to the plat-
form. A big half-caste led the procession—and
a fat quarter-caste blocked up the keystone.
Then there was a bedecked, black-haired
lady, who looked pure Yiddish, and. a
youngster who looked plain gamin ; he might
have been a Herald boy, with his thin and
wiry limbs covered with Maori drapings. And
the Haka ! It was exactly like a poor, spirit-broken
circus tiger—with scarcely a growl even left to the
memory of warlike prowlings. It was not an in-
spiring show. Tourist pictures filled the gaps.
The Voice of Melba, which threatened to
leave Australia longing for it in vain this journey,
is to be heard in Melbourne Town Hall, Satur-
day, 23rd, and the Saturday following. Geo.
Allan (of Allan and Co.), who represents General
Desire in a managerial capacity, announces that
the regal songstress will be supported by William
Black, a baritone whom Melbourne remembers
with gladness, and Miss Una Bourne, an artist
fully qualified to play the piano, even in Melba’s
company. Also, Lernmone will be the flautist, and
Hattenbach the ’cellist.
** * *
The last fortnight of The Greatest Show
on Earth, and already Olympia is advertised
“To let; ” so if anyone is looking for a nice snug
little residence, with stabling for a horse or two,
and plenty of room for pets, well—here’s a
chance. In the meantime, hundreds of enthusi-
asts rush every night to see the Theatre-Circus ;
the elephants—patiently putting up with fool
people whom they could bash to pieces so easily
had they a mind to—quite good-naturedly standing
on their heads, or dancing on a barrel, or trumpet-
ing out a “ song” ; the horses that know the days
of the week and month and year, and other
astounding facts ; and a dancing mannikin of a
tight-rope-walker, who finds cool, clear air the
most substantial of supports.
** * *
“ Gottenberg,” at Her Majesty’s, is a
record-breaking show. The theatre has scarcely
felt the unholy peace of an empty seat since the
opening night; and on race nights and other holi-
days grumbling crowds are turned regretfully
away in hundreds.
** * *
If Melbourne has been pining for an
“Ideal Coon,” the long-felt want is supplied
by Rickards, at the Opera House, just now.
Einglas is the name of the Coon, and his claim to
realise the lofty ideal is held over for considera-
tion. Hayman and Franklin, the droll Hebrew
impersonators, are maintaining their former
appearance of Moses and Rachel; also, La Sylphe
dances witchingly as usual, and Price or Revost
continues to fall off the table with brilliant
success. Amidst a number of more or less popular
performers, the man who comes in violent contact
with the floor is the most applauded.
Quite evidently there was no local deprecia-
tion in Clara Butt stock after she went on tour.
Thursday’s one and only grand-final-return-fare-
well concert had a house of so bumper a description
that there was no room for any more bumps on
the premises. General enthusiasm over “Land
of Hope and Glory,” and other Organ-backed
Empire songs roused the infatuated crowds to
cheer like the vociferous bookmaker who is
watching a rank outsider come in. The Huge
One was clothed in the tint of a half-ripe lemon,
with a sprinkling of gold dust here and there.
The racing season was represented by the Butt
booming “Lorraine, Lorraine, Loree,” a song
wherein a woman rides Vindictive in a steeple-
chase under instructions from a loving husband,
who expects to be made a widower at the last jump.
The Rumford was in excellent voice, and the
violinist and pianist ambled along in their gentle,
harmless way. The house was fully fashionable.
The Big Lady goes to Tasmania, but returns here
—more concerts, do you think? Mebbeyes. Up
to now she has only had two farewells in Mel-
bourne, and, in a daily-journalistic way of speak-
ing, the “vast resources of the Exhibition
Building” have not been taxed at all.
** * *
Julius Knight does not seem to have quite
all his old attractiveness for the other sex, and
thus “Robin Hood”—which is a play built for
the girl-market if ever anything was—has run its
week at Adelaide Royal to houses respectable
rather than great. Miss Elbertorton is getting
her chance at last, and the lady with a Mabel
Lane figure and a Maud Jeffries voice has rapidly
become popular. As maid Marian, she is well
placed. The support is good, especially on the
male side. Clara Butt is just starting what
promises to be a triumphal week of the cult'of
art, combined with the domestic virtues; the
Tivoli is showing the finish for the Cup, per bio-
graph; and a variously computed - number of
thousands of public-school children crammed the
Jubilee Exhibition at two successive days and
nights of work-and-play performance.
“F.H.R.” : I wonder more people do not
die of heart failure the way they rush round.
See a fat woman, fashionably-dressed, tightly-
laced, saunter down towards the ferry. While
she is yet a hundred yards away the steamer
prepares to leave. She lowers her gamp, grabs a
hundred-weight of frock, frills, and furbelows,
reveals a quarter- yard of the leg which has cost so
much to hide from the rude male eye, and dashes
passionately for the wharf. If she has covered
the distance under evens she may be in time to
jump. Ear too seldom, taking it as a warning to
others, she smacks the ocean in the face. If she
misses the boat she shows up in her worst possible
form. Her hair, clothes and temper are consider-
ably ruffled, and anyone who dares to sympathise
with her is snubbed fatally on the spot.
“ Stony ” : I have always thought that
leprosy was an incurable, transmittable horror,
its victims to be avoided as one would avoid the
public hang-gentleman. I find these ideas con-
firmed in a copy of a Melbourne rag which is great
on missions and Methodism and the latest cheap
styles in clothes for women. [Paper patterns
sent free on receipt of sevenpence ha’penny in
stamps.] This paper says tne compounds of
Pakhoi, China, contain “two of the most weird
collections of human beings in the world. Leprosy
is one of the most horrible of human diseases.
The Chinese themselves recognise its horror, and
banish the lepers to a separate village. We went
through the native leper village outside Pakhoi,
and a sad spectacle it afforded.” But this isn’t
the worst horror. The paper, after taking a deep
breath, calmly goes on to remark that “now
quantities of fine silk and linen laces are made by
the wornen-lepers, and sent to England for sale ”
—under missionary supervision !
H. Bassett writes:
Re par (B. 31/10/’O7), Mr. Hasell states : “ Any foreigner
can own land in Japan, if naturalised, but not otherwise.”
Well, if he is naturalised he is no longer a foreigner.
“ Foreigners are allowed to hold shares with some
limitations, which, however, are removed by naturalisa-
tion.” Mr. Hasell was there five minutes, and knows
all about it. The foreigner is not wanted in any
capacity except as a tourist, and for the last six
years conditions have been made constantly harder
for him to bear by drastic and unfair Customs
decisions, and the utter impossibility of forcing
a Jap to keep a contract. Hautot and Co., turning over
a trade of three million yen per annum, do not close up
their business for puerile reasons. Why did the ’Frisco
flour shippers refuse to ship any flour to Japan unless the
cargo was paid for before the ship left port? Because
the merchants were nearly sure to find on arrival of the
ship in the Japanese port that the price of flour had
fallen through the machinations of the local ring, and
unless a reduction was made, the agent had a shipload of
flour on his hands.
The tourist in Japan is filled with delight at the ex-
treme politeness of the Japs, but let him stop long enough
to be known as a resident, and the change is wonderful.
Does he step from the hotel with friends and hail a rick-
shaw? They are accommodated, but it requires the com-
bined services of policeman, porter, and runner of hotel
to induce a puller to haul the local man. Is he in a
retail trade (and you can count the Europeans on one
hand who are, in any Jap city), his employees are giving
his business to rival Jap firms or “cooking” him out of
it.
Recently, there has been much laudation at the Jap
Consulate over the arrival of a passenger ship in Sydney
commanded by a Japanese captain. Why? Japanese
cargo boats have been all over the world. Why
this excitement ? Because it was a passenger boat 1
The Jap says he is strong enough now to
put on Jap skippers, and a lot of foolish people
pat him on the back, and tell him what a great man he is.
Heretofore all the Japanese boats carrying passengers
have had white skippers. The N.Y.K. line tried, some
years back, Jap captains, and no white people would
travel on the boats (except missionaries, and they don’t
count), so the English, Swedes, and Danes remained to
grace the head of the captain’s table. In every city in
Japan, Korea, and Manchuria the fiat has gone forth:
“ The foreigner must go 1 ”


A Zephyr Underskirt 5/9
It is made of Striped Zephyr ; the deep Flounce
J s fully yards round the foot, and is made up of
four smaller Flounces, as the illustration shows.
Zephyr, as everyone knows, washes ex-
cellently. The colors in which these Petticoats
may be obtained are Yieux Rose, Grey, Black,
Sky, Heliotrope, Reseda. Lengths, 38, 40 and
42 inches.
We have purposely chosen this
moderately-priced line to show buyers
that we stock goods to suit all purses.
We send them to any part of the
Commonwealth at the advertised
price, carriage paid, and
with the understanding that,
if it is not exactly as repre-
sented, it may be returned,
and your money will be
refunded.
DAVID JONES LTD.
SYDNEY.
Christmas Gifts ! Christmas Presents !
For the Boy, the Girl, the Sweetheart, the Wife, the Brother, the Cousin.
They all Want
It is the Best Gift, the most amusing-, the most useful, the most
instructive, the most Acceptable Present you can give.
A CAMERA.
COMPLETE OUTFITS.
This is an excellent way of presenting a
Cam era to either your friend or yourself.
Outfit No* I* Price 15/-
Comprising the “CRACKSHOT” CAHERA,
with Case and Complete Developing- & Printing Outfit.
The CRACKSHOT CAMERA only, Price 8/6.
Outfit No* 3* Price 45/-
No. 0 or No. 1 “VICTOR” CAMERA (J-plate),
with Case and Complete Developing & Printing Outfit.
Ho. 0 or No. 1 “VICTOR ” CAMERA only, Price 32/6.
Outfit No* 5* Price £,7/5/-
The i-Plate “ FAVORITE” CAHERA SET,
with Case and Complete Developing & Printing Outfit.
“FAVORITE” CAMERA SET only, £5 15s.
The ** TICKA OUTFITS
The “TICKA” WATCH POCKET CAHERA,
with Finder, Spool of Film for 25 exposures, and com-
plete Developing and Printing Outfit. Price 21/-.
Price of “TICKA” CAMERA only, 12/6.
Outfit No. 2. Price 27/6
The “HETEOR” CAHERA (J-plate),
with Case and Complete Developing- & Printing Outfit.
The “ METEOR ” CAMERA only, Price 16/6.
Outfit No. 4. Price 90/-
No. 6 “FOLDING VICTOR” CAMERA (5 x 4),
with Case and Complete Developing & Printing Outfit.
The No. 6 “ FOLDING VICTOR ” only, Price £4.
Outfit No. 6. Price £7/10/-
No. 4 “FOLDING VICTOR,” Post Oik d Camera (6jx3J)
with Case and Complete Developing cl Printing Outfit.
Price of Camera only, £5 10fi.
Every Possible Requisite used in Photography
Stocked Largely.
HARRINGTON 386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
& CO., LTD., Branch— 93 Queen St., Brisbane
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
When a woman proclaims her virtue, she
has usually lost it. It’s lost things that are adver-
tised.
“ OCHO! STOP YOUR TICKLING .”
Never before, in all probability, has flippancy been
more generally mistaken for humor than it is at present;
never before has the world been so ready to listen to that
debased wit which turns to jest whatever is august and
venerable, which amuses the groundlings by its cynical
ridicule of the grave and gracious and heroic sides of life.
—Argus.
“F.H.”: I was recently privileged to
travel first-class with a perfect lady and her
young. Ma had a Junoesque figure about to
burst a rich garment of appalling design, and her
young consisted of a small girl with a snub-nose.
'The small girl dropped an aspirate with a sicken-
ing thud ; whereupon ma boxed her ears. The
kid howled, and, finding herself unpopular with the
•other occupants of the carriage, ma relented.
“Kiss me, and be a good girl.” she coaxed.
“ Shan’t,” roared the kid, aiming a kick at ma’s
shins. In the twinkling of an eye ma had her by
the shoulders, and shook her till her teeth rattled ;
then, beating her head against the partition,
screamed, between bumps : “ Kiss me, you little
wretch ! Kiss me.” I had no idea these society
women were so impetuously affectionate.
The N.S.W. Bill to provide counsel for
accused persons does not excite much enthusiasm
among professional criminals. Most of these
would rather face a jury undefended by counsel,
making it appear that their poverty and want
of friends created a disadvantage. That plea,
which generally touched at least a few of the jurors,
will in the new arrangement be impossible. In
the early days of Sydney, outside parties were
almost always ready to stump up money for the
defence of a noted criminal, and times out of
number criminals objected to the help. Their
barrister, they feared, would make it look like a
fair fight between the Crown and the accused,
whereas if it were the Crown against the accused
unaided, the sporting instinct would incline Judge
and jury to sympathise with the lawless dog.
* * * *
It’s a good job “ Mr. James ” has got his
title ; else how could he expect it with the S. M.
Herald printing things like this:—
The German Emperor, after visiting King Edward, will
stay a few weeks at the Isle of Wight to recuperate.
And after all the trouble we’ve taken, too, to
explain that Edward has quite settled down.
* * * *
The greatest indiscretion a public man can
perpetrate is to say openly the thing other people
are saying in private. Thus U.S.A. Admiral
Evans, on the Jap-Yanlc situation, at a New York
banquet last week
When things get a little bit strenuous and you know
that there are 80,000,000 people behind you, you like to
see something done, and it’s a bit hard if you’re not to
do it.
Which is so candid a truth that had the Japs
meant business at any stage of the trouble which
has been simmering for so long with the U.S.A.,
the big guns would have taken up the discussion
within 24 hours.
* * * *
Lodge presentations are sometimes frauds.
Brother Smith, of the Independent Order of
Ancient Honorable liastlers, a dear old fellow
whom everybody loves, was to be invested with the
Grand Gaffer’s Certificate. The hat was passed
round, and then carefully examined for stray
coins. Enough were discovered to supply a large
piece of paper covered with flowers, extinct or
imaginary animals, and some hieroglyphics, and
the secretary suggested that Brother Smith have
it suitably framed before presentation night.
Smith, who is not affluent, passed over a pound to
a picture-framer, and had the thing fixed up in an
oaken frame. On the night of the presentation
the rest of the Rastlers arose and duly presented
Smith with the picture and many panegyrics on
his virtues. But nary a word that half the cost
was contributed by Brother Smith. Still he was
luckier than Brother Brown, of the Honorable
Order of Wild Snowballs. His brethren pre-
sented him with a beautiful marble clock as a
mark of respect and esteem. The gaud was duly
presented, and after the fact had been well-adver-
tised, and all the friends of the family had trooped
along and listened to the cathedral chime of that
clock, Brother Brown received an account from
the clock merchant, which explained that the
Wild Snowballs had paid lbs. deposit, and he had
to get the other £4 15s. from somebody.
The luscious mango capitally illustrates
the great extent of Bananaland’s wealthy coast.
When the crop, which takes four
months to mature, is ripe at
Douglas, the fruit is half-grown at
Rockhampton, while the trees are
j ust bursting into blossom at Brisbane.
Other crops to illustrate the extent
of the coast-line are tomatoes and
cucumbers. The chief industry of
Bowen, the disappointed natural port
of North Queensland, is the output of
these products months before the
Sydney and Melbourne markets have
started to draw from local sources. As
amatter of fact, Bowen yields both
vegetables right through the winter
months, with the exception of a few
weeks. Port Douglas produces fine
citrus fruits well in advance of
any centre in Australia now raising
them.
“ The Cup ball was attended by the
visiting Governors and their ladies,” say the
papers. Australian dailies are terribly afraid of
saying that persons such as Governors are ever
accompanied by their wives. There was reason
for abstaining from this form of expression many
years ago, but it should be well understood that
at present, and for a considerable time past,
Governors are as conventionally reputable as most
other people. No Australian newspaper need
now be afraid to say a Governor was seen out with
his wife.
* * * *
Says Sydney News, which has a lag love
for the lash :
Wife-beating is a difficult thing to deal with, because if
the offender is sent to gaol, the wife suffers ; and, if he is
fined, the fine will fall on her to some extent. It would
seem, therefore, to be a complaint wherein a sound whip-
ping is indicated as an appropriate and equitable remedy.
But if the whipping be a sound one, would not the
brute be as much incapacitated for work thereby
as if he lay up in gaol in the ordinary way ? Why
not send offenders to gaol and make them work
there for the bruised wife and her children ?
THE MAID : “ Please,’m, a gentleman
wants to know if Mrs. Gayton lives here."
THE LADY : “ N’ no! But wait a moment! (Aside.) Have I ever been Mrs. Gayton?"
* * * *
Hobart’s Anti-Sosh Mercury has un-
earthed a new reason for busting up the Common-
wealth. Governor Strickland decided to hold
the King’s Birthday review at Launceston. The
Mercury, in the course of a frenzied leader on
the subject, argued :
The review should be held at Hobart because it always
has been in the past.
Since it is to be held in Launceston this year, Governor
Strickland should be deposed for want of tact.
Senator Keating- lives in Launceston, and he is a mem-
ber of the Government.
Therefore, the whole thing is a ruse of the Deakinites
to interfere with State rights, and nothing but Secesh
will meet the case.
« * * •
Advfc. from a Sydney paper :
TAP., first-class cook, 30, wishes to correspond
** young Lady, view matrimony. Photo exchanged,
or never mind photo. Apply , P.O.
Now, here’s a chance for Cole, or Spruce Myth,
or someone else who says he loves the Jap as a
brother, to prove it. Surely there must be one
eligible daughter in those households.
There is yet time to alter the decision that
the King’s head must appear on the new Austra-
lian stamps. Again why? Does the King want
his head on our stamps? Does Australia
want it? A King’s-head stamp can hardly
be really artistic; and it will be a little
tragedy if it is allowed to crowd out the
chances of the lyre bird, or even the koala.
The Australian isn’t a snob, though some of his
prominent personages try hard to give him that
character. It is probably the snobbery of some
official “ dressed in brief authority” who is mainly
responsible for this King’s head idea. It is on a par
with the action of the Sydney Art Society, which
came under a good deal of criticism because it wasn’t
artistic enough, and sought to silence its critics by
changing its title to the “Royal” Society. Or
that of the Australian Engineers, who have just
won consent to call themselves the “Royal
Australian Engineers.” They won’t engineer any
better; nor will they attract a single worthy
recruit with the new title. On the other hand,
they will have given some yawnful Colonial
Office clerk a chance to say wearily, “ What silly
snobs, these —aw —Botany Bay folk are ! ”
* * * *
What backstairs influence was used in the
Sydney City Council that it should have decided,
by no less a majority than 17 votes to four, to
permit the Sydney City Mission to take up a
street collection? Granted that the Mission is
what it professes to be, it is, as compared with
fully two dozen other charitable institutions in
Sydney, a tinkling cymbal and sounding brass.
In the matter of disbursements for the needy and
suffering it is absolutely insignificant when the
whole of Sydney’s charitable bodies are remem-
bered. Moreover, the Sydney City Mission
devotes a pretty large proportion of its revenue
to salaries, office expenses, and general manage-
ment. Yet the Council, by its decision last week,
has given the Mission the right to utilise the city
streets fora whole day in order to make collec-
tions —precisely the same concession which the
Council gives the combined hospitals in the
metropolitan area.
C. M. Sheldon, the Yankee lecturer and
writer of religious fiction, has broken out in a new
place. He is advocating ocean liners that “don’t
sell a drop of rum, nor permit any gambling.”
“If I had money,” says the Rev, Charles, “I
would build them. They would be most success-
ful.” Which is the way of the world—the man
who hasn’t any money knows just how to make
it. The men who have money don’t know.
That is how they come to get the money.
THE CURSE OF RICHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. John D. Rockefeller addressed a gathering lately on
the curse of riches. “Money,” he declared, “was a
burden.” The American nation is in danger of going
“ money-mad.” “No one seems to eare for the future,
and some day there will be a terrible crash.”— Recent
Press Item.
“ This bag o’ pelf—it crushes me,” says he to Uncle Sam ;
“ Of pleasure in this mortal coil I do not get a gramme ;
I bear a cursed load by day, and never get the guerdon.”
Says Sam, “If I .
Should care to try,
Would you pass on the burden ? ”
“The future,” wenton J.D.R., “is black as black can be,
And Yankee folk—the pack of fools—they do not care
a D.
Some day there’ll come a deadly crash to tear the world
asunder.”
Says Sam to John :
“ Go gaily on ;
Till then you have the plunder.”
“ The Sins of this great Nation here —they quite undo a
man,
Who’s got enough to battle with (twelve million pounds
per an.)
My health is broken by the strain of bending to
receive it.”
Says Sam again:
“ Conceal your pain,
Or folk ma3' yet believe it! ”
“ I clearly see,” says John again, “ we're going to the
bad;
One half the earth is moneyless and half is money-mad ;
I’m always vexed to see men grab regardless of the
needj r .”
Says Sam—“ J.D.,
I’m glad you see
The curse of getting greedy 1 ”
“ I do not like to speculate if things will ever mend,
But much I fear the dollar here is all the Yankee’s end ;j
And when I preach against the Pelf—they call me
Visionary.”
At once say we—
“ Wade in, J.D.,
And be a missionary ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
BUST UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The female revolutionaries of Russia are now carrying
infernal machines concealed in their bosoms.— Cable
message.
Up in Russia, far and frozen,
Where the bomb your window blows in,
And a well-developed tendency to lynch is,
They’ve a terror that’s alarming
In the shape, that’s reckoned charming,
Of the lady with a bust of forty inches.
With a round resilient bosom,
Man is often like to lose some
Of his brains, if he should.chance to come to clinches ;
But, in Russia, there will scatter
All his grey and cherished matter,
When he runs across a bust of forty inches.
There’s a danger daily bigger
In the plump and pleasing figure,
That’s inviting to caresses sly, and pinches ;
For, within a steel cuirass hid,
Is a pound of picric acid
In what seems to be a bust of forty inches.
Don Juans are all in pieces ;
Just a little spot of grease is
Every youth who had intentions to be naughty ;
And, to-day, each ardent lover
Breaks away and runs for cover,
When he sees a girl whose bosom measures forty.
vie.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


‘RheumagnetiC’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anajmia, Insomnia, etc.
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “Electrical” ring-s, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGHETIC, and
“Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45-47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland:
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Chamberlain’s Tablets cannot injure the
most delicate tissue of the body, and can be
safely taken by a child. They are the safest
medicine for people of feeble constitution, and
are sure and effective in the case of the most
robust.* 15
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
SUMMER UNDERWEAR.
In the Summer-time one wants Underwear that is
specially comfortable—absorbent and cool.
To possess these desirable features, Summer Under-
wear should be very light and fine in texture, and fit
m the most perfect manner.
RED-TIPPED UNDERWEAR
is ideal Underwear for the warm weather, and it
embodies all the above good points.
Price, 5/6—Undershirts or Pants—Ail Sizes.
ORDER FORM.
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
Please send me Undershirts. My chest measurement
is an d Underpants. My waist measure-
ment is
Name
Address
PEAPES & CO. LTD., ~ ERS .
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
The Australian High Court has given an
interesting decision on a domestic point. Some
years ago a mother died leaving a baby girl
behind. The father handed the infant over to
her grandmother, paying for its maintenance.
He married again, and has a second family of six
children. Now the father wants the daughter
home. The people who brought her up are very
much attached to the girl, and she to them. The
Full Court of Victoria decided that it is a prop and
a pillar of the British Constitution and British
justice that a father cannot be parted from his
offspring, and that nothing could be imagined,
save the fact that the parent was a rogue and a
vagabond, to prevent a father claiming his child.
In this case, the father being a highly respect-
able citizen, the Court had no hesitation in finding
in his favor. On appeal, the High Court
reversed the order. Chief Justice Griffith said it
was a cruel proceeding to wrench the child from
a comfortable and happy home and throw her
among half-brothers and sisters, who would pro-
bably be unsympathetic, simply because a man
whom she hardly knew and didn’t have any
regard for, happened to be her father.
* * « ■*
A crowd was watching a procession
through Melbourne, a few weeks ago, when a
little girl strayed on to the road, and was on the
point of being run over by a lorry. But a “ bloke”
jumped forward, tossed the youngster back to a
place of safety on the pavement, escaping so nar-
rowly himself that the wheel of the lorry
rolled him over roughly. Several people ran
to his assistance, but he rose by his own
efforts, bruised and angry. “Damn it ! Just my
bloomin’ luck ! ” he said, pulling out of his pocket
a colored handkerchief, and examining its contents
ruefully. “ What’s the trouble, mate ? ” inquired
an onlooker. “ The bloomin’ salt an’ pepper’s
spilt all over me pie, an’ the eggs is all broke up
ter blazes. I’ve bin always tellin’ ’er somethin’d
’appen if she didn’t boil ’em ’arder ! ” And the
hero almost wept.
THE SIRENS.
As they sing in Melbourne in the springtime.
Decisive announcement in Barrier Miner
(21/10/’O7), Broken Hill, in whose advertising
columns the local Montagues constantly make
serious allegations, to which the Capulets retort
with threats to make them prove it: —
pUBLIC NOTICE.
What my wife said about Mrs. W. Peng-elly, of
Nicholls-street, is quite true, as I and others 'have
seen the same, and can prove it any time.
Mr. E. WARD.
Nicholls-street,
Railway Town.
If Immigration Arthur’s enemies want to
annoy him, they should publish widely in
England selections from the law reports showing
the pitfalls which beset the seeker after a living
area in N.S.W. For instance, a selector in the
north recently was lucky enough to draw the
winning marble in a ballot for a coveted O.P. area.
Before taking possession his father died leaving
a G.P. area behind him. As the parent died
intestate the lucky gambler found himself entitled
to a seventh share in this C.P. area. The un-
successful gamblers then haled him before the
•— and , u ? n th® grounds that he was
a holder of acquired Crown Lands and
therefore debarred from taking up an ad-
ditional area. The Land Board sent the
case on the Land Appeal Court, which
annulled the C.P. The selector thereupon
engaged more expensive counsel, and went to the
uli Court, which took the view (that to the
ordinary intellect not hopelessly befogged by an
intimate study of the land laws of N.S.W was
the only commonsense one) that the Act prohibit-
ing the holder of one C.P. from acquiring another,
was passed to prevent deliberate attempts to
aggregate big holdings, -and that the temporary
holding of a speck of land in the way that the
appellant acquired his, did not rob of him of his
national right of sharing in a raffle for a piece of
land suitable for the bringing up of an Australian
family.
* *
Social gifts and linguistic proclivities
are usually associated with royalty, couriers, and
cooks, who speak all languages with equal fluency
and equal incorrectness.”— George Moore
* * * *
Melbourne Working Men’s College is
doing well. Every class is crowded. In
each trade there are applicants always wait-
ing for vacancies. But there is no money for ex-
tension, and the Bent Government will not assist..
An example, this latter, of short-sightedness.
Ihe .State s interests would surelv best be served:
by the constant turning out of expert workmen.
Here is a college at the doors of which young
Australian workers are always clamoring for
admission in order that they may learn to become*
more expert, and thus more profitable to them-
selves and their employers. And the comment of
the employer clan on the matter, is, “Let’em
clamor. Trades unions are in some instances,
assisting towards the proposed Endowment Fund.
Which seems to indicate that unionism has more,
brains than Fat.
” » *
“ G.G.” : I’ve a grievance. I want a.
law passed to compel people to mind their own
business. My
thatch has taken
leave of absence
—whether tem-
porarily or per-
manently I know
not, neither do I
care. I make no'
complaint. But
I find the world is
full of people who
are anxious to tell
others how to
make their hair
grow. I have been,
compelled to use,
or falsely state'
that I have used,,
kerosene, onions,,
axle-grease, sheep-
dip, hair vigor,
lard, sage, vase-
line, and about ;
99!) other varieties,
of lotions, and an
equal number of
pomatums. I have
also been obliged!
to shave, sham-
poo, massage,
singe and other-
wise fill up my
skull’s spare time.
Another instance:
A friend of mine
has a knob on the'
side of his head..
It has been his;
constant com-
panion for a con-
siderable number
of years, and he is
not in the least
anxious to part
with it. It doesn’t
cause him any
trouble, being only
about the size of
a walnut. It fits-
comfortably under
his hat, and there-
fore takes up no
extra room in the
tram-cars. If it
crowded anybody
out of the car he
would be quite
willing to pay its
fare. He some-
times forgets that
he has this lump.
. at all until some
footenng imbecile reminds him about it by
asking him why he doesn’t have it amputated.
My theory is that people who give unsolicited
advice about other people’s concerns should be'
licensed—same as hawkers, dealers and dogs, and
that if a boy calls out “Get your hair cut ” you;
should be authorised to demand a sight of his
license to give advice and should be able to give'
him in charge if he can’t produce one.
* * * *
“Peter Pan” savagely defends the;
wickedness of Adelaide: The constant references;
to Adelaide as the “City of Churches” and the
“Holy City” are getting me down, and while I
am going down I want to kick. You can no
more judge a city’s holiness by its millions of
spires than you can tell a sausage by its mackin-
tosh. Consider these few items: Adelaide
can put its silver on a “dead cert” in
the street with perfect freedom. Melbourne
and Sydney cannot. We publish betting odds ;
the Eastern States are not allowed to. The
S. Australian Government has legalised the
totalisator; neither Ma nor Victoria have been
so sensible. The populace on Saturday nights
mobs Bundle-street and insults itself, and Ada
Ward was broken-hearted over us, and we chased
’Lige Dowie out by the back door. What more
can we do to prove that we don’t deserve a pain-
ful reputation for goodness ?
ONLY FAIR.
Clerk of Petty Sessions (fixing the bail for
the drunk and disorderly): “So your sureties are
both publicans.”
BUNG : “ Yes, ids a fair thing, mister. We fill ’em up, and then bail ’em out.”
A feature of any big race meeting that
•astonishes mere man is the indefatigable nature of
the slim, seraphic little lady in a successful dress.
To the average he-creature there is nothing so ex-
hausting as two hours spent in perambulating the
V.R.C.’s half-guinea department under a hot sun,
and in the dusty atmosphere inevitable in the
press ; but the heat and burden of the whole day
is born by his tender bud with a fortitude that is
simply heroic. Hour after hour, up and down,
down and up, and round about, the graceful, fragile
little thing will carry her burden of shantung or
marquisette, and her crushing head-load of floral
decorations, and never make a whimper or turn a
hair ; and yet if that same gentle soul were asked
to chop her own wood and build the new brick
kitchen she would be out after a new summer
divorce within ten minutes. There is growing up
in cynical souls a sad conviction that the weak-
ness of woman is nothing to the weakness of man
in having been deceived by it ever since the Stone
Age, or thereabouts.
• * * *
“ F.H.R.” : Saw something last week that
made me sad. On a Nippon mail boat, at Cir-
cular Quay, some twenty Jap sailors were
assembled for’ard ; two, armed with foils, masks,
etc., were putting up a clever exhibition; and a
veteran was perched alongside giving advice and
encouragement. That was one side of the picture.
The other was made up of some thirty, dirty,
white city loungers, who leaned around and spat.
* » * *
Tweed River (N.S.W.) district, now
•enduring drought troubles, is a special example of
improvidence. The average rainfall on the river
runs up to over six feet per year. Yet a spell
■of dry weather has reduced the district to
sore straits, and some of the Murwillumbah
people are buying water at £2 a load. For im-
providence and neglect to put by for a rainless
•day the N.S.W. cocky is a marvel.
* * * •
A gentleman named Rock represents the
sawmill employees on Sydney Labor Council.
When the Council was debating the question of
Australian national defence and the local building
•of torpedo craft, Mr. Rock “thought the Council
should advocate peace, and did not want any
swords or fight or anything of the kind. If any
foreign invaders came here to take the country,
and the trouble could not be settled by arbitration,
they could have the country, as far as he was
■concerned. He had nothing to fight for, and
would not boost up somebody else who would
stand on a hill 10 miles away giving directions.
The Council should advocate universal peace.
The only way fighting would affect his trade
would be to keep the men busy cutting timber for
•coffins.” Does this Mr. Rock understand that if
there is an invasion of this country, the odds are
that it will be by an Asiatic army that will cer-
tainly resort to horrible atrocities on helpless
women and children ? If the danger were of con-
quest by a white and civilised foe, Rock’s remarks
would be bad enough ; but when it means racial
•obliteration by a savage and repulsive enemy of a
lower type, they are simply disgraceful.
Sydney City Council’s “tip” at Moore
Park is again on the rampage (it’s always a
nuisance, but in spring it is an extra-special
nuisance). Last week, Dr. Armstrong, city health
officer, inspected the tip, and found it in an “ un-
satisfactory condition. . . . The garbage recently
deposited had not been sufficiently covered with
sand, and much of it was exposed, offensive, and
swarming with flies." Let’s see—didn’t the City
Coun’cil decide, some time last century, to destroy
the city’s garbage by fire ?
* * * *
The quiet calm of an up-country
(N.S.W.) court was broken last week when a
case of alleged wife-desertion was being heard.
The wife alleged shortage of clothes as part of her
complaint, and whilst she was giving evidence
the husband left the court, went home, and
shortly returned with all his wife’s apparel. He
strewed ball dresses, opera cloaks, coats, and
skirts, etc., about the court-room on chairs,
tables, and even the dock, with the triumphant
air of finally answering the complaint. But he is
said to have brought all the articles to the court in
one portmanteau. Now no woman’s clothes
should go in one portmanteau.
* * * *
A tragedy is reported from Ballarat. The
winners of the two big prizes of £6OOO each in
Tatt.’s V.R.O. meeting “ Consultations” turn out
to be prominent church workers. The other
churchmen, who didn’t win anything, are, say
the press reports, “highly incensed,” and they
clamor for “explanations.”
* » * *
“ Hypatia’s ” reflections :
Upon receiving an invitation—" What shall I wear ? ”
says woman ; “ Will there be anything decent to drink? ”
says man.
Drink is a huge joke to man ; to his women folk, mostly
a tragedy.
Few women marry for love, generally because they are
expected to.
Woman attracts man by her ignorance of the world ;
man attracts woman by his knowledge.
Women say nasty things ; men do them.
* * * *
“ F.M.” : I want to know why a woman
may not be as proud of her physical development
as a man, without having flung at her, by the
Judkinses, the accusation of immodesty. In
some cases, I dare say, the woman has a definite
object: she wants to capture a man ; but it may
also be said that to many a finely-developed
young woman a man’s desire of her comes as an
infinite mystery. Yet the man will call her im-
proper should her innocence allow her to spread
herself on a postcard as a mermaid or something
nice like that. And why ? Surely she may
Sose as Venus if Hackenschmidt may pose as
lercules.
THE VICTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To work the mystic will of God
The shining stars and moon and sun,
And the vast systems of the earth,
Their everlasting- courses run.
The human creatures of His craft
Have, ever since the world began,
Stalked through the cavern of the earth,
Moved by the baser will of man.
TAS.
C. L. RANDALL.


ARTHUR
LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and
Engines, High Speed Engines,
Engines, etc., etc.
Fixed Engines, Traction
Thrashing Machines, Oil
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sb«s» Dip. Nicholson & Sons ’? d
everything. A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woojli working Machinery. Massey s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Gas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATESs-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4*d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices. ~
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
For the first time for 34 years the Bank of
England has put up its minimum discount rate as high as
7 per cent. At the same time the Bank of France, which
went through last year’s troubles without turning a hair,
raised its rate from 3J per cent, to 4 per cent. The
trouble comes from the United States, and sprang out of
over-trading and frantic speculation. Things established
on that fever basis had, of course, to turn sooner or later,
and then the rush-out became just as frenzied as the rush-
in had been. The Trust cos. felt the pinch first.
These cos. are occasionally respectable. But
not always. Concerns —insurance cos., for instance
—which cannot gamble with their own money, pass com
on to trustcos.; and the same people gamble with it there.
The doubtful character of many of these Trust cos. natu-
rally laid them open to an early demand for gold.
Then Canada, which always keeps a good deal of its so-
called liquid surplus in the U.S., rushed in demands.
Owing to the recent American boom the ordinary com-
mitments ahead are vast; and to be sure of meeting
them, reputable concerns preferred to have gold in a
Chicago meat-tin, or any other place at home, rather than
in a bank. So the drain of gold from Europe began over
again.
Now tbe English gold position isn’t nearly as
strong as some of the best authorities would like to see
it. The Bank of England, besides doing most ordinary
banking business, is the banker for other banks. Those
banks have assets at the Bank of England, and reckon
them among their liquid reserves ; and the Bank of
England reckons the same assets among its own liquid
reserves. So one lot of liquid reserves has to safeguard
two lots of liabilities. The system is weak ; nothing could
prove that more absolutely than the jumping up of the
bank rate to 7 per cent. It means this : that the Bank
cannot offer financial accommodation to even its own
British clients at anything short of a most burdensome
rate. Over the Channel the Bank of France has kept its
rate until now at 3J- per cent. ; and even now that bank’s
rate goes up to only 4 per cent, as against the Bank of
England’s 7 per cent. The Bank of France certainly has
the right—really nowadays as a last resort—to pay in
silver ; and that no doubt gives it more confidence. But,
whatever the cause, the result is pretty clear—the Bank
of France is doing its duty to French commerce when the
Bank of England is only prepared to do its duty to
English commerce on almost prohibitive terms.
What would happen if the Australian State
Governments had some of their big I O U’s maturing isn’t
pleasant to think about. Fortunately, they have had
three most prosperous years, and mostly have a bit in
hand. But the Governments can’t hope to strike that
sort of luck twice, or three times, running. The worst
knock now will come through the inevitable shrinkage in
prices ; in fact, metal prices have already shrunk so much
that they have left many mining cos. so much uncovered
that they are seeking refuge in liquidation. Dearer money
will, however, also mean lower prices for ■wool, and other
such products. How long the reaction will last nobody
can tell. It must be pretty plain, though, even to the
optimists who were lately telling people to plunge, that
the recent high prices were based to a great extent on
frenzy, and were as abnormal as the morning thirst of the
man who has spent a wild night among mixed drinks.
And at a time like this the reaction is liable to be just as
severe as the repentance of that unsober man. Which is
a point that ought to be obvious, yet is too often over-
looked by the people who have been enjoying boom
prices : the prices that follow a boom have a bad habit of
going just as far below normal as the boom prices went
above normal.
Meantime, why this veneration of gold ? The
situation reproduces on a colossal scale the scene at the
Barrack-street Savings Bank (Sydney) in the Australian
panic days. There was a crowd clamoring for gold.
Then up came Premier George Dibbs, towering above his
fellows, and scrawled upon a sheet of paper the pledge of
N. S. Wales —“ I will pay.” It was as good as gold, and
settled the whole trouble. Roosevelt may play the part
of George Dibbs yet, and then they will wonder what all
the fuss was about.
Though the voice of the farmer has been heard
in the land raising the familiar cry for more concessions,
and though this year’s wool clip will fall short of last
year’s, and though the metal markets have had a bad fall
and weak mines have shut up, the Australian Treasury
returns still wear a smile that stretches all across their
face. The figures that follow show how the States’
revenues have moved up in the first four months in each
of the last four financial years, except in the case of S.
Australia, which is tired, and only makes up its figures
once a quarter
1904. 1905. 1906. 1907.
£ £ £ £
N. S. Wales .. 3,416,058 3,557,444 3,976,679 4,551,524
Victoria .. 2,220,772 2,276,293 2,479,628 2,692,461
Queensland.. 1,207,511 1,294,137 1,426,096 1,550,090
Westralia .. 1,094,374 1,070,672 1,042,428 1,019,230
Tasmania .. 267,778 271,586 286,719 295,975
S. Australia .. 580,603 583,156 611,721 789,850
8,787,096 9,053,288 9,823,271 10,899,130
Probably these figures show things at their very best. In
most cases railway revenues will now shrink, and land
and some other returns won’t grow any larger. More-
over, the Australian Customs tariff, though it has made
a full Treasury for the States so far (and got curses for its
pains), is steadily getting to its real work of promoting
Australian industries and making the Commonwealth in-
dependent of imports.
For the month the figures have been as follows:
State Revenues for October.
Oct., 1906. Oct., 1907.
N.S. Wales .. £1,114,941 £1,299,003 Inc. £184,062
Victoria .. 589,265 692,391 Inc. 103,126
Queensland .. 304,223 331,441 Inc. 27,218
Westralia .. 257,603 254,507 Dec. 3,096
Tasmania .. 94,583 89,196 Dec. 5,387
And for the four months
State Revenues for Year so far.
1906. 1907.
N. S. Wales (4 mos.) £3,976,679 £4,551,524 Inc. £574,845
Victoria (4 mos.) .. 2,479,628 2,692,461 Inc. 212,833
Queensland (4 mos.) 1,426,096 1,550,090 Inc. 123,994
S. Australia(3 mos.) 611,721 789,850 Inc. 178,129
Westralia(4mos.).. 1,042,428 1,019,230 Dec. 23,198
Tasmania(4 mos.).. 286,719 295,975 Inc. 9,256
Commonwealth refunds (Customs) and railway revenue
have been almost exactly equal factors in swelling the
N.S.W. revenue : from the Commonwealth the State has
got £273,619 more than it did last year, and from the
railways £273,756 more. The two account for more than
the total net increase, so there has been a small net re-
duction in all other lines. Queensland’s very substantial
improvement is almost wholly due to the railways ; their
totals for the two years have been : 1906, £569,918 ; 1907,
£687,401 —a gain of £117,483. S. Australia is £96,794 to
the good in railway revenue, thanks mainly to the way
the Barrier is pouring out its metals in order to catch the
boom market. But to get railway revenue costs the
States money ; the Commonwealth refunds are all net
revenue, free of charges.
The expenditure figures are as usual patchy:—
Expenditure for Year so far.
1906. 1907.
N. S. Wales (4 mos.) .. £4,388,797 £4,395,833 Inc. £7,036
Queensland (4 mos.).. 774,400 861,554 Inc. 87,154
Westralia (4 mos.) .. 1,086,409 1,031,883 Dec. 54,526
S. Australia (3 mos.) .. 655,726 700,495 Inc. 44,769
The others—Victoria and Tasmania—trust their Bents
and Urquharts till the end of the financial year.
In 1906 N. S. Wales had at the end of October a
deficit of £412,118; this year a surplus of £155,691. The
improvement therefore amounts to £567,809. But the
Public Works Fund fake in N.S.W. upsets all such com-
parisons. This year (four months) £312,496 has been
charged up to that fund, which is fed from the alleged
surplus ; and most of the £312,496 ought to have been
paid for out of revenue direct, which would have in-
creased the ordinary expenditure and spoiled the look of
the pretty surplus. Besides this £312,496 charged to the
Works Fund, £427,645 of borrowed money has been spent,
and the Wade Government proposes to get to work and
pawn things much faster in the future.
Queensland charges up its interest only once a
half-year. At the end of October, 1906, it had £651,696
saved up to put on Uncle’s plate ; this year it has
£688,536, or £36,840 more. But, then, Kidston doesn’t
manufacture bogus surpluses through a Works Fund.
While N. S. Wales professes to have spent only £7036
more this year than last, Kidston, of Queensland, owns
up to having spent £87,154 more, largely on repairs,
works, etc.
S. Australia seems to be in for another good
year. It is about £89,000 to the good on the first
quarter, though the first quarter usually ends with a
deficit.
Westralia’s October revenue wasn’t enough to
pay the month’s bills by £40,411, and the total deficit is
now £221,383. A little thing like that, however, doesn’t
worry it. It just says, “ Oh, but we’ve got a sinking
fund,” and remarks that it hates interruptions, and what
are trumps. It forgets that to keep pace with the de-
pletion of the goldfields its sinking fund probably ought
to be 50 per cent, larger than it is, and that, if so,
Westralia is no better off with its sinking fund than some
other States are without any at all.
* * * *
Postmaster-General Mauger has been sniffing
the correspondence of one of the Tasmanian banks, and
suspects dead-birds and other prohibited goods. His idea
is that, as this moral generation may not use the post to
reach Tattersall, the bank has turned itself into a Tatter-
sall agency. Recognising that it would be a pretty
serious thing to shut down on any bank’s correspondence
without warning, the P.M.G. is asking the bank two or
three questions before he decides to go on strike.
Matters are not likely to reach that crisis, however, be-
cause even for its best customer no bank could afford to
risk the endless complications that might arise through
the stoppage of its mails.
* * * *
The Vie. Savings Bank now gets a step nearer
the common or garden variety of bank by undertaking to
pay up to £2 on demand at any branch on presentation
of pass book. But a depositor can only make one such
draw a day.
* * * *
From “ the town where oysters are 3s. 6d. a
dozen, and poor at that” (Oct. 3): “Well-informed per-
sons in London say the drop in copper from £llO to £6l
was greatly helped by the huge quantities of ‘ scrap ’
and second-hand copper raked out of every odd corner to
supply the demand early in the year. One firm told
writer it scraped up 600 tons from everywhere last
February, and did not sell at less than £lOO a ton. No-
body can check the amount of ‘ scrap ’ copper constantly
coming on the market, and that’s where copper statistics
all this year have been untrue and misleading. The Aus-
tralian press regularly quotes the weekly metal circulars
of interested dealers, and their forecasts of the early part
of the year make comic reading to-day. Copper looks
now like bottoming at about £61.”
The Bank of Australasia
Wyitten
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Oct., 1901.. £140,077 10p.c. =£Bo,ooo £20,000 £1,009,237
Apr., 1902.. 144,468 11 „ ~ 88,000 16,000 1,049,705
Oct., 1902., 136,943 11 „ „ 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
Apr., 1903.. 157,705 12 ~ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353.
Oct., 1903.. 151,598 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,146,951
Apr.,1904.. 150,934 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12 „ „ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apr., 1905.. 136,153 12 „ „ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., 1905.. 137,451 12 „ „ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
Apr., 1906.. 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906.. 153,512 14 „ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apr., 1907.. 227,463 14 „ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,427,325
The half-year’s profit is at the rate of no less than
£l5 10s. lOd. per cent, per annum on all shareholders’
funds—capital and reserves combined. True, it is men-
tioned that there have been “ some exceptional recoveries
from old accounts” ; but, on the other hand, Consols and
other such securities have been written down out of
profits “to market value or under.” The fixed policy of
this bank is to write assets down hard. Thus the pre-
mises account stands at only £251,836 ; the amounts
shown above as written off have mostly been used to
reduce this account. Compare that with, for instance,
the A.J.S. Bank, whose premises stand at £366,742 —
£366,742 to handle £4,088,084 of advances (book value),
while the ’Asia, with £251,836 of premises, handles
£15,840,960 of advances. No doubt a great deal depends
upon what one expects a balance-sheet to be. There are
people who say that a sheet which under-values assets is
as misleading as one which over-values assets ; and there
is little doubt that the ’Asia’s premises are worth more
than the figure they stand at. But it is a fine fault in a
balance-sheet, anyhow ; it is an extension of the common
and generally-approved policy of writing furniture down
to nothing. The policy explains why this bank’s figures
as to profit return are so high compared with most
others ; for this bank, by reason of this policy of writing
down, hides much of the reserves which some others show.
For instance, if instead of writing off £204,000 in the past
six years that amount had been added to reserves, the
earnings on the basis of capital and reserves for the past
half-year would have been at the rate of £l4 Is. 6d. per
cent, per annum instead of the £l5 10s. lOd. per cent,
which the accounts show as they now stand.
What the recoveries amount to there is, of
course, no way of telling ; but there is nothing in the
balance-sheet figures to account for any very large in-
crease in the normal profits:—
April, 1906. April, 1907.
Notes .. .. £543,748 £504,671 Dec. £39,077
Bills, etc. .. 2,924,503 3,291,936 Inc. 367,433
Deposits .. 16,964,281 16,622,967 Dec. 341,314
Liquid Assets .. 7,661,127 7,466,103 Dec. 195,024
Advances .. 15,484,095 15,840,960 Inc. 356,865
Premises .. 280,660 251,836 Dec. 28,824
Advances have increased by £356,865, and deposits have
decreased by £341,314, but the two items taken together
would not explain very much of the spring in profits from
£137,795 to £227,463. To the recoveries have, of course,
been added the phenomenal monetary conditions at both
ends of the world during the half-year. Australia had.
plenty of money just when London wanted to borrow it,
and the rare circumstance put Australian banks on a-
remarkably good wicket. What, however, seems worth
noting is, that the figures as to profit published 12
months ago are, probably, a much truer guide than those
now issued. A word was said just now about an increase
of advances and a decrease of deposits, and the movement
has naturally reduced the liquid assets. But the propor-
tion is still very solid ; over 36£ per cent, of the debt to
the public is in coin, public stocks, etc., and those stocks-
have been written down “ to market value or under,” and
the recent market value is an unusually low level. The
profit, calculated on the basis of shareholders’ total funds,
has moved in recent years in this way :
Oct., 1903.. £ll 3 3 p.c. Oct., 1905 ..£9 13 9 p.c,
April, 1904.. 10 19 9 „ April, 1906 .. 912 3 „
Oct., 1904 .. 10 1 9 „ Oct., 1906 .. 10 11 11 ~
April, 1905 .. 914 0,, April, 1907 .. 15 10 10 „
But again the recoveries have to be taken into account.
The bank has the use of about £7 of the public’s money
for every £1 of its own funds ; and that is regarded as-
about the limit of safety. Finding themselves in much
the same position, two other of the bigger banks
increased their capital lately, and, by either charging no
premium at all or only a small one, practically put up
their dividend while keeping it at nominally the same
rate ; and there was a lot to be said, from the share-
holders’ point of view, in favor of that, for dividends that
run beyond 10 or 12 per cent, are apt to invite trouble.
The Colonial Permanent Building and In-
vestment Society (Melbourne)
Written Off and
Sept., Losses. Losses on Sales. Deficit.
1898 £284 £9827 £t1,508
1899 559 12,067
1900 548 I‘ 2 - 615
1901 549 1005 14,169
1902 310 1244 15,723
1903 62 3668 19,453
1904 159 55 19,667
1905 97 4079 23,843
1906 139 1447 25,429
1907 201 4342 29,972
This is a case of liquidation, which has been proceeding’
as follows
Advances and Owing to Paid Off
Properties. Public. During Year.
1900 .. £84,559 £52,796 £2153
1901 .. 81,706 51,670 1126
1902 .. 76,728 48,065 3605
1903 .. 72,201 46,920 1145
1904 .. 70,072 44,937 1983
1905 .. 62,291 40,269 4668
1906 .. 57,963 36,961 3308
1907 .. 49,435 33,052 3909
In seven years, therefore, properties, etc., of the book
value of £35,124 have been disposed of, and £19,744 of
debt has been paid off ; and at that rate the remaining
£49,435 of these assets would pay off about £26,500 of debt.
There are about £l5OO of other assets; so the final result
may improve a little upon that. Recent results have not,
however, been very cheerful. It is no doubt many a day
since shareholders buried their hopes of getting a plank
or two out of the wreck, and from the look of things
those hopes won’t have any resurrection. So far the de-
positors have only had 7s. in the £ back, and it is a long,
weary way between seven and twenty.
* • * •
The Brisbane Permanent Building and Bank-
ing Co._
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves. serves.
1898.. £4019 2£ p.c. =£3289 £1,262 £16,703
1899 .. 4711 3± „ „ 3881 332 £498 17,201
1900.. 5618 3f „ ~ 4464 315 839 18,040
1901 . 6193 4 ~ ~ 4758 567 868 18,908
1902 .. 5448 4 „ „ 4761 640 47 18,955
1903.. 4808 4 „ ~ 4763 394 18,606
1904.. 4227 3J „ „ 3899 284 44 18,650
1905 .. 2867 Nil 16,322 5,195
1906 .. 1353 Nil 542 6,006
£24,393 Capital written off and added
to Reserves .. .. .. •• 30,399
£22,874 written off properties .. .. 7,525
1907.. 1970 2 p.c.= 1755 1181 6,559
The last few lines show in the handiest way the results
of the cleaning up. In 1905 there was a partial over-
haul, and £12,044 was provided as a depreciation
suspense account, and is included above in the
amount shown as written off in 1905 ; the balance
of the writing off in that year represented a reduction of
reserves, and apparently covered losses on realisations.
On the past year’s revaluation it was found that £34,918
ought to come ofE the assets, including the £12,044 already
provided. Prom all shares 3s. 6d. was therefore written
off, which provided the £24,393 shown, and left the
capital at £83,227. During the past year sales of certain
properties were rushed through to clear them out of the
way, and the rush meant a loss of £llBl even on the
written-down values. The fact suggests that the writing-
down has been none too emphatic ; on the other hand, it
is quite possible that the co. was prepared to make some
sacrifice in order to promptly get rid of unproductive
properties. The gross receipts from interest and rent
last year were £13,202. On the written-down values this
shows about £6 ss. per cent.; and that isn’t so high either
as to suggest that the assets have been written down
any too hard. The deposits and other liabilities amount
to £127,990. There has been a small increase in deposits
during the year; and the change in the appearance of
the accounts has certainly justified the extra confidence.
As against the £127,990 of debt to the public, the co. has
£28,566 of liquid assets ; and against the £99,424 of debt
not covered by liquid assets, there was at August 31
£193,806 of non-liquid assets (mainly advances, proper-
ties, etc., written down); so the depositors have nearly
£2 of security for £1 owing to them, and that is a margin
which ought to give them a satisfied feeling. As for the
shareholders, however, their capital is still poorly pro-
tected, and dividends ought to be kept low while a more
substantial reserve fund is built up.
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., wool-
brokers, etc. (Sydney) m
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897 £18,176 Bp.c. = £BOOO £5,000 £5176 £19,192
1898" 13,120 8 „ „ 8000 2,500 2620 21,812
1899" 14 424 8 „ „ 8000 4,000 2424 24,236
1900" 12,741 8 „ „ 8000 2,000 2741 26,977
1901.. 6,120 7 „ „ 7000 10,000 16,097
1902.. 11,192 7 „ ~ 7000 2,500 1692 17,789
1903" 9,014 7 „ „ 7000 2,000 14 17,803
1904" 8,845 7 „ „ 7000 2,000 17,648
1905.. 11,778 7 „ „ 7000 4778 22,426
1906.. 14,805 7 „ ~ 7000 5,000 . 2805 25,231
1907.. 17,767 7 ~ ~ 7000 5,000 5767 30,998
Established in 1882, by 1895 this co. had a reserve fund of
£40,000 ; whereupon the amount was used to write off
the ’ goodwill item which had up to that time figured
among the assets. The co.’s other assets consisted of
wool-stores at Circular Quay (Sydney) and advances ;
and as against those assets there were mortgages and
other debts. In the past 10 years these various items
have moved as follows :
1897. 1900. 1906. 1907.
Debt on mortgage.. £87,000 £78,000 £60,000 £60,000
Other debts .. 79,968 115,605 65,114 93,253
Freeholds (cost) .. 179,514 179,514 189,514 189,514
Total written off
Freeholds .. 14,514 26,014 34,514 39,514
Advances, etc., .. 130,160 173,082 103,845 142,750
This is at the date of the several balance-sheets, before
the appropriations have been made. In the past 10 years
the disclosed profits have amounted to £119,806, which
have been accounted for in this way :
Written off Premises account .. .. £25,000
Special losses written off (1901).. .. 10,000
Dividends .. .. 73,000
Reserves •• •• 11,806
Total £119,806
The amount written off premises as well as the undivided
profit (reserves)— together £36,Bo6—has been available to
reduce the outstanding debt or to purchase further
premises, and the movement should have given the co. a
substantial lift. During the past year, on account of
the prosperity in the wool business, there has been a
large increase in advances and other amounts due.
There is profit in this, no doubt; but there is also risk.
Experience and prudence may eliminate losses ; but
vrima facie there must be risk in pastoral advances
made under boom conditions. The co. has a capital of
£lOO,OOO paid—so,ooo shares are fully paid to £l, and
100,000 shares are paid to 10s., and carry a liability of a
further 10s.
* * * *
Melbourne Ice Skating and Refrigerating
Co.„ ~
Deficit.
Preliminary expenses .. .. £387
Premium on shares, £125 .. .. 262
Written Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend. off. serves.
1906 .. £5732 5 p.c. =£1225 £1457 2788
1907 .! 702 Nil 1500 1990
'This isn’t what a lot of people were led to expect. In the
•co/s first year the receipts at the Glaciarium, though it
was only open for less than four months, amounted to
£10,585. In the past full year the total was only £7886.
This unfavorable movement has made the co. hurry on
'with the scheme for providing cold storage ; and a heavy
■debt has been incurred in consequence. Twelve months
ago the net liabilities were £8035 ; they have now reached
£16,303, of which £13,568 represents overdraft. Probably
the banker is beginning to be just as cold as the iciest
spot in all the 50,000 cubic feet of the mo./s' ne ' W
storage space ; anyhow, to relieve him, an nr ,i; t iaries
ference shares is pending—present holders .. a j is
to have first chance. (Present authorise A P ( jj y
£50,000, of which 24,500 £1 shares have been issued, iu y
paid.) What the effect of the extension °| e
cold storage will be, nobody, of course, can te , , Qrt ,
thing is made fairly clear—the Glaciarium .
lived craze, like most of these amusement enterprises.
There was an idea that it had “ come to stay ,
may stay, but in a modified form. The wiU pro
vide cold comfort for the co. formed early this year
Sydney. #
The Tasmanian Wool-Growers’ Agency Co.
(Launceston): —
Writ-
Dividends ten To Re-
Sept., Profits. and Div. Tax. Off. serves serves
1902 .£4273 25p.c.= £2231 - £2042 £11,979
1903 .. 3384 25 „ „ 2231 £142 1011 12,090
1904 .. 3223 25 „ „ 2231 2858 “A
1905 .. 3489 25 „ „ 2231 1000 258 11,382
1906 .. 3300 25 „ „ 2231 1250
1907 .. 3237 25 „ „ 2231 1000 6
In the above the profits are shown after deduction of the
bonus paid to the staff. For some years P»st an annual
appropriation has been made out of profits and passedto the
premises account, and the amount has then been written
off. In 1905 the premises stood at £10,063 , and thoug
additions have been made to them they now s .
only £7BOO, and £BOO (now passed to premises account)
will no doubt be written off during the current year.
Apparently these premises are freehold ; prior to 19031
co. occupied leasehold premises, and showed no property
item in the balance-sheet, but in that year it acquired a,
freehold. If these large amounts have been written ott a
new freehold, part at least of them represents an internal
reserve. The business, an exceedingly profitable one,
consists mainly of the usual commission agency,
merchandise stock on hand amounts to only £249.1.
Apart from the premises accounts, the chief asset consists
of advances and book debts, £17,977 ; on the other side
there are sundry creditors (probably to some extent
overdrafts) for * #
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston): —
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902 .. £465 6 per cent. = £315 £l5O £1970
Sept., 1902.. 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903.. 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903.. 470 6 „ „ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 „ ~ 315 500 3131
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 „ „ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 „ „ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905.. 1148 6 „ ~ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906.. 1040 8 „ „ 420 620 5317
Sept., 1906.. 818 8 „ „ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907.. 714 8 „ „ 420 294 6009
Sept., 1907.. 827 8 „ „ 420 407 6416
This co. furnishes very little information. Its paid capi"
tal is £lO,OOO, and that and its reserves are supposed to
be put up for the protection of beneficiaries under the wills,
etc., of which the co. has the management. But the co.
has debts amounting to £11,606 (the total is generally
about £ll,OOO or £12,000), and that amount or there-
abouts is represented on the other side by advances.
The co. therefore apparently borrows money and lends it
out again, and the capital has to safeguard the borrow-
ings, and protect the depositors in case of a slump in the
securities. No trustee co. ought to be allowed to do this
business. Its capital and reserves ought to be maintained
for the protection of the interests of people in connection
with whose affairs it acts as trustee.
After giving notice of intention to strike on
Tuesday, the Newcastle coal-miners agreed to take no
action for three days, to see if matters could not be
arranged by what is referred to as an “independent
tribunal.” There is, of course, an independent tribunal
already in existence—the Arbitration Court—and.the very
people who have been persistently weakening the influence
of that body are the ones who are squealing loudest now
that they are face to face with the alternative of arbitra-
tion. No doubt it is unpleasant, when you want to dq
one thing, to be told by the law that in the interests of
order and good government you must do something else;
still, that is exactly what the law is for. And if the
Government, of which the present Premier Wade has
been the chief legal member for some years, had stood
firmly by the Arbitration Act, instead of listening to
the foolish clamor against it and allowing it to be pecked
at and defied all round, the present grave situation Would
not have arisen.
At the beginning especially, this dispute at
Newcastle was essentially one for such a body as the
Arbitration Court. The point was simply whether the
world’s market would stand a 12s. selling' rate or not.
The men said it would. And without a doubt they have
some evidence in their favor. On the very morning when
the three days’truce was announced, the Sydney Tele-
graph, a paper that is opposing the men’s demands and
snorting at them as preposterous, printed this
“ Soaecity of Coal.
“ Worth a Guinea a Ton.
“The scarcity of coal is already a burning question
with shippers and merchants, many of whom were this
morning offering as much as a guinea a ton.”
If merchants and shippers can afford to offer that, the
men certainly have some grounds for believing that they
ought to be paid on a higher basis than an 11s. selling rate.
It would be proper work for such a body as the Arbi-
tration Court to ascertain whether there was more evi-
dence on the other side. The owners say there is, and if
there is enough evidence to satisfy them they should be
game to undertake to satisfy a Judge also.
When the proprietors considered the question
of putting up the selling rate from the present 10s., the
majority favored 11s., while the minority favored 12*.
The miners were encouraged to believe that some of the
majority simply wanted to be squeezed a little ; in other
words, that they wanted to throw the responsibility for
the 12s. rate upon the miners. The miners, therefore,
began to squeeze. Unfortunately the American trouble
became acute about that time, and a gloom began to
spread over the industrial outlook. Even proprietors
who had thought a 12s. rate possible began to have
their doubts about it. But the men’s agitation, having
been created, wasn’t so easily killed. As usual, other
troubles cropped up. The payment for small coal is one
—a solid grievance that —and the use of electrical
coal-cutters in mines suspected of being gaseous
is another. The latter grievance was intensified
by the locking out of about 300 men at Hebburn.
These things make a settlement more difficult; but they
don’t render it impossible. Neither miners nor owners
want a strike, and that is the most hopeful feature of the
situation. But when it is over—even assuming a peaceful
settlement —the public will be a monumental ass it
it doesn’t reflect how near it got to a great disaster
simply through listening to the chatter of sometimes
interested and often irresponsible fools who have been


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarehce-slreet, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
■* • * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland' and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 t.H.P. and the smaller one 85 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [D.]
* * * »
The Financial Standard (London) wrote in
its issue of 11th September, 1906, regarding The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited Notwit-
hstanding the utmost conservatism observed by the
directors, continual progress is being achieved, and the
latest report shows that the trading for the past year is
no exception to past records.”*
* * » *
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 8i Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * » •
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply a t American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
■» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» » • *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said :—“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still them Was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * -*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
■ * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
C.anbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
LOHMANN (& COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
-KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Viotorla
and Tasmania, and all principal mining' com*
panies, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running- at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2
attacking the Arbitration Court. That court necessarily
treads on the toes of one of the parties; but the public
will now see that it doesn’t allow both parties to tread
on the public’s toes—and that’s where the general public’s
interest in the Arbitration Act comes in.
* * » #•
Here is the past two and a half years’ record of
the Broken Hill Junction North, so far as it can be got
out of the accounts :
Written
Loss. Dividends. off. Deficit.
March, 1905.. £19,767
Sept., 1905.. £528 Nil 20,290
£50,000 new capital issued ; deficit written off.
Profit.
March, 1906.. 2,939 Nil £5OOO 2,061
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 3,065 Nil 5,126
March, 1907.. 3,039 Nil 7208 15,373
Profit.
Sept., 1907.. 17,726 Nil 7891 5,538
Six months ago, when this incorrigible old patient was
called up to show its tongue, its shares were valued by
the market at £310,000. The total had previously sailed
far above that ; but it is down now to about £200,000.
The Junction North has for nearly 20 years been
always just on the eve of doing great things.
The co. has been formed and reformed until
there is none of the old Adam left (as a matter of fact,
the original co. was mostly Zebina), but all it has
actually done in,the way of dividends is a trifle of 4s.
per share, the last distribution being something over
10 years ago (April, 1897). The past half-year certainly
shows much better results. But, then, the boom prices
of metals must be remembered.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North last half-year
treated 29,745 tons of ore, and produced 4835 tons con-
centrates, averaging 58 per cent, lead and 29'10z. silver.
The lead was thus 2804 tons. The gross profit was
£17,726, which was equal to £6 6s. sd. per ton of lead.
Take the average for lead at £2O ss. for the half-year,
then the costs amounted to all the silver plus
£l3 18s. 7d. per ton of lead ; and that is
simply an “impossible” figure, remembering that this
calculation is based on gross profits, and that silver
brought a much belter price during the half-year than it
is doing now. With the new section of the mill com-
pleted, the costs may be reduced ; mining costs may also
comedown when the frantic rush for miners eases off on
the Barrier. But for the Junction North to. do any good
at all with even average metal prices, a very substantial
reduction will have to be shown.
* * * *
Broken Hill mine managers have not arranged
a uniform system of working out the metal recoveries, so
the value of the published figures as a guide in compar-
ing the effectiveness of the various concentrating mills
is discounted. The South and the North, whose
recovery figures always have nice clean faces, and
sit at the top of the class, work their crude
assays back from the concentrates and tailings,
averaging the slimes. This system, though open to abuse,
has much to recommend it. It was adopted in the first
place on account of the difficulty—some say the impossi-
bility—of arriving in any other way at a true average value
of a large tonnage of crude ore. Other mines, intending
to be more conscientious, take samples of the crushed
ore at intervals as it passes through the mill, and make
assays, the results of which are afterwards compared
with the assay of the concentrates, and the recovery is
worked-out that, way. To “ fake.” returns by this latter
process would require a deliberate falsification of figures.
With the back-working method—including the danger-
ous process of “averaging” the slimes—an enhanced
recovery may be secured without hurting anyone’s
conscience. .
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation is the Job of Broken Hill,
so numerous and ghastly are its trials and tribulations.
Out of the ashes of its disastrous British mine plant arose
a phoenix, but it never sprouted a feather to fly with.
Such an experience would have spelt ruin to an ordinary
company, but the “Sink” Corporation simply paid
the British the thousands it was liable for under the pur-
chase-of-tailings contract, and a few extra thousands for
not carrying out the contract as provided, then pulled
down the plant, demolished its drying furnace, and
levelled to the ground the spacious building'
originally designed to accommodate six magnetic
machines, which were bought but never used,
The ruins of this plant have taken weeks to convey
to the South Blocks Hill, the site of the big main
works; but apparently these ruins are of no value now
they are removed. The new plant is well advanced, but
even after the 16 Elmore units get to work the corpora-
tion has a long way to go before it can expect to realise
profits.
The Pinnacles, which now comprises the
Pinnacles and the Pinnacles Consols, a few miles outside
Broken Hill, was very badly treated for 15 years. Like a
willing horse, it was run to a standstill. Every bit of ore
that could be reached without much expense was taken,
and the mine eventually left in such a state that much
money has been needed to put it in proper trim. So far
it has proved itself more of a silver than a lead mine, and
the recent drop of 4d. an ounce in the price of silver has
had the effect of stopping the despatch of carbonates,
which are now being put through the mill with the
sulphides. The Elmore process, which was here installed
for the first time on the Barrier, isn’t proving exactly the
thing it was alleged to be ; but whose fault that is has
not yet been settled. Thirty-five tons of concentrates
per week isn’t anything like the stated capacity of the
two units, but that is about the best the plant has done
to date.
* * ♦
Broken Hill South Blocks made a profit of
£3453 for October out of 7381 tons of ore ; that is, 9s. 4d.
per ton. The concentrates (1357 tons) assayed 62J per
cent, lead; that meant 845 tons. Consequently the
profit was at the rate of £4 Is. 9d. per ton of lead. The
average for lead for the month was £lB 13s. per ton ;
therefore the costs absorbed all the silver and £l4 11s.
3d. per ton of lead. Silver certainly wasn’t at a high
price during the month (a shade over 2s. 7d.);
but nothing higher than that can be relied upon
as a general thing. Under those circumstances
the outlook is blue, unless the co. can do very
much better work. A mine that can’t produce
lead for less than £l4 11s. 3d. has a very bumpy path
ahead. What the future of the metal may be nobody,
of course, knows, but he would be a bold man who
would venture to say that it was going to average
£l4 11s. 3d. It hasn’t averaged that in more than four
years during the past 25. The public has only itself to
thank for rushing South Blocks in the way it did. It
had the claim’s past history to guide it: it also had the
report of Wainwright, of the South, who was called in to
advise about a treatment plant. The claim will make
profits when good markets rule ; unfortunately, however,
it hasn’t any rich ore to fall back upon to see it through
when the other sort of market has to be faced.
* * ,* *
N. S.W. isn’t so sure of getting the electrolytic
refinery works, promoted by Mt. Morgan and the
Hirsches, as it was a few months ago. Captain Bichard,
of Mt. Morgan, and the other advisers of the co., chose
Port Kembla as the best site ; and the thing seemed fixed.
But just when the N.S.W. State Government was screech-
ing loudest about the sinfulness of the Australian
Government in “ taxing enterprise and industry,” the
hypocritical State Government itself was making such
demands from the Refining Co. that the latter turned
away from Kembla and considered a proffered site at
Pinkenba, near Brisbane. The trouble springs out of
the Kembla harbor and other dues, which are excessive,
remembering that this co. will have to fight hard for a
while for existence. In spite of that, the co. may have
to go to Kembla, because Pinkenba is so far from coal.
The Government knows Kembla’s natural superiority, and
is evidently relying upon that to squeeze heavy charges
out of the co. And, of course, the miners of Australia,
the people who will supply the co. with ore to smelt and
metal to refine, will have to pay.
* * •* *
Things have taken a slight change for the better
at the Harden (N.S.W.), and the end may not corne as
soon as seemed likely a few months ago. One advantage
Harden holders and the public have : they know exactly
where they are, so far as the management can tell
them. Though the prospects are not bright,
the shaft is being sunk below the 300 ft. level
with the object of testing the shoots lower
down. Meantime, after paying for development,
October showed a profit of £1545. A slime plant is just
about finished, and, if it comes up to the mark (the slimes
—about 3000 tons—are worth about 265.), the co. will be
able to work in some of its lower grade ore, and ought
then to see ahead till the end of next year. After that,
pretty well everything deuends on what the next level
says.
At the Grafton mine, Cangai (N.S.W.), 100 and
odd tons of copper contained in matte await the bullocky
system of transport. Fortunately a new road, that will
avoid so many crossings of the Clarence, is being made at
the expense of the good old Grafton taxpayer. While
the copper market was sky-high the co. could have made
its own road and still been a few thousands to the good.
The mine has three reverberatory furnaces, and the
question of carting enough wood to keep the three going
isn’t coo easy even at this early stage. At present one
furnace is used to smelt the mine’s output of 60 tons a
week, and another furnace re-treats matte, bringing the
copper contents up to 70 per cent.
* * •
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla, puts a lot
of faith in the north ground, though that blew out two
cos. and took over £150,000 to prove that it was a duffer.
What really is more to the point to-dav is that Cohen’s
reef has been got 2ft. thick by the Extended at 2800 ft.,
with the usual “ good gold” showing. That expression
may mean anything, though, for the “good gold” in
Cohen’s reef runs in seams, and when you are on it, with
plenty of needle pyrites in the diori'te to top it off, the
average dirt is rich. Again, too, the underlie is only sft.
in 100, as the reef was hit in the crosscut at 401 ft. out.
This further knocks the Long Tunnel’s 17-in-100ft. underlie
theory on the head, and proves that in mining, just as in
other things, it does not do to count profits before they
are won. Had the underlie kept on at 17ft. in 100, the
Extended would have nothing to do now but to consider
itself a has-been. As it is, there is at least two years’
work in sight. Yet, as the reef makes west, a bit is eaten
off the length of the stone inside the co.’s lease, and the
shoot of gold, by pitching towards the boundary,
threatens to affect yiplds. Even without that shrinkage,
late returns have not been too rosy.
* * * *
There is not much to cheer the shareholder in
the Union, at Diamond Creek (Vic.), just now. The co.
went on the mission of trying to prove that the old miners
who left the show about 30 years ago also left payable
gold behind. This idea got some support from the fact
that the bottom of the old pump was found to be plugged
with candle ends. That was taken to be proof positive
that the men had let the water rise because they did not
want anyone else to know what treasures they had left.
Judging by the dreary pull that the reopening of the mine
has meant, those old miners stuffed the candles there be-
cause they thought the light of the claim was about
blown out. Still, what stone was got last half-year went
over Bdwt., and that would pay if there was enough of it;
but the bottom level has been a failure, and the co. now
relies on hitting the South Union shoot and a block of
ground between Nos. 6 and 5 levels. The mine has good
management, it is in the class of country where a good
shoot may be found, and as it has never been made a
Stock Exchange fake, it deserves better luck and decent
support.
* * * *
Melbourne broker OH ver, who was to the front
over the Mt. Hope float, has fluttered out into the day-
light over the Peter’s Gully, Heathcote (Vic.). The last
time he beat his wings against the bars was in the bad
days of Mt. Lyell. His altruism has now led him to
heckle Alec Campbell, who, having got rid of Broken
Hill Junction North troubles, is trying to toss the Peter’s
Gully caber beyond the bear mark. Campbell sent a
decent miner up to Heathcote to push the shaft down to
200 ft. ; but, because a bit of gold got at 175 ft. was left till
the sink was finished, Oliver seems as sad as a turtle-dove
that cannot find a mate. But Campbell would not
budge ; and those who bought shares when the gold was
cut are cursing their luck, and are finding out that- even
the striking of gold does not always spell a Stock Ex-
change jig.
* * * *
One of the Bright pioneer dredging shows is the
Maori Queen, which Langford and his friends biffed'for-
ward until £5O was paid for shares. The Queen is now
well on the dividend list, after many vicissitudes.
Twelve months’ work shows that nearly 200,000 cubic
yards can be lifted in that time. Last year’s operations
gave 1159|0z., the return panning out at about 250 z. a
week. The wash return was 2’816 gr., or sfd. per cubic
yard. Costs ran into £63 per week, inclusive of re-
newals ; with a dredge like the Maori Queen’s, this is fair
work. Cutting the work up into hours, the dredge won
178. 6d. at a cost amounting to 12s. 3d. per hour. The
co. has got hold of 130 acres next door, formerly held by
the Excelsior Co., which could not make ado of it. Cash
is wanted for a second dredge ; and judging by results
now that things are in order, there ought to be no trouble
over getting the needful.
* * * *
‘ ‘ W atchd og ” writes: —“ For some years the Iron,
Steel and Metals Manufacturing Co. has been before the
public, its aim being to demonstrate that iron and steel
can be manufactured direct from the virgin ore at a
saving on the present universal system by which
the ore passes through various stages of purifi-
cation. Its efforts as time passed on without any
practical result, save the production of a small
quantity from the laboratory, at first excited curiosity,
then impatience, and finally ridicule. The recent despatch
of a circular to the shareholders, signed by a substitute
for the secretary, and undated, promising the ‘ long-
deferred demonstration’ within a fortnight, brings to
light that a very burning question in the minds of the
directors is the price of the shares. If the co,, during its
years of existence, has made no practical progress with
the development of its working scheme, it has certainly
done very well in this matter of keeping up the quota-
tions of its shares, and in getting them placed at large
prices, principally with people living at a distance.
“A perusal of the last balance-sheet, with a little
knowledge of the history of theco., will excite the envy of
many a modern financier. Starting originally with the
* patent rights ’ at cost (£15,000), it has still those rights,
plus a plant and machinery which might fetch, say,
£lOOO, as against 6000 shares held by the public, selling
at £2O each—in all, say, £120,000.
“ History is alive with instances of endeavors
to extract sunbeams from cucumbers and diamonds
from coaldust, but so far without success; and,
whilst this latest fad is seeking- for ‘ another fort-
night’s trial’ (from no fixed date), it would be just
as well to quietly consider if it is possible that
this may be in the same category. Although the com-
pany is very hard up for funds, and has put out or is
putting out amongst its friends the balance of its unissued
shares in wholesale blocks at £lO each, to be retailed to
the public later on at £2O or so, I see no evidence in
its balance-sheet of assistance from its banker. I would
like to see the look in that hard-hearted man’s face if the
company asked him for an unsecured overdraft of the
modest sum of £5OO, notwithstanding that its market
value is £120,000, and its real value, according to the pro-
moters, as many millions. Granting, finally, that the
forthcoming trial is successful in turning out steel from
raw ore, the real question at stake—viz., whether it
can be done more economically than by the old process—
is left untouched.”
* * * *
“ Janor ” : N. S. Wales is not the only State
which has had a fair-sized hole knocked in its money-box
by the prospecting vote (B. 24/10/’O7). Victoria’s figures,
though not so bad as those of the Ma State, are yet
rocky enough to brand the vote as a waste of good coin ;
for the money spent has not benefited mining to any
great extent, while it has given rise to much log-rolling.
The sums of from £lOO to £2OO granted to co-operative
parties of miners are mostly inadequate to bring the
claims to productiveness. Specified amounts are, how-
ever, allotted to each mining district, and to obtain the
best results for politicians (not miners) it is necessary to
chop the amount into as many chunks as possible. As a
rule, decent miners are “off” the Government aid,
because they can’t get enough to give them a reasonable
hope of paying off the debt; hence much of the vote has
been absorbed by wasters and hangers-on of mori-
bund fields, who are quite content to button
up on the 255. a week—and damn the Government!
Victoria’s great need at present, in the mining sense, is
the opening up of new fields. Most of the thoroughly-
riddled and hopeless old ones want a rest. There are
hundreds of square miles of mountainous country un-
explored. The miner who scorns wages is mostly broke,
and cannot tackle the job. It is work for the Mines
Department; but while that remains a hive of quill-
drivers with a nominee figurehead there’s no hope. The
whole show wants re-organising and made into a live and
hustling institution, with a boss like Delprat or Sticht,
whose object would be to produce metals ; and then the
useless circular branded H 59607, informing correspon-
dents that “ your letter has been received and will be
answered some day,” would get a well-earned rest.
* * * *
The report of the Great Tower Hill Gold Mines,
Ltd. (W.A.), covering nearly 2J years, is rather doleful.
The preference share issue, made in November last year
in order to provide further capital for development, was
responded to, only 810,497 shares out of
1,100,000 having-been subscribed for. The intention to
continue sinking the main shaft to 500 ft., and break
new ground in other parts of the mine, had therefore to
be abandoned for the time being. At the meeting held
in London on Sept. 27, the chairman (ex-Gov. Jerry Smith)
told shareholders that unless more of the preference
shares were taken up, the co. would either have to aban-
don the mine, or go for a reconstruction. The accounts
show that during the time the Tower Hill mill was
running, 67,200 tons were treated for,bullion valued at
£83,663. They also show a working loss of £164.
* *
Murchison Associated Gold Mines Ltd. (W.A.)
has held another meeting in London, and, as usual, share-
holders were buoyed up with yarns about visionary possi-
bilities. The chairman announced that, out of 600,000
shares in the reconstructed co., 452,460 had been sub-
scribed for, and £17,000 raked in. He said he was
confident of getting- off 100,000 shares out of the 150,000
still unsold, and wound up with the assurance that the
co. had never stood in a more promising position. But
really, isn’t it about time this co. performed as well as
promised ?
* * * *
The Coolgardie Gold Syndicate held a meeting
in London a few- weeks back, when Orlando Law presided
and talked about “shares which should be worth pounds
instead of shillings.” This co. was formed late in 1894,
and by W'orking off a litter of wild cats on J. Bull it
managed shortly after to divide amongst its shareholders
more than double the capital invested. Since then its
luck has been dead out. The co.’s chief interests now
comprise the Esperanza Westralia (which, despite its
name, is a hopeless derelict) and shares in the Great
Lucknow Consols and the Loddon Deep Leads. The
chairman hadn’t much to say in favor of the Westralia
Esperanza, but he opined that the Loddon Deep Leads
(Vic.) would shortly pour out gold, and predicted that
great success was sure to be met with in the Lucknow
(N.S. W.) if shaft-sinking w ere continued. A despairing
shareholder, who had had enough of the syndicate and
its interests, wanted to wind up there and then, but the
meeting decided to supply some more rope.
■**•*•*
As an inducement for Parliament to sanction the
construction of the Mt. Magnet-Black Range railway,
the Westralian Premier recently tabled a return showing
the total gold production of the East Murchison field to
the end of last June : —82,2120z. from 55,389 tons treated ;
1041 oz. alluvial, and 16960 z. dollied and specimens.
Total, 84,9490 z. The returns from the Black Range dis-
trict alone should easily exceed these figures within two
years from date. The trouble, however, is that you can’t
tell the future of a mine by its past, and it is only the
future gold output with which the railway is concerned.
X * * *
Wilgie Mia Color Co. was recommended four
months’ exemption at Cue (W.A.) the other day in respect
to its ochre property at the Weld Range. An affidavit in
support of the • application set out that the co. had
acquired the area for the purpose of working certain
deposits of colored earth and pigments, and that experi-
ments were being carried out to determine w’hether such
deposits are of any commercial value or not.
Mills’ Day Dawn United is capitalised at the
highest figure on Charters Towers; there are 300,000
shares, selling lately at about 15s. The half-year closed
with a profit of £51,450 on an output of 25,451 tons,
worth £4 os. 6d. per ton ; practically the profit and ex-
penses evenly divide £4 per ton between them. Chairman
Mills reckons on a regular output of nearly 4000 tons a
month, w'ith quarterly Is. dividends. It is obvious the co.
is not going to pile up a- reserve ; it can’t pay out £45,000
in six months and put anything substantial in the stock-
ing. Mine prospects have improved by the extension
of the eastern shoot to the New Brilliant Freehold
boundary ; the reef splits up into footwall and hanging-
wall sections—which is w’hiy the two leases to the east,
the New Brilliant Freehold and the East Mexican, have a
speculative value. If these shows benefit, Mills’ United’s
eastern shoot must be extensive, w'herefore canny people
have been buying Mills’ United. But still, some of these
people obviously are not too sure about it, and slip out
if shares rise. They haven’t forgotten what happened to
Brilliant Central and Queen Cross. Mills’ United certainly
doesn’t seem likely to peter out with dramatic sudden-
ness, but it is by no means a moral that it will still be
wearing the glossy pot-hat of prosperity at the end of four
years.
According to a calculation made on the spot,
Mt. Molloy (Q.) will have close upon £7OOO after pro-
viding its railway, if the estimates pan out all right. On
June 30 the liquid assets (including fuel and flux, which
certainly are not very liquid, but don’t amount to
much) totalled £67,386. From that deduct—Dividend
(July to October), £10,500 ; losses on operations during
same period, £4OOO ; sundry creditors (June 30), £7446 ;
total, £21,946. This leaves £45,440. Machinery absorbs
£3OOO, so that £42,440 will remain to build the line (esti-
mated to cost £36,000) and provide for development and
any errors there may be in the estimate.
* * * *
Warden Cherry, of Cooktown (N.Q.), reports
that the Mt. Windsor tableland reminds him of the rich
Atherton scrub land. The place is about 40 miles from
Mt. Carbine, and the Mt. Molloy railway will bring it
more in touch with civilisation. It is tin country, and
the Warden has ordered the Chows to clear out, as the
field is required by Europeans. The Queensland Mining
Act restricts the Chinaman considerably ; the way he
scooped up the shallow alluvial gold on the Palmer —a
few miles from Mt. Windsor—has not been forgotten.
The bit of alluvial tin left by China is probably of little
account, but fortunately China hasn’t been able to shift
the good land and fine running creeks. About 30
European tin-scratchers are on the field at present.
* * * ■»
At Smith’s Creek tin mine (N.Q.) the yield of
oxide per ton has fallen off. Either the drives and cross-
cuts put out by Captain Warren fluked on good patches,
or else the mill is now doing very poor work. Present
manager evidently blames the plant (breakdowns have
been pretty frequent), and has advised the harassed
Board to put up a 30-head battery to supersede present
appliances. If he has his way, £4OOO will go at one pop.
Whichever way you look at it, shareholders are in for a
bad time. A distinct denial of the 30-head battery busi-
ness was set going t’other day ; but 24 hours later a state-
ment that, “ if such a course is decided upon, Mr. John
Darling will advance the co. the £4OOO necessary,” was
assiduously spread. During that 24 hours the fall in
price of shares took place.
* * * *
“ M.C.”: One reason for the knock-out of
copper shares is the idea that a mine producing only one
metal isn’t as good as a show with gold and silver mixed
w'ith its copper. The fact that Wallaroo 3 per cent,
copper ore is of more value than Mt. Lyell 2 per cent.
plus gold and silver is lost sight of. At Mt. Morgan we
are told that the red metal may cost over £5O to pro-
duce, but then, it is added, the gold value is over £45
per ton of blister. Quite true ; but in the absence of
Australian electrolytic refining- works (except the Great
Cobar’s, for its own ores), the foreigner takes a big bite
out of the gold and silver for the trouble of separating
the metals. It is just as well for the public to remem-
ber the foreigner’s share when the touts parade Mt.
Morgan’s copper and gold.
* « * *
There is now on the stocks a co. to carry out
the works authorised last Parliament by the Balmain
(Sydney) Electric Lighting Bill. The public is being
asked to put up £42,500 by instalments: and £7500 will go
to the people who got the Bill through and for other good-
will items. The public issue is described as preference,
and 8 per cent, interest is mentioned. But what guaran-
tees the preference dividend is not clear.
* * *
“P.”: The subject of tin and gold recoveries
and losses by dredging and sluicing keeps recurring.
Maoriland dredgers ascribe payable recoveries on the
fourth and fifth time of treatment of ground to the fact
that the rivers vary greatly in depth, according to
season, as much as 7ft. in places, thus preventing the
buckets from reaching the bottom. This gives the
dredges a varying depth of ground during a season, and
by retreating they strike a certain average of missed
ground, hence their payable results. Sounds very
feasible, but scarcely conclusive. Is there nothing
to be improved on .in their saving appliances ?
I know of an instance where no possibility of
missed ground could prove a factor in giving extra re-
return. Centrifugal plant, treating 80 to 100 yards an
hour ; run of boxes, 150 ft. long by sft. wide ; product,
gold and tin; tailings stacked on higher ground than
original position ; bottom of paddock scraped clean by
hand, and sluiced by nozzle, and every bit of dirt sent to
the tailings dump passed over this length of boxes con-
taining Venetian ripples, diamond-shaped or honey-
combed, expanded metal, broached plates, tram rails
crossed, wire covered with cocoauut matting. No
danger of the tailings being re-enriched by floods,
or any of that “piffle.” Yet four men using
the waste water from the sluice were recovering
enough tin and gold by ground sluicing the tailings to
pay the wages pf the 56 men on the mine. Another case :
bucket dredge, gold only, treating 8500yds. per week,
recovering -98 grains per yard, ground 15ft. deep,
weekly expenditure £5O (including wages, renewals,
rents and incidentals); paid £lOOO dividends during
1906. Manager ran dredge in tailings for some
time ; retreatment exactly same as original. States
he can get enough gold by second treatment
to pay all expenses. If it were possible to recover this in
one operation, would add £2600 per year to dividend.
Probably for capable management in poor ground the
above is a record. Same manager is of the opinion that
not a gold dredge in Victoria gets a recovery of 50 per
cent, of its gold, Class of gold recovered by second treat-
ment is exactly the same as on first recovery.
* * * *
Yudna: Very doubtful. But ask the local
Advocate Verdox (M.L.) : Latest London quotes by
mail—Star regulus, £34 to £3B; crude (to get star
regulus, crude has to be twice remelted), £2O to £23 ; ore
(50 per cent, standard), £8 to £9. But the erratic market
is rising again rapidly. There are dozens of Australian
mines, but hardly any of them can keep at work unin-
terruptedly.


YOU CAN .CLIMB
TO THE*TOP!
where there's always ‘ plenty
of room,’ by equipping
yourself with our courses of
POSTAL Instruction
in Shorthand, Bookkeeping,
Penmanship, Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching is thorough, no
stereotyped methods; every-
thing made simple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
from the most capable
experts in Australasia.
Send for " Home Study,”
STOTT 8J HO ARE'S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
MOO BE ST SVDNEV^
Chamberlain’s Tablets will expel every
atom of poisonous matter which constipation and
other irregularities have stored up in the bowels.
They will accomplish this gently, painlessly, and
without griping.*
WATSON’S WHISKY
Reach's Limited, Agents,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Be “J.P.” and the client
who omits calling on the auctioneer for the pro-
ceeds of stock sales, heme’s a Jimmy Tyson yarn
in point. In the roaring days the original of
Boldrewood’s cattle-lifting yarn in “Robbery
Under Arms ” took a mob of fats from one of
Tyson’s Bokhara properties, and headed for the
goldfield. With few fences to negotiate, this
master bushman got his prey through with but
one inspection—and that by a blackhoy merely.
But the nigger spoke of the pitchfork-branded
cattle he had seen. Tyson heard, deduced, and
acted with a rush, as was his wont. The pitch*
forks came to hand at Gulgong, and were duly
auctioned at diggings prices. But when the vendor
c>lled for the proceeds of sale, his agent told him
that Mr. Tyson had already collected, and had
left a message complimenting him on his careful
droving, and promising him a full settlement
when he turned up at that station for another lot.
“ STICKING TO
THE END
A “ breaking-in” incident.
“Moon”: Called at a N.S.W. country
groggery, the other day, and in the effort to slay
time while waiting for dinner, had a look in at the
kitchen. The Chow cook, an unmistakable con-
sumptive, was deftly erecting an apple pie. He
placed the dough covering in position, patted it
on to the dish with his paws, trimmed it with a
knife, and prettily ‘‘ patterned ” the edges with
the claw on his right thumb. Then, raising one
corner, he placed his mouth to the opening, blew
a full blast into it to make the pie swell up, quickly
glued down the edge again, and placed the horror
in the oven. I bought biscuits and cheese for
dinner, but my appetite had left. The cheese
looked too yellow.
“W.J.A.” : One morning, while in the
Diamantina district, I saw the owner of the
shanty I was staying at fossicking round amongst
the firewood in the yard. In a jam-tin he had
two red-backed spiders. “Be careful, Hogan,” I
urged. “ One bite and you are as good as dead.
What the blank do you want with' tjieih,'any-
way ?” “ An’ it’s gettin’ a'new quart Her cask av
Huh on, I am,'” lie replied. “Great Gosh !” I
&aid, “ you are not going to put them in it, are
you?” “I am that,” he said. “Two big uns
and a little un to the cask an’ it’ll boite like Hell
all the wav down.”
“ Agricola ” : It is not by his tan that he
is to be recognised, nor by his felt hat, nor by his
slop clothes. There are men in Sydney —wharf-
laborers, quarrymen, railway-men, and the fruit-
growers from Parramatta, congregating about the
markets—who are as brown as Bill Back o’
Bourke. Yet they are scarcely bushwhackers,
even though they wear felt hats .all on one side;
Bill Bush doesn’t wear slop clothes any [more. He
gets them tailor-inade, and ridels 30 ! mileS to the'
tailor. Moreover, he wears thefia about two
flights a week to a “darnce,” and tennis
matches' every Sunday, and they don’t' look
as if they didn’t belong to liini. Bill Bush in
Sydney is simply a sunburnt man in Sunday
clothes on a working day, when the city sunburnt
man is wearing bowyangs. Also, he betrays an
unusual interest in the windows and sights of the
city, which have grown stale to the denizens
thereof. After a three months’ holiday in the
bush, the city man looks almost as big a Bushie
as Bushie himself, as he pursues the novelties,
*•■**■*
gG. J.” : Looking for a horse one day, on
the outskirts of the Solferino diggings, on the
head waters o,f the Clarence, I came upon a
strange sight. With his back to a rock, bolt up-
right, stood a huge old-man kangaroo, sorely
badgered by a dingo slut and two half-grown pups.
The fight had evidently raged for some time, for
all the animals showed signs of great distress.
The old dog sprang at the kangaroo’s side, but was.
met in mid-air, and flung violently back. Nothing
daunted, she rallied again, and made several
feints, while one of the pups sneaked round and
savagely attacked in the rear. The kangaroo,
desperately dashed forward, seized the other pup,
ripped him completely up, dropped the quivering
carcase, and sped straight for the gorge. Half-
way there the slut dashed in, and tore the ’roo’s
flank. The kangaroo then got clean away, and
bade fair to reach the gorge; but, alas! he
hopped straight into the sunken track, and.
the dogs were on him again, worrying him.
fearfully. Finally, he shook them off, grasped
the remaining pup, leapt down the gorge, and
dashed into a shallow water-hole. An interven-
ing log for a few minutes prevented my seeing
what took place there ; but, when they next came
into view, the pup was drowned, and the slut had
the ’roo by the throat. Still feebly fighting, the
kangaroo tried his utmost to work back into
deeper water, but in vain ; his life blood was all
but spent. Soon they staggered back to dry land,
the kangaroo fell, gave a few slight kicks, and
then lay still in death. The slut seemed nearly
done too ; her mouth was covered with foam and
flecked with blood, her sides heaved violently, and
she was scarcely able to stand. She went back
into the water for a drink, sniffed her dead pup,
howled long and dismally, and, seeing me, trotted
slowly off, stopping every now and then, looking
round, and again howling. I could easily have
shot her then, but lacked the heart to do so.
■**•'■*
I’ve been dreaming. After
20 years’ experience on goldfields throughout
Australia, I thought that the lovers of the Yellow
Curse resided on the coast; or, at all events, got
no encouragement on the fields. I was wrong.
That Cloncurry (Q.) baker
who unsuccessfully butcher-
ed his wife, and success-
fully butchered himself,
had his troubles. Owing to
an increase in freights (Mrs.
Publichouse said “ it was owing
to the tariff.” Good old tariff !)
ne raised the price of bread from
6d. to 7d. the 21b. loaf. The
Brotherhood of Bung immediately put their
skulls together, and engaged a Chow to do
the bread-baking for their requirements.
Seeing that Bung of the ’Curry charges a
shilling for all drinks (various qualities),
and provides practically no accommodation
for the travelling public, one stands
amazed at his “hide.” I would express
my true opinion of Bung of the ’Curry, but it
would set the grass on fire, and there is not too
much grass at present.
“ W.J.S.” : At Breeza (N.S.W.), of a
board of 29 shearers 28 are aborigines, comprising
creamies, brindles, and thoroughbreds. They are
a cocky lot, and more than one passing knight of
the swag has received the daddy of a hiding for
indulging in a little too much slinging-off.
* * * *
“ William Maloney ” : Have looked in
vain for mention of a “quitter” by those
authorities who occasionally air gems of current
slang in The Bulletin. The term means one
who is something between a cocktail and a turn-
coat, and who has also some of the qualities of a
traitor and a renegade. Thin as a tariff lie is the
shade of meaning that divides a “ quitter ” from a
“ shyster,” and yet it exists. The Outbacker, by
the way, who lumps a swag now briefly refers to
that encumbrance as a “ knot.” If the same in-
dividual can sport a bike, he calls it a “web,”
probably because of its spidery appearance.
**■*•*
“The Prooshan ” on the local Smiths : —
The Smiths are a source of worry to postal officials,
especially in country places about Christmas time, when
coaches are late and mails heavy with festive swag. I
observed a youth with a bunged eye elbow his way up to
a delivery window, recently, just at rush-time, and 23
parcels to sign for, and 13 over-weights to deal with.
“Anythin’ for Smith?” “What Smith?” “Jack
Smith.” “No.” “ Anythin’for’Enry Smith?” “No.”
“ Anythin’for old’Enry?” “Henry who?” “Smith.”
“No.'” “Anythin’for Bill Smith?” “No.” “Anythin
for W. Smith, at Sandy Gully?” “No.” “Anythin’ for
old Mrs. Smith, up Camp-street? What, ain’t there no
parcel ? By cripes ! She’ll perfume over that. Got any-
thin’ for me? What, no parcel at all? Ain’t there no
mouth orgin? Look agin. What’s that? (pointing to a
long packet in a pigeon-hole). Well that’s flamin’pure,
enny’ow. And they’re dependin’ on me for the borl at
the crick to-night, too. Mightenter shook it outer the
ban-. Well, you can tell Art. Smith, please, I got his
mare • and, say, I took her up to ’Enry Smith’s, and left
word for old Bill to get her and take her down to Bob
Smith’s, so’s he could put ’er over the river on t’ old
Smith’s till he calls for ’er. And tell ’im I got the spurs,
and I’ll leave’em down at young’Enry Smith’s for’innf
he warnts ’em.” Then he backed off, remarking “ it was
goin’ to be a pooty ’ot Crisamus.”
THE HUMPY CAMEL.
BILL THE BOOZER: “Go without a drink for seven daysh. Well, I don't want to know him',
he ain't no friend of mine!”
“D.T.”: Australian “as she is spoke.”
Heard during a twenty-mile ride.
“ Pitch ” I.—“ Go’ day, Bill! ”
“ G’ day, Harry ! ”
“ No blanky rain.”
“ Not a flamin’ spit.”
“ Awful, ain’t it?”
“ My double-breasted oath it is.”
“ Well, so long.”
“S’long.”
“ Pitch ” II.—“ Wot-o Bill! ”
“ Wot-o George ! ”
“ ’Nother case of gory parch.”
“ You bet! Wot yer goin’ to do ? ”
“ Damifino ! G’ bye ! ”
“Bye!”
* * * *
“Erolb”: Be “Curlew’’and his taran-
tula (B. 24/10/’O7). Have watched a good deal
of fly-hunting as practised by tarantulas (and
very pretty and effective hunting it is), but never
saw any one of these gentle creatures wait for a
fly to walk down its throat, as described. The
tarantula who followed that method would soon
become a negligible circumstance in the fly-
hunting field, owing to starvation. Here’s the
usual mode of procedure. Mr. T. meanders along
about an inch or so until Miss F. is some 9in.
distant. The T. stops and considers. Presently
he takes a casual kind of a stroll to the right (or
left), and stops again. Once more he becomes
lost iP thought. Next he permits himself a little
jaunt to inspect the scenery on the opposite side
of the lady, who all the time continues cleaning
and furbishing herself with much self-satisfaction.
T. never makes any definite move in her direction
at any time. Simply he tacks, gives a little run,
stops, then tacks and runs again. But each stop
brings him a trifle nearer his prey. He gets
within 4in. Miss F. is now eyeing him askance,
and becomes careless as to the state of her back
hair. Then whizz, biff, and the unhappy female
is gone, and Mr. T. is resting with a look of
repletion in his eye on the spot she lately in-
habited. Have never been able to see exactly
what happens in the last act of this tragedy. Does
the tarantula leap, fly, sprint, or what ? I know
not. But whatever it is he does it fast. Cer-
tainly “Curlew” is right about the tarantula’s
use as a flycatcher. By-tlie-way, has anyone ever
actually known of a genuine case of tarantula-bite
in this country ? Second-hand evidence barred.
“Franz G.” : Have noted with interest
the efforts of “Barb,” “Namoi,” and others, to
describe the bush girl. They don’t know her.
The following, by one who does, is a faithful, and
withal unbiassed, portrait of the lady as she really
is. She is young when born, and grows up
gradually, if she does not die. She is tall, short,
medium ; fat, thin, medium. Her hair is thick,
fine, thin, coarse, red, brown, yellow, and all other
shades peculiar to the female sex. In rare cases it
is piebald. She is ugly, pretty, pretty ugly, and
d—d ugly. She does wear hobnail boots; also
patent-leather shoes. She swears like a trooper,
also she blushes if one says blank in her presence.
I have met her (this was a fairly old girl) clad in a
man’s overcoat and slouch hat, an inverted clay
pipe in her mouth—from which issued dense
volumes of thick smoke—a bullock whip in her
hand, and a team of bullocks plodding steadily
along to the deep mellow rhythm of her blas-
phemy. I have also met her in her own home. I
have seen her paintings, heard her singing, also
violin and piano playing, and noted various other
refinements about her—and here % indeed, she
excels the average town girl. Taken by and
large, the main characteristic of the bush girl is
that she is just ordinary girl—unless, indeed, she
happens to be extraordinary girl. Which isn’t
often.
“Larrikin”: As a scrub exterminator,
the goat is coming into favor. Three hundred
lately passed through from Dolby to Milmerran
(Queensland), where they are going to play the
pure Angora and eat down the scrub.
* « * *
“ Won Hi” writes urging that “ J. Panni-
kin,” “Edyson ” and other (as he alleges) purely
urban Abo experts be stringently dealt with :
Turn them out and let them get a real grip on bush
ite. Turn them out to observe the laughing jackass in
his loose box. Does either “Jimmie Pannikin” or
“Edyson” know for certain how many legs this creature
has ?
Turn them out and give them an opportunity of study-
ing the gentle goanna on its domestic hearth.
Turn them out so that they may listen to the voice of
the tiger snake as he swings from tree to tree, or gimbles
through the dank, dark fronds of the silverbarked billa-
bongs prior to nestling for even-song' in the fork of some
beetling anabranch. Let them hunt the slippery paddy-
melon as he crawls into his hole in the marshes. _ Better
warn them, though, to beware of the brute’s poisonous
fangs, aijd let them not approach him sideways, as many
a poor fool new-ehum has done before. Warn them to
shun the Mallee creeks, lest they get caught on the boom
of the deadly bittern, which may then be suckling its
young.
Turn them out, and let them see, mark, learn, and
subsequently disseminate the knowledge thus gained
among their Sydney and Melbourne neighbors.
Turn them out to grass somewhere for six weeks
(stamps for all exes, herewith), and may they return to
civilisation with something like a genuine knowledge of
bush life as it really is.
EASILY REMEMBERED.
MOTORIST ( travelling at 18,000 miles a minute):
“ You have your remedy, you know. List
take my number! "
“ Samarai ” : Bishop Stone-Wigg an-
nounced lately that, “owing to the poverty of
the soil,” Papuan natives cannot make gardens
oftener than once in 10 years on the same spot.
This is another illustration of how misguided the
good, well-meaning man is. The fact is that the
natives would rather burn off virgin forest than
keep the weeds out of cleared land. In Papua, as
elsewhere in tropical parts, the weeds are the
cultivator’s curse ; but they only grow where the
timber is cleared. After working a plot for a
year or two, the natives therefore move on, and
return when the second growth (which, by the
way, is poor stuff) has cleared the weeds. Ihed
they'burn off the new timber and use the land
again. This second growth takes, say, eight to
12 years. It isn’t, then, because Papuan land is
poor that the natives leave it for eight or 10 years ;
it is simply in order to allow the second growth
of timber to get rid of the weeds that come with
the first clearing. No doubt the bishop has had
his gaitered leg pulled by some of the older
missionaries, who are covertly opposed to white
settlement in the Possession, and try to block it
in a dozen ways.
M‘TAGGART’S MENAGERIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M'Taggart was a careful man,
A cautious, calculating Scot.
He ran a store at Fryingpan.
• Unfortunately, he was not
A Rechabite,
But took delight
In brimming bowl and frothing pot.
He was a dealer, bold and braw.
1 His equal was not in the town
To split a monetary straw ; ’
• He’d trade a horse to make a brown.
■ ■ And all around
There was not found
A chafferer to take him down.
When Mack was out upon a spree,
Half-measures were not brooked. Alas,
He took his pints full length, and he
; Had nips no shorter than the glass.
So, green with fright,
He saw one night
Quaint beasties skipping on the grass.
But fear not long' with Angus bode.
The morrow’s morn he took his stand
Before his barn, that faced the road—
A boy, tq represent the band.
Hit on a tin,
And blew like sin
A broken horn at his command.
“ Roll up ! Roll up ! ” M'Taggart said.
“ It is the grandest show on earth.
A shullin’ is the charge per head,
And twenty shullin’it is worth.
There’s fishes here
And birds sae queer
They’ll fill ye all wi muckle mirth.”
The people rushed to see the sight.
They sought exhibits vainly, though,
For nought was there to please or fright,
Except a barn-door hen or so.
Old Mack, in fact,
Wi’ simple tact,
Had put his jim-jams up for show !
VIC.
E. DYSON.


ZID
#(v.
A DRINK TO BE
GRATEFUL FOR
WOLFE’J scmurra
A Medicine as veil as a Beverage.
THE GREAT .. .
EARRING DISPLAY
that is characteristic of our stock just now is the out-
come of a popular fashion.
Earrings are le dernier cri. Earrings are to be the thing for
years. They give such charming softness to the face.
Royalty wears them. Fashion votaries declare for them.
We make them from London’s latest designs.
In every conceivable jewel and combination of gems.
There being no duty on unset jewels, our prices are as low
as those of London.
Amethysts and Pearls,
£4/4/- pair.
Diamonds and Gem
Amethvsts Centres,
' £22.
Diamonds & Amethysts
£ll/11/-.
Pearls and Amethysts,
Garnetsor Tourmalines,
£5/5/-.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY
HOUSE IN SYDNEY, . .
“ Haul fkipid : Agree with “Nulla”
(that L,e Soeuf, of Zoological Society,
ijs wrong in attributing the dying off of the koala,
to “ people killing it for fun.” The fact is there’s
no fun in killhig a bear —it’s hard work. Bear
cause of the creature’s diminution (in many locali-
ties, at any rate) is a species of tapeworm that
infests its pancreas and thereabouts. The Zoo-
O'gical people will need to get to work on those
worms right away, if they want to save our bear.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : Have lived much in tick-
infested parts of N.S.W., and have always kept
valuable dogs, but never lost one with the pests.
To make the dog “proof,” give him a couple of
ticks to swallow with his food when a puppy. A
blackfellow sold me the wrinkle for a stick of
tobacco, and I would like to pass it along. Should
a dog get down with ticks, boil some bracken, and
give him a' little'df the liquid. He will be a
cured dog next morning. > ‘ ' " ‘ ' a
*■+■*•*
‘■‘Pick” : Be “G-.S.K’s” par(B. '26/9/m
Certain districts in N. S. Wales likejvis,e furnish,col-
lections Of aboriginal names with similar terminal
syllables. Out Cootamundra way is Gobarralong,
Bolong, .Tugiong, Cudgigong, Cumalong, (faffing,
Binalong, Brookong, Wyalong and others. The
final “ong” in nigger dialect meant camping
ground. On the South Coast in the early days,
there were several places with names terminating
in the aboriginal word “ boola” (meaning sheetof
water). Many of these have been superseded By
foolish Anglicised appellations such as Frog’s
Hollow, Whipstick Gully, Bocky Hall, Bill’s
Garden, etc., but in corrupted form Merimbula,
Bombala, Pambula, Wolumbula and M,umbulla
still remain.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Whifcepen ” discourses concerning jhis
dogl own an Anstraliap-bred bulldog of
enormous will and jaw power. He has a peculiar
and not-to-be denied liking for prop-men (men, to
wi,t, who come into your backyard ostensibly to
sell props, really to prey upon yonr property).
Not long ago a prop-man strolled into my yard,
ignoring the fact that I already had about 10
props, also a large-sized notice on the gate, and
had got half-way up the yard, when the dog
turned the corner leading from the kitchen. The
two made a fair race of it, the odds being slightly
in favor of the prop-man, who exclaimed, “Oh,
my God, what is this?” and relieved himself of
all impedimenta as he streaked for the gate. Am
sorry to say he beat the dog by the thickness of
the gate, which was slightly damaged by
the impact of the dog’s head. I remonstrated
with the man for coming into a yard without
first taking off his hat, but he replied only with
fulsome praise of the dog, arguing that he was a
truly magnificent animal, and so on,,concluding
hv asking for his props and bag, which he had
inadvertently dropped in his hurry to see what
was the matter with his horse. Unthinkingly, I
passed them over the fence to him ; and oh ! the
change in his demeanor ! It was shocking. He
said I and my dog ought to be shot; that he’d
poison the animal, also me and family, and went
on at a terrible rate. Thoroughly puzzled, I
started to open the gate, in order that the biill-
dog might have a little fresh air—a backyard being
proverbially close. The prop-man drove away in
what one might term, without undue exaggeration,
a hurry, cursing me and mine for generations
back. Such is the gratitude of a prop-man. I
still have the dog ; his affection for prop-men has
not abated ong jot or tittle.
THE INSULT.
LADY : “ What arc they fighting about?"
BOY: “’Cause Ginger ’ad the bloomin’ ’ide ter
say that you was Billy’s mother.”
“Brad”: Have just made a musical dis-
covery. Our native singing birds all modulate
in the minor key. The flute-like cadenza of the
magpie as he perches confidently on the high
gum tree to digest the early worm, the midnight
cry of the mopoke from an adjacent mountain
range, the weird whistle of the curlew, the crow’s
hoarse croaks as he stands exultingly upon a
loudly “humming” carcase, are all expressed in
the minor mode. Can any observer tell me of a
bush bird that affects a major ditty? I know
none.
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SYSTEM.
MISS BOSS COCKY : “ Pa’s been made president of the Shire, Barney.”
BARNEY: "An’ phwot relation are yez an' yer ma to the Royal Family now, Miss?”
“Edyson”: An excited boy threw him-
self off a sweating horse in front of the police
station at Toon, and rushing at constable Hickey,
who was standing at the door, superintending the
peace and weal of the township, breathlessly
requested him to saddle up and ride out to Tom
Coster’s at Corduroy, something calling for the
intervention of the law having happened between
Tom and his missus. The boy did not
know what had happened —it was
Coster himself who told him to send
Hickey out at once—but he was sure
it was serious, probably deadly, be-
cause Coster was trembling with ex-
citement, and had a mad eye. The
boy was positive about the mad eye.
It was raining, 'a bitter wind was
blowing, night was coming down, and
to Coster’s was a nine-mile ride, with
two creeks and three miles of corduroy
track by the way. But Hickey took
a serious view of his position as guar-
dian of Toon and district, and was a
whale for duty. He saddled up, took
handcuffs and revolver, and started
for Coster’s selection. He arrived
there, wet, muddy, battered, and hat-
less, having had two falls on the
corduroy, and lost his helmet in
Peach Creek. He dismounted at
Coster’s panels. The house was in
darkness. “Is that you, constable?”
cried a voice out of the gloom of the
front room. Hickey admitted his
identity. “ What’s amiss ? ” said he.
“Come in,” replied Coster, “and do
your duty ’tween me ’n’ me missus
here.” Hickey struck a light, and
discovered Coster sitting in his night-
shirt on one side of the fireless hearth.
On the other side sat Mrs. Coster,
silent, but resolute. Between them,
on the floor, lay an old pair of mole-
skin pants. “Well, well?” cried
Hickey, impatiently. “ It’s this way,
constable,” Coster explained; “I’ve
ordered my legal wedded wife t’ patch
my trousers. She sez she won’t. I
sez I won’t put on trousers till she
does. She sez I can go without and
be hanged to me. We’ve bin like this
for two days, so I sent fer you, bein’ determined
t’ have the law of it.” The swear Hickey swore
has the Toon record. It was nine miles from tip
to tip of its extended wings.
• * * *
“Lah”: Be “Rob’s” par (B. 12/9/’O7).
I have recently left Westralia, where “ Bog yer
frame inter it ”is all the go. This place (South
Queensland), however, indulges in a slang all its
own. Everything is “blinded.” Was listening
to an argument the other day. One participant
was informed “ he would get a blinded punch that
would blinded well settle him if he wasn’t blinded
careful.” I blinded well left before blinded blood
was shed. The managers of tin sluicing and dredg-
ing concerns hereabouts are all called, irrespective
of size, “ the Big Feller.” A manager of one of
these concerns is regarded by the local inhabitants
(mostly cookies) as a little god, and as such is
worshipped.
The tale of Morrissey and his snakes, as
spread by himself in Melbourne Argus :
It took me four years’ solid graft to discover my anti-
dote, and I have proved its worth again and again. I
have given exhibitions for years at Colac. Yea, and at
various places in the Ballarat district. I would take
from 12 to 20 snakes into the ring, and throw them out.
The audience appointed a committee, and picked out
two of the snakes. One of these I would “milk” of its
poison, to show that the snakes were really venomous,
and I would let the other one bite me. Then I would tie
my ligature (which I have patented) above the
bits, scarify the part, and pour my antidote
into it. I have been bitten at least 40 times.
I don’t bar any kind of snakes. In fact, I prefer a tiger
snake, because he is more vicious, and you can always
make him bite. He is easier to handle, too, and feeds
better than the other kinds. You can get as much
venom from a 3ft. 6in. tiger snake as from a 6ft. 6in.
black snake, a 6ft. copperhead, or two 6ft. brown snakes.
Another thing about the tiger snake is that you may
have him about your body, and you can squeeze him, and
he will not bite. Of course, any of them will bite if you
strike them a sudden blow. A tiger snake will have his
poison sac full again 48 hours after striking, and will
have sufficient poison in 12 hours to kill a healthy man.
1 had a little tiger snake that killed a rabbit in 30 seconds,
and I reckon it takes a minute and a half for the poison to
assimilate with the human blood.
The doctors used to say to me: “Oh, Morrissey, you
are immune from the effects of snakebite,” but I asked
them what about George Underwood? George was bitten
500 times before he “ went out,” and then it was from
snakebite. Where does the immunity come in ? Shires
was another man on the same game ; he was bitten about
250 times, and then he “went out.” “Pegleg” Davis
was only bitten eight times before he died of snakebite.
Somebody “ shook ” George Underwood’s bottle of anti-
dote, and filled it up with cold tea, because they reckoned
no snake could hurt him. Well, they found out.
All these men “ went out ” because they didn’t take care
of themselves. lam the fourth man to take it on, and I
suppose I’ll go the same way if I don’t watch it. The
doctors tell pie that to do the thing scientifically, you
ought to know how long the snake was, and how many
drops of poison he has put into you. Then you regu-
late the amount of antidote to be injected. That is
very pretty; but if you are out in the bush, and
get bitten, you don’t stop to measure any snakes.
You want to get to work right away. If you have got a
bottle of my antidote you don’t want any complicated in-
structions, but just use it as I have said. An hour or
two’s bathing in hot water to reduce the inflammatory
swelling', and you are as right as if you had never been
bitten.
How did I discover it? I experimented for four years.
I had half an acre of ground near Queenstown (Tas-
mania), and I used to get snakes and goannas and blue-
tongued lizards, and make them fight. Then I watched
the lizards run and eat certain herbs after they were
bitten. I reckon I tried every blade and leaf of herbage
on that ground .before I perfected my cure. I can tell
now by the herbage of any place what snakes I will find
there. My antidote is con.pounded of two herbs, and if I
find these growing among the rocks I expect to find tigers
and copperheads, which live in rocky country. If the
herbs are growing'thickly near thestreams I expect tofind
black and brown snakes, which live mostly in the water.
Whenever I make up a fresh supply of antidote I test it
on animals to make sure it is the right strength before I
sell it to the public, as I have been doing for many .years.
I stand to fall heavily if my mixture is not all right. I
suppose it would be manslaughter. Anyway, it would be
very serious for me.
I never had any dread of snakes. I can’t understand
that. I reckon snakes are beautiful, graceful things, and
there is nothing you can’t teach a snake to do as well as
any other animal. The tiger snakes are the best. They
dance to music more than any of them ; though all
snakes are affected by music. I had a snake which, when
I tapped my foot and whistled, would go up the leg of
my trousers, come out of my shirt-collar, and drink
the milk I held for it. My snakes are pets to me.
When I carry them in the bag I feed them on milk ;
but at other times I give them birds, rats, mice,
and young, rabbits. 411 their food must be alive,
and lnustuiot be touchediivithiihe ibarids. ill don't khoiv;
how it is they don’t refuse milki for most milk has been
touched by-human chands, but j they will kill drink iti
When I am on the track J! think more about my snakes
than myself. I don’t care if I have to go short as long as
I can get some milk for the snakes.
* * * *
“William Maloney”: Knew the one-
legged snake-charmer mentioned in a recent Bub-
LETIN par, and can inform his friends why he
hasn’t been around of late. He is dead. He was
running a show in Echuca when a black snake,-
which he had only captured a few days before on
the Moira Lakes, hit him. He finished his per*
formance before he applied his alleged antidote,
and passed out (either as a result of the bite or
the antidote) the same'night. «• -<< • ■ > " 11
'• ' V 1 ' * *
“Mularula”: Be the dreariest town in
N.S.W., I wofild like to air my o\tn little opinioH
that neither Bathurst nor Liverpool have any
Show against Grong Grong. This city has, I sup'-
pose, a population of 1 fully 30 persons. There
are two pubs, and at one time there were three
stores; but the place could not support both
stores and pubs, so the stores had to go. The
baker also had to put up his shutters, and the
same fate overoook the meat emporium. The
church has been locked up for years, and the
police-station has that weary look that comes tc
police-stations in towns where man is too tired to
be wipked.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS,
Wo notice (except of g hostile character} iv.ill he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped,. Name, and/
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bushie : Take away the dialect and nothing is
left. Now “dialect ” can often spoil a good story ; it can
never mend a poor one D. Tective : The leading argu-
ment in favor of Blanche Arral not being Galvb is that
Arral is a soprano and the other lady a mezzo. There are
about three dozen others as good or better E.S. (cake-
walker, composer, etc.): First instalment of the Auto-
biography your mother forbade you to publish to hand.
Don’t send any more. On the point of its publication The
Bulletin and your mother are in absolute agreement....
Mobatra : Note that you can always tell a bushman by
his tie. That about empties the wardrobe—according to
various correspondents, he wears his brand on his hat,
beard, complexion, collar, coat, trousers, boots, and now
on his tie. By the way, what is a bushman ? Harry :
Contributors are expected to cut out pars and for-
ward them, with date and page, to Accountant,
Bulletin office, and he will remit Bertie: Weak
in the feet and not very strong in the head.
Motor : “ Cup Day ” missed by two lengths
A.H.W. : Your conscience-stricken letter (enclosing 2d.
in stamps), explaining that you by mischance sent an in-
sufficiently stamped envelope last week, duly received.
It wa« over-weight, and cost us 4d. for extra post-
age. Probably it was the weight of your guilty
conscience. We forgive you ; but, for Heaven’s
sake, don’t send another conscience-stricken letter
Anti-Yank: Diatribe against local Yank business hustler
may be true, but it’s too long. There’s no individual
U.S.A. business hustler worth half-a-column of abuse in
this paper... .Ennuin : Got to the part of your N. Terri-
tory Abo. par that told of the consumption of the Port
Darwin pub billiard balls by white ants, and then the
entire MS. went up in a pillar of flame, or salt, or some-
thing. Anyhow it disappeared J.C. : Article on
“Goats” too long. It is a truism of journalism that
articles on goats should be snappy and very short
C.W.S. : Crude and ill-finished....G.E. : Hardly interest
enough Tweedie : Good material badly handled
Mardool: Don’t care for either, though the verses have
an effective idea. Scribbler: Slightly funny in places,
but rather wearisome May M’Lean : Idea too far-
fetched. ..Wang : The humor of “ Bill’s Yarn ” is very arti-
ficial. ..H.F.W. : Style lacks strength and compactness...
Ern. A.: Just a glimmer of merit ...H.G. : “Marjorie”
is rather pretty, in a feeble and conventional way
Wareek : Realistic, but hardly strong enough of interest
..Maulring: You appear to he a pretty tall kind of
liar M.E.F. :No literary skill Cecilia: Pretty good,
for your age Chink: Crude, but shows a strong
feeling for Nature G.T.P. : More promise than per-
formance. ..J.M.S. : Still bad syntax... A. H. B. : Rather
pretty, but very conventional in form Hoggenheimer: A
bit rough, but graphic and promising. ..Bertha N.: Doesn’t
come near print-level...Saphead : Still below the mark...
Li.E.L. : No ; ants are not blind. In fact, they have two
kinds of eyes—compound and simple... .Yanko W.:
“ Memoriam ” is unsuitable ; don’t remember the other...
Thorn : Joke about Epsom salts altogether too intimate
in character. The subject, in any case, is not one for
flippant handling'... Nomad, “A.H.W., etc.: Utterly
impossible to acknowledge pars in this column The
Infant: Verses have interest, but are hardly up....
H.C.L. (Melb.): Poultry-yard anecdote with slight flavor
of Melb. curate, combusted spontaneously in the W.P.B.
It was almost as improper as “ The Sign of the Cross.”...
“ Larrikin ” : Your English reminiscences absorb ; but
they arouse doubts, not to say distrust. Take, for ex-
ample, that Strand hawker you met vending pineapples
at 4/6 apiece. Do you ever find champagne hawked in
Sydney streets? The hawker's lines are usually half-
penny and penny ones J.C.B. : The gentleman is un-
veracious. “Kodak” is a Melbourne man A.L. :
“Wagga” is woodenish... .Tomki : Sentiments A 1 ;
verse, L 2 or thereabouts. W.S. : “Blazes” has arrived
there by this time. But even in death it only burned
feebly Eungella : “Better World” is beyond the
wings of your Muse. Better hire a balloon or set to work
on a flying machine....J.D.P. : Ingenious puns; but
somebody would shoot us if we published them, and we
want to see B. Lyne’s tariff through, anyway... .W.C.B. :
You’ve tried a ’prentice hand on a journeyman’s j0b....
Te Arhoa : Some power; but too uneven Roy: “A
Bilious Christmas” received. Cheer up; Christmas
might have been worse for you. You might have been
an editor, and been obliged to read Christmas poems
J.W.P. : Thanks ; but The Bulletin doesn’t want Aus-
tralia to be a mere wood-and-water Joey for England any
more than for Germany H.C.J.L. : Neither suitable....
Unsuitable: Frank J.


"If is kcaJlw ay oj-
great" io get"
women to
tV*<
[ A [ea^uerj
lh? S<\me leaner
Color litje.
s 5
*ho Coloursd J 3l/ SS a>T
§)rjaulA
2 allowed
s>£Lah !
" One leader Ihoufhf
\ wavs * of
'ttje Color froble m-
Vh, t
Jy- Q f-
/V[i\y^
Ur e%
Itye dis K WcWTok
SV|owl4 not' 1?e io Ivi^
► ‘ficA^v*T
l|v^
i
;i&
j,, Kev/
will Wzftji-
P of!
W A triof Ton to
Kn «vi<2nt~ inter jcr® *7Cfc.
Carries!
2- ■*!/
V/J) 11 c res\>ecf%b\e \tuX"
Mac^-v»7A''Kied ones be
received °f > z*i
JP Ihe Conference
YZCor^f^
. $e 4ey>a> ll, 7 > ;
/ of -Hje Coo^m-^io*^
A
Pro+ec-fio* pf J >\
)v fija
"Children
Should be
w*s v.gh't- Vwko M?) Jn
l^ion to polities
•jj
j^Co^W<?
V
, u-l
“ hlo-r &* T I*[*«">•
*nv* : >
"Vcji fi*iJ iTe A c h — J
ha! hail ha!!! 'ip»
» H<*d Master l-’Hey! wU+C af
?
loh<?s hi«°r — ,
Sister* Bill, Sir !
"lbJ of Inl^re<f
There
fo 1?€ t>>y men Jkr wo i>7<2r 7
'to^effler'
(s\ Jea^fcer)
Queensland lexers
vivid descriptions o\ life Shortness °\ tabor
& diffict* I lies to K\nad<a deportaTfon
WOMEN’S LEAGUES AND LEAGUINGS.
At the Annual Commonwealth Conference of Female Anti-Socialists, in Melbourne,, some unsatisfactory piebald Tory suggestions
were offered in regard to political problems of the hour.


The Law has finally discovered that
the two-headed baby is thoroughly
dead, and that there can be no “ pro-
perty” in mere remains.
In the hope that the late little double-
header will now be
decently buried,
“Hop” designs the
above tombstone
without charge.
Now, there you see the difference. The Federal Parlia-
ment goes on piling up the taxes. Here Mr. Wade
has taken the tax off our Incomes under £lOOO a year.
That’s what I call reform. ■</
And, by-the-bye :
“ A mummy cat,
supposed to be 3500
years old, from a
tomb at Thebes, sold
for £3 3s. in a
London auction room
last month.”
The question is, if
there can be no
property in a pickled
baby, what about a
dried cat?
“Thomas Hell, a St. Louis police-
man, has been ordered to change his
surname or resign from the force.”
Thomas H-11. “Thomas Hades
it is then, Mr. Inspecther.”
THE WOMEN’S WORK EXHIBITION.
A MERE MAN’S VIEW.
Mere Mad : “When will you sew those buttons on my pants?”
Woman, with a Capital W : “Just as soon as I finish my
exhibit of women’s work.”
Five more hatters arrived last week, but seein to have got mis-
laid, as they have not turned up at the
factory for which they were engaged.
Six Little Hatters—
Found Australia Heaven;
Five came later,
That should make eleven.
“ Experiments made with polar bears harnessed to
carriages have given excellent results, says the Norwegian
explorer, Amundsen, who thinks they will be used to
draw sleighs on Polar expeditions.”
But polar bears have certain eccentricities which one
would think might make them very undesirable as
gee-gees.
Eleven Little hatters;
Disappearing tricks—
Five went a-missing,
Still leaving six.
Money Is still tight in America, and
Rockefeller, and Co. are having the
time of their lives*
A SMILE ABOUT.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Chamberlain’s Tablets invariably bring
relief to women suffering from chronic constipa-
tion, headaches, biliousness, dizziness, sallowness
of the sjfin, and dyspepsia,*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and ohic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work,
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto,
5/-. Fine
i London.
Portugal
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Pioneer James Fraser, who went to
Forbes —then known as Twaddles —with the first
rush, died there last week, aged 72 years.
As an example of talent running through
a family, “Kodak,” “ Bushwoman,” “ Bohemi-
enne,” and “ Larrikin,” of The Bulletin, are all
brothers and sisters. In the same regard, con-
sider the Lindsays—all artists.
Victorian Premier Bent’s neck requires a
20-inch collar, which has to be made specially for
him by a Swanston-street mercer. Mr. Bent
never could be successfully hanged. He would
slip the rope, as some pug-dogs can do their collars.
The Labor party’s presentation to Watson
on his retirement was made by Josiah Thomas.
Which was appropriate, because it was Thomas
who, though himself a Freetrader, proposed
Watson for the leadership when the party met
after the first Federal elections. Thomas and
Watson had spent six years together!*! the State
House.
Mrs. Weston, now holiday-making in Bris-
oane (Q.), shoulders a fair section of the white
woman’s burden during business hours. She’s
teacher of the provisional school at Badu Island
(Torres Straits), and all her 53 pupils are picanin-
nies. For 10 months of the year she is the only
white human being on the island.
N.S.W. Labor member Horne, of Liver-
pool Plains, was a public school teacher, and then
went on the land. He writes rather good verse,
is a well-read, thoughtful man, and showed a
useful gift of silence in the stage-thunder want-of-
eonfidence debate, in which two new Labor
members signalised themselves by talking for hours
and hours and hours, reeling off their election
campaign speeches.
It strikes the eye as being an offence
against the economic use of power when giant
“Larry” Harnett strides across the floor of
N.S.W. Assembly to remove some little tongue-
wagger of a trifle over sft. The massive Sergeant-
at-Arms, when called, shakes his ruffles, expands
his mountain-air chest, and swells generally, just
as if a real struggle for existence impended,
whereas experience, if nothing else, should
satisfy him that the objectionable tongue-wagger
does not mean tight in the slightest degree. This
is Larry’s 33rd year of office, and, only that he
takes exercise out of doors, his muscles would long
ago have disappeared in fat. Parliament doesn’t
give him any strenuous work.
THE MARCH OF REALISM.
MUMMER : “ To me, Horatio Fitzdeuce, who have played in all the leading roles of Shakspeare.
you offer 15 paltry shillings a week as salary. Bah, sir! Bah!”
MANAGER : “ Well, in the drinking scene in the second act, there's real beer.”
MUMMER: "Real beer! Ods fish! Real beer! I’m your man.”
Some memories of Victor Daley fell out of
a hollow log that formed part of a hut on Tolarno
station (Far West N.S.W.), the other day. The
hut was being pulled to pieces, when the remains
of a watch fell out of the hollow post—a presenta-
tion watch : “To Tom Mudge, from the employees
of J. Webster and Co., Melbourne, 1875.” A
year or two after that date, Mudge was found
drowned, and Victor Daley thereupon wrote
“ ’Twas all the Same to Mudge,” one of the pieces
that sent bushmen to The Bulletin for their
poetry. Apparently, Mudge left the watch in the
hut, where it first ran down and then rusted—but
Mudge didn’t mind.
Gentlemen, unlike noblemen, cannot be
created by Royal caprice.
Obit, at Glebe Point, Sydney, Bernedetto
Narea, daughter of the late John Dwyer, of
Ashby, Bungendore, and great grand-daughter of
Michael Dwyer, the Wicklow chieftain of 1798,
who died in New South Wales in 1825.
Howard Vernon and his little Vinia have
rung the curtain down on their “farming,” and
gone back to the grease-paints. There was,
after all, a good deal of comic-opera flavor about
their agriculture. True, the old Lord Chancellor
grew some very good beetroot; but there isn’t
much cheese in beetroot. So they have forsaken
their little wooden hut out Bankstown (Sydney)
way and gone to Maoriland.
“ J.A.C.” : The brief obituary notices of
the late Gerald Massey, which appeared in Syd-
ney newspapers, spoke of him as a poet, and
nothing else. He had other claims to distinction.
He was an erudite Egyptologist, and could
decipher the hieroglyphs and the cuneiform in-
scriptions with facility. I made his acquaintance
in Auckland (M.L.) some twenty years ago, when
he was delivering a course of Freethought lectures.
Apropos John Baptist (B. 7/11/’o7)> After
being a butcher in Goulburn-street, Sydney, he
went, in the late ’thirties or early ’forties, to
Surry Hills, and converted a wilderness of sand
into a smiling garden. He commenced to sell
kitchen garden stuff in the George-street markets
in the mid-’forties. Mr. Patrick Stanley, who for
half-a-century or so managed the business at the
markets and purchased it eventually, still hangs
out a shingle in George-street, Sydney.
Mrs. Anne Elizabeth Pattrick did not long
enjoy the wealth left her by her nephew, Tom
Law'ry, of Kirribilli. He directed, among other
things, that the bulk of his £42,000 should be
divided into two equal shares, one to go to his
aunt, Anne Elizabeth Pattrick, should she survive
him. Which she did—but by only two months.
She belonged to those Pattricks who, GO years
asro, were very well-known millers in Sydney.
The oldest waterman in the Commonwealth
has just shipped his oars in Hobart. Old
Charlie Dillon arrived in Tasmania in ’37, and
followed his calling until a few months ago. He
won a waterman’s badge in the second Hobart
Regatta 67 years back, and since that tune annexed
many other prizes. In the early days, when mails
were few and far between, he used to man the press-
boat, boarding vessels for latest files from abroad,
and, being a don at the oars, he usually out-rowed
his rivals. During his long service he had Ho
serious accident afloat, and closed his long innings
comfortably.
N.S.W. Government Analyst W, M.
Hamlet’s favorite diversion after a hard spell in
the laboratory is to put on his hat, and go for a
walk somewhere. It is an old habit, and he gave
way a lot to it aforetime in England, Dutch
Guiana, and other foreign places. Once he strolled
round the coast from Sydney to Melbourne ; once
he sauntered from Tumut to the Yarrangobilly
Caves, thence to Bega and along the coast to
Sydney ; and five times he mooched from Sydney
to the Jenolan Caves. At present lie is on a
ramble from Brisbane to Sydney, and expects to
sit down again about the end of this month.
Dr. James Eadie, the oldest doctor on the
Victorian register, and possibly the oldest in the
Commonwealth, died recently. Born at Glasgow
in 1819, he obtained his diploma there in 1842.
He was in practice in Glasgow for some time, and
reached Bendigo in its infancy. He was one of
the original owners of the famous Garden Gully
claim at Bendigo. He has left three sons, all
doctors, and one daughter (the wife of Geologist
Pittman, of N. S. Wales).
According to Adelaide Register, one
Thomas, of "Wallaroo (S.A.), has performed a
diving feat which would beat most Asiatic re-
cords. A loading steamer had spilled 74 ingots
of copper into deep water. At low tide (but still
nearly four fathoms) a basket was lowered.
Thomas dived without any costume, and in six
attempts retrieved 44 of the ingots—a quarter of
a ton of copper !
The Rev. Dr. Brown, who lately retired
from the general-secretaryship of the Australian
Methodist Missions, is the last of the early shift
of laborers in the South Pacific vineyard which
included the first Bishop Selwyn, Drs. Turner,
Nesbitt, Lawes, Chalmers, and others. Dr. Brown
was born in England in 1835, and was draper s
apprentice, chemist’s assistant, medical student,
sailor, and Canadian backwoodsman before he
started to battle with sin. His personal experience
of the colored brother in Samoa, New Britain,
Papua, Tonga, the Solomons, etc., extended over
something like half-a-century.
A 100 TO I CHANCE.
TICHBOURNE : “ Well, booked
Something good!”
MONTMORENCY : “ Yes, & fiver iust lent to Jones."
N-.S.W, Arbitration Court has bOeri A
hoodoo sort of institution. Its bfeator-, B-. R 4
Wise, has just recovered fro to a serious illness.
Its first president, Justice Cohen, had father it
sick time while he held the position. Its second
president, Judge Heydon, has had two serious
illnesses since he accepted the post. Of its mem-
bers, the original two, Mr. Sam Smith and Mr.
Cruickshank, were stricken down; now Mr. J. P.
Wright, the second employers’ representative,
has suffered a paralytic stroke.
Judge Docker has returned to N.S.W.
District Court duties after a long holiday. His
Honor carries the Australian Judicial Belt fortlie
number of times he has been assailed in Parlia-
ment. It is nearly a quarter of a century since
certain members began slating him, and* Parlia-
ment after Parliament from that time* the baiting
has lustilv proceeded. And the Judge goes on
placidly taking photographs and making shocking
lapses from common-sense in his sentences. His
fad in photography is stereoscopic work, on the
Bench hystereoscopic sentences.
Among the recent applicants for a 15-acre
block of land in the Fryers district, near Castle-
maine (Vic.), was a tough citizen, Charles Boots,
In a dynamite explosion at the Diamond Cully
dredge, two years ago, when the manager was
killed, Boots was almost torn to pieces,_ strips of
jagged galvanised iron being driven into most
parts of his bodv. For weeks he was blind. Now
he can see a little with one eye, and an old-age-
pension keeps the remnants of his soul and body
together; but the stout-hearted Australian,
stumping round on his wooden leg, wants a few
acres in order to win himself a little comfort,
Pluck like that deserves all the luck it can get.
From a Flemingfcon observer ;
The movements of the multitude on the lawn resolved
into a sort of triumphal procession march for Mrs.
Clara Butt on Cup Day. Tt was Clara’s day out, and
although there was a whole army of Governors, their
families, and suites present, no vice-regality amounted to
a circumstance beside the towering Buttress. Gov.-Gen.
Northcote was betrayed into the error of his life
in permitting himself to be exhibited in com-
pany with the world’s most enormous contralto.
In the vice-regal box, before the eyes of an
audience of tens of thousands, staring stonily like
ruminating cattle, he looked a mere atom by the side of the
queen of song. Acting-Governor Madden, who is a much
larger, more ruddy and conspicuous person, was lost in
the'shuffle too, despite a strong professional effort to keep
in the limelight; and a whole bunch of Governors stood
round like attendant pigmies, and smiled starkly while
Clara mopped up the glory. If she had been willing to
sit, a long Governor or too might have had a look in ; but
Clara was erected to her full height all the time, and for
a solid half-hour there was nothing else in sight. She
was empress of the gala, and all the rest—horses, people,
viceroys and suites—were simply items scattered at her
f6 Out on the grass, too, when eventually Clara came down
from the pedestal and led a march past, the heaviest con-
tralto was the only buttercup. She suggested a majestic
elephant, caparisoned in gorgeous Oriental robes, leading
an insignificant circus parade. She marched with the
same solid dignity ; the same confident serenity sat upon
her broad brow ; and the little people trooped after her in
thousands, gazing upon her with just the awe the small
boy felt in the presence of the mammoth animal in all his
glory. It would he difficult to conceive a more painful
exhibition of bad manners than the clustering lawn
females were guilty of in their vulgar pursuit of the star.
But she was nothing disconcerted ; apparently she loved
it, and a beaming happiness glowed upon her large and
comely countenance the whole day long.
Papa Rumford was in attendance, but ooviously was
not in touch with the proceedings. His high, grey hell-
topper fa painful effort to live up to his lady) over-
weighted him, and he had just the dreary expression of a
hot tired, dusty man, into whose vitals red-hot corns are
being thrust by unsuitable boots. The little Rumfords
were missed. If papa had carried one, and mamma had
carried two, and the other 27 had followed, clinging to
mamma’s skirts, nobody would have troubled to look at
Apologue. I may have under-estimated the number ot
little Rumfords, but going by the photograph, I am led
to believe there are not more than 30.
Nellie Melba was at the Cup too, and she also was in
the vice-regal reserve ; hut although a markedly superior
songster, Melba is not in the same aviary with Madame
Butt, considered as a show bird. She hasn’t the same
fondness for feathers, and doesn’t seem to possess a trace or
that pleasant vanity for pretties which men so despise in
women but which is of such vast assistance to the sex in
subjugating man. Melba is apparently unconscious of
crowds, and takes her own way with cheerful superiority
to the precisions and nicenesses that fits in with her own
remark, “lam an artist, not an exhibition.
Naught is canvassed iri Melbourne . eccle-
siastical fitblfes just ndtt but Canon Nash, a
handsonle. clean-shaved rriah, ifrhd only lately tddk
to spectacles: He Was the fashionable ahd be-
loved Vicar of St. Ctilumb’s, HaW-Hawthofti.
Thoroughly evangelical, great pillar of that divi-
sion, he transferred to Christ’s, Geelong, in
succession to Canon Goodman. All of a sudden he
resigned his billet, and every office in the Church,
including Canonry of St. Paul’s Melbourne
Cathedral. Mysterious, because he was. if possible,
more worshipped in Geelong than in Haw-Haw.
They say the Geelong Church officers all signed a
round-robin asking Archbishop Olarke to re-
appoint Canon Nash, who had resigned from a
chivalrous feeling.” The Archbishop held a meet-
ing of the Diocesan Council on the question of
appointing a new Geelong vicar. The Geelong
Officers presented their request for Nash again.
Apparently a majority of the council would have
agreed, but the Archbishop interposed his Veto,
He is empowered to do this. The meeting broke
Up without an appointment: The Press Went to
the Archbishop: and asked for his reasons; “AO,
he replied ; “ I do not give tny reasons, utlless Mb
Nash asks to be re-appointed, winch he has not
done.*’ Most judicious, and eminently Arch-
bishop-like. So the public is left to surmise, Ihe
people of St. Columb’s, Hawthorn, have just
given an expression of their unmitigated Con-
fidence in the Rev. Nash.
London Outlook (27/9/’O7) anenfc most
recently published European emigration returns :
For every person who leaves Protectionist Germany*
nine now leave the Freetrade United Kingdom, and for
every worker who escapes the blessings of British free-
trade, four voluntarily take upon themselves the curse
of American Protection.
The slow-going Imperial Government has
at last threatened to publish regulations govern-
ing the use of ships’ names. At present an owner
can call a vessel by any name he likes, though half
a dozen similarly named may be loose on the high
seas. A name such as “ Victoria ”is carried by a
respectable sized fleet, to the despair of shipping
agents, Customs clerks, and such like. In Aus-
tralia the conditions are worse still. Each
separate State has up to now gone its own sweet
way, and dozens of similarly named craft occur in
each one, and when they visit one another’s ports,
they worry the unoffending Customs people out of
all reason.
Spruce Myth’s admiration for the Japanese
is, apparently, concentred on theirjdefects. Their
many merits don’t appear to inspire his admira-
tion worth a copper. If he took a trip to Japan,
now, he would find the detestable doctrine ot
High Protection—which he abhors—in full swing.
He would discover that the Jap is going to make
things for himself, from ships to lager beer.
While Bruce is bubbling over with the brown and
yellow milk of human kindness, the Jap is rapidly
displacing all the white men whom he imported
to teach him modern manufacturing methods.
When the Japs decided, after deep deliberation,
that German lager beer was the safest civilised
western drink to copy, they didn’t proceed to Juy
lager from Munchen, made by German experts
and workmen. No. They just imported the ex-
perts, and got them to start making beer to teacti
the Japs. After they had got tired of building
steamers abroad, they imported Sliaw the ehiet
designer of the Fairfield yards, on the Clyde, and
he planned the Mitsu-Bishi Dock in Aagasaki.
The European captains of Jap steamers will
shortly be displaced by Japs. Japan has a citizen
soldiery, and a splendid navy—all in a few years.
By all' means, send Bruce for a trip to Japan.
He’d come back a better Australian than he is n
he has a sense of humor, which is doubtful.


mmmm «
%
11
Mm
' M
,
. .
tt*rr>, r v/WtsW|
lii
$<S
up there, Strawberry ! I'm nearly out of
YANKEE DOODLE Tobacco!’’


CHARLES
HEIDSIECK’S
CHAMPAGNE
1900’s.
%
*
Gp
S T OF
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
Wholesale
for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson
&Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
When a woman is young she has a right
to stay young—and look young. No woman,
whatever her age, is older than she looks.
Valaze will keep her looking young—then why
not Yalaze? Idle question—Valaze is and ha s
been these five years the boon companion of good
looks —Yalaze the means and Beauty the end.
Are you a stranger to Valaze ? Have you not
found the wonders of this dainty Russian Skin
Food works on your complexion—how it smooths
away the ugly, creeping wrinkles, bids crowsfeet
fly, and wards off the sunburn and freckles our
hot Australian sun is so prodigal of ? Then be
wise in time. Take Valaze by the forelock —use
it now—to-day. Your chemist has it—the gift
of a beautiful complexion within your reach ! #
Ctf
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King- and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCE PS
LADIES’ PAY
at SINGER’S.
A Demonstration of the uses of ...
... Will be given at ...
Singer's Art Parlors, Singer's Corner, Queen Victoria' Markets, Sydney,
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20th.
By Miss MABEL LEWIS,
Featherbone Expert.
AN EXHIBIT OF COSTUMES, showing the many GRACEFUL EFFECTS obtained by
the use of WARREN'S FEATHERBONE, will be a leading feature of the Demonstration.
Readers of a “ Woman's Letter ” will be specially welcome. Demonstration 10 till l and 2 till 6.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Melbourne, November 10, 1907.
Mv Dear Abini,—
When I return to Sydney I shall fold my face
in my fore-paws like a ’possum, and sleep for a
week. Here in the hotel that I pervade I average
an hour a night. My bedroom (i had written for
it two months ago) is next two shower-bath
rooms, about two yards from a telephone, a few
more yards from a luggage lift, and within easy
distance of a mysterious swing-door. When
the baths are not running, the ’phone
not ringing, and the luggage lift not racket-
ing, the mysterious swing-door is banging.
It concusses with a loud concussion on an
average twice in five minutes from six in the
evening to (say) one or two in the morning. For
the unfortunate person who cannot sleep as many
seem to sleep—as if chloroformed —the accent
soon gets on to the second syllable of the in-
numerable concussions. And if there should
chance to be peace after midnight, the light
sleeper is startled into consciousness by the
piercing discordant creaking of the wheels of
the vehicle trundled by the man who collects the
boots. Whatever may be said in excuse for the
noises of the telephone, the luggage lift and the
baths, the discords of the swing door and the boot
barrow are inexcusable. Possibly a bit of india-
rubber would remedy the first and a featherful of
oil the second.
For the rest—and there is a lot of rest —the
Board of Health ought to take a look in and
get the carpets in some bedrooms and corridors
burnt. My friend and I are always conscious that
something more terrible than an army with ban-
ners may be ambushed in our carpets. Just
outside my friend’s door is an elegant thing in
the way of sinks. And I am now qualified
for Mrs. Fitzgerald’s circus through trying
to balance on the rim of the one chair in my
room. It is a battered old Austrian, with a vast
hole and a festoon of cane whiskers where the
seat should be. If we open our windows smuts
ruin our frocks; if we keep ’em shut —well, we
think of what might be in those floor coverings !
And the tariff at this hostel is about that of the
Australia !
Of the Melbourne well-known women of six
years ago, those with small features who have got
fat are spoilt, and those with clearly-marked and
longish features who have grown thinner are also
spoilt. Two well-knowners I found unchanged.
Janet Clarke is one. With her slight, erect figure
and long neck (so many women lose their necks
by sinking of the muscles), and in a gown of grey
net with silver and steel decorations, she was a
Circumstance of Cup Day. Mrs. Byron Moore is
the other unaltered Circumstance.
The arrival at Flemington on Cup Day of the
Governor-General and five State Governors
caused a heavy run on the God Savings Bank. It
is quite an undeistood fact that if two or more of
the potentates arrived together, the veil of the
grandstands would be rent. The catastrophe has
never occurred, possibly because the V.R.C.’s
marvellous secretary spaces the arrivals of the
mighty atoms so rigidly, and each gets his
separate ruffle of drums. The G.-G., so as to
have a worthy reception, comes last. His escort,
it may be mentioned, sat their horses like sacks of
meal.
The Northcotes’ luncheon-table on Cup Day
was such a dream of beauty that it deserved to be
set in a lyric. Lily of the valley in masses, in
stacks, in bowls, alternated with gentian-blue
delphiniums. That morning I had gone into a
florist’s intending to buy a lily of the valley posy
for my dearest enemy. The chemical Flora
behind the counter selected five sprigs and a leaf,
wired them as if the action were a religious rite,
and said, “Six shillings, please.” That price
would make any enemy too dear. So I didn’t
consider those lilies, but just faded out of the
shop.
Talking of flowers. Clara Butt must have
been considering the nasturtiums when she dressed
for Cup Day. An expert described her frocks to
me as “brown ninon over yellow, and then brown
chiffon—three skirts —and decorated with galons
in dull copper, orange, and gold.” A matter of
general comment was that Melba wore her hat
on top of her head, instead of hanging on her
cerebellum. Her example was followed on Oaks
Day by quite a number of persons who had
been wearing their hats behind them, well-know-
ing that their faces couldn’t stand the belated
publication.
A Cup frock that deserves a nibful of ink spent
on its description was that of Miss Robertson, of
Ballarat. She is an heiress, lately come into her
kingdom of shekels. It was a gold and ivory-
striped gauze. Mrs. Guy Sherwood’s was another
glad gown—gold Russian net over white and
pink, with gold-crocheted balls dingle-dangley
from points of vantage on the corsage. Miss
Essie Davis’ floral ninon over chiffon and glace
was decorated with the new shade of Copenhagen
blue that they are calling sacre bleu. Mrs. (Dr.)
Rose’s outfit was remarkable for the raised silk
flowers on a blue chiffon taffeta.
Their Federal Excellencies’ ball was raved about
by a group of Sydneysiders as if its brilliancy put
the stars out of business. I think the sight of the
two great singers, clad in silver and dancing in
the same orbit, dazzled the onlookers. Only
Clara doesn't dance—she flounders. Melba’s
gown was absolutely a precious metal frock. It
was real silver put through a roller and beaten
flat on to some material, probably marquisette.
Its shining tail lay around like coils of a dead]
silver serpent. But long before God Save threw
the guests out on to the St. Hilda Road, the
silver tail was torn to bits by the armed heels of
the men with whom Melba danced or who danced
around her. A Sydneysider asked a warrior who
blazed like Mamilius (you know the gentleman
who rides the dark-grey charger under the banner
of proud Tusculum through the Lays of Ancient
Rome) to “ take off his spurs.” He dropped dead.
But the insult was too great to allow him to stay
dead. He resurrected to remark that she “might
as well ask him to take off his coat.”
When on a day, the temperature falling from A
to Z, I snarled per telephone to Captain Share,
“ I hope you are ashamed of your climate,” I got
the neat backhander “Not my climate, please—
for I am interested equally in the weather of six
States. The Bulletin should arrange a Federa-
tion of Climates.”
Lord Chelmsford, who stands for Queensland,
is loved by people who love pictures. He is most
Artful, and he is trying to get up a picture show
in Brisbane. Mr. Byron Moore is organising one
for Melbourne, which will open in March. A
group of citizens have guaranteed £lBOO for
expenses, and Mr. Lake is now in London collect-
ing. They expect to get six or seven hundred fine
pictures. Among the loan pictures will be
examples of Watts, Burne-Jones, and Sergeant.
When Melbournians got to know that managing
director Marich, of Paling’s, and Mr. George
Allan, of Melbourne, were calling on Melba
sometimes twice a day, and often stopping to help
her eat her truffles and ortolans, it was realised that
the circumstantial evidence was conclusive. They
saw the trout in the milk. The star took a lot of
persuading, for her determination not to break
from play to work was sincere. She had no
advertising ammunition with her, for, when the
astute Marich asked her for photographs, she
could muster but four.
Women’s Work Ex. has settled down to a
steady, drawing institution. Every day Lady
Northcote, often wearing Australian or Mokoia
tweeds and Queensland sapphires and tourmalines,
goes to the huge exposition, and always finds
something fresh in which to be interested. On
the night of the Cup, Mrs. Deakin was nursing
an able-bodied baby in the cr&che. She had
been nursing it for some time. Its mother had
called early in the day, and left it, paying her
threepence, ostensibly so that she might look
around the Exhibition. But she went to the Cup
instead. The little monster had had three meals,
as well as the Premier’s wife’s care for threepence.
It’s a most comprehensive Exhibition. Needle-
work, a mile of it. The spirit of the nations is
in the needle-work they send. The Britisher has
sound sheep and butcher’s meat in it—mostly.
The Royalties depict what they’ve seen from the
beginning in real life, not pictures. The Wales
Princess’s fire-screen has homely hollyhocks; and
the Connaught Princess manages a mass of
lilac and peonies in a glass tumbler. Teu-
tonic work has a more solid, painstaking look
than that of the Latin women. Perhaps the
Saxon fingers are thicker. Missionaries in Aus-
tralia testify that not a single thimble sent here
by the Good Moravian Sistern in Germany is
small enough to suit the slim fingers of our Aus-
tralian blacks. Australian whites are said to
share this characteristic, along with slight wrists
and ankles.
In the Spanish needlework you’ll get the jessa-
mine and the orange flower, and a facet of church
architecture wrought on the fabric as light as
mist; or a pansy, a lover’s knot, a spider’s web, and
a scroll—they’ll put the creases in a poppy bud—
and suggest a landscape in the background, and
the article might be a pillow-slip. The Mexicans
are as artistic. The Swedish needlework makes
one recall the Norse legends.
A Bachelors’ Den is exhibited by Buckley and
Nunn. It’s a shame for any firm to try to put a
bachelor into such artistic and comfortable sur-
roundings. He’ll always live in single wickedness
instead of double blessedness.
Rather refreshing, among so many imported
things, to rejoice in the real Australian beauty of
some of the seeds, beans, and shells worked up
into trinkets by one of the trade exhibitors. Here
are Queensland firefly seeds, sometimes called
nardoo-beans, like sparks tipped with soot.
They are found throughout tropical Queens-
land, and have a reputation for curing in-
flamed eyes. Then there are sea - beans
from far Geraldton, big smooth beauties, dis-
playing the soft, graduated reds of wild cherries.
Queensland is the place for gemlike seeds and
beans. The best shells come from South Austra-
lia. The gatherer needs to be on the spot j ust at
the end of the winter rains. A pretty light
cowrie is found at Yorke’s Peninsula. The
pelican’s foot shell comes from the Barrier Reef.
Coffee shells are brought up by the W.A. pearl-
fishers. Collectors follow their quarry into their
fastnesses so as to get them while their inmates
are alive. The empty shells washed up on the
beach are “dead,” and have lost their gloss.
Sydney, November 12.
News of Carrie Moore wavers slightly. Re-
port has it that she enters into a three years’
engagement with an English firm ; while at the
same time comes the cheerful news that
“Miss Carrie Moore, under supervision of Mr.
Williamson, returns to Australia next Easter,”
Furthermore, we hear of Miss Moore in another
Eart —active life engagement. The mystery as to
ow all these things get into the papers has been
growing more and more unsolvable ever since the
days of Vincent Crummies.
The Women’s Political Educational League,
under the guidance of that gentle but most expert
general, Miss Rose Scott, has been discussing cer-
tain Parliamentary measures of special import to
women. They recognise that now is the accept-
able time, whilst the woman’s vote is fairly well
organised on a sex basis, to push hard upon the
legislators. Miss Scott directed special attention
to the Girls’ Protection Bill, which is to be a
shield to the poor creatures who are too weak,
witless, or vicious, to protect themselves. Cause
of complaint was found in the fact that the
Family Maintenance Bill, designed to give the
family a legal claim on the father’s estate, had
been shelved, and the Inebriates Act enforced to
a negligible extent only. An alcoholists’ hospital
would be necessary to effectively carry out the
provisions of this Act, and so the W.P.E.L.
passed a resolution begging for its establishment.
This Women’s Political Educational League (sober
and modest title, promising good things from the
first) is a model of what feminine electoral organi-
sations should be. It isn’t a “ class” affair or a
snob coterie. It doesn’t devote itself to slandering
Australia or abusing any party. But it does put
in good solid work advancing legislation which is
of special interest to women, and generally of
special value to the community.
At the Women’s Political Educational League,
Miss Windeyer enlarged upon existing opportuni-
ties of giving slum denizens access to beneficial
literature. On her showing, such opportunities
should be increased, since present ones are
properly appreciated, and producing desirable
effects. Here is an occasion for most elegant
philanthropy: If some worthy citizens would
offer decent prizes in the public schools to the
students who had read most deeply and under-
standingly during a year, it would be a fine incen-
tive to the slum kid to desert surreptitious “two-
up” for Shakspeare, or marbles for Keats.
And the well-gilded benefactor might also
present the nucleus of a library to the
local temple of free tuition. Lord Beauchamp,
with ex-Justice Matthew Stephen and a
Sydney journalist, instituted a reading competi-
tion in the public schools while he was here, and
it did much good. Their ignorance of good books
accounts in great measure for some peoples’
lack of imagination. Their unimaginativeness
prevents them having ideals. And an absence of
ideals produces horror and misery.
A historic inn has lately appeared in Court —
“The Black Horse,” Richmond. “The Black
Horse ” dates back to our most ancient days. It
was then recognised as the honeymoon house.
Some men, now octogenarians, spent their ’moons
there. In the old house was kept (and the present
licensee may have it) a visitors’ book in which
could be traced, as bridal pairs, many who are
now long dead, and have left large and well-
dowered families.
The Dangar-Anderson wedding, whereby two
old local families were united, produced the usual
cloud of reminiscencers—than whom there are few
more deadly social pests. On all hands one found
awful old men who remembered the bride’s grand-
mother in her prime, or got kicked in youth by a
male forbear of the groom, and they talk of these
dull circumstances as though they constituted
claims to fame. The person who remembers
unimportant things about unimportant people
who are dead and defenceless should be checked
either by an Act or an axe.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Watson returned to
Sydney by Saturday’s express. Major Lenehan,
Dr. and Mrs. Weston, and the Francis Foys also
got back from works or horses.
Miss Kate Rooney, the warbler from this city,
was married in London last month to a Mr.
William Kirkham. who just writes himself down
plain, unfrilled house-decorator. Miss Maud
Dalrymple, the Sydney contralto, is to be married
to Mr. Morison, a naval architect of Glasgow.
Lady Northcote will come from Melbourne
early in December to open the Thirlmere Home
for Consumptives.
The marriage of Mr. Harold Massey, son of
the organist of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, to Miss
Rosa Stuart, only daughter of Mr. Henry Stuart,
M.L.C., is to occur at the Cathedral on November
20. Bride-elect used to be a nurse at the Royal
North Shore Hospital, and is a charming girl,
rather of the American than the Australian type.
The Henniker Heatons left by the China, en
route to England, on Saturday.
Clara Butt took so keen a fancy to Clontarf
that she is going to abide a while there, with her
Kennerley and the little brood, on her return
season to Sydney.
The Amateur Gardener for November is out.
A number of soothing articles, suitable for flower-
lovers’ reading, are given, and “Among the
Workers” is a pleasant causerie column, from
which one finds out that well-known men and
women are first-class amateur growers of aquilegias
or hippeastrums, when they are popularly thought
to be only interested in stocks and frocks.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
' invitations are out for a Chelmsford party—nature not
yet disclosed—on the 11th; after that, the summer
'flitting. Lady C., by the way, received a shock recently,
wheh a member of a Women’s Hospital Committee waited
upon her with the request that she should take charge of
a stall at a street fair which they are arranging for
April. She firmly declined—which was a pity, for the
spectacle of a vice-regal lady manning a coster barrow
or presiding over a hot-potato can at a populous corner
would have meant money.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, the songstress, will not, after all,
return to Queensland until after the summer months.
With a sister and the Nelson dame and her two chicks,
she will winter in Germany, and delve deeper into music.
Archbishop Donaldson, one of Brisbane’s unappro-
priated treasures, is off to England with Chaplain Batty
early in the New Year, for a holiday. Archbishoping
must be frightfully wearing ; it is only two years since
Dr. Donaldson arrived.
Yesterday Brisbane woke from eight weeks’ lethargy,
and “ celebrated ” by going in crowds to Ascot, where it
picked five winners out of six. The weather was one
cool smile, and some jaunty frocks were worn. Mrs.
Jim Clark turned some more of hubby’s pearls into a
striking arrangement of black and white chiffon, black
velvet, and point lace. Mrs. Lilley chose an oyster-
silk gauze, combined with point d'esprit and Orleans lace.
Mrs. Jim Robertson sported her favorite turquoise—in
chiffon taffeta and ecru lace. Miss Celia Cooper was in
green, with a pinkish hat. Mrs. Brenan (looking 10 years
“earlier” for her Southern frolic) and her chicks were
there. There was a dead heat for the King’s Cup, and a
record race for the tea rooms afterwards -which rooms
have, to our infinite relief, been considerably enlarged.
Pretty Kitty Morehead, whose wedding was deferred on
account of a sudden attack of the complaint which put
off King Edward’s coronation, is still an inmate of the
Victoria Hospital, but well on the way to convalescence.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Art Exhibition was duly opened last week by his
Excellency. The chief interest in this show arises from
the fact the Board of Governors of the Adelaide Gallery
may, if it feels sufficiently amiable, spend £250 of the
Elder bequest on exhibited canvases. This year, the
Board did feel sufficiently amiable, and all the £250 goes
to the chosen few. Miss Rose McPherson’s still-life study
of onions, exhibited in the Paris Salon, was purchased ;
and the clever damsel herself was also elected to the
Council of the S. A. Society of Arts. Hans Heysen s
“Pastoral” and Will Ashton’s “Laundry Boats on the
River Seine ” were also secured. Victorian artist
Bernard Hall was the only “ foreigner ” to effect a sale,
although all the States except poor tired little Tasmania
are represented. Norman Carter (N.S.W.) shows “The
’Cellist,” and gains many laurel leaves thereby. The Ma
State also sends Burgess’ “L’Entente Cordiale,” and “ A
Thunderstorm on the Darling,” by W. O. Piguenit.
Florence Fuller, a Westralian damsel with Parisian study
behind her, exhibits “After the Bath,” a picture of a
nice, small child. Among a crowd of local exhibits there
is the usual good portraiture by the Hambidge sisters,
some of it bought for the Gallery ; and several original
pictures by Miss Bessie Davidson, whose clever “ Snake
Charmer ” ought to have been bought, but wasn’t, because
the Elder £250 isn’t made of india-rubber.
H.M.S. Psyche rushed up the mighty Port River t’other
day, tied itself to a post, and sent its warriors ashore
in search of fresh girls to conquer. At first the Peerage
put up its lorgnette, and viewed the visitors coldly,
because a previous naval consignment had pained it by
rude manners. However, so far, the Psyches haven’t
drunk out of their saucers or hailed the Peerage by its
Christian name, and so they are being offered strawberries
and cream.
But the British cricketers are the lions of the moment,
and Adelaide has been taking them by the lily-white
hand, and showing them the Zoo and multifarious other
local excitements. The first match was thronged with
the young and frilly, and it was such a good-looking
throng that we’re perfectly certain little S. Aus. will
grasp honors in The Lone Hand’s Beauty Quest.
Adelaide is making intense preparations for its Clara
Butting. The valiant person who gained the first coupon
arrived outside the booking office at 4 a.m.—a man, of
course ! Poor, long-suffering creature. Married, no
doubt.
Latest engagement is musical—Mrs. Fox (known in the
world of Noise as pianist Adelaide Porter) and baritone
Frank Robertson. Miss Porter won the Elder Scholar-
ship when a small damsel, and went to Britain to the
Royal College of Music ; but owing to an unfortunate
accident to her hand, she had to relinquish the scholar-
ship and give up the Noisy Art for a few years. She is
one of the innumerable reputed chums of Clara of the
Voice.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
At the last Methodist Conference in Mel-
bourne the “ star” piece of the Foreign Missions
meeting was the reading of a letter written by a
native South Sea teacher to prove that “ the days
of heroes in missionary work were not passed.”
The native teacher told how for three months he
tried to get a landing on the Luiniuwa group, but
was refused permission, and had to live in a small
boat on the bounding ocean all the time. “You
must know,” he said, “ there is no water on these
islands, and their only drink is from the cocoa-
nut. Once my Samoan friend and I were
seven days without a drink; then God heard
our cry and induced a man called Maloi
to swim out to us at midnight with some
nuts and pith.” It was a great story, and
the Methodist Conference said “Hallelujah”
with enthusiasm. Now a contemptuous person
writes from New Britain to The Bulletin to say
that it is perfectly true that the natives wouldn’t let
the missionaries establish a station there, “having
a most terrible fear of anything with the name of
missionary,” but that all the heroic part of the
business is vivid imagination. The yarn about
there being no water on the islands, about the
only drink being cocoanut milk, about the enforced
boat-habitation, about the seven days’ fast—all,
this contemptuous New Briton says, is vivid
imagination. The teacher “ lived ashore all the
time, enjoying the hospitality of the islanders,
except when he travelled from one island to
another,” and “you can get water anywhere on
the islands by sinking for it less than 10ft.” The
yarn that these islanders do without water, and
use cocoanut-milk instead, might have made the
Methodists a bit suspicious, but apparently they
were too anxious to say “ Hallelujah ” to notice a
little absurdity of that sort.
It is not alone the adulteration of
milk after taking it from the cow that wants
watching; there is also the adulteration of the
cow. For instance, the Sydney suburban dairy-
men allow their cows to roam about any empty
allotments that are adjacent, and here the
gentle “moo” revels amongst house refuse, old
clo’, etc., for the empty block is generally used
as a tip by the adjacent savages. Lately
the writer saw some fine dairy cows refreshing
themselves by drinking long and deeply from the
sewage which meanders across a big open space
at Rozelle Bay. The cow looks such a tender-
hearted, peaceable animal that one is surprised
at the mortality which is attributable to her
snowy product. No doubt, she would be surprised
to see the statistics herself.


THE SECRET
• of a =
GRACEFUL
FIGURE.
WM
ef
o flwre
CORSETS
T. M. Co.
Tarrant Motor Co.
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
T
A
R
R
A
N
T
Sole Agents in Victoria for
DE DIONS DE DIONS DE DIONS
ARCYLLS ARCYLLS ARCYLLS
F.I.A.T. F.I.A.T. '
BRITANNIAS BRITANNIAS
ROVERS ROVERS ROVERS
MERCEDES MERCEDES MERCEDES
Absolutely the Cream of all
Imported Cars.
Manufacturers of the
"TARRANT” MOTOR
A triumph of Motor Building.
Repairs of all kinds executed
by Skilled Artisans.
Motor Bodies of all Patterns and
Designs built to Order.
Accessories a Feature.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 11, 1907.
My Dear Yarrik,—
Heard some say the crowd was bigger this 1907
Cup than in Mentor’s year. In every corner
it swirled and crushed. Carefully-thoughc-out and
horribly expensive dresses were torn and trodden
upon, and crushed and passed unlooked at. No room
to sweep those billows of ninon and chiffon and
si Ik ! The happiest of womenkind there were
sensible girls in short muslin frocks—cool and
comfy, and only wanting a laundrying for revival.
The two songstresses attracted more gaze than
vice-regaldom. Melba, with scarlet poppies in
her hat, came out early. Our own Melba is an
Australian, and keen on the sport, and for her it’s
no mere social gathering.
There were two most important absentees from
the Cup. Prime Minister Deakin refused to leave
his tariff and his House, and his tall, regal lady
devoted her unselfish self all day to the minding
of babies. Exhibition stands up like an Ex-
celsior banner to many fashionable dames nowa-
days. Mrs. Deakin and pretty daughter Stella,
8.5., were attached to the creche. They had a
lively time. Some 60 or 70 babies had to be
minded that hot day.
The wildest dress on the lawn on Cup Day was
worn by the handsome spouse of a wealthy book-
maker. It was as marvellous as a transformation
scene, and was built of gleaming green silk, and
trimmed with lace a foot deep, worked with gold
thread and all the known colors. On her head
was a tumble of foaming ostrich feathers, 30
guineas’ worth at least. Nothing so daring ever
ventured from a vaudeville stage into the open in
Melbourne before, and a man instinctively held
his ears as the costume drew near. None were so
deaf as those who could not hear that resounding
garment. A local journalist interviewed astern
official in front of the stand at one juncture, and
pointing to the turbulent dress said : “Will you
please ask that lady to go away ? We cannot hear
the band.”
On Cup Day, C. -J. Madden was an honored
man for some moments. He strode the lawn
between the big Butt and the queenly Melba. He
looked happy, the phenomenal Voice looked
bored, and the phenorhenal Artiste looked, to use
a classical term, rather narked. The trio, as
an ensemble, looked humorous. Even Mr. Madden’s
Irish wit and judicial intellect must have reeled
in the effort to be strictly equal in his attentions
to the famous throats, and keep both in com-
placent humor.
The Reggie Allen pair have been combining
duty and pleasure during Byron Moore’s triumph
(which is what race week amounts to). Mrs.
Allen’s delectable parents, the Charles Grubbs,
have been over from the Apple Isle for a spell,
and their affectionate offspring has danced de-
voted attendance upon them.
The Oaks had glorious, blue weather and gor-
geous dressing. The Steeplechase, on Saturday
—last day at Elemington—showed milder frocking
and keener sport among the women. The Beauty-
Anderson girls out-staged the departing Syd-
neyites, and figure-headed on the lawn. On
Saturday the graceful Miss Elsie trailed tussore,
cool and silky, while her sister clad her tall self in
ivory chiffon. Little Mrs. Broad —the youngest
Best chick—chummed all day with Dorothy-
Vane-Menzies, with Hubby Broad in close
attendance. The McEacharn’s hope piloted
the fair Beatrice Irwin, who has enjoyed
the races and attendant frivols hugely, in spite
of broken contracts and shattered nerves. She
hung many plumes over her pretty ear, and
gowned quaintly in Eastern silk that had red
in the gold. The Clarke clan bombarded an
imposing table—with the grey Janet lady at the
head and the blooming Miss Phyllis at the foot.
On Cup night, the dress-circle at the Princess’s
was treated to a farcical-comedy performance that
made amends for “Eaust,” with little Massimi in
the name part. A male intruder—who may have
been acting with humor aforethought—took his
place early in one of the seats dedicated to the
Von Pinschof party, and maintained his position
when the great Austrian potentate came and com-
manded him to get out. Whereupon the Von
cried aloud in his agony for der “ usshah,” but
that young man came not. Ironical voices echoed
theguttural yell for “ usshah,”and finally the only
Pinschof brought the doorkeeper upon the scene,
and then the usher joined in the procession, and
amidst the suppressed roars of the adjacent
audience the sacrilegious intruder was conducted
from the seats of the mighty by the hired at-
tendants, whilst Pinschof pushed and pressed
them from the rear for all the world like a snort-
ful steam-engine shoving a train up a hill. After
a lot of rustling, the lawful seat-holders settled
down to silence. But at the first interval the de-
feated invader of the Pinschof reserve took another
rise out of “ Von” by pausing in the gangway to
give him a profound obeisance before passing out to
the refreshment bar. It was the bow of a humble
penitent offering homage to one who “ wishes to
be recogdnised as der grade Padron of Moosik,”
and whose posings in public admit of no doubt
aboud his ambidtion.
Talking of the German opera, a letter from Mr.
Greder, addressed to The Bulletin, begs to inform
the public that he has had nothing to do with the
co. since July 2. And his lawyers at Wellington
(M.L.) are talking to manager Musgrove, he says,
re the contract which bound G.M. to Greder, and
vice versa, before the spirit of dissension entered
into the co. and its members started to suffer
from sudden indispositions.
The topped-notch of Cup week dances is, of
course, Guv’ment House ball on the night after
the race. The big grey house was wreathed and
lightened, and given the gay and festive air, with
some millions of electrics in daisy chains. The
cards were for 9.30, but the Northeotes like their
guests on ice, and there was the usual wait until
“God Save” announced the vice-regality. The
slow moving procession up the centre of the ball-
room was like the choristers in church (demure
and steady and lengthy), with aides and escort
in the van and rear, and a long Noah’s Ark
list of Governors and their ladies forming the
column. After one or two impressive Importants
had dared the sanctity of the blue-cushioned circle,
the high-aloft musicians suddenly took the affair
into their hands and stirred things up mightily
with some brilliant “Carmen.” There just had
to be a set of Lancers. It was the gayest thing
for an official opening set that I have ever seen.
Melba came late, after this Lancers, and sat
with a concerned face, talking to Lady North-
cote. The dear little daughter-in-law is ill—
suddenly ill—with diphtheria. She felt off-oolor
on Cup Day and did not go out—though hubby
and mamma-in-law did Elemington thoroughly.
Next day saw her in the hospital. Daughter-in-
law has hard luck ; not long ago she was prostrate
with an -itis.
During this heart-to-heart talk, the huge Clara
arrived and wandered up the ballroom. She
wandered about, like an unpiloted ship, waiting
her opportunity of the blue-carpet and the Glad
Hand, sizzling mentally, and wondering if Roy
or Toy or Joy couldn’t have the measles for “ this
one concert only.” Both the Warble ladies were
clad in silver—spread on them like armor. The
Melba gown of woven tissue of silver, like unto
chain mail, was perfect. It fitted every curve,
smoothly and plainly, and was glorified by a riot
of white roses from chin to toe in a garland. The
Colossal One had her coat of mail built up of
silver sewn-on scales, and, streaming from her
shoulders, was a gauze cloak of pink tied on with
silver tassels. It looked rather pantomimic.
There was a gorgeous second set after these
celebrities arrived. Just ordinary folk are getting
so used to bumping into Governors and such at
every turn that they took it quite calmly to watch
a set chock-full of the vice-regal species and two
celebrated divas setting-to-corners in the same
square. Clara can sing, and she can walk with an
air and sprightliness—but to dance ! Alas, the
elephantine prancing! Husband Bertie, by the
way, dances divinely, and is beamed on by the
Social maiden.
Sydney’s widower of wealth, Kelso King, was
in prideful evidence with our Miss Kirk—who
meets him at the altar this week. Count Morner
wore his palest blue trousers this time —those
with the silver stripe. He is such a gorgeously-
uniformed Count, the envy of the youth and
manly beauty of this city.
Our Miss Standish heiress, who married Mr.
Cox, of Sydney, has been trailing gorgeous gowns
throughout the festivities ; there was some fine,
old, ivory lace on her ball dress. Mrs. Raleigh
was all in pale, misty, sea colors with a
cool sea-rose in her wealth of hair, the
Raleigh tresses being smoothly coiled, in marked
contrast to the “extra curls” and the awful
“ puffs ” that every fashionable head frowses into
nowadays. Talking about hair, Lulu Armytage’s
erection sent one thinking of Japan, where the
women have their hair piled, and decorated,
and dressed once in a few weeks. They
sleep with their necks on little, round, wooden,
grooved pillows so that the work-of-art will not be
disarranged. The Armytage maiden has a traction-
engine wheel hair-dressing, and it has been
the same size and shape ever since the
Caulfield gaieties. One supposes that Miss Lulu
slumbers in the groove of a wooden pillow. Lady
Edeline Strickland wore a marvellous dress, an
Empire hung in heavy satin greeny folds with
roses painted pinkly on its surface ; then a great
curtain of lace, like a bed-spread (one of the
horrible things that have to be folded off before
one reaches cool plain sheets), hung from her
shoulders like a cloak. I think it’s a Fashion.
The Forrest Dame had drapings of a gauze of a
different color to the main part. The underneath
fitting part was delicate flesh pink and gave one
quite a flutter when the gauzy outer covering
moved too suddenly.
Leslie Madden enjoyed herself in a glorious
purply dress —shimmering over a dull chiffon and
silk. It was the color of a tropical midnight sky.
Young Mrs. Norman Fenner has been bringing
her pale fairness into all the gaieties; billowy
white was her frocking on Wednesday. Mrs.
Ernest Brookes made rather a stir (even in that
gorgeous crowd) with the lace of her frock, but
she trailed a chook from her black hair like a
red Indian’s head-gear.
Melba has been a burst of embroidered glory
during the carnival; but the sumptuousness of
her gowns has been overshadowed by her jewels,
as exquisite and glowing as the dreams of a
pretty girl. Her familiar pearls made several
appearances, and looked enviable enough. But
they were eclipsed by her diamonds. Apparently,
she possesses them in bushels. The brilliants in
their turn became almost contemptible beside her
opals. Truly, the lady of the Jewel Song shows
a certain subtle patriotism. Australian opals
have never had a more alluring advertisement
than her famous figure in a flower-like gown, with
a gleaming plastron of supernaturally-fired stones
—ear-rings and finger-rings of them ; brooches and
bracelets, too. It was a sight which might have
caused St. Cecilia to envy the opportunities of
Sardanapalus.
The Clapp sisters steam off to Europe by the
China, to recruit their strength and courage,
after an exhausting term spent in concocting
frocks for the Best People, or people who were
not so good but still could pay the Best Price.
The enterprising spinsters are loaded with weighty
commissions the fulfilment of which will be
sandwiched ’twixt the swagger social experiences
they’re expecting.
Miss Laura Winter-Irving and her sister-soul,
Bella Malcolm, bolted off on their long-projected
jaunt right in the middle of race-week. The
soulful Laura will probably pursue her piano
study in Vienna for a while. Just before she
departed she gave a recital at the University.
For once she didn’t faint at the conclusion of her
biggest effort; which was hugely disappointing to
all the folk who think that that swoon is more
artistic than her most charming music.
This season, the smartest catteries have reaped
a rich harvest of coin. The Naicest People have
deserted hotels, where the vulgar herd without
references beyond flowing cash may find stalls and
mangers, and taken refuge in the mansions where
Mrs. Todgers shows as a dignified matron who
calls herself—with some humor—a hostess.
There they have found real happiness. In
two of the most expensive establishments, the
lucky inmates have nothing but excitement, owing
to the distinctly feminine tactics of the most dis-
tinguished guests. In one case, a divorce action
is likely to eventuate ; in the other, a libel suit.
What more could any reasonable cat desire with a
fortnight’s board and lodgings ! At a pub, one
has to pay the menials to get a whisper of an
occasional scandal; under Mrs. Todgers’ auspices
one gets it gratis—and often.
The Queensland delegates to the Cats’ Confer-
ence have been throwing bouquets to the pride
of their State, Grace Watson. They gave a
reception at the Vienna in her honor, and a
trio of gushing ladies informed the gifted
spinster that the tropic State was intensely proud
of her—in fact, that she was its most enviable
achievement. All of which the remarkable Grace
took smilingly. The Queensland women had
some election scalps on show in their belts, in the
bifurcated shapes of their successful Anti-Sosh
candidates for the Federal Parliament. If the
poor dears really had any idea beyond tea-parties,
and took their patriotism more sanely, they might
have refrained from exhibiting these proofs of
their electoral incompetency.
The Suffragettes’ Society, which is a combina-
tion under the dominion of Vida Goldstein, is
giving a quaint entertainment in connection with
its campaign. Living pictures and posters
representing various phases of women’s work
will be the order of the evening. Tummy
Bent is to disfigure one tableau, the chief
object of which is to ridicule that unsymmetrical
and unsympathetic statesman. Poor Thomas!
Some women can’t forgive his want of symmetry;
others complain of his want of sympathy. The
legal status of women will be elaborately illus-
trated by tableaux of police-court scenes, and so
on. Miss Goldstein will tell suitable yarns to
explain the picturesof this Book of Revelations, and
numbers of women will turn up in their lowest-cut
evening frocks to the show, and go away with the
fixed idea that they’ve received some reliable
tuition in social and political economy. Somehow
the female mind revolts at anything that isn’t
associated with a housemaid, a tea service, or a
frock show. So it indiscriminately mixes politics
with a new petticoat, statesmen with Soochong
tea, philanthropy with philandering, and ends
up by mistaking one for t’other, or thinking them
all the same. _ Serious-minded members of the
sex are beginning to rebel against the fantastic
methods of established leaguers, and wail for some
authoritative and reliable direction. It remains
for some enterprising man to inaugurate a really
educational association for reasonable women.
The official opening of the new Dental Hospital
m Spring-street was a swaggeraffair, with a G.-G.
to turn the key, and a Lieutenant-Governor and a
gaud Mayor and a Premier and other importants
to chortle the agreeing Hear-hear. Lord North-
cote broke into quite a hilarious speech, and
mentioned the inspiring fact that he had taken
the chair at dental affairs oftener than any other.
He also got off various dental stories of such age
that they had reached a blooming second youth ;
they were received joyfully.
The ghostly and fascinating “Flying Dutch-
man,” at The Princess’s, drew a sensation-seeking
crowd on Saturday night. Melba front-rowed in the
circle. She was dressed in a marvellous gown—
the lines simple and absolutely perfect. It was
black and gold—the gold subdued and dull and
folded across the breast with a simple scarlet
hibiscus bloom, cunningly embroidered. Melba’s
son and Mr. Sam M'Culloch helped on the party.
A plaintive young tnan makes moan over the
instability of feminine beauty, the brevity of
’Enley-on-Yarra, and the maddening memories
that have possessed him for a whole week. “I
went to Henley, and there I found a lot of girls
who had strayed out of the Golden Age, and
covered up their shining little bodies with gar-
ments which seem superfluous, but, as river-
trappings, were most becoming. There was some
magic in the air that afternoon. Or rather, there
was magic in those promenading girls. (Believe
me, I had lunched very reasonably !) Oh ! but it
would have been better if many a lass had died
on the night of Henley Day, leaving behind her
only the deluding, distracting memory of her
single day’s divinity. By that murky flow of
Yarra water, girls I never could tolerate before
seemed adorable, and those I liked were worship-
ful. Never a glance nor a gesture did one make
that wasn’t in harmony with the green of the trees,
the glow of the flowers, and the clear deep color
of the sky. ... I’ve come to the conclusion that
the Australian girl is usually bizarre in an artifi-
cial setting. She must have a frame of sunlight,
or of moonshine, with the scent of clean earth as
her perfume, and no hampering suggestions from
a maternal mind warped with early Victorian
superstitions. She only wants opportunities to
be natural to be irresistible—like she was at
Henley. ”
The George Fairbairn couple pack up their
kit-bags and Saratogas, and leave for India in
December. Their first good reason for braving
an Indian Christmas is the first baby credited to
their gorgeous offspring, Mrs. Stewart Balmain.
The first day I went to the Women’s Exhibition,
the judges were deciding on the best wedding
cake, certain pastry, and the kitchen garden
variety of 41b. loaf. The common herd was
shooed away from the exhibit at 3 p.m. by a con-
stable, so that the five judges might give their
minds to the job undisturbed. The judges were
all elderly women, and, seemingly, underfed, and
blessed with neither complexions nor livers.
Waitresses dodged in and out with frequent cups
of tea, and at 5 p.m. the judges were still testing
the cakes. They didn’t look any the worse for
the ordeal—though the cakes did. They were
conscientious judges, and they didn’t intend to
miss one cake, even if they got dyspepsia for a
month as a result. A healthy small boy would
have settled the matter —and the cakes—in a
quarter the time.
In this week’s menu of Wimmen’s Exhibition
stodge, appears one bonne bouche. Miss Bella
Whitley gives a recital of chamber-music,
in conjunction with Mrs. Christeson. Mrs.
Christeson will sing ,some more familiar
songs from her delightful repertoire, and
a couple of new beauties by Sibelius and
Baclier-Lunda. By the way, there are great
difficulties with the translation of these songs.
In some cases the words are candid enough to be
dramatic —and, incidentally, shocking to the
wimmen. The cantatrice has to call in special
aid and Judkinise the verses out of Scandinavian
recognition.
The most striking of the frocks sported by
Tasmania’s Lady Edeline Strickland during the
Cup frivolities was a compliment to local
artistry and the apple of the isle. The frock was
of ninon-de-soie, with foundation of glace silk,
and Mrs. J. P. Laughton decorated it with hand-
painted apple blossoms. The artist had ex-
hibited several things which caught the favoring
eye of her Ex., and this commission followed.
Major Timothy Marcus Maclnerney reappears
over our horizon, after a lengthy absence in
S’Africa. With him he brings a charming wife,
won during his exile. The lady is English, tall
and graceful; with honey-tinted hair, eyes colored
like cornflowers, and lips that curl up at the
corners. The heroic Tim is heavier in bulk and
manner than aforetimes; which is perfectly cor-
rect (all proper-minded men get fat in happy
matrimony). Also, he is stated to be the Aus-
tralian representative of a syndicate which has
£7,000,000 to invest in ventures calculated to
grease the fatted pig; and if he really has that
amount of gold about him, he’d be very welcome
in America just now. Altogether the Major’s
two burdens, and his way of carrying ’em, quite
justify the joyous welcome he’s receiving from his
adoring family, and his envious friends.
There was a swagger invitation night on Tues-
day for the opening of the new St. Kilda rink,
which aspires to carry on the fashionable roll that
erstwhile cut the ice at the Glassy-harem. The
new Rink is granolithic below and roofed with
Heaven above, and its huge area is fenced in with
blue and white lattice. A number of festive at-
tendants are decorated in blue-and-white, or wear
the gold lace of officialdom. All very smart and
toney.
Pretty little Carmen Pinschof made the sad
mistake of developing chicken-pox just at the
grand finale of race time, and when her beloved
German opera was in full blast.
In the scramble for dates, Mrs. Ernest Brookes
grabbed Cup night for her dance, and many
stewed and race-wearied guests languidly flung
themselves along. Some keen maidens “cut”
the Cup on purpose to be fresh for the shivoo,
and they danped with energy, in spite of cool-
conservatory appeals from the universally tired
man.
A squabblesome party of severe adults gave a
quaint performance at a fashionable cafe recently.
The event was a birthday dinner, packed with
pomposity and wealth of softgoods. The company
played quite serenely and sweetly through soup,
fish, and entree, but clouds arose, and two of the
diners became so nervy that they left the festive
scene with distressing suddenness. It was an en-
forced lesson on ‘ ‘ The Importance of Keeping One’s
Mouth Shut.” The whole crowd of thirty-odd
guests had been trying to teach one big handsome
lady and her small, wealthy husband, whereupon
the offended pair declared “We won’t play in
your yard,” and departed without seeing Punch-
and-Judy or having a ride on the merry-go-round.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47.
AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION.
ESTB. 1862.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
MODERATE RATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
m
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
132 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free, by pout, throughout
A ustrulia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
If your liver is sluggish and out of tone,
and you feel dull, bilious, constipated, take a
dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets to-night before
retiring, and you will feel all right in the morning.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
PV
•Wlj
V
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(oi ip. Hunter St.)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Under the new mail contract, the Aus-
tralian Government of Victorian conspirators
against the peace and happiness of N. S. Wales
provides that British mails should reach Sydney
and Melbourne the same day. Hitherto the
loathsome Melbourne people have got their mails
a day earlier.
Sydney City Council has scored its first
win in a signboard case. Notice of appeal was
given, so the merits of the matter cannot be
reviewed. But if the present law isn’t strong
enough to give the Council absolute control of the
city signboards, it should be amended, and
amended again, until it does. Then, if the City
Council uses its power badly, the City Council
can be changed. But the city beautiful can never
come until there is one sure central authority in
such matters, and nothing is left to individual
taste or want of taste.
HELL BE THERE ALL RIGHT.
JONES: “ What a glorious vista! ”
VESTED INTERESTS: “Here, get off that cloud;
don't you know that's private proputty?”
Proceedings from time to time in N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly make it appear that one or
more members before the Speaker’s chair are
understood by their fellow-members to be in
possession of loaded firearms while taking part in
the debates. Is the understanding well founded ?
If there be a reasonable foundation for believing a
member loaded in the way indicated, is it not the
duty of the Speaker to take action to stop the
practice? It is stultifying the idea of a delibera-
tive Assembly for a member or members to sit
equipped with murderous weapons.
The same old business—after voting with
the Foreign-traders time after time on the apparel
duties, Labor member Poynton, of S. Aus.,
actually had the gall on the next item, “ undressed
feathers, 15 per cent.,” to declare that “as this
was a South Australian industry he would vote
with the Government.” In brief, Freetrade for
my neighbors, but Protection for myself! And
then, after he carefully refuses to swallow his own
medicine, Poynton, like Bill Wilks of the iron-
works, asks us to take him seriously when he says
it is good medicine.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will clear the sour
stomach, sweeten the breath, and create a healthy
appetite. They promote the flow of gastric juice,
thereby inducing good digestion.*
Maoriland Government sets the example
of differentiating between the pay of married and
single men doing the same work in the Civil
Service. Australia, wanting population as it does,
might reasonably follow the same plan and, so far
as it could be done without interfering with effi-
ciency, encourage matrimony and parentage.
The (London) Daily Chronicle star-heads
an anti-Australian slander :
WHERE £1 IS WORTH ONLY 15s.
The New Tariff in Australia Crushing the Workers.
The local authority for the above useful immi-
gration advertisement is the Sydney Morning
Herald.
The 400 immigrants who reached Mel-
bourne on Derby Day included a few of the sort
Australia needs most —mechanics retrenched from
Woolwich arsenal; and the shame of it is that we
have not the work to give them that they can do
best. Japan would have snapped them eagerly a
few years back ; Germany would take them to-
day ; Australia can only put them on the land—-
clever, experienced gun-builders to mind cows !
Last week, eight expert ironworkers,
known as “puddlers,” were specially imported,
under contract, from Birmingham for Lithgow by
the Sandford people. They arrived simply and
quietly, and are already puddling away. And
the papers which yelled about the exclusion of the
Six Hatters (who were not excluded) have had not
a word about the Eight Puddlers.
Westralian Parliament, moved thereto by
the sour Secesh grumblers, having forwarded
a “protest ’’against the new tariff to the
Australian Parliament, Senate President Gould
and Representatives Speaker Holder very pro-
perly refuse to receive it. “ The Standing Orders
of our respective Houses do not provide for the
placing before those bodies of any representations
otherwise than by petition, in accordance with the
method universally followed by all Parliaments
whose practice has sprung from that of Great
Britain, or by a document laid before the House
by command of the Governor-General.”
More effects of this ruinous tariff. Trinity
Inlet, where the ships at Cairns (N.Q.) load and
unload, looks like a Canadian River : hundreds of
logs, chained together in rafts, float near the
wharves. An increased demand for this timber
for furniture-making has sprung up; and the
coastal vessels, full up with sugar just now, can’t
get the bulkier cargo away quickly enough. The
logs afloat include silky oak, cedar, silkwood,
and others. The mournful thing is that the tariff
didn’t arrive till so much of the North Queens-
land forests got the firestick. But there is still a
fine heritage left.
The “voluntary liquidations” list just
records another triumph of glorious Freetrade in
Britain. The manufacture of vulcanite goods
used to be a biggish Scotch industry ; but Ger-
many got on to the line, and then a fight began.
German manufacturers “dumped” goods into
Scotland, but Scotland, in spite of its thistle and
its motto, couldn’t hit back, because the German
tariff was in the way ; so the Scottish Vulcanite
Co. —the last surviving manufacturer—puts up
the shutters, goes into liquidation : and Edinbro’
has to whistle for its £70,800 of capital. And it’s
a dour sight to see a Scotch town bereft of that
much capital.
Bananalanders claim that the work on the
Cloncurr.y railway line forms an Australian record.
One week 4i miles were laid.
The whole of the work has been
carried out by day labor, under
the direction of Engineer Munro,
who has treated the men much
more consideratelv, and housed
them better, than^frivate Enter-
prise would have dreamed of.
Munro, from his office at Rich-
mond, regulated the sleeper-
getters at Cardwell, on the coast,
ordered the bridge timber, super-
intended constructional work,
provided first-rate accommoda-
tion for his army of workers,
opened some time ago 80 miles of
line for customers, and generally
bossed the show. He proved
there was no need to send abroad
for a Johnson. Under the con-
tract system the work would
likely have cost thousands more,
and there would not have been the
hustle which Munro has organised.
A cable from Sydney, published in
London Times on October 4 :
It has now been ascertained that Mr. Carntthers’s
resignation was largely due to the probability that the
State Assembly would have carried a vote of censure on
his action in seizing the wire-netting consigned to the
State Government if he had remained Premier.
S. M. Herald, in its issue of November 7,
undertakes to reprobate the cable as a misleading
report. But everybody in Sydney who knows
anything knows it to be true.
One of the “hottest ’’Labor members
from Wayback (N.S.W.) was entertained at a
smoke social the other evening. The entertain-
ment consisted of beer, speech and song, and one
of the speeches was a sermon against colored
labor so blistering that it boiled what little water
there is left in the Murrumbidgee. And when he
had sat down, the chairman called on Mr. Sing
Gee to favor them with another selection, where-
upon Mr. Sing Gee (who had already obliged
with “Sweet Sixteen”) sang “Believe in Me.”
There’s a tremendous lot of make-believe about
some politicians, even of the P.L.L. brand.
From an Australian in London :
The anti-Australian tariff meeting at the London
Chamber of Commerce consisted of a few unimportant
people who act here for small Australian indentors in
Sydney and Melbourne. These people quite naturally
kick at the tariff, but the serious opposition will probably
come from Germany. That country firmly believes it is
going to be the great industrial hub of the future, and,
not being much good at colonisation itself, it wants
Britain to do the colonising, while it gets the benefits. It
is keenly interested, therefore, in blocking high tariffs in
new countries, and it will pull all the strings it knows in
Australia while the tariff debate is in progress.
From “ A Model Militia ” (the Swiss), by
H. F. Prevost Battersby :
Every officer goes through the ranks and rises to his
commission through the various subordinate grades.
Nothing' “comes” to the Swiss soldier; however dis-
tinguished his connections or irreproachable his character
he can work his way upward by ability only.
Prendergast, M.L.A., apologises for the
failure of the Victorian Opposition by explaining
to a Mildura audience that an “Opposition does
not imply hostility to a Government in measures
for bringing about the greater prosperity of the
State.” But surely it implies hostility to the
Government which refuses to take those steps
towards land settlement w'hieh are so essential to
the State’s welfare.
What humorist designed the three-globe
ornamental lamp-posts in front of Melbourne
House of Parliament? In the old State days,
when the members sat inside wrangling
wearily about the possibility—or impossibility
—of floating more loans, the pawnbroker’s
sign was blazing gaily away in front, pro-
claiming to the multitude that the House of
Impecuniosity was busy writing out its I OU.
Nowadays the Australian Parliament deli-
berates behind the three-ball illuminations,
and, as the Australian Parliament doesn’t
borrow', the joke isn’t as much of a joke as
it used to be.
From a dreary S’African farmer
comes to this office a marked copy of
the Jo’burg Star, dated 7/8/’O7. At
the end of three columns of small print,
wherein the Rosens and Nathans and
Rabinowitchs and Cohens and about
1000 others of the Abraliamic race ex-
change greetings on the occasion of
the Yiddish New Year, is inscribed
the sentence “ What we fought for.” 1
However, this particular S’African,
in his anti-Semite fury, forgets the
Chows. He and his friends fought
just as much to get work for the Chow
coolies as to get profit for the Tribes.
In an affair of this kind accuracy is
everything.
“ J. Cobden-Bright ” writes :
What is the use of The Bulletin (which must
be in collusion with Victorian manufacturers)
trying to prov e that Protection does hot raise
prices? Consider this case. Last week I was
hunting for lodgings up Potts Point (Sydney)
way, and was shown over a large house by a
stately landlady, with a subdued and superior
voice. Last came the bathroom, which con-
tained a gas-heater. After pointing this out to
me, she said : “Of course, since the tariff, everything
is so dear that I charge M. for a hot bath.” “But,” I
protested, “ there is no duty on gas." She drew herself
up to her full height, and a look of mingled scorn
and pity came into her eyes, as she said “ Ohiio, not on
.gas, but there is on coal.” I said “Oh'Uand that I’d
call in later and let her know whether I was coming.
‘‘ J.F.” :■ Apropos Sam Bennett’s “Aus-
tralian Discovery and Colonisation” being Austra-
lian work (B. 31/10/’O7), I have a volume. “The
Report of the Council of Education, 1867,” on the
flyleaf of which is written: —“Henry Parkes,
20/5/’6B. This book is printed on paper manu-
factured in the colony.”
The plentiful lack of wisdom shown by
those precious anti-Sosh women who met at Janet
Mrs. Clarke’s, the other day, wasn’t a circum-
stance to the immense political knowledge dis-
played by Mrs. M. Parkes, from the Ma State.
The delegates from the eight leagues repre-
sented, all told, 32,000 members, and Mrs.
Parkes chirpily assured them that “all they had
to do was to put in a Liberal Ministry favorable
to the Kanaka and the thing would be done.”
Evidently the lady thinks the 32,000 electors
could put in a pro-Kanaka Ministry without
turning a hairpin.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) has bumped trouble
over the new Local Government Act. A man
was summoned for allowing four horses to “stray”
in the public street. He successfully took the
point that his gees weren’t straying. They were
being fed. They were eating the grass "in the
streets, and were in charge of a boy, who took
jolly good care they didn’t stray. It appears that
the words “ depasturing and tethering ” dropped
somehow through a hole in the new Act, and the
point was fatal to the prosecution.
When Captain Richard, of Mt. Morgan,
was in America, the other week, he found that
Queensland copper ore was being smelted there
with N. S. Wales coke. First the ore was humped
eight or ten thousand miles, and then the coke
was humped the same eight or ten thousand
miles, and the ore and the coke were then emptied
into a smelting pot to get out the dirt that Aus-
tralia apparently hasn’t got sense enough to get
out itself. And when Richard’s co., seeing the
absurdity of this, proposed to establish smelting
and refining works at Port Kembla, near the
coke works, the N. S. Wales State Government
promptly held out a bill which meant that the
co. would have to pay 7 per cent, of its probable
revenue in wharfage and tonnage and other port
dues.
S. M. Herald is weeping at the action of
the Melbourne Customs in seizing, under section
161 of the Customs Act, a consignment of
Japanese notions, on the ground that they are in-
voiced much below their real value. Acting under
the powers of the section, the Government has
appropriated,the shipment, paying the importers
the full invoice value plus 10 per cent. This pro-
cedure of the Customs is, says Granny Herald, a
wicked and unjust power to exercise. The
Herald pictures its friend the importer, by a
combination of brains and opportunity, added to
keen business instinct, getting possession of goods
at far below their genuine value, and being penalised
for his smartness. The Herald doesn’t see that
the value of the £lOO worth of goods is still £lOO,
even if the importer gave £5O only for them.
According to her logic, if the importing fiend
knocked the owner down, and skipped to Aus-
tralia with the goods, he would have the right to
import them duty free.
Apropos the Victorian Agency-General.
When Taverner’s appointment was mooted, Bent
in his public speeches protested that Taverner
was not being sent as Agent-General, because for
some years the Vic. press and the public (includ-
ing the Reform League) had asked that the State
Agent-Generalship should be abolished. Taverner
also, in interviews in the press, protested that he
was not taking the Agent-Generalship, but was
simply going to London to arrange for the send-
ing out to Victoria of thousands of British farmers.
Now, in the Estimates appear the items, “Agent-
General, expenses of staff and office, £3600,” and
“Allowance for expenses to the Hon, J. W.
Taverner, Agent-General, £1500.” And there
is a hint that if Bent finds Victoria too Warm
for him he will become Victorian Agent-General
himself.
SOLICITUDE.
SMOKER: “ Bill had a narrow squeak. Nearly
got run over by one of them, motor cars. It
'pulled up in the nick of time. That was
luck, wasn't it? ”
TATTY: “Wot! Does lie still owe the shilling
you lent him! ”
The nastiest jolt on the solar plexus of the
soulful Beu Tillett was swung by Billy Hughes,
M.H.R. In the middle of Tillett’s wild denunci-
ations of all things Australian, just as he seemed
about to make the welkin ring with the odor of
the decayed fish he waved at the end of a bit of
oratorical string, Hughes came along to inquire
quietly whether the imported person in the velvet
coat regarded the condition of Australia as much
worse than it was four years ago ; and, if not, how
he could explain that at that period he accepted a
paid position under Q. Agent-General Tozer to
stump the United Kingdom as immigration agent,
telling everybody what a splendid place Australia
was to go to. Tillett has not yet replied to
Hughes, Perhaps he is not able to do so, Or he
may have left the country, for, nowadays, Tillett
attracts so little attention that nobody knows
whether he is here or not.
N.S.W. Auditor-General has been having
a dig at the Public Service Stores Supply and
Tender Board. A few years back the attempt
was made to check extravagance in the
Government Departments by forming a new
Department to grapple with supplies to all the
others. The idea was good, but too much was
attempted. Had the Tender Board stuck to
regulating the supply of main lines, such as
stationery, used by everybody, it would have been
all right, but they grabbed everything. If a
lonely lightkeeper wants a wick for his lamp,
or a botanic gardener wants a pair of rose
scissors, or the man on a country dredge or a
powder magazine wants some specialised article,
he must apply to the same Johnny at the Tender
Board, and if he doesn’t apply on the right colored
form, he doesn’t get what he wants. Result is a
chronic state of curse. The Auditor-General
sums up his objections in the fact that the salaries
paid to the staff of the Board now reach £7OOO a
year. Also as the whole public service is con-
cerned not in saving their stores, but in trying to
see how much they can “ get out of” the Board,
the result is more expensive.
Although the Wade Ministry will not
have been in office three months, by the evening
of November 26 it will have two hangings on its
conscience—-both legacies of Joseph Carruthers.
By this time Wade should be about beginning to
realise that Joseph knew something when he
moved out. He had won an election on an almost
impossible programme for his party to follow
on account of its extreme Socialism. Benefit so-
cieties were to be spoon-fed, and taxation was to
be remitted wholesale in the face of a warning
from the Commonwealth Treasurer that the pay-
ments to the States would probably begin to
diminish seriously, owing to the Protective cha-
racter of the new Tariff. Also he had started the
wire-netting insurrection. Joe had in a general
way got himself into the position of the small boy
who had taken the clock to pieces, and couldn’t
put it together again.
CRUMBS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
_ Mr. Spence, M.H.R., was much applauded when say-
fing that Australia was share-owner with England of the
[lmperial Navy.—Melbourne Herald.
The troops at home are available in case of need,
'and, after due provision has beenmade for our own safety,
'for colonial purposes.—Lubbock, English M.P.
The red marine, and the boy-in-blue, with 'his heaving
deck at foot;
The gilt commander, tired ’n’ true, and'the dtoker, striped
with soot;
The guns that threaten fore and sfit, and the salted
breakfast-horse,
The cloying incenses that waft [from dinners, brief and
coarse ;
The raw deck-hand, with'h'is discipline of the slum and
the barrack-square,
And the orf’cer bloke with the lovely skin and the perfume
in his hair:;
The flag aloft, and the weekly wash that flaps upon the
line—
This is 'the BRITISH navy? Bosh! It’s (more or less)
you re and mine !
And this is the way we’ll hold our lands immune from the
dlieh’s touch—
<©ur ‘noble navy’s great, big hands, with black death in
their clutch,
Will spread red gore on the Sydney shore (if they come
on the scene in time—
BJ they come on the scene with a score or more of gun-
boats in their prime).
And it’s not for us to worry about our empty land, nor
fret
For the navy we ought to be turning out, and the people
we fail to get ;
It’s ours to wait on Bull and bide his pleasure, and take
what comes ;
When John Bull’s safe and satisfied, at least we’ll get the
crumbs.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


SONVId HOSIMO
..
Q
, :
a
These Highly Artistic Pianos have been
proving their excellence in Australia for the
past 30 years.
To such good purpose have they done
it that we find it difficult to keep pace
with orders.
The last consignment received are real
beauties, there being a poetry in their tone
that will appeal to all musicians, whilst
their case=work is very chaste.
As to their durability, we cannot speak
too highly, and we substantiate what we
say with our full guarantee.
We sell these Pianos for cash or on
easy terms, and our Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
SOLE AGENTS :
H. PALING
338 GEORGE STREET,
CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY,
And ait . . .
BRISBANE & NEWCASTLE. j
• •
• •
WEAR
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price.
No* lO
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
STAGS
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR OUR BOOT CATALOGUE (ILLUSTRATED).
If you write
you need a typewriter. If you need it next
year, you need it now. They will never
be cheaper—you will never need it less.
It is purely a matter of value —of business
judgment. You have been weighing the
subject—but the cost of standard machines
has made you wait.
You will be glad to know about the
Briton. It is a
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
BHB
T
y
P
e
w
r
i
t
e
r
Improved by simplicity.
Remember —you do not experiment with the
Briton. It is doing its work perfectly in
every part of Australasia to-day. We have
hundreds of enthusiastic testimonials on file.
You are the judge as to the soundness of
our claims. You test fully before purchasing.
The trial is free. Write for particulars,
and —write now.
Southern Sales Ltd.,
284- George Street, Sydney (Box 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne.
7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.


A CIVIC OFFICER
Fortifies his System Against Prague and
Disease by using Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills.
Mr. Samuel Williams, who has been engaged
for the past three years by the Municipal Board
of Health in connection with the cleansing of the
infected areas of Sydney, states that he takes Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills regularly, and thus
keeps his blood pure and his system in good
health. He writes: —“9 Wemyss Street, Sydney.
—For over 2| years I have been employed by the
City Council in connection with the Sanitary
Mr. Samuel Williams.
(From a photo.)
Department, cleansing
the city and wharves in
the infected areas. Al-
though I have been in-
oculated, I have always
found that the best
preventative against dis-
ease and common ail-
ments is to keep the
body well, and in this
respect there is no better
remedy than Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. My
wife and family use
them occasionally, and
while we have them in
the house we never re-
quire the doctor or any
other medicine. You
have my permission to
use this, together with my photo.” Cleanliness is
next to godliness, but it is not alone necessary to
keep the outside clean ; the interior must also be
kept in a sanitary condition. Many a tenement
in Sydney from all outside appearance looks
clean and healthy, but a coat of paint on the out-
side does not prevent the germs of disease and
pestilence breeding in the dirty, unwholesome
inside. So with the human frame. The microbes
enter the system, and if the bowels are constipated
and unhealthy, and the blood impure, there it
finds a veritable harbor to germinate and gather
in another victim. Why is it that medical men
so seldom fall victims to disease? Well, the
reason is they consult themselves, and knowing
that the true secret of health is the regularity of
the system and the maintenance of unvitiated
blood, they take every precaution to this end.
Thousands of men and women have learnt this
secret, and like our correspondent (Mr. Williams)
use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and fear
neither disease nor any of the common ailments
to which mankind is heir. Be your own doctor.
Learn that a pure and regular system is the only
proof against disease and ill-health. Experience
has taught many this lesson. You may learn by
their experience. Ask your friends, neighbors,
and relatives what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have done for them.
LA6CR
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agrents—»Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Westralian match was not taken seriously,
and the real interest in the English cricket invasion
commenced on Saturday last when the team attacked S.
Australia. The result was a slight slump in the estimate
of the English bowling, Clem Hill making 104, and
Jennings and Claxton notching 79 and 57 respectively.
The fact that a South Australian team could run up 343
before the last wicket fell, indicated that the bowling
was not up to reputation. On the other hand, when the
Englishmen got to the sticks they proceeded to astonish
the natives, 233 being scored for the loss of four
wickets, A. O. Jones making 119. As revealed by Adelaide
doings, the Englishmen appear to be somewhat nervous
and over-cautious. English papers have published dread-
ful accounts of Australian audiences bombarding the
players with bottles, and making footballs of the bowlers
who take the local wickets too fast. For which we can
thank the vivid imagination of Mr. Plum Warner. As
these cricketers mingle with the people and prove by
experience that we do not bite at sight, this feeling will
probably wear off, and then we shall see the new team at
its best.
4 * * *
What the dailies described as a magnificent dis-
play of batting took place, at Sydney on Monday last in
the match between the N.S.W. First XI. and the Next
XIII. The Devil’s number went to the sticks first,
closing their innings with nine wickets down for 361. It
seemed reasonably safe till Trumper got going
with splendid effect, and Duff, Noble, E. F.
Waddy, and Cotter backed him up to such pur-
pose that the XI. scored 336 for the fall of
four wickets; so the game ended in a draw.
All this proves that there are some splendid batsmen in
N.S.W. ; but does it not also suggest that the State XI.
is badly in want of some bowlers who can go out to kill
occasionally? Among the First XI., Cotter was easily
the best bowler, and yet he only took three wickets for
106 runs. Among the XIII., 'Hickson was the star
trundler—and he got one wicket (Noble’s) at a cost of 25
runs.
♦ * * *
“Adelaide”: A quiet look at the English
cricket team effectually disposes of that odd, much-
boomed, idea that they are a crowd of “youngsters.”
True, there isn’t a Lilley or a Jackson or a Darling among
them, but a cricketer is hardly a kid at 30, and seven of
them are over that, with two more near it. In fact,
there are only three under 25, and (though Young
is still a Cambridge undergraduate) Crawford is
the only one under 21. (He will come of age next
month.) The captain is the senior of them all at 34
which he doesn’t look. Mrs. Jones is with him.
Major Trevor, the business manager, is short and sturdy,
very funny in private life, very serious in public—he has
just published a heavy book on “The Problems of
Cricket,” which reserves a special Hell for the statistical,
average-booming journalist. He is probably the best
speaker that has ever returned thanks for a British team.
The co. brought heavy rain with it, and had to practise on a
wicket quite English. It looks (but you never can tell) as
if Blythe would be more dangerous than Rhodes, Fielder
more useful than the last time he was here, and Crawford,
the only new bowler, possibly the most effective of the lot.
Barnes has certainly shed a good deal of his pace ; he is,
by the way, notably the most burly of the crowd, who do
not run much to weight; the smallest of them is the
nuggety Hardstaff. With the bat, the only one with
marked defensive tactics is Hobbs, who should take a lot
of shifting. Two fierce hitters, and therefore likely to be
popular, are Hayes, who has a rather long black
moustache, and looks like anything you please rather than
a professionaj cricketer ; and Hutchings, who is powerful
though not tall, and very good looking. Crawford and
Hardstaff also hit hard. In fact, the team is going
to be a good one to watch, whether at the wickets, or
saving runs in the field, where its collective activity is
remarkable. The early stage of the S.A. match does not
say much for the bowling. On a good wicket the men
who send up the slow tricky stuff seem most likely to be
effective. As an early shot, the writer places the team’s
qualities thus: Fielding 1, Batting 2, Bowling 3.
* * * *
The Melbourne Cricket Club’s attempted grab
at the largest slice of the cake represented by the
“ gates ” of the forthcoming English matches, has moved
the trustees of the ground to take more interest in their
trust than hitherto, and, after inspecting the gorgeous
new members’ stand and the new scoring-board facing it,
they said things to the club—about the three lone water-
taps where the drouthy small-boy lines-up and awaits his
turn ; about the hard, scrubby, backless seats ; and about
the shelter shed, large enough for perhaps a tenth of the
spectators. The club considers these interfering trustees
a nuisance, hut the only answer the trustees make is that,
as the ground is a public one, the public has got to be
considered, whether it suits the club or not. So the
M. 0.0. is “ formulating a scheme for new and better
seats and more shelter,” and the trustees would do a good
turn to the public by seeing that the extra accommoda-
tion arrives before the test matches.
School boy E. P. Barbour continues in fine
form, and put up a taking performance against University
(one of the first-grade teams) on Monday. In University’s
total of 248 runs, Barbour took six wickets for 86 runs in
15 overs ; and for the Combined Schools scored 37 runs
This youngster should be given a show for the State team'
Country cricketer E. Barnes was responsible for
a fine performance at Meadow Creek, near Orange
(N.S.W.), the other day. Barnes took six wickets for 12
runs ; and afterwards scored 251 in a total of 423 for
eight wickets. In one over Barnes hit all six balls over
the boundary for six each.
*' » * *
The Australian Cricket Board of Control is fully
alive to its responsibilities, and Captain A. O. Jones and
the M.C.C. team had hardly arrived in South Australia
when Joe Darling (on the Board’s behalf) confronted
them, and fixed up an agreement that the captains in
each match shall exchange lists of the teams before the
tossing of the coin. This step is necessary to prevent the
ringing-in of players under altered weather conditions.
* * * *
Poseidon’s utter failure in the Melbourne Cup
must have been due to something more than the fast
pace. He is not “another Carbine,” but he can carry
weight and run brilliantly up to 32 furlongs, and on his
Melbourne Stakes form it was odds on his beating Tartan
(at a difference of 81b.) in the Cup, if he were as good
a stayer. Probably he was off color on Cup Day. Or,
which is just as likely, he is not a genuine stayer. Last
year he had only the 3-year-old weight of 7st. 61b., and it
didn’t stop him. But he has not grown in the meantime,
and if 2 miles was as far as he cared to travel twelve
months ago, it is too far for him to carry a Carbine
weight to-day. Of course, he wasn’t ridden out to the
bitter end. Probably Tartan—who had been backed to
beat him in their places —was ridden out for the other-
wise barren honor of 4th position—nearly a dozen
lengths behind the dead-beaten Mountain King.
The alleged “popular ” character of Apologue’s
victory was not expressed in tremendous cheering from
the multitude, anyhow. No favorite for the Cup could
have been less warmly received on returning to scale.
The crowd’s first feeling was surprise at’- the appearance
of Apologue twenty lengths ahead of the top weight, and
then came the general remark that the Caulfield Cup
ought to have been a gift for the Maorilander.
To the very last moment before the race the
relative chances of Apologue and Poseidon for the Mel-
bourne Cup were discussed as though their “ form ” in
the Caulfield Cup could be accepted as true. Even book-
makers and other followers of the game gave heed to the
persistent allegations of Poseidon’s excellence. Now
that the champion’s victory at Caultield is proved—as far
as it is capable of proof—to have been due to
the unsatisfactory manner in which Apologue was
ridden, one can confidently say that the subse-
quent booming of the Caulfield hero was only
what might have been expected. In the light
of the Melbourne Cup result two things are clear enough.
Firstly, that the public were right in finding fault with
Coffey’s riding- of Apologue at Caulfield, in so far as he
never brought his mount near to the front until its
speedy stable companion was in a fair way to win. Bad
luck, or bad judgment, could have been pleaded in excuse
for the late coming of Apologue.;.but, as a matter of
fact, no excuse was given, and a dissatisfied multi-
tude naturally looked for an explanation in the
fact that a lot of stable money was on
Poseidon for the race, and on Poseidon and
Apologue for the “double,” whereas the owners of the
light-weighted horse from Maoriland hoped to win the
first Cup anyhow, and the second one as well if they
could. In short, the performance of Apologue at Caul-
field suited the stable backers of Poseidon, but the owners
of Apologue were dissatisfied. Another jockey—Evans—
was substituted for Coffey at Flemington, and the horse
wasjridden in accordance with his light weight. At Caul-
field the lightweight had been never in front of Poseidon.
At Flemington he was always in front of his stable com-
panion, and before a mile had been covered he was one of
the leading six.
What is there in the foregoing to explain the
earnest “ booming ” of Poseidon during the fortnight
interval between the two Cups? The stable connections
who had won their Poseidon money would naturally
sing the praises of that gallant quadruped. They were
like the V.A.T.C. stewards who saw no reason for
questioning the running of Apologue at Caulfield.
Everything in the garden was lovely for them. As
for the actual owner of Poseidon, there was probably
only one horse in the world that he could
fancy for the Cup, and the more he heard
of comment on the Caulfield running the more
he ‘persuaded himself that the public knew nothing
about the matter. He thought the defeat of Apologue
would be confirmed at Flemington, and the rest of the
stable (apart from the purely Apologue party) supported
this belief in a loud voice, whilst quietly recommending
their friends to back Apologue. And so the public who,
on the evidence of their own eyes, had asserted that
Apologue should have been his stable companion at Caul-
field, came round to the opinion that Poseidon might
possibly beat him again, giving him a lot more weight
than before. There was a combination of reasons why
Poseidon’s chance should be cracked-up by the people
best able to judge Apologue’s chance. Their pride in the
horse’s record inclined them to exaggerate their estimate
of his powers. They couldn’t admit any fault in the
Caulfield performance of Apologue without casting a
reflection on the jockeyship, and permitting a suspicion of
money influences to rest upon it. And having convinced
themselves, more or less, that Poseidon won the Caulfield
Cup on his merits as regards his stable companion, and was
improving every day, they were bound to think him
likely to carry his penalty successfully in the Melbourne
Cup.
« * * *
There is at least one enthusiastic racegoer who
has seen every Melbourne Cup run, from Archer’s first
victory away back in ’6l to Apologue’s canter last week
—John Buckley, sec. of Ikey Mo.’s Victorian Club.
♦ * * *
“0.K.” : The Cup result this year was an ex-
ceptional triumph for latest “ form,” which is always
something of a solid fact where the best horses are going
for big stakes, though a delusion and a snare when
second-raters are concerned in petty events. The three
placed horses in the Cup represented recent “form” as
follows : Ist and 3rd in the Spring Handicap, and Ist in
Rawson Stakes (Sydney Tatt.’s September meeting),
2nd in the Spring Stakes, Ist and 2nd in the Metro-
politan, 2nd in Epsom Handicap, and Ist in three
w.f.a., including the Derby (A.J.C. October meeting),
Ist in Coongy Handicap, and 2ndinCaulfieldCup(V.A.T.C.
October meeting), Ist in Derby and 2nd in Melb. Stakes
(V.R.O. November meeting). Previous to their filling the
places in the big handicap, the three horses had col-
lectively made fourteen appearances this season, and were
placed every time. The book showed 8 wins, 5 seconds,
and 1 third to their credit. Only three other starters for
the Melbourne Cup— viz., Melodrama, Poseidon and
Welcome Trist— had any recent “form” worth con-
sidering, yet there were punters by the hundred
who took comparative!}' short odds about sundry hopeless
chances in the wild belief that something unexpected
would turn up. There are so many unexpected things
to pick from every time, and not once in ten years does
one of them turn up. Within the last eight years two
Cup winners—Clean Sweep and The Victory—have
started at 20 to 1, or longer odds, but in both cases the
winners had recent “ form,” which should have brought
them to a shorter price. And against those two under-
rated outsiders in eight years, there is a list of fully 60
failures that were backed for a lot of money at the last
minute, on no “ form ”at all. Punters never tire of try-
ing to find amidst a large field of horses the “ unex-
pected ” winner which so rarely arrives.
* * * *
After a long spell of bad luck, the Ballarat
trainer, Scobie, has got hold of a valuable trio of two-year-
olds in Mother Goose, Cleis and Kuban. It looks as
though “ Scobie’s best ” is once again going to be a
popular candidate in classic events, provided that he gets
out of the way of winning with the wrong one.
•* * * -K
The horsey world hopes for an interesting libel
action. Coffey, the rider of Apologue in the Caulfield
Cup, issued a writ (claiming £6OO damages) against one
Bell, a trainer of gees, alleging remarks apropos to the
race aforesaid.
* * » *
Crouch, M.H.R., pressed the Postmaster-
General in Parliament for a brief statement as to why the
name of Wren remained on the black list after the name of
Oxenham had been struck off it. “ Mr. Wren had distinctly
and emphatically denied that he had used postal
facilities for illegal purposes, and Mr. Crouch desired
to know whether the department had definite in-
formation to the contrary.” The P.M.G. replied
“ Unquestionably,” whereupon Crouch subsided. Wren’s
policy, throughout his long career of law-breaking,
has been bluff, supported by allegations of “sectarian-
ism,” or “personal spite,” or “political bias,”
against anyone who treated him as a Public
Evil. The P.M.G.’s tampering with the mails in
individual cases is a hateful interference, which should
be carried to a logical conclusion. The idea of one postal
law for Tattersall and another law for Wren or any other
bookmaker is intolerable.
* * * *
James Aldridge, of Adelaide Gresham Hotel,
has been burnt out in his private house and stud farm at
Richmond Park, just outside the city. The stallion Pistol
was located within 20 yards of the blaze, hut escaped
unhurt, as did all the other live stock. The house went
in a few minutes, paintings, stud-books, and all.
* * * *
The victory of good old Proceeder in the
V.R.O. Handicap offered the multitude a chance to show
their sporting sentiment, if they had any. Apparently,
the multitude’s regards for that honest veteran did not
amount to much, It was practically a vveight-for-age
race as far as Proceeder was concerned— i.e., the handi-
eapper had brought him down toBst. lib. in consideration
of his years. This is Proceeder’s tenth year. In last
Sandhurst Cup he carried 9st. 71b., and finished third to
Tulkeroo (Bst. 121 b.) and Mira (7st. 71b.). The weights for
the V.R.C. Handicap were Tulkeroo (Bst. 81b.), Proceeder
(Bst. lib.), and Mira (7st. 111 b.), and the old horse being
pretty nearly as good to-day as when he ran Tartan to a
head for the Champion Stakes, made no trouble of out-
staying his old opponents over the tiring course. The
fact that he is a gelding with iron legs explains why
Proceeder has been kept at the racing game all this time.
A buggy horse before and after his dbbut as a racer, he
started his record at four years old by winning a Hack
Race at a small up-country meeting in Vic., and he was a
six-yearrold ere he appeared at an important course.
Since then he has been a consistent performer in
respectable company. His list of battles as an aged
animal covers more than a page in Miller’s Sporting
Pamphlet. If the w.f.a. scale made a concession, as it
should, for every year over seven, this remarkable son of
Off-Color and Progression would be a very valuable
property to his owner. As it is he can only manage to
score in a long-distance handicap at a metropolitan meet-
ing when the weight is not too heavy.
* * * *
The title of “champion” will presumably be
shifted from Poseidon to Mountain King, now that the
stalwart youngster has decisively licked the 4-year-old in
a 12-furlong- race at w.f.a. The C. B. Fisher Plate at
Flemington was the third w.f.a. and the longest wherein
the “King” has beaten Poseidon, and the seventh in
succession which he has won—not reckoning the Mel-
bourne Cup handicap. He has appeared to be close
pressed on two or three occasions, but the nags that
finished second have subsequently suggested that the
colossal colt was only pulling their legs.
» * * *
•Clarence Weber’s retirement from wrestling
left an opening for another "championship” goat the
Melbourne Athletic Club, on Friday night last. Gus
Rennert, the ponderous Sydney German ’rastler, who
made some reputation in the catch-hold style on the
exhibition ticket with the Rev. Carkeek and the mighty
Hackenschmidt, was out for keeps against the wily
Hindoo, Buttan Singh. Rennert’s display gave evidence
that an exhibitionist’s knowledge of the game is useless
against a man of Buttan’s skill in a fair-dinkum
go. Gus, with 14st. 61b., made the brown man look
weedy, though his glistening skin covered a fibrous
collection of muscle. On getting to holds Rennert pulled
his man to the mat in businesslike style and showed a
winning vein, but as the minutes drifted by he appeared
to lose all resource—if he ever had any. Facing each
other on the mat in the squatting position, Rennert was
after a barNelson,when Singh, taking a quiet nap, suddenly
woke up and upset the big fellow’s equilibrium with a
clever leg hold. It was a clear case of pulling the base
away, whereupon the mass above hit the floor with two
shoulders—a clean fall, in dmin. llsec. After an eight-
minutes’ spell, the men resumed the struggle—Rennert
cautious, the Hindu a trifle cocky. The remainder of
the affair was monotonous even to the enthusiast, as
Rennert was content to remain mostly underneath,
while the Buttan applied a series of grape-vines, leg-and-
toe holds, which puzzled the exhibitionist. Singh on one
occasion almost secured a fall with an arm-and-toe hold.
The German’s great strength, however, enabled him to
break away. Rennert essayed a couple of wrist rolls,
which failed to come off. Singh tried a “bluff” by
leaping in the air after nearly downing his man, but the
referee told him to get work. After If hour’s grappling,
with the Hindoo top-dog, they were called off and
Singh declared “champion” once again, as he had
secured one fall in the time limit. On the
other night’s form Gus couldn’t win if given a day,
except under Tivoli exhibition conditions; for then the
Buttan would consent to be pressed under in the stipu-
lated ten minutes, perhaps. An effort to place the cham-
pionship on a White Australian basis will be made by
Bain, a recent arrival from Scotland, at an early date.
Writer, however, considers Australia’s only hope is in the
return to the game by the youthful Weber. And Weber
says he is not going to return. Fifty-year-old Buttan, of
course, must presently be beaten by age, but when he
drops out there will be another Hindu to fill his place.
* * * -X-
Schoolboy athletes, at the Victorian Schools
Championships, promoted by theV.A.A.A., at the Mel-
bourne ground, on Friday last, made a somewhat wonder-
ful showing. In the under-14-year section a long, lean
lad, one G. L. Ulbrich, scored a treble. He won the 100
and 440yds. races, and in the high jump he cleared
4ft. llin., with a bit to spare. Senator Best’s youngsters
ran first and second in the 120yds. hurdles, A. Best
defeating his brother by a yard in 17 l-ssec.—a good go.
J. Brake, with a pole, put 9ft. 3£in. underneath him—
a feat that would win five out of six Victorian
open championships. H. S. Trangmar (Ballarat) did
sft. (>|in. in the tall jump, which is considerably above the
average. S. Leverett, an under-16 youngster, covered
100yds. in 10 9-10 sec.—same time as the open 100 was won
in. The Vic. athletic nipper is pushing his barrow right
up against all-comers in amateur competition, and
it is very rarely that the schoolboy doesn’t pick
some of the plums (especially in the field games)
at the V.A.A.A. championships. The State school
sports, held on the same ground the Wednesday prior to
the aforesaid, showed the State-educated kiddie a decided
inferior in the athletic line. The private and public
schoolboy has usually the advantage of an ex-athlete as
coach, whereas the State schools are controlled, generally
speaking, by teachers who were never athletes ; and the
kiddies have no cricket and football ground incidental to
the premises.
Santos Dumont, the flying Brazilian who lives
in Paris, has left aerostats and turned his attention to
hydroplanes. Someone bet him a small fortune that
he could not make a machine capable of travelling over
or through or under the water at the rate of 60 miles an
hour, and the impulsive Brazilian accepted. To carry off
the loot he has made a fearful and wonderful contraption—
three sharply-pointed cigar-shapen pontoons of wood and
aluminium, Covered with an air and water-tight fabric,
and filled with compressed air. The centre float, which
is the main part of the machine, is 33ft. long, the side
ones a tenth of that length, and the three are held together
by transverse submerged planes. Santos himself will steer
the thing, from a bicycle saddle set well back on the
middle cigar, with a steering wheel like that of a motor
car. A 16-cylinder, 120 h.p. Antoinette engine, weighing
5001 b. only, will drive a huge three-winged aero-pro-
peller set high over the prow. When properly going the
thing will rise up and travel on the points of the three
cigar-shaped cylinders. But if Santos is not careful
about the adjustment of his aero-propeller, he won’t
travel over the water, but fly through the air. A speed
of 45 miles an hour has already been attained on a much
less elaborate machine.
* * * *
Daredevils H. L. Stevens and H. B. James are
on the warpath once more. They haven’t slept peace-
fully since a Yankee, named S. D. Waldron, haa the
impertinence to lower the Australian-made world’s motor
road record of 556 miles in a day on a low-powered car.
James and Kellow put up those figures. Yankee Waldron
rushed the distance up to 606 miles on a high-powered
car, capable of developing 50 h.p. Kellow and James
made a game effort to cut down the Yankee figures last
April, and covered 307 miles in the first 12 hours. Then
the windows of Heaven opened, and the mud vats of the
great deep were broken up, and the attempt went to
Sheol. This time Stevens and James will use a4O h.p.
Darracq, Dunlop-shod, 60 miles-an-hour car, and either
break that Yankee record or burst something.
Two Adelaide motorists, Messrs. Dutton and
Aunger, have decided to try the Adelaide to Port Darwin
run along the line of the overland telegraph. The
machine chosen is a 24 h.p. Talbot, and they hope to
average 100 miles per day, and thus run through in about
20 days. The car, which is being specially fitted to carry
a large supply of petrol, has plenty of reserve power
for ploughing the sandy stretches. The greatest diffi-
culty is expected in negotiating the McDonald Ranges
and getting across the unbridged rivers of the Northern
Territory. Still, where a bike rider could go alone ought
to be practicable for two motorists, and Albert McDonald
ran through the same stretch on a Dunlop-shod Swift
machine in 1898 in 28 days 15 hours, and didn’t seem any
the worse for the experience. And, before that, Jerome
Murif, a back-country rider who had never entered in a
race in his life, filled in a month’s holiday the same way.
The progress of the motor. It is estimated that
on Cup Day, in Melbourne, there were no less than
£120,000 worth of cars in the Victorian capital. One
garage, that of the Kellow Motor Co., went to the trouble
of working out the value of the cars it contained that
night, and the result of the tally was 80, ranging
from 15 to 45 h.p., and worth £58,650.
* * * *
The programme for the Austral Wheel race is
out at last, and states that a two-days’ meeting will be
held on the grass track at Melbourne Cricket Ground,
on the 7th and 14th December, and will consist of
seven races and a novelty exhibition. The Aus-
tral Wheel race prize money is not fixed, but will be
20 per cent, of the takings. The first prize will be 60,
the second 30, and the third 10 per cent, of whatever a
fifth of the gross takings are. The Austral Wheel
meeting has fallen from its high estate, and the
total prize monej' the club is committed to, in-
cluding the £lOO minimum for the Austral race
itself, is £249. Entries close on November 23.
A fearful roar of disapproval from racing men is begin-
ning to make itself heard. But the racing men have only
themselves to blame; by their crooked games they
destroyed the public interest in the sport, and now they
are feeling the pinch.
* * » *
A syndicate, with Yankee cyclist MacFarland
pushing vigorously behind, is being formed in Melbourne
to erect an indoor cycle saucer track. The enclosure
will resemble the Salt Lake Oity track in U.S.A. —being
constructed of boards with very steep banking, and a
circumference of eight laps to the mile. The idea comes
with highly-painted praise by riders and public. Another
co. has a similar venture in hand at Newcastle (N.S.W.).
The Maoriland professional Rugby team came
to a sudden smash at Wigan, in Lancashire, where a
team of Geordies ran over them to the tune of 12 points
to eight. The cable mentions that the pace was
“tremendous” throughout, and that the Wigan team
led from the jump. The Maorilanders are more formid-
able in attack than defence, and the Geordies seem to
have rushed them from the first, and smothered the
halves. This is the team’s first defeat, although in the
match against Wakefield Trinity things were so close
that the game ended in a draw of five points each.
Apropos , our only Messenger is winning great admiration
and being hailed as the finest three-quarter in the British
Empire.
* \ * *
Interest in sculling seems to be slack in N.S. W.,
and Tresidder has practically had to ask for an extension
of time in which to find the second deposit of the stake
money. If he manages to get the second one, there are
more than grave doubts about the ability to raise the
final one, and the chances of Tresidder bringing back the
championship grow dim and remote. Maoriland is said
to be aghast, and quite unable to understand how the
home of so many mighty scullers, world champions in
their day, can have so little interest. The truth of the
matter is, probably, that Tresidder’s chances are not
fancied.
* * * •
Sydney’s steady, reliable colored bruiser, welter-
weight Joe Walcott, wrecked another reputation on
Saturday night last. A young man with the rhythmical
name of Jack Black recently arrived in Sydney with, he
said, gory honors thick upon him from the rings of
Britain and South Africa. He was a sort of antipodean
Bill Squires, inasmuch as his training impressed the
knowing ones very favorably indeed ; and some were
ready to believe him a coming champion. And, on
Saturday night, it all went up in steam and perspiration.
Reliable coffee-colored Joseph fell on him, and, though
somewhat damaged and occasionally baffled, he managed
to lead on points right through. Black seemed anxious
to make it a wrestling match, and, after several warnings,
was disqualified in the sixth round.
» * » *
Leura (N.S.W.) Golf Club has imported John
Donald, a champion professional golfer from the other
end of the world, to show Australians the tricks of the
game, and, incidentally, to boom it on the Blue Moun-
tains resort. Donald comes with a big record of successes.
* * * *
Golf is coming into conflict with the Education
Act. Caddies are as necessary for the fashionable game
as fierce-looking stockings, and as its exponents are of a
class which can indulge their vice on week days, the em-
ployment of youngsters as caddies interferes with
school attendance. It is computed that the kiddies
earned £lOO in fees during the recent big tourna-
ments at Sandringham (Vic.). Good caddies are diffi-
cult to find, and golfers hang on to their special
favorites, and are prepared to pay for the privilege
of first call on their services. Caddying takes
some learning, and consumes sufficient time to make a
hole in the lads’ school attendances. Hence when a
caddy has perfected himself in his “profession,” it is safe
to say his education has suffered. Prosecutions of
parents of Victorian caddies have resulted in fines of 25.,
and it was stated in court that some of the bo.vs have
earned 30s. a week. It can be seen that the truant in-
spectors will have a job in tackling this class of stray.


DEAFNESS
& Head
Noises
Deafness, Head-Noises, Ringing in the Cars, or any
otH Aural Complication completely cured at your
own Home with Pure Aural Kinetics.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced you incurable, and do not give up in despair
because the many 30-called Treatments have failed to do you any good. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases of 30 and 40 years’ standing are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment in every case, whatever the cause may be, whether Catarrhal Deafness, Throat Deafness,
Perforated Drums, or any other Aural complication causing Deafness, Head Noises, Ringing in the Ears, etc.,
as well as Deafness and other ear diseases caused through an ACCIDENT.
Read the following letters taken haphazardly from the thousands of
unsolicited testimonials received at our Institute.
The Earoscope Co., Pitt Street. 45 Upper William Street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., 15/8/’O7.
Sirs,—l received your land letter inquiring as to the progress of my treatment with your Earoscope, and
P leased to report to you with most satisfactory results, for I FEEL HAPPY to GET RID of the
?°A MJO i r COOD HEARINC AGAIN. As explained to you at the time when I got the Earoscope,
that I have tried Ear Drums and many other treatments. None of them did me any good, and several doctors
who treated me for some time gave me up after years of treatment, and it was only at the inducement of my
friend that I obtained the Earoscope, which is certainly a wonderful treatment. I never expected to be cured,
and it was indeed a happy surprise to me after so many years of suffering. I thank you heartily for the good
you have done me, as you have made a new man of me entirely.
Very truly yours, (Sgd.) DAVID LINDSAY.
A MINISTER'S TESTIMONY.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HIND-
MARSH SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL IN-
STITUTIONAL CHURCH, ADELAIDE,
writes: —“ The Earoscope you sent me has
wrought a marvellous change in my hearing.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel
it my duty, even at this stage, to recommend
it to anyone suffering from deafness, in what-
ever stage it may be.” *
A NURSES TESTIMONY.
THE WELL - KNOWN AND HIGHLY-
ESTEEMED NURSE STUART, OF 02 BONDI
ROAD, WAYERLEY, writes : —“ lam happy
to tell you that alter 15 years of suffering' I
am now completely cured from the distressing
head noises, and my hearing is as good as ever
it was. I hope that all unfortunate victims
will be fortunate enough to hear of your
wonderful discovery.”
DR. P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.0., writes:—“l cheerfully endorse the
for Deafness, Head-Noises, or Ringing in the Ears.”
EAROSCOPE ’ Home Treatment
If you are afflicted with Deafness, Head Noises, Hinging in the Ears, Discharging Ears or
a™ l desire a complete and permanent cure, write to or call at
the BAROSCOPE INSTITUTE (DEPT. 26), 90 PITT STREET SYDNEY
f° r the ‘‘ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” fully describing an entirely new self-
applied method, which will be sent to you GRATIS on mentioning this paper.
r
r*-*
Test
the
Weight
when you are baying
a new bicycle and
when you are making
such test, ask your dealer
to show you a machine built of
Eadie Fittings.
Then compare its weight with that
of others and note the difference.
You will find it pounds lighter, yet
just as strong!
That means enhanced speed, comfort
and enjoyment!
If you are interested write, to day, for
latest Art Catalogue.
D. Y. RENNIE,
Representing Birmingham Small Arms Co.,
Ltd., 4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
WORKS : REDDITCft ENG.
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
/I LL GOOD AUSTRALIANS (by either birth or
adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Apply for petition forms to
JOHN B. STEEL, 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/« and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says :—“ f'he prince of living
Astrologers. ”
Money Returned If HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R.. HERSCHELL Co f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name , __
Address
Date of Birth
KUGELMANN’S
SB
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid*"
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Pa
''cfe
«o
n
«e
Oo
* a
*»Of
ninfc
ns*
and
or
•^cari
tosix
7j»r
‘jpe
Clfy
Du fllOp
WAno
0^° VSC ...
w
Dunlop
Rubber
Goods..
jptf p
ualiey 0
u J!,VaBIL itY
ths
Mon
Me
pURfI
t\* r
ed
nd
->y,de
nt'
ot\s
Q,u* r
\B>"
r
Obh
i'frbl
t>
la
*<v> r
u ni
m
&r.
«sa
% L o?
'O/i
7
LVJk
e e/s
Gl
***
a/
e 4
The Dunlop Rubber Co.,
All States * and New Zealand.
The mail reports of the Squires-Sullivan fight
contain the startling' announcement that Squires’ punch
has lost its weight. He is reported to have landed on
Sullivan’s nose, and driven in heart blows in showers, and
inu*" <^one nothing worse than spoil his opponent’s beauty.
The only bright spot in the story is that Squires was game
as a bull ant, and came up cheerfully after each knock-
down blow to take the rest of his gruel. He was spread-
eagled three times in the final round, and his seconds,
seeing that the game was hopeless, flung in the towel to
save further damage to Willie’s face. Amurkan papers
sa,y there is nothing for Willie now to do but return home
with all the credit that an unsuccessful fighter can carry
‘O r pluck, strength, willingness, and everything but
the ability to fight a winning fight with a top-notcher.
* * * *
. -A- man from Numurkah (Vic.) makes a few
insulting remarks: “Quite agree with ‘Snell’ r&
Squires (B. 10/10/’O7). The man who wrote the preceding
par knows as much about boxing as my terrier knows
about the Boer War. The real fact of the matter is, that
Sqmres, by his last fight, has asserted his right to be re-
garded as a coming champion. There probably isn’t
much difference between Sullivan and Burns. In fact,
on performances, Sullivan is the superior man. Yet it
took Sullivan 19 rounds to accomplish what Burns, three
months previously, managed in less than one. That
speaks volumes for Squires’ improvement. Squires,
practically speaking, is only now picking up experience.
He was (and is) so far away superior to Australia’s next
best that he never had to fight to beat him. As to re-
turning to Melbourne, Squires has no intention of so
doing. In fact, he states definitely he will not do so till
he is champion, and Squires is no mere blowhard. Willy
has a very repressive jaw. In my opinion less than six
months will see our William champion of the earth.”
The writer of the “preceding par’’alluded to here
rises to remark that, although the above is patriotic, it is
rot. Willie Squires was never anything but a rusher, with
a ferocious wallop and a reputation made by John Wren’s
hard-working office journalist. As long as he met
‘natural fighters,” who allowed themselves to be rushed,
the wallop did the rest. But in the U.S.A. he has met
men who simply would not be rushed, and who knew
enough to keep out of the way of the wallop. They are
trained fighters, whose first lessons are to avoid knock-
ouc blows, and their teachers are men who have reduced
the business of keeping out of the way to a science.
The whole trouble is that Willie never learned to fight—
he was a hard hitter who mistook courage, determination
and recklessness for fistic skill. Had he been caught
young and trained properly he would, no doubt, have
made a magnificent fighter ; but he wasn’t trained pro-
perly. The fact that Sullivan took 19 rounds to finish
the trouble only means that Sullivan took no risks ; but
he won. And in the States they do not give the eaten
lion any chances. Of course, as long as Squires has large
sums of money to lose he will be “ obliged,” but when
his money has gone he will get no more opportunities to
fight front-rankers.
* * * *
The first of the month saw the beginning of
N.S.W.’s trout-fishing season. The trout is one of the
rare wild products of the Cold Country that hasn’t
wreaked disaster to our suffering backblocks. All through
the Monaro—on the Snowy, Eucumbene, Badja and such
like streams —the native snares this fish in large quantities
now, and with it snares the lodger and tourists from the
city. As in Maoriland the trout is going to be a big factor |
in the prosperity of whatever districts cultivate it.
At what age and under what circumstances
may a man be reasonably presumed to have thrown
a seven ? Twenty-seven years ago a William
(then aged 46), farmer, of Queensland, cleared
out from his wife and family, taking something
feminine with him. His son, who was nine years
of age when dad went over the rim, asked Justice
Real (Q.) for letters of administration in connec-
tion with 64 acres of land which the flitter
had to leave behind in the hurry of" his de-
parture. No proof was offered that William
had died, and, as the Judge hinted, it is no un-
usual circumstance for these bucolic Lotharios to
attain the age of 73 —which is this particular
Lothario’s figure if he still lives. Still the appli-
cation was granted. Not improbably it was on
the sound general principle that if William isn’t
dead he ought to be.
The so-called “Ninety-mile Desert,” about
the S. A.-Victorian border, on the main railway-
line, is kicking against its name. Wheat is being
grown freely on it wherever the dense mallee
scrub is cleared, and a rainfall record for seven
years (the first three of them very dry) shows an
average of 19 inches. This is as good as, or
better than, half the wheat-growing centres of
S.A., within liin. of Adelaide itself, and nearly
2in. better than Roseworthy, the State’s Agricul-
tural College, so the name of Desert seems
uncalled-for.
“Huffin-Guffin”: For weeks we have
watched it rise, slowly, but surely. Nothing to
measure how fast it grew each day ; but day by
day it has grown. At first it began to peep above
the walls of the surrounding buildings. Then the
great circular, slightly-tapered column seemed to
push itself up so that it might look over the city.
No noise about its growth. Scarcely a sign of
life. A light tripod kept its apex a little above
everything else in the centre of the circle. An
occasional head of a man (growing smaller day
after day) bobbed above the edge of the round
tower. That was all. At last one day there came
a change from the plain circle of bricks. The top
was begun. We could watch the daily growth
then, as there was something to fix the eye upon.
Now it is getting the final course of ornamental
bricks, and the great smoke stack of Melbourne’s
municipal electric light works in Spencer-street
holds its head 175ft. high. Another monument
to the skill of Australian builders, and the steady
nerves of Australian workers.
Naval expert Biles is protesting over-much
that his visit to Australia is not connected with
the building of an Australian navy. Biles is
spending exactly a fortnight in Australia, which,
to say the least of it, is a hurried trip for a Scot-
tish professor on a pleasure jaunt. Part of the
fortnight has already been used up, not in sight-
seeing, but solid work at Lithgow and other
places, where work, and not fun, is the objective.
The explanation that Biles was on his way from
Bombay to Calcutta, and just dropped into Aus-
tralia on the way, is the sort of explanation that
an average householder wouldn’t like to try on
his wife, and is much the same as a resident of
Sydney saying that he looked into Hobart on his
way home from Adelaide.
“ M.M.” : A wayback Gippsland town has
just been bereft of its main interest. The same
was the State school-house, which had become so
riddled by white ants that a walking stick,
prodded incautiously into any of the upright
beams or joists, was liable to drop away into
nothingness, and be lost irretrievably. As soon
as the children left for school, such of the inhabi-
tants as had any sporting spirit whatever as-
sembled at Che grocer’s, and here a book was
made on the individual chance of each separate
child returning alive to tea that night—little Eric
Henry, the publican’s youngest, whose seat was
under a massive cross beam, being invariably a
rank outsider. Last week a breeze sprang up
during the night, and the entire structure col-
lapsed, killing a stray dog (the only occupant of
the place at the time).
IN CAMERA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Lyman Pierce, of the Y.M.0.A., says that there
can be no objection to boxing’ as conducted by his insti-
tution. It is the crowds that make a man anxious to hit
the other’s solar plexus. “When only two or three are
looking on, there is no such temptation.”
The stoush that is dispensed by Wren,
Is mostly blood and bruise and hair ;
The thousands cheer the count of ten,
The punches on the bodies bare ;
With hooks they drag the corpses out
Between each conflict fast and fierce ;
But there is nothing rude about
The stoush dispensed by Lyman Pierce.
His pugs are cultured persons ; if
They jab, they whisper “ If you please ”;
Observing “ May I?” with the biff
That sends the other to his knees.
“ Excuse me, James ; my little joke,”
They mention as he blindly rolls
Upon the floor ; and then they soak
Their knuckles red in finger-bowls.
For Lyman has discovered why
The other pugs are raw and rough ;
The crowd it is that rouses high
The instincts primitive and tough ;
They would not punch each other blind
If people were not there to see ;
And so the noble art’s refined
When seen by only two or three.
But pretty though its tinkle sounds,
In Lyman’s lute there is a rift ;
Some lads through eighty-seven rounds
Most conscientiously have biffed,
Without a gong or referee,
Without a soul to yell “ Hooray,”
They’ve dealt it out in ecstasy,
And willing fought the livelong day.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


a
I
8
AXW
////ll
v\\\\W I
0 V
■A' l '! I
0
0
• v.i 1 ' 1
y
* 0 ,\' v V
• ' l( s I l'
• ‘ ((I c" ’
yS‘»
r
ww
I
oi
a
•//p
'*£?«•**"
. :'i'
N V|*
Co
31
,i/»,y
t
HI 1 ’
US
f
*dN
o'/. l ' l
>w/
So
. •■/• ■
as
hshlv3J
OQOO
m
iOl}o
m
T&ZL
joaoao
A 3 NO
/ / / I
\ N
/ OUR. MAIL
ORDER. DEPARTMENT
makes it easy to shop from any distance. You
are perfectly safe in doing business with us by mail.
All Goods sent CARRIAGE FREE to any address.
FREE FOR THE ASKING.—Our 304 pp. Illustrated
Catalogue. Write for a copy. Sent Post Free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS. t
Set Gold Heart BROOCH, set Pearl, Ruby, and
Sapphire, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set fine pure Opal.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold OBROOCH, Amethyst Heart centre,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst centre, Wh
15ct Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Dinna For-
get” CHARM, 10/.
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set
Pearls, Turquoise, and
Ruby, or all Pearls, £3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and
Pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Thistle
CHARM, Amethyst
Thistle. 12/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less WATCHES, fully jewelled,
25/. Higher grade, 30/, 35/,
40/, 50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10,
£4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EARRINGS, set fine
Pearls and Turquoise, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CHARM, set Ruby
or Sapphire, 7/6.
Larger, 8/6, 10/6.
N.Z.
A. SAUNDERS.
Greenstone Axe CHARM, 9ct
Gold Mounted, 8/6.
12
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Bee BROOCH, set fine
Pearls, Opal body, £4.
All Pearls, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Pin and
bone CHARM,
Heavier, 10/.
Wish-
7/6.
15ct Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
Pearls and Amethyst,
£4/10/. Pearls and
Tourmalins, £5/10,/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds
and Rubies or. Sap-
phires, £.3. All. Diar
mends,. £s'.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, DiamondSs
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5. Emerald 1
centre, £l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCARF-
PIN, set Ruby
or Pearl. 10/6i.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Nugget
RING, 25/. 15ct
Gold, £2. 18ct Gold,
£2/10;.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Signet
RING, 20/. 15ct
Gold, £2. 18ct Gold
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, with Safety Chain, £3/10/.,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold SCARF-
PIN, set Pearls
and Rubies or
Sapphires, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Cluster
RING, Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
ft
I
MM
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
ph ires, £l5.
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
IBet Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls, £6/0/.
In silk-lined case.
Ot>EN
FjACE,.
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE,.
2 5K
*
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, fully
iewelled, non-magnetic, dustproof cases, 20/.
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/, 35/ Cheaper Grades,
7/6 10/, 32/6, 15/. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS;
9ct Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl-set Bird and Sprays,
90/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, Diamonds and Rubies-
or Sapphires, £B/10/.
All Diamonds. £l2/10.
9ct
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield and
Dumb-bell
LINKS, 12/6. 15ct Gold, 25/.
Plain, with initials engraved!,
1/6 extra.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
PENDANT, 9ct Gold Mounts and'
Motto, 27/6. Smaller, 18/6, 22/6,
■Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone BROOCH, 9ct Gold-mounted,
set fine Pearls, ?2/6. 15ct Gold, 85/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £7/10/.
All Diamonds, £2O.
9ct Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
DINKS, 20/, 25/. 15ct Gold,
£2, £2/10. Plain, with initials
engTaved, same price.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10.
mmm
. .
BlllS
A. SAUNDERS. T
Gent’s Solid. Silver Hunting Keyless M AT-
™S’, £^'0 e £4/10 : Goldened cases,
SS/’ Gold, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £IJ-
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
807,809,811,813,815,817
George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


ak in
-
w
a
SH
or*
%* -7«y* : - ; *■
••* . »*■ <.--•- nV^yv^
*- / * --* '*■*«*»''•’- -• *#’»,- jf<§* -fc
■* \ii-
S r?*
i**vr*s
ISSI
•sw
THE Beale Australian Pianos are built specially to withstand
sudden and extreme climatic changes. The timber used is
seasoned here in Australia, in the very climate and under the
very -conditions that are to be found throughout the year. As former
importers, we know the value of this, for our experience has taught
us that imported pianos, which are built during the European sum-
mer., stand this climate better than those which are prepared there
•during the winter. Further, our method of seasoning, by combined
■open-air and kiln process, has been pronounced by experts to be one
of the best and most up-to-date systems. In addition, every stick of
timber, before being used in a Beale Australian Piano, is carefully
tested in a special apparatus, which at once reveals whether it is fit
for use. Then our patent system of building the cabinet work in
cross-plies; our patented iron wrest-plank, eliminating the wooden
wrest-plank, still used in all other Pianos (iron and steel will stand
climatic change better than wood), and our special sounding-board,
which is constructed to resist the most trying heat—all ,these
combine to make the Beale Australian Piano proof against the severe
and sudden changes of weather which make such havoc of the
majority of imported Pianos. And this is why, wherever the Beale
Piano goes, it gives the most lasting satisfaction : this is why, wherever
a Piano is needed for a home in a district where the climate is
trying, the Beale Australian Piano is the best obtainable; and ,it
naturally follows that we have thousands of testimonials from ajl
classes of the community confirming and corroborating our claims,
and speaking in the most glowing terms of the
BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS.
Catalogue and Circulars FREE
“WS
Cash or Easy Terms Anywhere.
-i
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
107 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
J 27 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
615 HAY STREET, PERTH.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


mm
■
A'
$
if
Or
ST
£
o
m
.
■ tv
■
' iM j
•^W?*
IS®
ir?
■
1 ' ■•-■•* : x l t , ' '
3- <;*v
■
-
■
■
m m
- ->~
K \ ■
H®6s
'?■> f‘p
MB
- V= v
• -•.-. : v .-^a
if". .
-« r
. :
.
i%r * -
v
. ■?
Or
M
£'
J * ■
r j&sauUP^-
m
<
i
j
VS
\ ' K
.- - :■■;•
Eft
HI
.
- * ' "'• * '
•-' ?„ ;’ ■ ■
m - ■'<•
: .• -
M
■
r -
■
-** *
■- ■
/
•: ■ ■
fcS:
o>
• .
W
Oe
a
15
p
y
Interstate Mail
Steamshijx Lines
T is a liner of tbe Howard
Smith fleet that holds the
mermaid’s view this issue>
and the eye of the man
about to travel is invited to
note the roomy decks, the
long promenades, and the general air of space,
all of which make for comfortable travelling.
The great secret of pleasant voyaging is plenty of
room to knock about, plenty of shady spots where
one may lounge in a deck chair, and read and smoke
between well-cooked and pleasantly-served meals.
That is for the un-nautical; and most travellers
are non-nautical. For the other fellow, who has
ocean foam in his blood, the small boat that flies
skyward on the crest of every roller, and falls down
into great, silent, breathless depths between moun-
tains of water, is the one that appeals. But the
landsmen and the women love the great, steady boat
that divides the seas and merely undulates slightly
when great waves roll by, and as they are in the
great, overwhelming majority, the fleets of Howard
Smith Ltd. and all the rest of the Five Companies
have been brought to their present size and luxury to
meet their wishes.
Looking through some travel-notes recently, the
writer noticed that a man, who had travelled right
round the Australian coast in the various steamers of
the Five Companies, remarked that travelling along
the Australian coast was very pleasant, as the
Australian waters were much calmer than those
of other countries, and there was an almost
entire absence of rolling. Which is very
flattering to the Five Companies. Asa
matter of fact, the Austra-
lian seas are as wild as
any of them, and it is
not the calmness
of the water,
but the ex-
cellent de-
signing of
the ships,
that was
respon-
sible for
his increased pleasure. At various times inventive
brains have devised means of doing away with
the roll of ships. One genius elaborated a swinging
cabin which, being balanced on roller bearings and
other contrivances, inclined the opposite way to
that which the ship rolled. He said it would
abolish sea-sickness. Instead of which, it made
even the officers and stewards decidedly ill. They
felt both motions, and people who were quite
inured to one motion were broken up completely
when they found themselves double-banked by
this contrivance to keep them upright. As a
matter of fact, a well-designed ship that has
stability never does roll, and what people take
for rolling is more often than not merely the rise and
fall of the ship on the waves—an up and down motion
instead of a side to side roll. For this rise and fall there
is only one remedy, and that is increased sizeof the hull.
As ships grow larger they sink deeper into the water,
and are less amenable to the surface disturbances of
it; for, after all, the disturbance does not go down very
far. The wildest gales in the stormy Atlantic are
said not to disturb the water 300 ft. below, while the
ordinary heave and roll of the sea is only a matter of
about 20ft. So when one gets on board 4000-ton
liners like the Coovna or Bombala, there is practi-
cally no disturbance worthy of notice—if the
ships are properly designed, that is ; and the fact
that the Australian coast has earned the name of
being a calm coast, proves to people who have
watched the gales sweeping over it, that these ships
are well-designed. Which is natural enough—they
all come from the best yards in Britain, which is the
greatest ship-building country on the planet.
<23?
The Howard Smith Company have long possessed
a flyer in the Peregrine, but in the run from Sydney to
Melbourne, on Saturday and Sunday week, the big
4000-tonner Bombala proved that this fortunate com-
pany has two flyers. Pitted against some of the
fastest boats that run round the Australian coast, the
Bombala was only beaten by the huge 9DOO-ton twin-
screwed German liner Bulow by 13 minutes, and left
the rest behind. All of them were loaded up with
tourists to see the running of the Melbourne Cup,
but the Cup performance was not half so interesting
or creditable as the race in which they themselves
took part Passengers describe it as intensely interest-
ing; the Australian boat held its own for a long time,
and was several minutes ahead of the European boat.
Had the captain of the Bombala liked to push his
ship he could have made much faster time, but the
Howard Smith Co. do not allow the racing proclivities
of passengers to be indulged in at the cost of straining
the engines. All the same, it was an interesting
display, and shows that the Australian coastal marine
is composed of unusually good ships, which are quite
equal in speed, etc., to those turned out in Continental
Europe with the help of enormous State subsidies.
Needless to say, the Australian owners are not
assisted in that way.
However, in that respect, Australia seems to be
waking up. It is now proposed to subsidise certain
lines of boats running to various places outside the
Commonwealth. And there are some places inside
the Commonwealth which ought to be developed.
The Northern Territory, for instance. That some-
thing should be done to fill up that great empty
space which lies invitingly empty for the first aggres-
sor is one of the great Australian national necessities.
If the Commonwealth Government really wants to
fill up the blank, and has any ideas of how
to induce population to settle in it, there is
no earthly reason why it should not start to carry
out the good work NOW. To wait till a railway is
built is absurd. That will take years. The first
thing to be done is to get people settled there, and
to have a population that can make use of the strategic
railway when it is made. And the way to do that is
to get people settled there, and come to an arrange-
ment with the Five Companies to take them there.
The steamers of the Five Companies developed Wes-
tralia quickly and easily enough immediately there was
something there for people to go to; and they can do
the same with the Northern Territory. The only thing
required is for the Australian Government to make
it worth their while to go there, and the
Five Companies can be relied upon
to do the rest. As the North will
be artificially developed before
its time for national and
strategic purposes, it will
be necessary to give the
people who develop
it extra facilities in
the shape of low
fares and cheap
freights; and to do
that it will be
necessary that the
steamship compan-
ies who undertake
the work should
be subsidised.
IO \NW
%
*
04
COYS
mmm


Amusements.
Theatre royal, sydimey.
.Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
J. 0. Williamson presents the Delightful Comedy,
in four acts, by Winched Smith and Byron Ongley,
adapted from George Barr McCutcheon’s Novel,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted bv J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including Mr. THOM AS. KINGSTON
and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
/ Brilliant Success of •
J. O. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO,
in ....
THE BLUE MOON.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
AXFORD THEATRE, SYDNEY,
GEORGE STREET, bet. Bathurst & Liverpool Sts.
Lessee and Director : Mr. William Crawley.
SUCCESS OF ALL SUCCESSES.
MACMAHON’S STIRRING PICTURE DRAMA,
ROBBEBY UNDER ARMS,
The Picture Drama of the Century, secured at a cost of
£lOOO. Something absolutely new, comprehensive, and
remarkable. Has made all Sydney talk.
What the Papers Say:—
Herald : “ Box office was literally stormed, and sale of
tickets had to be stopped.. .. Most remarkable film yet
submitted.... Followed with intense interest, and aroused
the audience to great enthusiasm.”
Telegraph; “ The film came in for much enthusiasm.
The pains taken to ensure the successful result achieved
on Saturday were well repaid.”
News: “Hundreds were unable to obtain admission.
The enthusiasm of the audience was augmented by the
mechanical aids.”
S. Times : “ Career of the famous outlaw reproduced
with remarkable fidelity, and the film evoked much
enthusiasm.”
Sunday Sun : “ Raised the great audience to the height
of enthusiasm.”
Truth : “ Aroused the greatest enthusiasm, and richly
deserves to pack the popular theatre for many weeks to
come.”
Notice to Patrons.
Hundreds have been unable to obtain admission at each
performance to date. Be wise and come early if you wish
a seat. Prices : Dress Circle, 25.; Stalls, is. and 6d.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietorand Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND.
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, Bd.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■J’ Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
FOR A LIMITED SEASON.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in the Realistic Russian Drama,
A LIRE’S REVUNGE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pAL ACE THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING,
RICHARD LESLEIGH presents
THE INCOMPARABLE CARTER,
WORLD’S MASTER MAGICIAN,
in conjunction with
THE FAMOUS MISS ABIGAIL PRICE,
The Psvchic Marvel of the Age.
ALLAN SHAW’S 'COIN CONJURING CONCERTS.
Popular Prices. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of all our Great Artists —
ARTHUR CROXON, Comedian, Mimic, arid Monologue
Entertainer. .
HENRI ALEXANDER, in his unique Specialty Act.
FIVE WHITELEYS, Amazing and Original Wire Walking,
Acrobatic and Musical Pot Pound.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicians.
THE MOLASSOS, Cyclonic and Whirlwind Dancers.
MDLLE. RHODESIA, the Society Lady Juggler.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy Artists.
RAY & CALDEN, Comedy Sketch Artists.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES—Grand Prix Motor Race.
LA SYLPHE, Classical Eccentric Dancer.
Plan at Allan’s. S 3" PRICES—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is.
|y OW TOURING VICTORIA,
THE MUSICAL
ALL BLACKS
AND THEIR
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Reigning
London Gaiety Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn's New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH,
—in—'
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Plan at Allan’s.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
.EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
The Great Australian Story,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
.ALSO
THE MELBOURNE CUP RACE, 1907.
• Illustrated by the Latest and Most
Up-to-date Biog'rapb.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S ROYAL
GRAND OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, TANNHAUSER.
FRIDAY,. NOV. 15, THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, RIGOLETTO.
MONDAY, NOV. 18, THE MARRIAGE OF FIGARO.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, RIGOLETTO.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, TANNHAUSER.
Prices—7/6, 5/-, 3/-. Plan Cole’s Book Arcade.
New bijou theatre, Melbourne.
Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
THE HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC SEASON
IS DRAWING TO A CLOSE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE lIOLLOWAY,
in the Exciting Sensational Drama,
THE TYRANT.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
-■-HE BIG SHOW OF 1907-8.
1 THE INCOMPARABLE MONARCH OF
THE CIRCUS UNIVERSE;
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH,
IN “OLYMPIA,” MELBOURNE.
THE FINEST CIRCUS BUILDING in all THE WORLD
LAST WEEKS. LAST WEEKS.
Missing; Friends.
JOHN PHILIP OBERHARDT.—Anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communi-
cate with his Mother. Address—Southbrook,
via Toowoomba, Quesnsland.
HENRY BOSE.
IF HENRY BOSE, who, in the month of
August, 1862, was living at Ballarat, and
has not since been heard of, will apply as under,
he will hear of something to his advantage. If
he is dead, any person able to give particulars of
date and place of his death, will please communi-
cate with - -
CRICK & FREEMAN, Solicitors,
MALDON, Essex, England,
or with their agent,
W. A. FREEMAN, Solicitor,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NEW SONGS.
ONLY 7d, EACH.
Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
When the Harvest Days Are Over—Stop
__ Yer Tickling- Jock —Blue Bell—Walking
Home With A'ngeline—Little Boy Called Taps—ln the Shade
ol the Old Apple Tree—Keep a Little Cosy Corner—Hear the
Pipers Calling—Singer Was Irish—Waiting at the Church —
Starlight—We Parted on the Shore—Somebody’s Sweetheart-
Teasing—l was Shaving Myself at the Time—For Old Time’s
Sake —I Wouldn’t Leave My Little Wooden Hut—Just a Little
Rocking Chair—Miner’s Dream—My Irish Molly—Navaho—
Cheyenne—What a Mouth—We All Walked into the Shop—
Etc. Our big lists and Illustrated Novelty Catalogue posted free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
1
Rj
PURE, WHOLESOME,
INVIGORATING.
“ 0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating-, delicious —a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a summer
beverage.
All Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists and General
Stores stock “ 0.T.,” but it
is necessary to look for the
Red Chilli e label.
J.DIXON&Cp
MOTOR CARS !
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables : “ Risitottaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEW ARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference—F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Palmist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ t OU are married,” said the Palmist,
if with an expectant eye and an air of
finality.
The lawyer’s wife said, with a start of pleased
surprise, that she was.
A large flowered cretonne curtain hung half-
way across the small room. There was a broken
pane of glass in .the window looking out on to the
narrow back-yard, and through it a gust of wind
blew and flickered the bare gas flamg.
The pecuniary advantage which the Palmist
derived from her practice of the occult sciences
was not so large as to enable her to live by that
alone. By day' she was a washerwoman. At
night she removed her white apron and insignia
of office, and arrayed herself in a frayed red satin
wrapper, took her hair out of its myriad curling
pins, and was ready to receive her clients. Out-
side her door, facing the unlovely side street, there
hung a large square of cardboard, bidding the
passer-by in uneven lettering, to “ Consult the
Palmist.” The feminine passer-by, frequently
took the hint.
The lawyer’s wife had heard of the Palmist
from her cook. She had, as in duty bound,
lectured that domestic on the folly of believing
anything such women told her,, but the cook had
stoutly persisted that it was to the Palmist she
owed her foreknowledge of her brother’s death
when his neck was broken by an outlaw brumby.
The advantage of such knowledge remained to be
proved, since it-could not avert the calamity.
But that was not the point; the fact remained, and
established the Palmist’s reputation in the lawyer’s
house.
The lawyer himself did not know anything
about it. He had once sharply forbidden his
wife to have any dealings with a gipsy door-to-
door clairvoyant, so she did not think it necessary
to tell him where she was going the night she
slipped out to find the Palmist’s house. He was
under the impression that she had gone to see her
friend, the doctor’s sister, along the terrace.
The lawyer’s wife had removed her wedding
ring, as a sort of test of the Palmist’s power's, and
she bent eagerly forward to hear her future fore-
casted, after the preliminary announcement.
The Palmist laid a square-tipped, not over-clean
forefinger (she-had been cleaning, saucepans since
her frugal tea) in the soft pink palm of the lady’s
hand.
“ I see widder’ood plain marked,” she said,
watching the other’s face. The lawyer’s wife
tried to look shocked.
“ Not till I am quite old, though ? ” she asked,
with studied carelessness.
“ Indeed no, madam, I grieve to say it is pro-
bably within the next two months. But don’t
fret yourself, you will marry agin the young man
whose eye is upon you, and be most ’appy. I see
a man ’ere, dark—tall—’ansome. . .”
The lawyer’s wife smiled. The man she was
thinking of was neither dark nor very tall, but
those were mere details. There was a man who
loved her more, she was sure, than her self-
absorbed husband had ever done, and if she were
free, she-felt he would lose no time in telling her
so. But
The Palmist shook her head in a melancholy
fashion, and a curling pin she had forgotten
wagged dejectedly over her forehead. “If you
don’t want to lose your present ’usband,” she
said, fancying that she caught a gleam of regret in
the prospective widow’s eyes, “tell ’im to be
careful of street crossin’s.”
The lawyer’s wife drew her hand away from the
greasy clasp of the seer’s fingers:
“Of course I don’t want to lose my husband,”
she said sharply, and opening her purse she
inquired the fee.
The Prophetess waved her hand grandly and
said carelessly, “ One shilling for the left ’and,
and another shilling if I read the cards.”
The lawyer’s wife decided that she would not
consult the cards just then.
She picked her way through the mud of the
main thoroughfare, her little brain busy with a
thousand fond imaginings.
Conventionally-bred and frugal-minded, she
was not the woman to dare society or the voice of
scandal and think the world well lost for love.
There had never been an action in her life at which
Mrs. Grundy could point a finger. And yet
She would not have done anything to risk her
position as a respected wife, or the loss of the
generous dress allowance which her husband gave
her. And yet
Well, the Judge’s Associate was her husband’s
friend, and women have ways of knowing. She
knew how much he cared.
If there was anything in what the Palmist said !
Two months ! A year’s mourning, of course, and
then.. . the property secured to her,’ the pro-
prieties satisfied. . . and love at last, such as she
could appreciate. . . the love of words and
caresses. ..
She had always been a good wife to the lawyer.
No one could say she had not, that was one
comfort.
She stepped on to the tram-line to cross the
street, her fair head bent, her unseeing eyes on
the gilded future. She had hastily thrown a cloak
over her dinner-dress when she went forth to seek
the Palmist that night. The wind caught her hat,
and as she raised her hand to her head to secure
the hatpins, her trailing skirts tripped her, and
she fell. Motor No. 493 was coming at a rush
down the hill. The motor-man saw something on
the rails, and threw all his weight on to the brake
handles, but the pace was too great on the incline,
or he was half-a-second too late. The car stopped
dead with a jar, and above the screams of the
women on the front seats came the long shrill cry
of the lawyer’s wife.
* * * *
In the private ward there was the strong reek
of iodoform mingling with the sickly, choking
smell of ether.
Only her head moved restlessly from side to
side of the low pillow. Her body was quite still.
Her fair hair was neatly plaited on each side of
her small head. It was a wonder the nurse had
troubled, the doctor thought, since she must die
before the dawn, but order is the first law in
hospitals. So when her husband came in to the
room to see her, he thought she looked much as
usual, except for the faint greenish white which
succeeds the anaesthetic in most cases.
He laid his long fingers lightly on her damp
forehead. ’ '
“Dear,” he said softly, “are you any.easier
now ? ”
She opened her eyes with a frightened look,
and closed them again. She could not bear the
tenderness in his eyes. She had never realised it
before. Was it because he thought she was going
to die ? Her lips moved dumbly. She was not
reproaching herself. She had always been a good
wife. She meant to go to God with that sentence
on her lips, and if he was a conventional God he
: would, of course, understand. But her husband
had never understood her ! She did not want his
love now ;it was too late. She wondered where
the other man was. How stupid ; of course he
could not outrage the proprieties by coming here !
People would expect that she would wish to be
alone with her husband. She must die as she had
lived, in the odor of respectability and in her hus-
band’s arms most likely. Why hadn’t she thrust
aside the barriers long ago and lived and loved her.
brief life as she willed. If .she had known—if she
had only known.
A sudden fury shook her morphia-dulled nerves-
and brought back a racking agony as she remem-
bered the Palmist. Surely it ought not to be her-
self who was lying there. She raised her head a
little on the pillow, her eyes dilated, and her lips
twisted with her effort to speak.
The lawyer put his arm gently under her head.
“ You wanted to tell me something ? ” he said
softly, and bent to catch her whisper.
But when he heard it he did not understand,
and thought that she was wandering, for these
were the last words she spoke before she died :
“ She lied —the Palmist lied to me.”
M. FORREST.
An interesting document has 'just come
the way of Adelaide Public Library Board. The
London Colonial Office recently rooted out for,
conflagration purposes the. old papers in connec-
tion with the ' Colonial Land and Emigration
Commissioners, a Board appointed in 1840 to deal
with, among other matters, emigration to the
colonies. The' Board was abolished in 1878.
Among the ancient stationery was found the
Royal Commission issued to the S.A. Colonisa-
tion Commissioners, July 19th, 1841, and the
Commissioners’ seal. The relics have been handed
over to Adelaide Library.
A correspondent from Nagasaki, Japan
(28/9/’O7), gives some sidelights on the “ perfect
civilisation ” of England’s brown ally :
Although the minor eccentricities of Japanese civilisa-
tion need not be too seriously taken as representative of
the genius of the civilisation itself, yet the almost uni-
versal indifference in matters of decency sharply differ-
entiates the Jap from any European folk.
A more revolting feature of Japanese civilisation is its
heartless and cruel immorality. The social system that
permits and encourages among parents the sale of inno-
cent daughters, against their will, to a life that forever
condemns the child to a condition of the most inhuman
slavery,.is too infamous jto be accorded a place among the
customs of a high civilisation. Yet it is State-sanctioned
in Japan.
The utter lack of chivalry for womanhood, and the
general indifference of the strong toward the sorrows
and misfortunes of the weak, arrest the attention of the
foreign resident. In other countries, should a pedestrian
be attacked by a robber on the public street, the victim
would not be disappointed in expecting the assistance
of every passer-by,. In Japan it is not so. Every
Japanese would look upon it as none of his business.
Only the other day a foreigner was going down the street-
in Yokohama (one of the largest cities of the empire)
about eight o’clock in the evening. As his jinricksha
passed an open lot he heard a woman scream. His ’rick-
sha men wanted to ignore the woman’s cries, but the man
refused, and ran to the rescue. He discovered a young
girl in the clutches of a Japanese, and beat theffirute off.
Having relieved the girl, the foreigner was bent upon
capturing the fiend who had attacked her, but failed.
No less than 30 citizens came up to see the fun, and all
calmly stood by and refused to assist in arresting the
criminal. Recently, in a Kobe tram Car, because the con-
ductor, who was a mere boy, insisted on being paid the
fare, two drunken roughs fell upon him and beat him
mercilessly, while a whole car full of men sat by without
offering- any interference. This sort of thing is a serious
reflection on the civilisation that can tolerate it.
A further astonishing characteristic of Japanese civili-
sation is the “ thug ” system. This is, of course, a relic
of the savage customs of feudal times, when certain
hands of roughs, called “soshi,” were hired by discom-
fited warriors, or by citizens who had been insulted, to
avenge their wrongs and get even with their detractors.
The “soshi” were, to the common man, what the re-
tainers were to the feudal lord —his avengers in time of
need, only they were open to hire. Even to-day if any
man wants to punish his enemy he in ay employ these
thugs to undertake it for him. When it is remembered
that these things are not accidental, but under certain
circumstances matters of course, the social status that
is thereby represented must be justly discredited.
“ Stony ” : Jones, who works in the same
office as myself, is a family sort of man, and lives
near by a public hall. He came on the scene of
his labors this morning with a tale of wrath and
woe. It seems that there is a certain Professor of
Cooking (no less) perambulating the suburbs of
Sydney, and he came to the hall adjacent to
Jones. On the day of the Prof.’s lectures, a pert,
pink-faced female arrived at the Jones dwelling,
and asked Mrs. J. for the loan of a skillet. The
skillet was lent. During the afternoon the student
came back at short intervals to demand an
enamelled pot, a dough-board, firewood, matches,
three plates, a pound of flour, a piece of butter,
some sugar, and a washing-up dish. This young
woman offered no security whatever for the return
of the goods, and Mrs. J. remained in a state of
nerves right through the afternoon until
the things were brought back, all more or less the
worse for wear, particularly the flour and butter,
which the Professor ultimately handed over with
his compliments and thanks, in the form of a
calamitous-looking wedge of cake or bun. Jones
intends to put in the whole of next Saturday
afternoon wire-netting his home, in order to keep
the professor and his myrmidons off the ancestral
door-mat; and, with that object, has already
written J. Carruthers, demanding that 14| miles
of the recently-smuggled article shall be forwarded
to him instantly. Jones lives and votes in St.
George.
Thus “Mate,” sadly :
The British seaman —as distinct from the officer—is
fading out—partly because the pay and conditions are so
much worse than on shore, partly because there are so
few ships that will carry him. You can wander all day
round the docks in any big English port without finding
a ship that has an Englishman for’ard. Where they are
not Lascars or Chows they are Dagoes or Dutchmen. As
a sample—one Glasgow firm, trading to the Mediter-
ranean, had a standing rule that none but Dagoes were to
be employed. The mate who took Britons did so at the
risk of his billet. Principal reason was that the British
crew went on day wages in their home port, and conse-
quently had to be paid overtime for shifting at night.
The Dagoes lived on board all the time, and would turn
out at any hour. About three years ago the whole fleet
was put under the Greek flag, and now carries Dagoes fore
and aft.
In the last 12 months Richmond just
beat Footscray as the Victorian railway station
that shipped off the biggest number of passengers
(leaving Melbourne out of the count). They were
the only two stations whose outward passengers
passed the two millions; but South Yarra was
close up with 1,884,529. Melbourne (Flinders-
Street) record was 4,681,720 for suburban stations
and 377,720 fpr the country—an average of 13,865
a day.
4 4 Coalopolis ” : Apropos of 44 The Beale
Book” in the November Lone Hand. The
article recalls to mind unpleasant experiences I
had with a company who make it a payable,hobby
to palm off electric belts as cures for everything.
I answered one of their ads., and asked for their
free book ; in reply got one, also tons of letters.
I dropped the subject as quickly as I took it up ;
but they weren’t to be shaken off, and kept on
writing, and not only that, handed over, or sold,
to some brother company my good name, and also
my address. No more quacks for me! The
Lone Hand is to be thanked for its article,
otherwise I, for one, would not have, probably,
ever heard of “ The Beale Book.”


B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED.
VIGNERONS, DISTILLERS, CORDIAL AND
VINEGAR MAKERS, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A MAMMOTH INDUSTRY.
THE LARGEST WINERY IN THE
WHOLE WORLD.
The Seppeltsfield Estate —one of the show places
of South Australia —is situated near Greenock, 45
miles north of Adelaide. Mr. J. E. Seppelt, one
of the pioneers, settled there in 1851, and subse-
quently planted a small vineyard, and excavated a
Cellar 24 feet by 36 feet. This was the beginning
of what has become the premier winery of
the world. To-day the extent of the premises
simply astonishes visitors to this industrial centre.
The S.A. Register recently, in commencing an
article descriptive of the concern, said, “It is no
easy matter to take up the pen and write about
Seppeltsfield. The magnitude of the establish-
ment simply paralyses you.” To convey some
idea of achievements we give the following facts :
The holding capacity of the receptacles for liquids
is 1,370,000 gallons. The stock of wines reaches
the great total of 1,200,000 gallons.
Grape Brandy and other grape spirit, 52,000
proof gallons ; and vinegars, 90,000 gallons.
* * » *
Grapes are purchased yearly from about 2,570
acres of vineyards.
* * *
The two stills are capable of producing 480
gallons of spirit per day. Eleven coopers are
employed permanently on the premises, but
periodical contracts are made with outside coopers
to meet unexpected requirements.
The tonnage of goods in and out of Seppeltsfield
for the year totals about 8000.
•■* * »
If, immediately after a vintage, the liquids in the
cellars and other buildings were bottled, and
the bottles (there would be 8,220,000) placed
end to end, they would reach a distance of 1557
miles, so, if placed along the line of railway, they
would extend from Adelaide to Toowoomba, in
Queensland.
* * * *
The Seppeltsfield of to-day is a monument to
the dominant skill and indefatigable energy of Mr.
•Benno Seppelt, the present head of the proprie-
tary.
When Mr. P. B. Burgoyne, the London wine
merchant, was in Adelaide, he publicly remarked
regarding Seppeltsfield :
“You may go the world over and not find more
intelligence thrown into an industry or branch of
branch of commerce, nor will you find greatel
perfection in wine establishments of any country.
Mr. Seppelt is one of the most useful members of
your community, and an example of success
which follows where interest in one’s work is the
dominating influence on the life.”
* * * *
Viscount des Garets, a vigneron of Epernay,
France, visited Seppeltsfield some time ago, and,
when interviewed by representatives of the press,
remarked :
“I think Seppeltsfield the most wonderfur
winery in the world. I shall never forget the
kindness I received there, and the magnitude of
the establishment amazed me. I had the oppor-
tunity to sample wines and brandy. The wines
were really excellent and far ahead of what I
tasted in other States, and the brandy was some
of the finest I have ever tasted. The fact that I
am taking a number of cases of these goods home
with me is the best proof of what 1 think of them.”
* * * *
Prof. Perkins, the South Australian Government
Viticulturalist, in writing on this subject, stated: —
“ I know of no cellars, either here or in Europe,
so perfectly conceived from the general plan down
to the minutest detail for handling economically
enormous bulks of wine.”
Notwithstanding the complete descriptions, Sep-
peltsfield must be seen before its industrial move-
ments there can be fully grasped.
* # * *
It is a township in itself, and one wonders how,
in the comparatively short space of half-a-century,
such a magnificent concern has evolved from
so tiny a beginning. It is simply the
old story of the splendid oak tree from
the little acorn. But the growing tree was
tended by one who determined, in his early life,
that a vigorous growth should continue until his
ideal was reached. At the earliest stage of the
industry Mr. Benno Seppelt planned the Seppelts-
field of to-day, and progression went on bit by
bit until it became what it is. To achieve an
output of the great bulks of liquids produced, com-
mercial branches of the business are established in
Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle, and Broken Hill,
with a capable staff in each.
The Commonwealth requires more individuals
of Mr. Seppelt’s type. Industries will make a
nation when legislation fails to do so.
Prices of wool are still sky-high, and
growers and agents and buyers are making big
money, but up to now the ordinary storemen, the
men who toil in the smelly, greasy, unpleasant
stores round Circular Quay, Sydney, pressing and
humping the wool, have got no benefit from all the
fatness. Indeed, the decrease in their wages made
in the old drought times has never been wiped
out. The storemen work 70 hours a week, less
meal hours, and are paid poor wages. This is
during the season. For months in the year they
are out of employment. The reason of their
troubles is that they are “free laborers,’’ and
without organisation. But at last they are going
to form a trades union, and demand an eight-
hour day for a start. The wool-selling agencies are
aghast, of course, and are raising the good old
bogey, “ the prestige of the port.” But the men
have got used to that hifalutin’ now, and are cool
enough to reply that if prestige depends on
starvation pay, the prestige had better be emptied
out into the harbor.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
An historic building at Newtown, St. Stephen’s
schoolroom, has just been demolished to make room for
a new structure. This was the church of the suburb
before the finer edifice in Church-street was erected. It
was consecrated on Sept. 9, 1845, by Bishop Broughton,
then known as Bishop of Australia. The church was
crowded at that old-time consecration, and amongst the
congregation were Lady Gipps (wife of the Governor),
Maurice O’Connell (Commander of the Forces), and the
Mayor of Sydney (George Allen). The ground for the
church was given by the trustees of Mrs. Bligh, wife of
Governor Bligh, who had a big grant here. The last
minister of the parish, Mr. Taylor, just dead, was 41
years in charge. One of his immediate predecessors was
Rev. C. C. Kemp, who married the widow of William
Toogood, who at various times kept Toogood’s Hotel, on
the S.E. corner of Market and Pitt streets, the Golden
Fleece, on the N.E. corner of King and George streets,
and the Rose and Crown, on the N.E. corner King and
Pitt streets. Mr. Kemp induced the widow when she
became Mrs. Kemp to refuse a continuance of a publican’s
license for the Golden Fleece corner, which was her pro-
perty. As a result, the City Bank became the tenants,
and kept the corner for years.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrub!) & Co. on each Bottle.
The Bank of Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid Up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund _ 1,410,000
(Of which £500,000 is invested in per cent. Consols at
80, the remainder being used in the business.)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 1,600,000
£4,610,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT oT the Directors of the BANK of AUSTRALASIA, with the
Accounts for the Half-Year to 15th April, 1907.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-Yearly General Meeting held on Thursday, 3rd October, 1907.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the balance-sheet as at 15th April last, with the profit
account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
colonial rates and taxes, and for all bad and doubtful debts, and after writing down investments to
market price or under, the net profit for the half-year, including some exceptional recoveries from old
accounts, amounted to £227,463 7s. 4d. .
To this sum must be added £16,861125. 7d. brought forward from the previous ha f-year making
a total of £244,324 19s. lid., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at
the rate of 12 per cent, per annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a bonus of Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The dividend and bonus will absorb £112,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £lOO,OOO
to the Reserve Fund and £15,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain
£17,324 19s. lid. to be carried forward to the next account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable in London and in the colonies on 4th October next.
For the vacancy on the Court of Directors, already reported, Mr. Charles Edward Barnett and
Mr. William Howard Smith are candidates, and the Directors have much pleasure in recommending
the election of Mr. Barnett.
C. W. FREMANTLE, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 23rd September, 1907.
PROFIT ACCOUNT FROM 15th OCTOBER, 1903, TO 15th APRIL, 1907.
£128,861 12 7
112,000 0 0
Undivided profit, 15th October, 1906
Less: Dividend arid bonus, 30th March, 1907
Profit for the half-vear to 15th April, 1907, after deducting rebate on bills
current at balance date (£14,468 Us. 2d.), and making provision for all bad
and doubtful debts..
LESS :
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial — ,
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the
superintendent’s department and 172 branches and
agencies .. .. .. .. . ■ • • • • . • •
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, etc
London—
Salaries ..
General expenses .» «• ... ..
£102,873 4 6
25,790 6 7
9,306 16 3
3,046 1 1
£388,042 18 8
£16,861 12 7
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial
London
£141,016 8 6
£10,265 2 6
9,298 0 5
19,563 2 11
160,579 11 4
227,463 7 4
Total amount of unappropriated profit ..
From which deduct —
For transfer to Reserve Fund .. ..
For reduction in cost of bank premises
244,324 19 11
100,000 0 0
15,000 0 0
115,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
£129,324 19 11
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET, 15th APRIL, 1307.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation £504,671 0 0
Deposits 16,622,906 13 1
Bills payable, and other liabilities .. 3,291,936 7 3
£20,419,574 0 4
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 1,410,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2£ per cent.
Consols at 80, the re-
mainder being 1 used in
the business.)
Profit account; undivided
balance .. .. .. 129,324 19 11
3,139,324 19 11
£23,568,899 0 3
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion and cash balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government securities ..
Indiaand Colonial Government securities
and other investments .. .. . t
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets .. ..
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London
£3,598,434 18 1
2,240,000 0 0
927,585 1 1
700,082 11 6
£7,468,102 10 7
15,840,960 7 8
251,836 2 0
£23,558,899 0 3
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. K. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the Cash and Securities in London, and the London Books, and have verified the transfers
from the several Branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg' to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
Bank’s affairs as shown by the Books. „ .
London, 18th September, 1907. WELTON, JONES AND CO., Auditors.
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. to 25 H.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog FREE.
Our Special 3 H.P. Marina Motor - £2l
„ 11 ~ - £52
Freight charges prepaid.
PALMER BROS.,
Cos Cob,
Conn., l/.S.A.
Correspondence invited from thoroughly reliable firms to
take up Sole Agency in Australia and New Zealand
for Palmer Gasoline Motors.
AMI
STRANGE
PREDICTIONS
Planetary Professor Foretells
Events, and Quickly Reads the
Lives of People, though Thou-
sands of Miles Away .
Sends Letters to the Rich and Poor
Alike, in which he advises them about
BUSINESS, MARRIAGE, SPECULATION,
LOVE AFFAIRS, WEALTH, ETC.
Offers Readings to all who write and
send Date of Birth, Sex, Married or
Single, with 1/- to cover cost of
postage, etc.
IN his office in Melbourne, surrounded by
Charts and Dials of strange design, Prof.
Henri De Astro studies daily over the lives
of men and women who have written him for
advice on affairs of business, love, speculation,
travel, marriage, health, and the important
events of life. The following letter gives an
idea of
MR. DE ASTRO’S ABILITY.
My Advice Brought Money.
Brisbane.
I am proud to tell you that I have profited greatly
by following the advice contained in my Horoscope.
I had about given up taking a journey, but when you
advised it so strongly, I reconsidered and took the
journey, passed my examinations, and am now in a
position to earn from £2O to £25 per month. I would
not take £lO for the advice you gave me.
I believe every young person starting in life should
by all means secure a Horoscope from you. Nothing
I ever received has given me such power to control
conditions and circumstances as your Horoscope.
Wishing you every success, I am, yours truly,
B. H. RANDALL.
THE accuracy of recent predictions made by
this eminent Astrologer has caused many
of his friends to believe that he possesses
a supernatural power, but he modestly asserts
that his predictions are due alone to a scien-
tific understanding of natural laws. The many
thankful letters Prof. De Astro has received
from people who have benefited by his advice
furnish ample proof that he is sincere in his
work and has a kindly feeling towards
humanity.
Readers of The Bulletin can obtain a
Reading by addressing a letter to Prof. De
Astro, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Simply
say you wish a Reading of your Life, stating
your birth date, sex, and whether married
or single, enclosing Is. Stamps or Postal Note
to pay postage etc., and the Reading will
be promptly sent.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DEuarmiPres
Thais what
CUARANTE^^
means
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable fromallTobacconists
4
%
%
#
V
\V*
$
v>


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand pflF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 2| per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq.; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. 0. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.P.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
wr
',
m
mss
mm
Mp
-Peerlessloi lef Preparation's 'M
inval led Por the Complexion, »$
>ftening&Beauflfyingi)ieSkin. i|^t,
'.■7' , ~ ■ • v v
O MEDAL. PARIS. 1906,. Ifk
£f* P PRIX.STI.OUIS.I9CH / i|n ,
I&rOF.ALL CHEMISTS JM
Wk-8f PERFUMERS, k . ..M \ JW H
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOIIN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Store Keepers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Priae Medals..
Works s Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder : —-
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. It doesn’t seem half so long ago, for
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.”
“Were you experiencing any physical pain ? ”
“Oh ! don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head ? I hope not, for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect on me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and, as for the feeling in my eyes
—well, they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate, melan-
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
and I think I had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,”
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote?”
“ They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it, and if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted—as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die—yet, when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were fearful.”
“ And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for you ?”
“ No, unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good. Clements Tonic it was, and
the best remedy I ever had in my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of everything
else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told you, I must
state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
happen. Trouble was always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head—not until
I had been taking Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind became as happy as the day. Oh !it was wonderful what an
altered woman Clements Tonic made me. Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy
and cheerful as possible—nothing frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know
so many nervous women that I deem it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tonic is for
that complaint, though, for that matter, it was equally beneficial to me in other ways. I used to get
pains down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of
my heart, which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clements
Tonic showed itself to be such a pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it to all
sufferers. Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound
and peaceful the same remedy was the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it
months before, for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements Tonic was. The least I
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any wry my statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the. same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oarha
Act, 1900. (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four
before me, H. EVANS, J.p. ’
Take a Trip!
Get away from the counting-house
and from business cares.
Go into the country, among the
mountains.
And you’ll come back with fresh
vigor and a brand-new set of ideas for
another twelve months’ work.
To make sure of a good holiday, go
to the “ Hydro-Majestic,” Medlow Bath.
It is situated high above the sea-level,
3,500 feet up in the clear air, surrounded
by the most beautiful scenic effects that
the world of Nature has produced.
There your tired system may re-
cuperate. There your every wish is
anticipated and provided for in such a
way as to make life really enjoyable.
The meals are served in a large and
well-aired dining room, which opens out
on to a beautiful garden surrounding the
Hydro. All provisions are fresh and good,
being supplied direct from the Hydro’s
Own farm in the Kanimbla Valley.
The days may be spent in Walking
Tours, Motor or Coach Trips, exercising on
the Golf Links or at Tennis and Croquet,
whilst the evenings pass merrily away to
the accompaniment of first-class music,
games, cards, and other entertainments.
And although the arrangements for
your comfort are much superior to those
procurable elsewhere, the terms are not
excessive, as enquiries at the Hydro City
Office, 38 Castlereagh St., City, will show.
Telephone 4349, or write direct to
Hydro-Majestic,
Medlow Bath.
CONoo
,/Free
/mm
WriteTodasp
Settle that leaky roof once and for all! Cover the old shingles or
the pin-holed tin with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it
down! Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to
remind you of it.
We call Congo the “Never-Leak Roof.” We mean it.
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Cc.. Philadelphia, U.S.A., & London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON & Co., Ltd., Melbourne
GEORGE WILLS & Co., Brisbane.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised ease, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of: extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £ l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra,.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St M Brisbane
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6d< from ”Th«
Bulletin ** Office


Eczema in Sore, Red Patches Like
Ringworm Spread Over Body and
Limbs—Physician No Help —
Gradually Grew Worse —Could Not
Work With Comfort—Relieved In
One Day and At Last
IS PERFECTLY CURED
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“About October of last year I noticed
a small round red patch on each of my
lower limbs, not unlike ringworm. It
gradually got so large and irritating
that I could not go on with my work
in comfort. Finally, sores began to
spread all over both of my limbs, and
the itching and pain was so acute that
I consulted a doctor, who said the com-
plaint was eczema. He gave me some
salve, which I used for several weeks.
Instead of improving, however, they
got gradually worse, and the soreness
and itching at last got almost unbear-
able. I tried all kinds of other oint-
ments, which did me no good.
“One day I happened to see an account
of how Cuticura Remedies had cured a
case something like my own, and I de-
termined to try them. The following
day I had less discomfort, and after
using the Cuticura Remedies awhile
my skin began to heal. The itching
and irritation, died away and the skin
itself assumed a healthier appearance,
too. Perseverance with Cuticura has
now resulted in a perfect cure. The
quantity I required was two tablets of
Cuticura Soap, two boxes of Cuticura
Ointment, and one vial of Cuticura
Pills. I will always recommend Cuti-
cura to my friends. Daniel Steptoe, 26,
Barrymore Ave., Queenstown, Feb. 8,
1906.”
SKIN HUMOURS
Eczemas, Tetters, Rashes, Itchingß,
Irritations and Chalings
Cured by Cuticura.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, gen-
tle anointings with Cuticura Ointment
and mild doses of Cuticura Pills, afford
immediate relief and point to a speedy
cure of torturing, disfiguring humours
of the skin, scalp and blood of infants,
children and adults, when all else fails.
A Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the
rorld. Depots; London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
i Towns & Co., Sydney; Lennon, (Ltd.), Cape Town,
•tc.; B. K. Paul, Calcutta; Potter Drug & Chem.
»rp„ sole Props. «S“Post-free. Cuticura Booklet.
This Smart Goloshed
Tie Shoe.
IT is a very shapely little Shoe
■* with Cuban Heel and smart
Patent Cap. We have it in Australian
makes from 14/6, and also a similar style
by the best American Manufacturers—Kruppendorrf,
Goodriches and Laird Schober—at an advance in price.
MEN’S FOOTWEAR.
We have full stocks of all kinds of
Men’s Footwear, from the cheapest
worth having to the finest made.
Try LEEMiNG
for Everything
in Leather.
Let us send you our new Brochure, “ Shoeligbt”
illustrates both our Men’s and Ladies’ Lines.
LEEMINGS
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne,
303 bhapd Street, Prahran.
4 0 " •
The Wayback Series.
Australia/ laughed !I ! No. 3. '
and keeps laiighing. Red Harry Is.
CONSTIPATION
is the most common and fruitful cause of suffering, especially
among women. It may arise from a variety of causes, but is
most frequently due to a torpid liver. When the liver becomes
torpid and inactive the bowels become sluggish and constipated,
foul and noxiops gases are absorbed into the system, poisoning
the blood and nerve centres, and producing headaches, languor,
difficulty in breathing, sleeplessness, and general disorder of
the system. Drastic purgatives don’t cure constipation y they
may give temporary relief, but do not remove the cause—
TORPID LIVER
The remedy is Mother Seigel’s Syrup. Read this: —“ I used to
get very bad turns of biliousness, with violent headaches, which
made life a misery for me. I tried many remedies without
benefit, and also dieted myself; but as for that I could hardly
eat anything, and whatever I ate made me suffer. But with the
first bottle of Mother Seigel’s Syrup I began to mend and after
a course of that great, medicine I was quite cured. From
Mrs. M. Anderson, 74, Warry Street, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane.
MOTHER
EIGELS
YRUP
(S THE SURE CURE
FOR ALL LIVER AND
STOMACH TROUBLES
This would
make a
Handsome
Xmas Gift!
Here’s the famous
“Home” Phonograph
—a magnificent instru=
ment—one of Edison’s
[ /
(2
0
OSBORN & JERDAN ETD.,
“My Opticians.**
COMPLETE FOR
£7 10s.
RECORDS—
I/=, 1/3 and 1/6 each.
Write for Catalogues
TO=DAY.
Importers of Phonographs
. . and Records, . .
393 GEORGE STREET (Facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY*
Makes you look manly
Before
1
After
NO MOUSTACHE
PRODUCER LIKE
CAPILLARINE!
Not in all the Commonwealth is there a Moustache
Grower of such merit as CAPILL ARINE. It con-
tains powerful yet harmless ingredients that will
make the hair grow on the baldest face.
Been sold in Australia for 20 years. CAPILLARINE will give
you what you want —a heavy moustache.
Price, 10/6 Posted Free Under Sealed Cover Anywhere in the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
ON TNENOP!
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Baaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rnHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
nn
a as
- •" '■
il
Georgs: hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
[CATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
| of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, postfree-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne*
One Muskerry—a Ber-ritish nobleman —
shocked the House of Lords (19/7/’O7) by the fol-
lowing deplorably commonsense observations :
The grievances of British ships’ officers included nig-
gardly pay, inferior, insufficient and perhaps insanitary
accommodation, no guarantee of continuous employment,
dismissal for trifling reasons or none at all, unjust sus-
pension of certificates, no leave from very arduous
duties, continuous labor from day to day and night to
night, and frequent Sunday labor, long absence from
friends and home, and want of proper rest owing to in-
sufficiency of officers engaged.
The Victorian Inspector of Explosives has
returned to Melbourne after inquiries in Europe.
According to his report the British pattern of
cordite is dangerous. He was told that the firing
of a big gun
results in a large accumulation of residual gases within
the gun after discharge. When the breech is opened,
these gases, issuing into contact with the oxygen of the
air, burst into flame, hence what is known as “the back-
flash.”
Cordite, being intended to be burned in a close
vessel, should contain such an amount of sup-
porters of combustion that all its inflammable
constituents will be burned while the shot is
passing along the bore of the gun. Further
Experts are now agreed that the War Office and the
Admiralty will have to make some change in their pre-
sent powder.
And the Commonwealth will have to meekly wait
until that change is made before it can get safe
cordite. If we had our own high explosive factory
we might by this time have got at least to the
German level of safe cordite, perhaps to the
Japanese pitch of something a shade better than
cordite.
“ Billy T.” writes :
London Paunch has printed a cartoon deriding the
Australian tariff so far as the preference to Britain is con-
cerned. The picture represents the tariff wall—an old
wall with a new tier of bricks on it. On top sits the sturdy
male figure of Australia. The Ma Country, a very portly,
elderly person holding tip her skirts, is approaching the
wall, at the foot of which is a stool marked “ 5 per cent.
Preference.” “ I shall never get over it,” gasps Ma
Country. “That’s all right, Mother, I’ve put an
eight-inch footstool for you,” replies Australia.
Melbourne Argus reprinted this cartoon with a great
deal of exultation, .and Australians are invited to feel
contempt for themselves, because of this ungallant con-
duct towards an adipose old lady. It strikes me that
the allegory cuts the other way. If the Ma land is too
beefy, unwieldy, scant of breath, and lacking in the capa-
city to climb, even with the special assistance extended
to her, surely it is not for us to lower our wall. Rather is
it a matter of urgent necessity for Mrs. Bull to go into
training, shake off her superfluous scrap fat, and hustle till
she is more fit for encountering obstacles. A bulky
Britannia like the ex-washerwoman in the Paunch cartoon
could hardly climb over 2d. in coppers.
“ Yedette ” : In walking around the nar-
row railway line leading to the Barren Jack Moun-
tain, where the work of building the big barrage is
in progress, one is struck with the immensity of
the scheme. Great masses of rock have to be cut
through, to build the diversion channel, into
which the Murrumbidgee will be forced, so that
the natural bed of the river may be cemented.
Below the railway cutting the river roars and
surges in a narrow gorge, sending up showers of
spray. Above the seething of the water sound
the clatter and throb of the big steam drilling
machines as they pierce the granite floor of the
river bed. The “swish, swish” of the mighty
centrifugal pump next breaks upon the ear, as it
sucks the water out of the diversion channel to
enable the work of blasting to proceed. To either
side the big mountains raise their towering forms,
and on Black Andrew a hundred men are working
to cut a platform to support the cable towers.
Now and again a huge rock will be displaced and
clatter and tear down the precipice into the river.
Now a load of cement comes down the “ flying
fox” cableways extending hundreds of feet in
length, flying past like four generations of
chain lightning. The whirring of the heavy
engines, as they supply the motive power for all
this work, re-echoes amongst the rocks and crags.
The immensity of the work impresses. Will it
make the Western Plains blossom with verdant
splendor as is claimed ?
Law as laid down by the Botany Bay
Bench of the early days was really the cause of
most massacres of the aborigines in the past.
Judge Advocate Atkins, in a letter to Governor
King, in 1805, alleged that the blacks had no
position before the law, and could only be dealt
with when they did wrong as people deal with
brutes. The letter referred to ran:—
The object of this letter is to impress the idea that the
natives of this country, generally speaking, are at present
incapable of being brought before a criminal court, either
as criminals or as evidences ; that it would be a mockery
of judicial process and a solecism in law, and that the
only mode at present when they deserve it is to pursue
and inflict such punishment as they deserve.
That letter was written just after a slaughter of
blacks on the Hawkesbury, where, according to
the official account, Dunn “ killed one,” Andrew
Thompson “a considerable number,” Obadiah
Ikins “many,” and so on. Atkins’ argument
against bringing blacks to trial was that they were
incompetent to plead, chiefly because they did not
understand the oath. Atkins’ idea became the
law of the time and was carried west and north
by adventurous white men, producing “dis-
persals ” as a natural consequence.
“ Wang ” : I arrived on the scene just in
time to witness an unrehearsed performance, the
other day. Leisurely pedalling his bike up
Swanston-street was a cyclist. Suddenly an ex-
cited yelp cut through the atmosphere, followed
instantly by its owner, a dog of nondescript breed.
It rushed straight at the cyclist, who saw it
coming and sprinted. Too late. The man made
a wipe at the canine with a parcel he carried,
and missed. The two-penn’orth of meat
turned to avoid the blow, and somehow his
fly-flicker found its way between the spokes of
the bicycle wheel near the axle. Then a sur-
prised dog found itself being wound up.
The tripe hound made frantic endeavors to get
away ; so did the cyclist. But the dog displayed
great affection for him. It caught him by the
trousers and hung on. The cyclist dismounted
ungracefully, and in great haste, on his hands
and knees, and, giving a cow-kick, got away
■ minus several square inches of trousers leg.
Mongrel began to make things hum then. His
tail piece was immovable, and he attacked the
bike-wheel with great gallantry. A sizzing sound
came from the tyre, where he had mouthed it. On
the foothpath an animated conversation took place
between the tyke’s owner and the bikers owner.
The Law came hurrying up. Rushing to a. build-
ing in process of erection, the Law seized a
scaffolding pole and made a smite, which stunned
the tyke and wrecked the bike. Then, as he
extricated the animal from the machine, two loud
and angry owners demanded compensation.
Several amateur lawyers pleaded their cases
vociferously. But the Law was equal to the occa-
sion. With a flourish of his hand he commanded
them to move on. “Gib now,” he said, “or I’ll
run you in for creating a disturbance.” Then the
cause of all the trouble opened its eyes, and,
noting a clear track, hurried away with a scared
look and a badly-mangled tail.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: FOOD.”
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Truths
for
the:
Sick:
For those DEATHLY BILIOUS
SPELLS depend on Sulphur Bit-
ters; it never fails to cure.
DO YOU SUFFER with that
tired and all-gone feeling? If so use
Sulphur Bitters; it will cure you.
Don’t be without a bot-
tle. You will not regret it
TRY
IT.
The
Secret
of a fair face is a beauti-
ful skin. Sulphur Bitters
makes both.
If you do not wish to
sufferfrom RHEUMATISM, use a
bottle of Sulphur Bitters: it never
fails to cure. / *■
Are you constipated? if sO ,
Sulphur Bitters is just what you need
Poor, weak, and weary mothers
RAISE PUNY, PINDLINC children.
Sulphur Bitters will make them
strong, hearty, and healthy.
Cleanse the vitiated blood when
you see its impurities bursting:
through the skin in
Eely on Sulphur
Bitters and hoalth
will follow.
PIMPLES,
Blotches
AND SORES.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, lumbago,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London, England
Digestive J
uices
What becomes of the precious
digestive juices when you flush
out your bowels with cascara,
jalap, sedlitz powders, aperient
water and the old fashion pill?
Why it’s flushed out along with
the rest of the bowel contents.
It’s wasted; washed right away
from the very place it s most
needed. Reuter’s Little Pills don’t
flush out, don’t purge, don’t weak-
en, nor upset your stomach They
don’t waste the precious digestive
juices needed for to-morrow’s
work. No, they act like exercise.
They build up and strengthen
the bowel muscles, so that they
expand and propel the matter on
its way. They set the hundreds
of tiny cells inside your bowels to
work drawing up nourishment
from your food
Reuter’tt Soap will make your
skin soft.
HERE’S A BARGAIN !
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT —
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch
Post Free,
3-
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt Bt., SYDNEY; also> at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [I
\HFMCT FEtDVHG atv«AVVW'^^W, aW? v amv^
mi
Wo Mother should he mthout \v
sewt VR^P
'request.
m
Y
te*ii
o>>3
/4progress we d/etarp adapted to tde grow/ftp d/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l
fromd/rtfi fo 3/nont/?&
Milk Food m 2
from 3 to 6 mootAs
Malted Food N 93
Fro/77 6 mo/jMs upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘ Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sale by leading; Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally
send direct to the Proprietor. W. G. Hearne. Chemist. Geeloner. Victoria.
It acts like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy. 6
Soid by Chemists all over the World, in bottles , Is. \\d. ; 20z., 2s. M. ; 4oz„ 4s. 6 d. each.
GAV J\?O? m Every bofctle ° f the CENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE bas the Trade Mark, “The
.Eiiepnant, on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Shipping-
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve (in Government Stock)
Interminable Deposit Stock
.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
.. 413,289 5 0
.. 59.000 0 C
..3,116,621 b 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Oallan, M.L.O John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne. Esq. : F. Lord, Esq.
’ General Manager.-W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual Cife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liabilit.y.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Qank of Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Sank of Reui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
$
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3\r. S.A7V.
H|ontdepieteQ.sfii|.Go.,|jtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Mbf.ks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq. J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
-THE
TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
. AND
AGENCY company limited
AVatPI Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. •• •• £9 ° 000 0 0
n «» . o
Directors: F. E. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman: It. Murray
Rrnith Esa C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, Egq.;
Hon J M Prate, M.L.C.; Hon. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. w. JA * MES jjomiOWMAN, Manager.
FEEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
Shipping.
IST. D. I*
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnasre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridare-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FUND(lnvested in Government StocV) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Acet.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.G.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON wia CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw Steamers.
*CUF!C, 8250 tons, to sail about 23rd
N ovember.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 30th
November. , , 0c ...
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 25tn
December. . „
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
£24 3
30 0
36 5
* Cargo only.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0
London .. .. 19 ° 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DaUjety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
tDAMASCUS
*MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
.. IH. A. Schleman .. 1 Noon, Dec. 6
. |A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Jan. 4
.. | A. Simpson .. > Noon. Jan. 31
t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
pe ui „ u „„, .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
* Twin
London
Cape or Durban
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port IN-fbresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Thread-needle Street.
With Branches throughoiU the Australian
States, Tasmania and v Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
tbe chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of ||nui S° ut k Ul a^s -
Established 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ...
... 2,000,000 0 o
... 1.500,000 0 0
... 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 55,00,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq. _ _
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.G.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through.
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE,
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA,
Write for Particulars.-^
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
THE LAW OF
FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
mHE Book that tells how to succeed and make money
JL by following the Law. Everybody needs it, whether
rich or poor. Big firms buy in quantities. Agents
wanted. 200 per cent, profit. Make £5 a week easy.
Send Is. for Sample and Agency.
The Fiduciary Press, 1532 Tacoma Building:, Chicago.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH —
308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas. —
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Kooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
’ Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it mig-ht be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd., 374 George St., Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wav.ash Systems.
Shipping.
fHTADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and r
West Australian, South *
Victorian and Queensland poris-
FOR MELBOURNE, -\
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. '
Grantala. Saturday,
December 7, at 1 p.m-
BRISBANE,
MACK AY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 16
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 23
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfield- *.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tne
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on a
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertain
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIL.L & CO., LTD., r ™ T u.v
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 378.
F.— H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“ SUFFOLK ”
11,000 Tons. G. T. Dbith, Commander,
will be despatched on 19th NOVEMBER
FOR
London & Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON & \
LIVERPOOL J■
£49 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s.
£l4 14s.
Luggage received at P.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For.
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 16.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 23.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 30.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
COOLGARDIE, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, November 30.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
November 16.
ALLINGA, 5 0.m., TUESDAY,
November 19.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 23.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
ALL—
BATTERY USERS
should make a point of
inquiring into the merits
of the EDISON Primary
Batteries, the cheapest
form of electrical energy
for Stationary and Port-
able Gas Engines, Slot
Machines, Fan Motors,
Railroad and Mine
Signals, Phonographs,
Sewing Machines, X-Ray
Outfits, Electro-Medical
Use, Telephone, Fire and
Burglar Alarm Systems,
and all other classes of
work.
WRITE FOR OUR BOOKLET
WHICH GIVES FULL
DETAILS.
EDISON MANUFACTURING CO.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH 00. OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED (Selling Agents),
Dept. “B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


J
\
/
77
(S>>
\
\
7/
WHAT IT MEANS
to Have your body contain an abundant supply of Electricity. It means strength, vigor, vitality, freedom from pains and
aches, steady nerves, self confidence, ambition and success, for success cannot be reached without these things. It means that if you
suffer from Nervousness, Weakness, Debility, Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Sciatica, Asthma, Indigestion
OP Constipation, that if you will stop dosing yourself with useless and dangerous drugs, and fill your nerves, blood, muscles
and tissues with the electric strength they lack, that you will soon have as sound and strong a body as Nature intended you to have.
No weakness or disease can exist in a body fully charged with Electricity—the fact that it does exist is the strongest proof that the
body lacks Electricity. Science has proven that a strong, vigorous, healthy body contains a large amount of Electricity.
WHAT THE FOREMOST MEDICAL SCIENTISTS SAY
Prof. O. S. FOWLER
Prop. O. S. Fowler, in his work on the treat-
ment of nervous diseases, says:— “Sufferers
little realise how far they are restorable, yet
they seek relief in wrong directions, for medi-
cine camiot cure this class of disease ; but, on
the contrary, they almost universally prove in-
jurious. They are no more adapted to reach these
cases than a dose of ipecac or jalap is to assuage
a mother’s grief for the loss of her darling babe,
for the disease—being largely local —the restora-
tives must be applied directly to those prostrated
parts, and since electricity is undoubtedly the
instrumentality of all life, it necessarily follows
that this element constitutes Nature’s own most
potent remedy in these diseases when rightly
applied.”
Prof. EDGAR S. LARKIN
Pros. Edgar L. Larkin, the eminent scientist, discussing “ The
New Physiology,” in an article dated June 24, 1905, says:—“The
trend of science is toward electricity on all sides. Discoveries made
hour by hour point to one grand conclusion—the substratum of
Nature is Electricity. Life, force and mind are intimately related
with it. All animals are merely electrical machines. A man,
brain and body, is a battery, and nerves correspond to wires.
It is now certain that transmission of sensation over them is
electric. Nerves have been cut and a galvanometer inserted ; the
needle moved, proving that nerve power is electric. The human
system is an electro-chemic battery, and the life principle is
electrical. The electric age is here. Drugs are hard hit on
all sides, and an intelligent physician tells me that he has almost
entirely stopped their use. The word health now means a normal
supply of Electricity in the body, and the word disease means an
insufficiency of that power.”
Prof. JACQUBS LOEB
Prof. Jacques Loeb, of California University,
who is undoubtedly one of the world’s fore-
most authorities on electric currents as ap-
plied to the human body; after much experi-
menting has made this announcement : “ A
part of the chemical energy of food-stuffs is
transformed into electrical energy, which in
turn gives energy to the muscles and or-
gans of the body. . . . Electricity, and
not heat, is the life of the body. These
discoveries are going to upset the theories of
medicine as administered by the physicians
of to-day, as it is settled that Electricity is
the basis of human vitality.”
The most advanced scientists in the world having advocated the use of electricity in preference to drugs, it only remains for you who suffer to obtain the best and
most advanced method of applying it. This is only to be found in the improved Dp. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, which is the standard electric body
battery of the world and the only appliance adapted for self treatment. You wear it for a few hours a day or at night while you sleep. Used as we advise, with special
attachments for all parts of the body so that the current can be directed to the weakened or ailing part, it sends a strong current of life-giving electricity into the
weakened nerves, tissues and muscles, forcing into them a strong circulation ot hot blood charged with electricity. That is how it cures and strengthens
permanently —by forcing the blood to make strength —and that is why a permanent cure is established in from one to six months according to the conditions.
Here are some proofs. We have reeeived thousands of such letters in the past seven years.
The Dr. McLaughun Co.
I have worn a Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt since
the 12th October, 1906 up to Ist January, 1907, and I
have received a wonderful amount of good from it
for what I might call a broken-down system, having
been a sufferer from Debility, Indigestion, and
General Weakness. I now feel quite a different
man in every way; work is no trouble to me. I
advise anyone suffering from any of the above
complaints to use a Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt,
as I am sure it will bring about a certain cure.
WILLIAM E. ALDER,
Manning Road, via Gloucester, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
I am now quite well, thanks to the Belt, and know that if I
take another turn the Belt will soon set me right again.
After I wore the Belt for two weeks, I began to
feel better, and now I not only do all my house-
work, but have a large vegetable garden in perfect
order. My friends are quite convinced about the Belt—that
it is the only remedy that ever did me any good. If you
know of any lady, or poor, hard-working woman, suffering
as I have done, tell her to write to me. I will convince her
by writing a true account of my sufferings and the cure.
Yours gratefully, Mrs. E. R. CAMM,
Deptford Road, Bruthen, Vic.
The Dr. McEaughgin Co.
In reply to yours of recent date I am pleased to
be in a position to state that the Belt supplied me
has completely cured my back, and it has been
strong and well now for nearly two years; to those
suffering from a lame back I can recommend it as a
sure cure. My work includes heavy riding, pick
and shovel, fencing, and all such kind of work as
is followed by a station hand.—Yours gratefully,
JAMES ARMSTRONG, Jnr.,
Arches Siding, N. C. Railway,
Rockhampton, Q’land.
TO MEN!
If you are not the man you should be; if you suffer from Weakness,
Varicocele, Nervousness, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Weak
Back, Asthma, Kidney, Stomach or Liver Troubles, do
not despair because drugs have failed to cure you, use Nature’s cure—
Klectricity. It will cure you, it cannot fail: for when you are weak and
sick, it is electricity which your system lacks and must have before it can
become strong again. Our belts have special attachments for men.
TO WOMEN!
If you suffer from Nervousness, Headache, Dragging Pains,
Insomnia, Weak Back, Asthma, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Stomach, Kidney or Bowel Troubles don’t take drugs, for they
cannot make strength, and that is what you need. The strength of your
nervous system is electricity, therefore, when you are weak and nervous,
if you fill your body with its grand strengthening influence, it must
become strong. Our belts have special attachments for women.
The Dr. McLaughlin Improved Electric Belt is the standard electric body battery of the world. We have branch offices in all the principal cities of Europe,
Asia, Africa, Canada and the United States. Our appliances have many imitators, but no equals. Beware of Cheap Imitations. Write US for
our exposure Of the free belt fraud. Our Belts are guaranteed not to burn, blister or shock the most sensitive person.
rnrr book
rIICC advice
We have published an illustrated book,
which every man and woman should
read. It shows how and why our belt
cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid
to all who write us, and our specialists
will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All communications are treated with strict
confidence. Write at once giving us an idea of your ailments, or fill out the coupon and
mail it to
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO., DEPT. 10,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO., DEPT. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
15


THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
60/-
\
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted —the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten,
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
A 2 Years’ Guarantee with
We give a two years’ guaran- the Plum Razor
tee with every Plum Razor
we sell, and not only that, but will keep it in good order for two years
free of charge. We have THAT much confidence in the Plum.
PRICE, 10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St.
Established
Sydney. 25 Years.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
THAT CHARMING * * w W Jk 9 9
SONG, “lOLA
THE CATCHIEST AND MOST POPULAR FEATURE IN
“The Blue Moon”
CAN BE OBTAINED ON THE FAMOUS
Columbia pr Scess Records
Cylinder No. 33073,
Price 1/6 each.
lOin. Disc No. 3571,
Price 3/- each.
‘ lOLA ”
XYLOPHONE SOLO,
Cylinder 33047,
Price 1/6 each.
lOin, Disc 3530,
Price 3/- each.
Columbia Records fit ALL Makes of Talking Machines.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen’l,
255 “ B ” Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
UM
CO
iTiiiiiiiiisiiii?
page fence
is made in a
variety of styles
-from the attractive lawn fence
coated with special w i have
the heavier and
sold so extensivey builfc 19
ranchmen, etc. Pag service,
years ago, are still givng s be a
h , « t e t "’-~‘ s ;;F ,or!
saass«flffin*“-*»* nw
s*>
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverag ? is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“ MONTSERRAT ” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine “ MONTSERRA T^
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTHENTi
In nee since 1696.
CURES „ T _ n . _ .
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Wealr Sight
Ask your chemist for its bistory-the hook is free-or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily.
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take up sole District Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns, and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
ORDER BY MAIL.
Country Buyers are accorded th sam
liberal treatment town buyers receive.
Money back if you are dissatisfied.
3TBANPCOftHER GEORGE ST, SYDNEY-
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Drop tts a post card, and w will snd
an Illustraid Catalogs and promptly
rply to an y nqttiris you may mas: ♦
Pearl Set 9ct. Gold, Double Scroll Bangle, £3.
18ct. Gold Carved
Ring', J-Hoop, Set Fine
Amethysts, £2 15s.
9ct. Gold Hall-marked
Medal, 10s 6d.
Pearl Set 9ct. Gold Brooch, 22s 6d.
Pearl and Olivine Set 15ct. Gold
Brooch, £4 4s.
Pearl and Enamel
9et. Gold Pendant,
£1 10s.
m
ft
Is
a
Jpl
-*O2
M
1
■
1
■
■
K
X
y
a®
Chased and Plain Cable Bangle, in case, 9ct. Gold, £2 10s.
Silver-Mounted Shaving Paper
Pad, 10s 6d.
Get yours in good time. Xmas Pudding Set,
in Solid Silver, 3s ; larger size, 4s 6d.
% * /
STEWART DAWSON&G2
W
The “ MODEL ” Watch, Steel
Case, Lever Movement, Thin,
Flat Style. Goes accurately,
and will be found a reliable
article in every £1 is.
way.
Price
PEGGY BAGS,
as sketch, with Safety Purse, 8s 6d ;
other styles, 5s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
17s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
18ct. Gold Claw Half-
Hoop Ring:, set fine
quality Green Peri-
dots, £2 ss.
Pearl and Enamel 9ct.
Gold Pendant, £l los.
Amethyst and 9ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, £3 15s :
Smaller Stones, 655.
1
111111111111 ill
I
tell
r""T—■
Plain Solid Silver Manicure Set, in Morocco Case, £2 7s 6d,
9et. Gold Scroll Bangle, £1 ss.
Pearl and Turquoise Set, 15et. Gold
Brooch, £2.
Opal Set, 15ct. Gold Brooch, £ll7s 6d.
Pearl and Turquoise Set,
9ct. Gold Pendant, £3 15s.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Set
Brooch, 22s 6d.
Out-Glass and Silver Tobacco
Jar, 255.


The Maoriland Compensation Court has
awarded Randall Johnston £106,502 for the Te
Arai Estate, Poverty Bay, taken for closer settle-
ment. Mr Johnston claimed £127,000.
“ Cogna ” : Re society par. (Bulletin
27/6/’O7) on Germans standing the Union Jack on
its head. I've sailed under it for 33 years, and the
only way I know of finding out which way to
hoist it is by keeping the toggle on top and the
lanyard down. You must mean the ensign of
the red variety. That, reversed, is the distress
signal.
“ Mate ” : He shortage of mates, the
phenomenon is explicable mainly on the grounds
of shortage of romance. The ships we used to
take such pride in—regular traders to Australia
and India —have gone out. Their apprentices
could count on a month or more at home ever} 7
year. They lorded it over their late schoolmates
in fascinating caps and brass buttons; talked
largely of the girls of Sydney and Melbourne, and
the bazaars of Bombay and Calcutta; spun
delightful yarns full of sea boots and oilskins, the
reefing of top-sails and club-hauling in a gale,
accompanied by much inaccurate technicality.
The returned seafarers slurred over the cleaning
ot brass, and chambermaiding of fowls and pigs.
Zu th , ey mention salt horse and pantiles, or
the absence of butter and milk—well, those were
incidentals and fitted in with the rest. Then-
yarns induced an atmosphere of thrill that was
priceless as a mate-supplying factor. Now-a-
tnnes the sailing-ship apprentice is generally away
two or three years on his first voyage. At the end
thereof he’s thinking of the more sordid side of
things and taking an interest in mates’ wages.
Also a somewhat stiff exam, is looming in the
near future, and he doesn’t, inconsequence, recruit
worth a ticky. The steamer apprentice—if he
gets home at all—has at most a week of a spell.
He recalls the trimming of coals and cleaning of
brass that lately occupied him, and the recollection
doesn t make for big talk. If he’s in a swagger
line he s introduced to the higher mathematics of
navigation and kept doing interminable sums.
He can t spin attractive and blood-stirring yarns
about logarithms and star positions. And his
associates sympathise but aren’t anxious to follow
his example. The shipowner will have to make
the game worth while in pay and conditions. If
he trusts, as he has done so far, to the Romantic
Gall of the Sea, and the Adventurous Spirit of
British Boys, he’ll be a very sad shipowner in the
near future, or else he’ll get Chow mates, and the
country will be even sadder than he.
□
c
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
C Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS
any f° rm ° f ERONCHITIS > COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
ahlp it"Jpotpt- 6 reliGf; and t 0 thOSG Wh ° are sub J ect t 0 COLDS m THE CHEST it is invalu-
e, as it A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
o ce, an 1. nei er a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never "been
itnown to exist where Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS’ SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH, AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
W - G - Hearne. Dear Sir,—Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of Influenza and Bronchitis, and for
SiS!lfA 8l “ erin /71. th . a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had medical attendance, and tried various
mmended, but without success until, on my daughter’s recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis
uure, with the result that it completely cured me, and I am perfectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL, 116 Shields Street, Fleming.on, Melbourne.
DRY HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
to trouhWie'f Sir-For twelve months or more I had a dry, hacking cough on my chest that used
which took no Si* r t,me ’ I 3 1 "’t S 01, i, 11 was a tou(:h of bronchitis. I tried different sorts of medicine,
once If has llii tMed r Ur Rronc : hlt ' s Cure > whlch - 1 have much pleasure in informing you, relieved me at
immediate cure Tron,J ! „ ed ™ y f oUgh - 1 anl sure anyone can depend on your medicine for a thorough and
immediate cure.-I remain, yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS, Modewarre, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
vears lr ' i Pr ’x l2 y ?? rs of a^e . had a ver > r bad cou F h tha t had been a great trouble to her for
bottle nf vnm. d ß.!, o h remedy I could get, but not one of them seemed to do her anv good. Then I tried one
wonderfuf Yours ete ° llre ’ ShC haS never cou «' hed since she it. lam glad to say the effect has been
wonderful.-Yours, etc., J. BATSON, Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say that my two children, whom you treated two years aa-o
si f ° r , m V re kee i n the best of health. They have never had a sign of theTsthma
since. I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL, Smeaton, Victoria,
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ei M fi H x earne ' Dear Sir,—Please send me by return post one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure for which
please find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by measles. It was tearing me to pieces ’ I chanced
°- y ?, ur B ™hChitis Cure, took one dose, and improved I like to always
have some on hand. It is weil worth a testimonial on account of what it has done for me and you are at liberty to
make use of what I have written. This is not the first time it has done me good.-Yours truly/ 7
G. R. HOOK, “ Hiislea,” Clyde, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE.
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have been very ill with Influenza and Bronchitis. A friend c? mine nersuaded me to trv
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate relief, and after taking the second! bottle I am thoroughly
cured Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will nt As use of this htaremlnf
by publishing it for the benefit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully, statement
THOMAS R. TREZISE, RelxSy Creek, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
«,«■ S ea * S i lr A —l 4 t®°- rd^ me very much pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
emnl Hvi i i wond ®rf u ll Bronchitis Cure. lean say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
ZLfT I !!M n A? r T hl . tl V" a severe form > completely cured me, and now in the winter months, if lat all
whom if his ,w» n J . e chest, it gives me instant relief. I have also proved its efficacy with members of my family,
des“i'viii<>- of fh» v,f^! ° f C ° U l ? hs ’ c<dds . on the chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir, you are
remain f r . . ~e st thanks of the community for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable medicine.—l
remain, gratefully yours, DUNCAN
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
RrnimhiH^VmV? e « rn j‘ , ® ear Having been a sufferer from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
, e afforded me great relief after taking two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in quickly
~i , . &oicl , and altogether my chest feels stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medicine for
Dear Sir'^ours^aithfuny^^ 8 ’ &S 1 haVe tried them aIL Thankin F y° u for the benefit that I have received.—l am,
D. BEATTY, Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
lnH Hearne. Dear Sir, Last winter, my youngest son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest,
an miioh ’ d ' s t re ' ssm B> hacking cough, which troubled the poor little fellow very badly at night-time. I tried many
t nil nuL, 1 , a f eas wl thout any appreciable effect. But, after using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
j; „ ' , to say that the child was cured and is now quite well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely
u* ‘_ e ‘ 1 have had much pleasure in recommending your magical medicine to my friends. Believe me to
R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES, “Lilliesea,” Union Street, Windsor, Victoria.
be, yours very gratefully,
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED. A COMPLETE CURE.
mv nice Dear am writing to tell you about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected Jn>
and i hLn. c b ™.s!l e !i;' e^ S fr r ° c T» rh - At fir *t the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,,
occasions fhnre JL " d troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several!
be consnmniinn nJ 5 °° d 10 the expectorated matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to-
of vour ot h?* treatments had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard!
bed but T sent to you for a course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my
sent have effected i MniS"!” lt; at ° f nce at ? d gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots of medicine you
sent have effected a complete cure, for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR, Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
SUFFOCATING DRY COUGH FOR TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most distressing, suffocating dry cough that could not he
h."ml n O LM'S,S‘S br “I ren ! ed . v ’ !«>'?■'>■ prescriptions, nod p«*tent msdicin'WSvi^bieSMrff]" lt T am
doS ’WSSSaffi removed b, the KIP
WILLIAM CROCKETT, Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W,
A FIVE YEARS’ SUFFERER
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
foi five years, and now Ido not feel safe to be without it.—l remain, yours respectfully, °
AGNES F. KENNEDY, Bethanga, Victoria.
. . BEWARE OF IMITATIONS! The gre :>necess of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a nnmW of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling iifa medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of decXins the“imule
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEAVE’S BEONCHIT S CUBE
jst&rirsre s&safsre iSzr::ir- » SS^SLTt
HEAliN p™tfet« wTHEARNVcr all fr t B ° W by Che “ iste and Medicine Vendors, and by the
1 icpiietoi, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.— l learne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
I.S.W. Branch Office:
No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
BenSer ’ S Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc , everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.S.W.
£T/>e LEADING
HOUSE
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
'THE MAINE
f?ifle
KANT
B
BEAT
“The Maine” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18m. long, oorea
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to <SOU
yards, weight 2|lb., fitted with plain V back sight j /C^
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards 16/-
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W.; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. AH Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Edui ating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Recite : Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Stani ard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. E . ddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.,
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
T.xat Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowt River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Evert Man His Own Builder, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
58 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pf Established 2 5 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la to Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alt Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations aSd Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Will make your complexion
clear and beautiful.
Make a point of trying this great English
face cream. It removes the dust and dirt
that clog the pores of the skin and which
soap and water does not thoroughly remove.
It is free from dangerous mineral salts and
animal fat, which heat causes to go bad. It
does not grow hair.
If you use Oatine regularly, the dry Aus'
tralian climate will not cause your skin to
crack or peel and ruin your complexion.
Get a jar of Oatine to-day. However
trying the weather or fierce the sun your
skin will always be clear and healthy if you
use it. Men should use it after shaving.
Price 1/9 a jar at all chemists, stores,
throughout Australia. Larger size, four
times the amount, 3/6.
HYPNOTISM
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic
“ influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age," M pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS,
29 O’CONNELL STREET.
SYDNEY.
DYSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
lightful and wickedly true.'’*
“ De
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
*
m
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
/ held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld. f The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
'She BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
L b i Britisl)=Jlustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
*■ A LIU* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia m
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David Braham & C~
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS SUITINGS
for SUMER.
Periodical Shipments reach us right through
the Season.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Samples and
Self-Measure Charts.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
TAILORS,
—94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.—


€
•er
r£
L A
V
i i
•e*'
ir <?** » *•*
■±£±2ZZ£-
HAPPY, HEALTHY CHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required—not a purgative, mind ! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
it is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2/6.
Postage
C, d. extra.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184- Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
tj mi SA ” Floolt , ST AIN 8 stain and varnish with one operation.
Bnihant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders.
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“S.ll’nu v” AU JU.VI H ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease or application. Adlieres to any surface. For all decorative purposes
economical ami satisfactory. ’
■For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
FAT
WHICH IS DESIRABLE IN A PRIZE PIC
IS NOT SO
IN A PROPERLY CONDITIONED
MAN OR WOMAN
I st p
nze
Fat People reduced to Normal!
Our marvellous treatment, “Fatcure,” is curing thousands of obesity sufferers in all parts of Aus-
tralasia. “ Fatcure reduces excess weight by as much as five pounds a week, and even over a
pound a day in many eases. It is a purely vegetable compound, pleasant and agreeable to the taste.
Absolutely no barm can result from using “Fatcure.”
This treatment is unique ainong-st anti-fats in that it contains absolutely no harmful nor deleterious
ingredients, and though it reduces weight rapidly, its use could not harm the health of even an infant. Its
purity, etncacy, arid freedom from deleterious or harmful substances is absolutely guaranteed. Its use
.nvariaoly improves the general health, a general improvement becoming - noticeable within a few days.
CALL, OR POST 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
If you can call we will give you Free Sample, and weigh you privately. If not, write for Free Sample.
All correspondence is confidential, and samples and treatment are plainly wrapped so that contents of
package are not disclosed. “ Fatcure ”is put up in tablet form. Hours : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The WATWORTH CO., Suite J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
Contentment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OMAN, perplexed, but aye persistent sower
Of seeds whose growth you often may not
wait !
Pained parent of posterity, bestower
On ages, yet unhandseled, of their fate !
Of all the moral senses in your giving,
Why do you in such sparsity hand down
The thing of things to make life worth the living,
Contentment, Virtue’s diamond-crested crown ?
Without contentment none are truly wealthy,
And with it never any one was poor.
It germinates in systems that are healthy,
And fruits alike in city or on moor.
Environment does not suffice to grow it.
But mental strength its roots should fertilise;
And fools and feather-heads shall scarcely know it,
For patience is the treasure of the wise.
The finest word that anywhere is spoken
Is Equanimity, the Buddha finds ;
To own it means felicity 11 . broken,
For happiness endures m peaceful minds.
And neither can elation nor resentment
Disturb the even tenor of their ways
Who worship in the Temple of Contentment,
And dwell within its shadow all their days.
And Sadi, in his meek and simple fashion,
Has wondered much why Adam’s children must
Be harborers of arrogance and passion—
They sprang from, and they all return to, dust.
All equal at their birth and at their dying,
No transitory chances should prevent
Philosophy’s contentment from applying
Its balance to their level settlement.
The pauper, when his end is good and cheerful,
Fares better than the King who dies in woe.
Who nothing has, of nothing need be fearful,
And lightly as he came, so shall he go.
Contentment much prefers to patch its tatters,
Or treat its ventilation as a joke,
To forfeiting the only thing that matters,
Its self-respect, by begging for a cloak.
But, were the lords of plenty only given
An equitable vision, there might be
No poverty, to mendicancy driven,
Less discontent with life’s allotted fee.
The “madness of comparison ” might leave us,
The nurture of bad feeling cease at last,
False pride’s misunderstandings never cleave us,
And egoism moulder in the past.
And so I supplicate the Gods of Kindness—
For kindly gods there somewhere surely are—
To help our struggling peoples in their blindness,
And draw their veil from Truth’s revealing star.
Then man, and that still vainer thing, his woman,
No longer swayed by envious desire,
May quit an emulation all unhuman,
That treads the weak and luckless in the mire,
To turn their thoughts and aims on something
better
Than steps on artificial planes of rank ;
To throw aside the money claims that fetter,
And wake discordant echoes with their clank ;
And, bringing out the best in one another,
In communable brotherhood to try
To make this world as fair as that far other
We dream about achieving when we die.
N'.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.
The Rising of the Court.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE same dingy court room, deep and dim,
like a well, with the clock high up on the
wall, and the doors low down in it ; with
the rather shoddy throne-bench, the Royal arms
above, and the little witness-box to one side,
where so many pitiful, pathetic and noble lies are
told by pitiful sinners and disreputable heroes for
a little liberty for a lost self, or for the sake of a
fiiend of a “pal’' or a “cobber.” The same
overworked and underpaid magistrate trying to
keep his attention fixed on the same old miserable
scene before him ; the same row of big, strong,
healthy, good-natured policemen ; and the police-
court solicitors (those awful police-court solicitors)
wrangling over misery for a crust, and making
sordid “jokes,” in the hope that the newspapers
will notice them.
Opposite the Bench the spiked dock, divided
by a partition, with the women to the left and the
men to the right. (They bring children here no
longer.) There are shaking, wild-eyed drunks and
disorderlies, and a decently-dressed but trembling
and conscience-stricken little wretch up for petty
larceny, or something. (His bosses have sent a
solicitor to prosecute, and a ‘ £ manager ” or some
understrapper to give evidence.)
Over there, on a form to one side of the bench
opposite the witness-box—and in a patch of sun-
light from the skylight, as it happens—sit the
“ Prisoners’ Aid,” “ Prison Gate,” and “Rescue”
people (one or two of the women in nurses’ uni-
forms), who are come to help us and to fight for us
against the Law of the Land.
* * * *
Mrs. Johnson, of Red Rock Lane, is here, and
her rival, One-Eyed Kate, and Cock-Eyed Sal,
and one or two of the other aristocrats of the
alley. And the weeping, bedraggled remains of
what was once, and not so long ago, a pretty,
slight, fair-haired and blue-eyed Australian girl.’
She is up for inciting One-Eyed Kate to resist
the police. Also Three-Pea Ginger, Stousher,
and Wingy, for participation in some row
amongst the aforementioned. (Wingy is a natty
little one-armed man, whose case is usually
described in the headline as “A ’Armless Case”
by one of our great dailies. ) Their pals are
waiting putside in the vestibule—Frowsy Kate
(The Red Streak), Boko Bill, Pincher and his
“piece,” etc., getting together the stuff for the
possible fines, and the fee for the lawyer, and
ready to swear to anything, if called upon.
I, myself, on bail—charge Plain Drunk. It
was “ drunk and disorderly,” by the way, but a
kindly sergeant changed it.
Yet I am not ashamed—only comfortably
dulled and a little tired—dully interested and
observant, and hopeful for the sunlight presently.
We low persons get too great a contempt for
things to feel much ashamed at any time ; and
this very contempt keeps many of us from “ re-
forming.”
Let us go back a bit, and suppose we are still
waiting for the magistrate, and think of Last Night.
The whispering, shuffling, clicking of the court
typewriter ceases, the scene darkens, and the court
is blotted out. And —
* * • •
Drink—lurid recollection of being “searched”
■—clang of iron cell door, and I grope for and
crawl on to the slanting plank. A period of
oblivion. The soul is away in some other world.
Clang of cell door again, and soul returns in a
hurry to take heed of another soul, belonging to a
belated drunk on the plank by my side. Other
soul says :
‘ ‘ Gotta match ? ”
So we’re not in Hell yet.
We fumble and light up. They leave us our
pipes, tobacco and matches ; and presently one
knocks with his pipe on the iron trap of the
door and asks for water, which is brought in a
tin pint-pot. Then follow intervals of smoking,
incoherent mutterings that pass for conversation,
borrowings of matches, knockings with the
pannikin on the cell door wicket or trap for more
water, false and fitful starts into slumber, perhaps
—or wild attempts at flight on the part of our
souls into that other world, that the sober and
sane know nothing of. Gradually, reason (if
this world is reasonable) comes back.
“What’s your trouble ? ”
“ Don’t know. Bomb outrage, perhaps.”
“ Drunk ? ”
“Yes.”
“ What’s yours ? ”
“ Same boat.”
Presently he is uneasy (and I am getting that
way too, to tell the truth). After moving about,
and walking up and down in the narrow space as
well as we can, he “rings up ” another policeman,
who happens to be the fat one who is to be in
charge all night.
Wot’s up here ? ’*
‘ ‘ What have I been up to ? ”
“ Killin’ a Chinaman. Go to sleep.”
Blankets are thrown in. My mate wonders
whether he asked them to send to his wife to get
bail, and hopes he didn’t.
They have left our wicket open, seeing that we
are quiet. But they have seemingly left some
other wickets open also, for from a neighboring
cell comes the voice of Mrs. Johnson. They say
that Mrs. Johnson was a “lady” once, like many
of her kind; that she is not a “bad woman,”
but gets money sent to her from somewhere —
from her “family,” or her husband perhaps. But
when she lets herself loose —or, rather, when
alcohol lets her loose—she is a terror in Red
Rock Lane, and it is only her fierce, practi-
cal kindness to her unfortunate og poverty-
stricken sisters in her sober moments that keeps
her tolerated in that classic thoroughfare. She
can speak “ like a lady ” when she likes—not like
a “ woman of the world,” but as one who knew
and knows the world, and is in Hell. But now
her language is the language of a rough shearer in
a “ rough shed,” on a blazing hot day.
After a while my mate calls out:
“ Oh, for God’s sake give it a rest ! ”
Whereupon Mrs. Johnson straightway attacks
him and his ancestry, and his mental, moral, and
physical condition —especially the last. She
accuses him of every crime known to modern
Christian countries and some Asiatic and ancient
ones. She wants to know how long he has been
out of gaol for kicking his wife to pieces that time
when she was up as a witness against him, and
whether he is in for the same thing again ? (She
has never set eyes on him, by the way, nor he on
her.)
He calls back that she is not a respectable
woman, and he knows all about her.
Thereupon she shrieks at him and bangs and
kicks at her door, and demands his name and
address. She is a respectable woman, and
hundreds can prove it, and she is going to make
him prove it in open court.
He calls back that his name is Adolphus Reginald
Grainger, and he also tells her his club, and gives
her the address of his solicitor.
She bangs and shrieks again, and states that
she will get his name from the charge sheet in the
morning and have him up for criminal libel, and
have his cell mate up as a witness—and hers too.
Just here a policeman comes along and closes her
wicket with a bang and cuts her off, so that her
statements become indistinct, or come only as
shrieks from a lost soul in an underground
dungeon. He also threatens to cut us off and
smother us if we don’t shut up.
We settle down again, but presently my fellow-
captive nudges me and says : “ Listen ! ” From
another cell comes the voice of a woman singing—
the girl who is in for “inciting to resist.”
“Listen !” he says, “ that woman could sing
once !” Her voice is low’ and sweet, and plain-
tive, as of a woman who had been a singer, but
had lost her voice. And what do you think it is ?
The story of Bartimeus :
The crowd in accents hushed reply
“Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.”
Mrs. Johnson’s cell is suddenly silent. Then,
not mockingly, or scornfully, but as if the
girl is a champion of Jesus of Nazareth, and
is hurt at the ignorance of the multitude—and
pities Hhn :
Now who is this Jesus of Nazareth, say ?
The policeman, coming along the passage, closes
the wicket in her door, but softly this time, and
not before we catch the plaintive w'ords again :
The crowd in accents hushed reply—
“ Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.”
My fellow-prisoner throws the- blanket from
him impatiently, sits up with a jerk, and gropes
for his pipe.
“ God !” he says. “ But this is red hot ! Got
ennuther match ? ”
I think about the Nazarene, and sleep for
awhile. I wonder whether they’ll give us time
in the next world, so we’ll be able to sleep some
of our sins off, in the end, as we sleep our drink
off here.
(Continued on next page.)


BILIOUSNESS.
FekirKsdl
A Lifelong Sufferer
Cured.
Few people nowadays are free from
Biliousness in some of its many
forms. It is an ailment caused by
derangement of the functions of
the liver. That wonderful organ
manufactures bile to assist in the
digestion of food, and at the same
time filters all waste and * armful
matter from the blend. When the
liver’s action is imperfect, the bile
becomes misdirected, and the in-
evitable result is Biliousness.
In the most obstinate cases of
Biliousness, Bile Beans are an
unfailing Cure.
“ Ever since childhood,” writes Mrs. M. J. Fairhall, of Hackett Terrace,
Richmond Hill, Charters Towers (Q.), “ I have been subject to Biliousness.
Among the many symptoms which troubled me were windy spasms, poor
appetite, spots before the eyes, and a terrible pain between the shoulder-
blades, for which I had to take morphia to relieve me. The climax
was reached in an illness which the doctors said was caused by my
liver being congested. The agony I suffered was awful. I was com-
pelled to move down south to Newcastle for a
change, with all my family, and it was in this
town I came across Bile Beans. Even from the
first few doses of this medicine I felt a great
improvement in health, and a box and a half
entirely cured me of my distressing complaint.
This is four years ago, and I have not been
troubled since, which proves that Bile Beans cure
surely and permanently.”
Bile Beans Promptly Cure
Indigestion, Biliousness, Constipation, Piles, Headache,
Debility, Female Weaknesses, Loss of Appetite, Heart-
burn, Fulness after Eating, Bad Breath, Angelina. Rest-
lessness, Nausea, Giddiness, Flatulence, Impure Blood,
Summer Fag, and all Liver and Stomach Disorders.
per box, or 2/9 special family size (containing three
times 1/11; box), from all Chemists and Stores, or post free,
for same price, from The Bile Bean Manufacturing Co.,
39 Fitt Street, Sydney.
BILE
BEANS^
fOR
BILIOUSNESS^
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA.
Pears Annual
CHRISTMAS, 1907. READY NOVEMBER 25th.
(Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, LTD , 7**75 New Oxford Street. London.)
The Literary and Artistic Programme includes:—
Seven Great Tales
BY
Seven Great Authors
Geo. R. Sims, Ban-v Pain, The Baroness
Orczy. John Strange Winter, W. Le Queux,
Frank Richardson, Curcliffe Hyne
Illustrated in Black and White and ip Tints, by
Seven Great Artists
Frank Dadd, R. 1., J- C. Dolman, A.R.W.S.. Tom
Browne, R. 1., A. Forestier, Maurice Grieffenhagen,
Gordon Browne, R. 1., and Will Owen
In Handsome Coloured Cover, and accompanied by
Four Presentation Plates,
Each in about 13 Colours, viz.
“A Chip of the Old Block.”
By Fred Evans Dedicated by special
permission to Lord Roberts, V.C., etc.
‘’A Merry ’Xmas,”
By Frank Dadd, R.l. An Old English
Skating Scene.
“ Dessert,"
By E. Ladell. A beautiful Study of
Fruit.
“A Quiet Pipe,"
By the late Sir Kuwin Landseer, R.A.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale j4gents for Jlustralasia, GORDON & GOTCH.
Then daylight and “The Paddock,” which is
the big drunks’ dormitory and dining cell at the
‘ ‘ Central. ” The men borrow and lend and
divide tobacco, lend even pipes, while some break
up hard tobacco and roll cigarettes with bits of
newspaper. If it is Sunday morning, even those
who have no hope for bail, and have a long, hor-
rible day and night before them, will sometimes
join in a cheer as the more favored are bailed.
But the others have tea and bread and butter
brought to them by one of the Prisoners’ Aid
Societies, who ask for no religion in return. They
come to save bodies, and not only to fish for souls.
The men walk up and down, and to and fro, and
cross and re-cross incessantly, as caged men and
animals always do, and as some uncaged men do
too.
“Any of you gentlemen want breakfast?”
Those who have money and appetites order;
some order for the sake of the tea alone ; and
some “shout” two or three extra breakfasts for
those who had no money when they were run
in. We of the under world can be very kind to
each other in trouble.
But now it’s time to call us out by the lists,
marshal us up in the passage, and draft us into
court. Ladies first. (But I forgot that lam out
on bail, and that the foregoing belongs to another
occasion. Or was it only imagination, or hear-
say? Writers have got themselves run in before
now in order to see and hear and feel and smell
for themselves—and write.)
“Silence! Order in the Court!” I come
like a shot out of my nightmare, or trance, or
what you will, and we all rise as the magistrate
takes his seat. None of us noticed him come in,
but he’s there, and I’ve a quaint idea that he
bowed to his audience. Kindly, humorous Mr.
Isaacs always gave me that idea. And,
while he looks over his papers, the women
seem to group themselves, unconsciously, as it
were, with Mrs. Johnson as front-centre, as
though they depended on her in some vague way.
She has slept it off, and tidied, or been tidied
up, and is as clear-headed as she ever will be.
Crouching directly behind her, and supported and
comforted on one side by One-Eyed Kate and on
the other by Cock-Eyed Sal, is the poor, be-
draggled resister of the Law, sobbing convul-
sively, her breasts and thin shoulders heaving and
shaking under her open-work blouse —the girl who
seemed to pity Jesus of Nazareth last night in her
cell. There’s very little inciting to resist about
her now. Most women can cry when they like,
I know, and many have cried men to gaol and
the gallows ; but here in this place, if a woman’s
tears can avail her anything, who dares raise a
sneer ?
His Worship looks up.
Mrs. Johnson (from the dock) : “Good morn-
ing, Mr. Isaacs. How do you do ? You’re look-
ing very well this morning, Mr. Isaacs.”
His Worship (from the Bench) : “ Thank you,
Mrs. Johnson. I’m feeling very well this
morning. ”
There’s a pause, but there is no “ laughter.”
The would-be satellites don’t know whom the laugh
might be against. His Worship bends over the
papers again, and I can see that he is having
trouble with that quaintly humorous and kindly
smile, or grin, of his. Pie has as hard a job to
control his smile and get it off his face as some
magistrates have to get a smile on to theirs. And
there is a case coming by-and-bye that he’ll have
to look a bit serious over. However—
“ Jane Johnson.”
Mrs. Johnson is here present, and reminds the
sergeant that she is.
Then begins, or does begin in most courts, the
same dreary old drone, like the giving out of a
hymn, of the same dreary old charge—“ Yo—
u d —-With —Being Drunk —And—
Disorderly —- In —Such —And —Such —A—Street
—How —Do —You Plead —Guilty— Or Not
.—Guilty? ” But they are less orthodox here. The
“ disorderly” has dropped out of Mrs. Johnson’s
charge somehow on the way from the charge
room. I don’t know what has been going on
behind the scenes, but anyway it is Christmas
time, and the Sergeant seems anxious to let Mrs.
Johnson off lightly. It means anything from 24
hours or ss. to three months on the Island for her.
The lawyers and the police —especially the lawyers
—are secretly afraid of Mrs. Johnson.
The Sergeant: “This woman has not been
here for six weeks, your Worship.”
Mrs. Johnson (who has him set and has been
waiting for him for a year or so) : “ It’s a damned
lie, Mr. Isaacs. I was here last Wednesday !”
Then, after a horrified pause : “ But I beg your
pardon, Mr. Isaacs.”
His Worship’s head goes down again. The
“laughter” doesn’t come here, either. There is
a whispered consultation, and (it being Christmas
time) they compromise with Mrs. Johnson for
“ ss. or the risin’,” and she thanks his Worship
and is escorted out —rather more hurriedly than is
comportable with her dignity, for she makes re-
marks about it.
The members of the Johnsonian sisterhood have
reason to be thankful for the “ lift ” she has given
them, for they all get off lightly ; and even the
resister of Law-and-Order is forgiven. Mrs.
Johnson has money, and is waiting outside to
stand beers for them ; she always “shouts” for
the boys when she has it. And —what good does
it all do ?
Ginger and Wingy get off with the “ option,”
and, though the fine is heavy, it is paid. They
adjourn with Boko Bill, and their politics are
lurid.
Squinny Peters (plain drunk —five bob or the
risin’), who is peculiar for always paying his fine,
elects to take it out this time. It appears that
the last time Squinny got five bob or the risin’,
he paid up like a man, and the Court rose, imme-
diately, to Squinny’s intense disgust. . lie isn’t
taking any chances this time.
Wild-Flowers Charley, who recently did a
fortnight, and has been out on bail, has had a few
drinks this morning, and, in spite of warnings from
and promises to friends, insists on “ making a state-
ment,” though by simply pleading guilty he might
get off easily. The statement lasts some five
minutes. Mr. Isaacs listens patiently and politely,
and remarks :
“ Fourteen days.”
Charley saw the humor of it afterwards, he says.
But what good does it all do ?
HENRY LAWSON.
Mafficking.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEVINE pulled Gordon into a quiet corner,
and spoke feverishly.
“ I’m in a devil of a mess, Gordon. You
remember Mafelcing night. Well, that night I
was away from home—the only time I ever remem-
ber being away a whole night. My wife, though
we were only married then six months, didn’t
ask me any questions about it till a week ago.
Then one of those dear old schoolgirl friends of
hers (damn ’em all) came to visit us, and fainted
when she was introduced to me.”
“ That was awkward,” said Gordon.
“ While she was coming round she talked, and
now there’s Hades to pay. Now, you’re coming
up to lunch with me, and be introduced to my
wife ; and you’ve simply got to remember how
you met me in Flinders-street by appointment.
We went to the Opera House for an hour—yes,
we did. Shut up till I’ve done. Then we
picked up a few old chums, and had a real
good maffick. Don’t you remember how
we stole a cab and drove to Spencer-
street, then stole another, and drove back
to Spring-street? Yes, we did. We upset
a tram, and called at every pub we knew and a
thousand more we didn’t know. Then we all got
run in till morning, but got out early, and got off
leniently on account of the intense loyalty of the
period. Now,” anxiously, “have you got all
that in your brain pan ? You needn’t laugh.
I’m dashed serious. The wife wants an explana-
tion, and she’s got to get it.”
Gordon got a word in.
“ Look here, Dev. I’m quite willing to help
you ; but, hang it, it’s such a poor yarn. Besides,
the old schoolmate may talk some more.”
“No fear,” said Devine. “She laughs, and
says it was temporary confusion of mind and all
that kind of thing. But you know what women
are. I want that alibi , and you’ve got to provide
it. By the way, I suppose you did maffick that
night ? ”
“ Did I what ? ” Then Gordon smiled dreamily.
“And, by Jove, you remind me. I did have a
time. She was the neatest thing in pink chiffon
and openwork stockings I ever saw. I’ll swear
she was looking for some one. But after a while
she seemed to settle down and—well, she was
particularly neat. But I never found out who
she was. Eh, oh yes. I’ll come out and
do my best, but I’m a poor actor. Yes, I’ve
got it all down in my mental ledger : stolen
cab—no, cabs ; tram upset —I saw that myself,
the pink vision was with me at the time ; pubs,
etc. All right, Devine. Come on and introduce
me, and we’ll start the Ananias stakes.”
* * * *
Letter from Mr. Devine to Mr. Gordon
Dear Harry,—Just a hasty note. Lettie has not men-
tioned the subject since you explained the niylit
before last. But I must say I was much disappointed in
you. A bad actor ! Caesar ! you were worse than bad.
From the moment I introduced you you stumbled and
mumbled, and positively gibbered at the finish. She
didn’t believe you ; that I saw plainly. Yet she accepted
the whole yarn. I can’t quite understand her attitude in
the matter, but I suppose I must not complain, since she
has dropped the subject altogether since you left. In-
deed. she seems quite anxious to avoid it. Well, “all’s
well,” etc.
Thanks for your assistance, though you are, as you say,
a dashed bad actor. Yours faithfully,
J. Devine.
Gordon almost wept at this lack of appreciation.
“ A bad actor ! And I got away without Devine
even dreaming that his wife was my friend in pink
and openwork stockings—the one that mafficked !
And I managed not to fall down dead when I
saw her ! And I managed to tell her with
my eye that it was all right, and
she needn’t faint ! And I gibbered out
that story somehow, when I knew it was a
lie, and Devine knew it was a clumsy whopper,
and his wife knew it was an invention, and his
wife’s friend knew it was a yarn. And there was
that dawning comprehension on the friend’s face
—she realised that Mrs. Devine had mafficked
that night ! Yet I only broke one flower-pot
coming away, and fell down two steps ! And
I’m a bad actor ! ”
KU KLUX.
Me.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM the publican’s pretty daughter. I was
educated abroad. I have notions, and the
young men who sprawl over my father’s
counter do not appeal to me in the least. They
leave me very cold. Sometimes I also leave them
cold.
How would you like to be singing a most
enchanting song of Brahms’, and to have a rude
interruption in the shape of a battered-looking
head (with a bleary eye) showing round the
corner of the door, and a cultured voice murmur-
ing “ Say, Miss, can’t yer give us ‘ Stick to your
Mother, Tom ’ —something with a bit of chune
in it ? ”
I merely stop dead, with a freezing request to
the intruder to kindly close the door after him.
In spite of my fluffety hair and my soft eyes, I
can be most awe-inspiring when I like. But one
night two intruders were not to be so easily dis-
posed of. They were gawky, muddy-faced youths,
who wriggled about in chairs (while I warbled),
and would not listen to hints. They were in a
maudlin state, and ever and anon nudged each
other feebly.
I raised a proud head, and poured out French
songs in a rich voice, because I knew they de-
tested them.
In desperation, I jumped rapidly from one song
to, another.
V She’s like a hee —from flower to flower, you
. know,” tittered one, trying to work his decrepit
old* compliments on me. But in this very phrase
f suddenly spied a loop-hole of escape.
“B— What ! How dare you hint at profane
language in my company ! Will you walk out, or
will my father help you ? ”
Dumbfounded and blanker of eye than ever,
they stumbled out. I patted down my hair,
smiled roguishly at my pleasing reflection in the
mirror, and gathering my forces, swooped into a
Liszt rhapsody.
KIRSTY.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
Mrs. E. Harrison,
Gawler, S. A.
4S*
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
“just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. Q. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
And Artistic
***** A
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and, address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 0
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business With you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
this liberal offer, Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
i
S'
with any other firm,
could not make you
seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
LOCATE GOLD
COPPER, SILVER.
ROD
Per Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Btampe.
Cdw. NORTON,. 64 Hunter Street SYDNEY.
POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
- , ‘ ' '
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original .Drawing’s
by Livingston HOpkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. y. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. . VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artjsts—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McOrae, and “Splash.”
- Fonvarded Post Free, to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - -10 d.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Slk George Street, Sydney.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears tbe name KO~
t
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney. >
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
, Checks and Arrests FEVEIi, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/I#, 2/9, & 4/6.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAUET & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ESITES. Sold by all Chemists.
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post FreOt Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
GARDEN SEEDS. £l,OOO,
No Money Wanted.
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
W« trust you—the risk is ours. You mar return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value.
Don't delay, send at onoe before our offer is withdrawn
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
(S
m
/SB>
n
r
m
i
NV3 WI J.VHM MONMnOA
EECHAMS
-PILLS.
X
urn"'"'',
Cut this out
and send it
to us and we
will send
you free,
postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition of
splendid, invaluable and standard illustrated
Medical Work, which acknowledged medical treatise
should be read by every adult.
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
is an up-to-date appliance, whereby electricity in a
gentle and continuous current saturates every nerve,
muscle, fibre and organ of the human system. It
absolutely cures all cases of Nervous Disorders,
Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney
and Stomach Troubles. Come-and-Go Pains, and
that tired feeling.
We don’t ask anyone to take ckances on our invention. If we fail the loss
is ours, all you lose is your time; all we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and
you can have our appliances, and 1 ,
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly. You don’t have to pay
till you are cured. We could not'do this if our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that
it gives a strong current, and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from grateful
patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay no longer.
Write at once. We can help you.
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.,
317 COLLINS STREET , MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
MEN
■ ■
w OMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily. \
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 PaKes
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. Tne most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with lone*
standing^chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Xo similar book has ever been published.
FREE A 5 . 0 ' P&S1? specimen copy of this grand Work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate
", * * n £ O-J-Sl . f . alr °L' vhat fche Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also MIND OVER MATTER and ‘BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
ref,-™™'. Note Address r V
medical works), posted FREE
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps).
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“E/mfey House,"
151 E/izabeth-st
_ HYDE PARK, BYONEY.


Use Your
Hose Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’llg-et moreout
of your gurden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
I etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Senaf for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd .
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO
THE
imm
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
Hypnotism
*9
Reader, -why not be able \o use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
I nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LEBSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain,
the mysteries and secrets
ol the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engraving!, and 1. the most
and oxpensira thing of tho kind
over published. For • short
time I will send this magnlfl-
e«nt work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. {stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotise. It la a chance of
• life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
£g
HUE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
:
mm
wm
Tbs above cut illustrates the LITTLE WCNDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill Tor
Minus or Quarries. Weight about lSlt». Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air par minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLS AGENTS:
& J. LEMPRIERE.
9
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
, ot
m
o
&
M
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tsn, Chaps, Irritation, Ac.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. PacKet of 12.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. lOd. „ 10.
PATERNOSTER^
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
lissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
SEJOOSQ
ajgjL.
The Bearer "'and las stood the test of time.
c QHB
j*
or
AX
WOLF
* At the Showrooms- . ' ;; ~
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
SYDNEY
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
To the
Established at
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
GEELONC
LONDON
You naturally desire to obtain the highest possible price for your Wool Clip. To do so it is not sufficient to carefully class it before dispatch to market.
It must be judiciously lotted and attractively displayed to command the attention of the army of buyers who annually constitute the buying strength of the
Sydney market. We undertake this important work for owners, and if you have not yet given us a trial, we cordially invite you to do so this season ;we will
spare no effort to give you satisfaction. Prompt attention, careful weighing and quick returns are features of our business.
Write for way-bills and any information required.
Expert valuations furnished when desired.
A. M. L. & F. CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
{This Address is quite sufficient.)
N? Sj
IS
m
m
IIM
siaSat'r
mi .
!_sgus
PlCßßffinir
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
EtC., Etc.
“MABOR” ASSAY MATERIAL
i ■ l
ACCORDING TO TESTIMONIALS THE ADVANTAGES OF “MABOR” ARE—
No change required in the methods of making or using.
✓ Much shorter time to dry Cupels when made.
Absence of Variations due to atmospheric conditions.
Much greater regularity In the Cupels produced.
Absence of cracking in the muffle. ;
Accuracy in results of assays.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., agents, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
