

IDEW-A-lEVS WHISKY
107 Kent
Twining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
street. Sydney,
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
POOLEY’S PLATFORM WEIGHING MACHINE
HOBART,
" I —■ ■ -
jjadley’s Orient fjotel.
V- ■
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Lndowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
POOLEY’S WEIGHING MACHINES
Are made in types to suit Every Class of Material to be Weighed.
Send for must a ed Descriptive Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BA TTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
i
\
it back,
I must have
HUTTON S
Pine Apple Brand
MAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
> 7lationai\
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully, Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
♦
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
S ° Ciety) ‘ TF. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “S&
cut ,
HOSE.
• -- -
For DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM, OR ROCK
Send Your Enquiries and ORDERS to—
DRILLS.
Works at—
SILVERTQWN,
ESSEX, ENGLAND.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
Telephone Nos. 882, 24-35.
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“LYSAOHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
"LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
5
j
is the Queen of all Cocoas
B fOK
|Afom^Strei\gthfrPuritft
EASTWAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
l" l
ft
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria,
•iCjauit{3«K PMB /° «n« Jt »s“v ui saajieut »sa,3j«| osiV
ĵ
UaUEUiSU
gollin & CO..
The Bulletin
VoL 28.—N0. 1443.]
[Thursday, October 10, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


*The Fall of Napoleon, by Oscar Browning (John Lane.
per Lockley Library, Sydney).
Napoleon’s Men and Methods, by Alex. L. Kielland
(A. Owen, London).
Napoleon, King of Elba, by Paul Gruyer (Wm. Heine-
niann, per Sydney Book Club).
TWO “ COOKERIES ” FOR TWO POCKETS.
MRS. MACLURCAN’S COOKERY BOOK
A collection of Practical Recipes specially suitable for Australia ; Seventh Edition, Revised and Enlarged •
White Varnished Cloth 2s. 6d., Postage G*l. s ’
THE ANTIPODEAN COOKERY BOOK
By MRS. LANCE RAWSON. Fifth Edition ; Wrapper Gel., by Post Bd.
%* We have BEETON’S and other Codkery Books, but the above are AUSTRALIAN.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For tiif. Cure op
Bronchitis /
and Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
«-
m
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
IV HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Unlike CJoutfh Medicines, do not cause gastric discomfort or digestive derangement.
“The Practitioxer” cays “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.
So/d by ail Chemists. Tins, Is. (id.
THE RED PAGE
OSCAR WILDE.
He dreamt of Life, a purple pomp of Joy,
Where Love and Youth went naked, unashamed,
An Eden at whose portals no sword flamed,
And where the sweets of Passion did not cloy. ,
Waking, he found his dream a shattered toy,
Life was a surging throng whom Fate had maimed;
They jeered and spat because he too was lamed.
Whom Fortune loves she one day will destroy.
But Time restores and over Death and Shame
With certain hand she blazons large his name.
O Master Craftsman ! Shining Lord of Song,
And subtle worker in strange phantasy,
You snare men’s souls with potent wizardry !
In Life rejected, Death has made you strong.
N.S.W.
WILFRID MAILLER.
THE PERENNIAL NAPOLNON
WHEN England deported Napoleon to
St. Helena, it was with the inten-
tion and with the confidence that
in that distant islet he would soon
be forgotten. And libraries of volumes have
been written, and are being written, upon
him ; and to-day he still ranks higher in
history than J. Carruthers. Even the Aus-
tralian Defence Minister, Ewing, has ex-
pressed a wish to have him in Australia.
There was once a possibility that we might
have had him. While he was .in Elba,
letters from England suggested that his resi-
dence shbuld be transferred from the Medi-
terranean to Botany Bay.
That it is hard to forget Napoleon is evi-
denced by the recent appearance of three
noteworthy books upon him.* The work of
Kielland, a Norwegian, is personal, gossipy,
and somewhat slight; Gruyer, a French-
man, treats in detail of a period of Napoleon’s
life about which hitherto little has been
written, and Browning, an Englishman,
gives a masterly summary of the closing
years of Napoleon’s career. The three books
would have been improved by the insertion
of maps.
In The Fall of Napoleon Browning makes
clear to us the immense influence of England
upon the fate of Europe. In all the con-
fused earlier campaigns of the Allies against
Napoleon England is always in the back-
ground, always implacable, always on the.
watch, always ready with money —millions
of money—to aid his enemies. The Contin-
ent had plenty of men, England had plenty
of money ; and though she supplied troops
in her turn, it was with reluctance.
She spent money freely; she did not
spend men till the final necessity arose.
In treaties concluded by England with
Prussia and Russia in 1812, England
guaranteed Prussia a paper currency of five
millions sterling, promised to pay two-thirds
of a million pounds for a Prussian army of
80,000 men, contributed a subsidy to Russia
of a million sterling, and half-a-million more
for the Russian fleet. In the new treaty
between the Allies in LBl4, it was at first
intended that England should not offer
troops, but—what was probably easier and
cheaper—merely a subvention of five millions.
Castlereagh, however, had to give in addition
his share of the troops, each of the four
nations providing 150,000 men. “My
modesty,” he said, “ would have prevented
me offering it; but as they chose to make us
a military power, I was determined not to
play a second fiddle.”
Kielland gives a graphic account of the
almost absolute annihilation of Napoleon’s
army in the retreat from Russia. This is
the final act of that catastrophe :
crossed the Niemen and got safely out of
Itussia. They were 500 men in all. The cossacks
did not leave them as yet. At one point, where
the road mounted a little, they came to a stand-
still once more, and lost all that they had kept
together. The cossacks scattered the four or five
hundred men in the darkness, and Ney and
Gerard found only a few officers with them. In
the end, they reached Konigsberg. From this
point there was no part of the army under arms.
They continued the retreat in small bands, flying
over the plains of Poland, and were pursued for
some miles beyond the Niemen by the cossacks.
Then the Russian cavalry turned back, and the
Tsar’s army, which had lost two-thirds of its
strength, came to a halt at last.
J*
_ Of the many might-have-beens, one (men-
tioned by Browning) was at the battle of
Kulm. Napoleon did not support Van-
damme, who was taken between two fires
and defeated by the Prussians—the turning
point of the campaign of 1813.
If Vandamme had been supported, not only
would the allied armies have been dispersed, but
the allied sovereigns would have been captured.
They were standing together on a hill, now' called
the Hill of Monarchs, and all Napoleon would
have had to do, if he had been there, was to sur-
round the bottom of the hill, and wait till they
came down. The campaign would have been at
an end, and peace would have been made.
Another is noted by Kielland.
It is very striking to see how often in these
two battles, Ligny and Waterloo, everything
hung on a single thread. If Ney' had made
haste lie might have caught Wellington at the
ball at Brussels. If D’Erlon had not made a
false move, the Prussians would have been sur-
rounded at Ligny. Blucher might have been
taken prisoner if anyone had recognised him ;
and Napoleon might have won the battle of
Waterloo if Grouchy had done his duty. All this
means, of course, that the whole apparatus which
had once worked so accurately and flawlessly, as
well as the chief himself, were somewhat worn.
His generals ji ad lost their blind faith in his in-
vincibility in Russia. It was now plain that this
belief was the real cause of his invincibility;
After Waterloo, Wellington told Creevy :
“It has been a damned serious business.
Blucher and I have lost 30,000 men. It has been
a damned nice thing—the nearest run thing you
ever saw in your life. Blucher lost 14,000 on
Friday night, and got so damnedly licked I could
not find him on Saturday morning ; 'so I was
obliged to fall back to keep up my communications
with him. By God, I don’t think it would have
been done if I had not been there.”
Commenting upon Napoleon’s invariable
habit of returning to Paris secretly and with
haste after a disastrous campaign, leaving
his army to extricate itself—he did it four
times, from Egypt, Spain, Smorgoni and
Waterloo—Kielland remarks :
He assuredly never made any personal sacrifice
for others, or for the common good. What he gave
never had the character of a sacrifice, but came
of the splendid generosity that distinguishes the
lofty prince. Had anyone expected him to re-
main on the wreck when things had gone wrong,
he would have called it the stupid notion of an
idealist. He never had any other scheme of
action than completely to realise his aim. He
said : “I am stronger when I speak from my
throne in the Tuileries than at the head of an
army that is perishing with the cold.” He was
by no means indifferent about his men. Few
generals before him had done so much for their
soldiers in the field and at home in the way of
comfort and rewards. But to him an army was
merely a power that he could use. When a thing
was lost and destroyed he let it lie; it was of no
further use.
Jt
Both Browning and Gruyer make it clear
that Napoleon could not have remained in
Elba. The dangers were too many. Brown-
ing shows us the sovereign of Elba in want
of money—his pension was never paid by the
King of France—fearing kidnapping or
assassination, with the knowledge that the
French army was disorganised and secretly
desirous of his return, the army in Italy
ready to rise as one man at his approach. It
was thought that the Grand Turk would
enrol him as a general for the destruction of
Russia. The Emperor in Elba meanwhile
was making roads, planting mulberry trees,
studying botany and agriculture, shooting
rabbits, and trying to drive a pair of oxen in
a plough. It is recorded that the bullocks
jibbed.
But Napoleon was in all things thorough,
and even his first speech to the Elbans
showed his capacity lor taking pains. In
that speech :
He seemed to know the precise wants of every
commune, the number of inhabitants, and the
resources of each. He knew how much revenue
came from the salt workings, how many boats
were used for the tunny fisheries, their habits and
ancient customs, the dates of the foundations of
their towns and villages, . . . and he appeared to
know better than any of them the topography of
their island, and informed them, almost to a foot,
of the heights of their mountains.
The key to the mystery was simple. ... In the
catastrophe which shook the whole of Europe, and
lost him his throne, he remembered to put a guide
book of Elba in his pocket, andmaster its contents
on the journey ; and for the political history of
the island he had gone to the papers of the sub-
prefecture that very morning, on board the
English frigate. His command of detail, and his
power of deception, never left him, and the effect
he made was, as usual, unerring. The Elbans were
astounded.
Jt
Napoleon arrived in Elba—for he was
still technically a sovereign, not a captive—
with 102 horses and mules, and 27 carriages.
He had for escort 700 Guards and 54 men of
the Polish Light Cavalry. He immediately
annexed the tiny islet of Pianosa, and set to
work to colonise it. So he played with his
toy sovereignty, “Napoleon, Emperor, King
of Elba.” And the apprehensions of Europe
were almost extinguished by the reports
carefully circulated of the captive’s mental
and moral atrophy. He seemed to have
vanished from history. But still Europe
trembled. This apathetic acceptance of his
banishment was so unlike the man, and
Elba was too near for Europe’s comfort. And
Europe had no scruples in dealing with such
a man. Letters from England contained
such expressions as r “ The fate of Napoleon
is decided. He will be sent to Santa Lucia.
It is a pity they did not send him to Botany
Bay.” “The Corsican Ogre will not be
sent to Trinidad because the island is
healthy and rather pretty, while the island
of Santa Lucia will soon purge the world of
our friend Buonaparte.” One scheme was to
convey the victim to the. Isle St. Mar-
guerite, where he was to be imprisoned.
There were also plans-of assassination.
It is posssible that in any case (says Browning)
Napoleon would not have remained at Elba, but
his enemies did their best to drive him from it.
The King of France left him without money, the
Emperor of Austria robbed him of his child,
Metternich employed a ruffian to debauch his
wife, Castlereagh wished to transport him, Talley-
rand to throw him into prison, and perhaps to
assassinate him.
Then this impotent captive had merely to
set foot upon the soil of France to be
acclaimed its sovereign. Of the return from
Elba, one of the most marvellous episodes in
history, Browning says :
No preparations had been made for it, no con-
spiracy brought it about, no one was in the plot.
What could give Napoleon a more complete right
to reign over France, if sovereignty is ever to be
founded on the basis of a nation’s will,,than the
fact that, landing on the coast of France with
1100 men and four horses, he marched from
triumph to triumph, from recognition to recognition
un,til he entered the palace of his capital, to find
his court and ministers around him, a palace
decorated and illuminated for the reception of its
sovereign ?
But this unanimous choice of the French
people availed little. Europe was still
Napoleon’s enemy. The old alliance was
still in force, and by it the nations were
bound to destroy Napoleon as one would
destroy a devil. In her frenzy Europe
went so far as to denounce him as
something lower than human. The pro-
clamation which the allies immediately
drew up declared that, in breaking the con-
vention which had established him in Elba,
Napoleon had destroyed the only legal title
to which his existence was attached, that he
had placed himself outside the pale of civil
and social relations, and that he is delivered
to public vengeance as the enemy and dis-
turber of the world’s repose. This blood-
thirsty declaration was signed, with others,
by Wellington.
So Napoleon found Europe arrayed
against him, and for defence he had an in-
adequate and exhausted army—-and its
General was no longer the Napoleon that
had led them triumphantly over prostrate
Europe.
The man who came from Elba (says Kielland)
was no longer the General Bonaparte who leaped
to land after the return from Egypt. The little
officer of 1799, thin, inflexible in will, had become
the stout head of a state, irresolute and sensuous.
It is the thin men who succeed, and to whom the
future belongs. There were other reasons that
contributed to his change and downfall. He was
accustomed to see the most scandalous advances
on the part of all the women he came in contact
with... .
After Waterloo and the second abdication
Browning mentions the last desperate resort
of Napoleon, already determined to fly to
America.
He went up to his bedroom by a secret stair-
case, and came back dressed in uniform. He
besought Beker to go to the commission of
government to offer his services, not as Emperor,
but as general,,with the solemn promise that he
would leave for America the very day when he
repulsed the enemy.
But this offer was, of course, refused.
And America was too big a place for so big
a man. He might have slipped past the
English blockading squadron—a plot was
ready formed—but he considered it incom-
patible with his dignity to go as a fugitive.
He asked for passports. But with implacable
enemies in France his surrender to England
was inevitable. Napoleon threw himself
upon the hospitality of the British people.
His letter to the Prince Regent of England
ran as follows :
Your Royal Highness,—Attacked by factions
which distract my country, and by the enmity of
the greatest Powers of Europe, I have terminated
my political career, and I come, like Themistocles,
to seat myself on the hearth of the British people.
I place myself under the protection of its laws,
which I claim from your Royal Highness as the
most powerful, the most constant, and the most
generous of my enemies.
And England, naturally, was perplexed.
Liverpool wrote to Castlereagh recommend-
ing St. Helena for Napoleon. “At such a
distance, and in such a place, all intrigues
would be impossible, and being withdrawn
so far from the European world he would
very soon be forgotten. To conclude, we
wish that the King of France would hang or
shoot Buonaparte, as the best termination of
the business.” While The Times savagely
called him “A creature who ought to be
greeted with the gallows as soon as he
lands !. . . The first procedure, we trust, will
b(e a special commission or a court-martial
to try him for the murder of Captain
Wright.” Asked in St. Helena who was
this Captain Wright, Napoleon replied that
he had never heard of him.
&
And now of the man. “For me,” says
Kielland, “ Napoleon is, above all things, a
man—a male through and, through, a being
compounded solely of masculine qualities.”
That seems a judgment sane and fair.
Kielland calls attention to the fact that:
He was always irritable, from youth upward.
I have never read anywhere of Napoleon laugh-
ing. It seems that he could not. There was
never a laugh, or an outburst of hilarity; he
had always the same marble coldness. . . .
Napoleon cei'tainly never indulged in jovial
intercourse over a glass or a good story.
I have never heard of him raising his glass to
propose a health. He was destructive by charac-
ter and custom. He wasted huge quantities of
paper. He pulled up the choicest plants in the
hot-houses, and, when he could do it without
being seen, he used to shoot Josephine’s rare birds.
As a matter of fact, however, he was not a good
shot. One day, shooting in the forest of Fon-
tainebleau, the Emperor shot out one of the eyes
of Massena, but nothing was said of it. Berthier
took the blame for it, probably because he was
master of the hunt.
He was always angry if beaten in any
game ;he cheated at chess and cards. More
than once, apparently, he sought death as a
way out of his growing difficulties.
In the course of a battle at Arcis, the Em-
peror made his horse step over a shell that had
just fallen. Exelmans wanted to warn him, but
Sebastiani prevented him.
“ Don’t you see that he is doing it on purpose,”
he said. “He wants to make an end of it.” But
when the shower of soil and stones had settled
down, the Emperor was sitting unhurt on his
horse.
After the capitulation of Paris, and his first
abdication, says Kielland :
Napoleon’s appearance was such that all those
about him were greatly concerned. The official
in charge of his cabinet unloaded the pistols in
his bedroom. During the night Napoleon
awakened his servant, and told him to make a
fire. He heard the Emperor write letters and
tear them up again. At last he took a small
black pouch out of a secret cavity in his dressing-
case, emptied it into a glass of water, and went
to bed. We do not know for certain whether he
then took a strong poison that he had had in
Russia—in a signet, I believe pat all events this
and the pouch were empty the- next morning.
But he did not die ; either he was too strong, or
the poison was too old. He awakened his
Egyptian servant, Ivan, who came and assisted
him. Ivan then went into the stall, saddled a
horse, and rode off, and never came back again.
Next morning it was evident that he had spent a
bad night; his face was pale and drawn, like that
of a corpse, and his eyes sunk back deep in their
sockets. But he mastered himself, and signed
the treaty in his usual hand.
Napoleon’s attitude to women (remarks Kiel-
land) was somewhat similar to his attitude to-
wards men : he took everything that was offered
him, and nearly everything was offered him. The
truth was, he never allowed himself to be over-
ruled by a woman. No one ever knew him to be
drawn into a bad deed ora political crime for the
sake of a woman.
Gruyer details the’affair of the Countess
Walewska, one of the most permanent of
Napoleon’s relations with women. He met
the Countess in Russia) before his retreat.
She resisted him for four days, an absolutely
unheard-of proceeding. As a rule, as soon as the
Emperor deigned to honor any girls with his
notice, their mothers, bursting with pride, would
send them, decked out with their own hands. . . .
From that time she continued to form part of his
life, although history in its falsehood and hypoc-
risy is silent regarding her. . . . They were not
separated by his marriage with Marie Louise.
After the first abdication, she hastened to
Fontainebleau, and waited all one night till
the dawn to see him. But Napoleon,
plunged into a stupor, had no time then for
any woman. And now she came to him at
Elba. But he could not risk a scandal, and
he sternly sent her away. Meantime his
wife, Marie Louise, had become Neipperg’s
mistress.
Re the alleged plagiarism of Jack London
(now somewhere on the Pacific in Ins canoe),
“Maori Mac,” justly remarks: —“His —or
someone else’s —* People of the Abyss ’ has
sufficient merit to excuse his —or the other
person’s—earlier books, and if London had
not perpetrated—note the term those other
books—which John Pea cruelly accuses him of
‘poleing’ from various individuals—‘People of
the Abyss’ would never have been written. A
publishing firm, struck by London’s—or the other
fellow’s—style, invited the alleged thief to visit
Fogtown, and write about ‘ The Great Un-
cleansed.’ ‘People of the Abyss’ was the result.
As an unbiassed statement of the result of a policy
of Freetrade and unrestricted immigration it
stands as a warning to the people of these Southern
lands. It should have a place in every Australasian
home. London—or his victim—telis of London’s
35,000 homeless people who live on orange peel
and apole cores picked from the spittle-drenched
pavements of the Big Smoke ; of working people
living nine in a room; and of a hero, one Dan
Cullen, a student of Shakespeare and other
writers, who led a strike, and died of starvation.
For all I know to the contrary, ‘ People of the
Abyss ’ may have been written by the defunct W.
Shakespeare, or the late Elijah Dowie, or by
John Pea himself, and Jack London may never
have been in London —perhaps he is a myth, like
Judkins and the Six Ratters—but certainly he
deserved all the gold which doubtless he got for
putting his name on the title page.”


Jk
wte
0
□ □
Illustrations of a few Smart Costumes
are shown on this page; hundreds of
others in the Fashion Portfolio, post free
on application.
wm
At the New ...
Palace Emporium.
I ** I
<S)
sz; *
05
m
UA
m
CA
05
©
NN
i >n
sx-:
«5!
o
S 3
(F*
Ml
-■ •
ft
C©stanm®®=
$
No. 791 —White Ground French Cam-
bric Costume, Kirnona Sleeves,
Black, Navy, Sky, Pink, Stripes
and Navy Ground, Sateen with
White Spots, 21s.
Similar in Navy Ground Floral
Cambric, 17s 6d.
No. 8081—Stripe Cambric Costume,
Blouse trimmed Embroidery
Insertion, Plain Tucked Skirt,
assorted newest narrow stripes,
15s 6d.
No. 7971 —Self-Colored Soft Mercer-
ised Muslin Costume, trimmed
Valenciennes, Pink, Sky, 26s 6d.
Similar Style, trimmed Guipure
Insertion, Brown or Navy only,
25s 6d.
No. 8042—Ladies’ Stripe French
Cambric Costume, Heliotrope,
Pink, Sky, Navy, 12s 9d.
No. 790—White Ground French Cam-
bric Costume, trimmed Embroid-
ery Medallions, Pink, Sky,
Navy, or Black Stripes, 21s.
No. 7904 —White Ground French
Cambric Costume, Sky, Pink,
Navy, or Black Stripe, 17s 6d.
No. 3265—White Soft Organdie Mus-
lin Costume, trimmed Muslin
Embroidery and Insertion, 425.
Similar Styles, 355., 39s 6d.
No. 3237 —White Lawn Costume,
tucked and trimmed Embroidery
Insertion and Medallions, Elbow
Sleeves, 15s 6d.
No. 3263 —White Organdie Muslin
Costume, trimmed Valenciennes
Embroidery Medallions, 29s 6d.
No. 3235 —White Lawn Costume,
tucked and trimmed Embroidery,
Elbow Sleeves, 10s. 9d.
No. 3301—White Soft Book Muslin
Costume, tucked and trimmed
Muslin Insertion, 23s 6d.
Similar styles in better quality, 355.
Similar style, trimmed Valen-
ciennes Lace, 29s 6d.
No. 3256 —White Lawn Costume,
trimmed Swiss Embroidery,
Elbow Sleeves, 18s 6d.
fete
"• * ** - *
.
r*
wv-
s2
S£s
'
M
'-mi
: ;•
p
f.J*
V*
3®
iWI
'Jt‘,Viii
:?
v"
=»s—=*s=
~3»
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ĵ
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S 3 "5T 33 3NT lES 3T.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade »■ BOOKS-
j
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Uf-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is Bd. My Neighbour.
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. - 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
PLEASE MENTION THIS
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
Nkw Thicks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wres i ling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring’ Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Rasy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
VWAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St.. Melbourne
WINCHESTER
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
CONICAL BALL
•HKIII
SMOKELESS FOWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
ENO’
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, In fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-5m Capsule mark'd ENO't 4 FRUIT SALT;' Without It you bar* a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
ffnparad only by J. G. UNO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, BNGK,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
XO DJEFY COMPETITION 1 .
WINES m Bed ordv ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
>
>
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
N0 MONEY WANTED
We have decided to give away *5000 in good and
1 useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Per\ny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
| Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
> Girls' Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
J Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS, to those who will distribute our
Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you
any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your friends or keep for
your own use, and at any time within one month after you receive the Cards send "u^the^mounT'<
due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good, <
useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Payment. Remember ! You \
may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever )
with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so. A '
Trial Solicited. Simply send us your Order fcr One, Two, Three, or up to Ten Dozen, and <
we will forward the Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to ;
show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Pressnts we give away ;
to our Agents. (
T suppued? The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W. <
ĵ
CD
"D"
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C-B
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
4
Guineas
m
A
fi
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to ail other
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance holdssway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
OBTAINABLE in all styles
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to :■
J. E. N i WPORT, SONS & Co.,
Flinders Lane, McLBDURNi.
A. E. WITTEY, 75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
jT]
?
i
iSIIONdAH
m
HAKE
FUNsMONEY
Would you like to exert a strange and magic power over others ? Do you
desire to possess an accomplishment by which you can make both tun and
money? If so, you should become a Hypnotist. You can now master this
wonderful, mysterious and fascinating science free of all cost at your owa
home. By a few hours’ study you can learn all about the secrets, methods,
uses and wonders of the hypnotic trance. You can surprise and mystify all
your frends by placing any one you wish under this weird and magic spell,
and compel them to see, think, feel, and act precisely as you wish. You
can sway the minds of others, perform the most wonderful and astounding
feats, and create fun and amusement for hours at a time. You can do a
thousand amazing things that other people cannot do, and make yourself famous in a week’s time. It
you want to make money, you can do so by giving entertainments, curing disease, or teaching the art to
others. These are three sure and easy ways to win a fortune. Why be poor? Why work for others,
when you can master this money-making profession so easily ? Investigate now. It costs nothing to nna
out all about it. Professor Barraden, the world-renowned Hypnotist has issued a large and elegant
FREE BOOK, entitled, “A Kev to the Mysteries of Hypnotism,” and anybody can get a copy of it
merely for ’he asking. It is the most beautiful, interesting and valuable hook ever published. It
contains beautiful pictures and is a marvel of elegance and splendor. Best of all, this charming book tells
you just how to become a hypnotist. Every secret and niystery is here explained in the simplest;
language. You are also shown how you may heal the sick, relieve pain, cure bad habits, give sleep to the
restless and comfort to the sorrowing. And for yourself, as this free Book shows, you can win promotion,
social and business standing, increase of trade, the influence, friendship or love you most desire, and, m
short, all that is needed to make j r ou rich, esteemed and happy as long as life lasts. This book also treats
fully on Personal Magnetism, Magnetic Healing and kindered subjects, and how to 'cure‘ yourself oi
any pain, ache or disease. In spite of its great value and precious contents, this book is free to you.
Simply write and ifc will be sent by next mail. Don't send any money, but send your name ana
address TO-DAY.
Professor R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C MUCKS
■bius
©MOTEB’S
P°w™
POULS.
Fca TORPID LIVER.
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACWF
For the COMPLEXION.
Everyman and woman should know that Liverpisordera
PI [ ' LS ' "eR'S 1 UTTI f | ht UVER " PITLS eg Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the woaderflA
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He j
knows about j
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand
LJ
/ V;'- .•;■•% \
ard cough medicine for children.
i4i(er’s
'Cherry Sectoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITS
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Baurke St., Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
COMPLETE
GOOD
HEALTH
II
The
Evidence
from 23, Lamb Street, Lilyfield,
Leichhardt, N.S.W., June 15th ,
1906 :—“My son Albert Leslie
suffered at various times
from diarrhoea, asthma,
pneumonia and bronchitis,
of which he had three
attacks in six weeks; in fact,
he was so weak that I did not
think he would recover. But
I gave him Scott’s Emulsion
and now he is restored to com-
plete good health, his flesh is
firm and solid and he has cut
two teeth without the least
trouble ; before taking Scott’s
Emulsion he suffered very
much while teething.”
(Mrs.) K. HART.
The Reason Why
He Recovered
It was the splendid nourishing
power of the pure Norwegian
(Lofoten) cod liver oil always
used in Scott’s Emulsion
which saved Albert Hart and
will do the same for your own
little one. This beautiful oil is
made so perfectly digestible by
the Scott process of manufac-
ture that the most delicate babe
can take it without a bit of
stomach trouble. Moreover,
the little ones soon
get to like Scott’s.
N.B. In buying
Scott’s look for
“the fishman
with fish ” on
every package.
TRADE MARK
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
From all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicines
IV
\NG
O
-*1
IRISH
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
TXTL
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
By Royal
Warrant to
tt - fijt
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
DINNEFORD’S
.i, «
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’a
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA.
MAGNESIA
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Cq.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 IS 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .i .. ..£1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
MANY LIVES.
WORLD'S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge,
£ungTonfc
i The Old, but Up-to-date,
1 Remedy for
{ INFLUENZA
K AND
A Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
COPYRIGHT.
| When Mosquitoes annoy you
S remember how useful, either for pre-
) venting the attack of these and other
r insects, or antisepticaily cleansing their
1 bites, so many people have found
! Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap. !
It is also pleasant and refreshing for ,
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
against infectious diseases. <
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. I
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. 1
y NATURE’S nA
f PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS & DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
Ask your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The City of Never Care.
At the fall of the dusk of the last long night,
When their dream and their strength are spent,
They will turn their eyes and their faces white
From the City of Good Intent;
They will strike their camps on the hills of blue,
To camp on the hills that are red ;
They will turn their feet unto byways new,
And tramp o’er a track they dread ;
They will turn from the faces of all they know
And, out where the red lights glare,
They will bury their grief and drown their woe
In the City of Never Care.
The sea by the city is warm as wine,
And warm is each woman’s kiss;
They have no care through the day to whine
How the other one fell, or this.
For the days crowd on, and the grave yawns deep,
And the grey ghosts gather nigh,
And they lay them down but they may not sleep,
Lest in their sleep they die.
Oh ! they make no prayer and they call no priest
(And never a priest is there)
When the lamp dies out o’er the last mad feast
In the City of Never Care.
TAS.
0. LOUIS RANDALL.
Going Home.
The doors bang shut; and swift and suddenly
The lights grey out that recently did glare,
And leave the world to emptiness and me;
But I am full, and so I do not care.
Full to the brim am I with wine and song,
Laughter, verse, music, romance, love and mirth;
I spill such gladness as I go along
As ring rich echoes from the silent earth.
I am at friendship with the world that sleeps,
And strive to wake it up to tell it so ;
Yet when cold water on my ardor sweeps
I laugh—it seems the funniest thing I know.
My boundless mirth and friendliness includes
Each dancing lamp-post, and each smiling door
Whose bell I shake; and, when the moon intrudes
I sing it songs, and shout my own encore.
Thus with a heart romantic, warm and gay,
Rich harmony and fancies in my mind,
Home with the dawn I plod my beery way
And leave a track of tangled mirth behind.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Undine.
When shores wear white garlands of glory.
All towzled, all spindrift and glee,
And cliffs are mist-shrouded and hoary,
I love you, fair Nymph of the Sea !
’Mid green valleys whitening with frenzy.
Your lyric comes clear as the threne
(When you flash past like sudden sun-laughter)
That gladdens brown tree-tops at e’en.
You love not wind-calm and wave-quiet,
Your perfume is wine-bloom to me
’Mid splendor of lashed surges’ riot—
I love you, fair Nymph of the Sea !
My spirit leaps out in the whirlpool.
Where I, too, would follow in quest,
And hold you an exquisite moment,
All breathless with joy, to my breast.
In sea-caves, quaint sea-dwellers round me,
I’d braid your red hair on my knee.
And what legends you’d tell to confound me !—
I love you, fair Nymph of the Sea !
Your proud eyes are limpid with passion,
Sad, too, with wild visions of death,
For the men that enthrall you are dead men
That taste not the wine of your breath.
O creature of wild moods and red lips,
Pray list to my envious plea,
For your kisses are wasted on dead lips—
I love you, fair Nymph of the Sea !
I’ll wake you one morn where you slumber,
Close-curtained with seaweeds and pearls,
And we’ll follow the storm-wave together
Wherever white banner unfurls !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Doubt.
Green shoots break out of black and barren stems,
The light fresh grass is filled with yellow gems,
The grey sky bluer burns, with light drifts
dappled,
And a swift catspaw strikes along the Thames.
This is the uncertain birthtime of the year;
Things haste and hesitate, in hope and fear,
Spring smiles inscrutably through Winter’s win-
dow,
And has a word for me, could I but hear.
The dumb air’s big with meaning ; Time and I
Upon a point of doubt hang evenly ;
The time is like a veiled woman waiting,
And I, her lover, burn for her reply.
Thou dumb and prisoned ghost, no longer wait;
Tell me the outcome of thy slow debate.
I have done what I could, give me my answer ;
Better damnation than a doubtful fate.
But still the light drifts dapple the soft sky,
And the slow heavy Thames goes dully by;
And while I strain and question, for all answer
A little breath of wind falls, like a sigh.
N.S.W.
H. M. GREEN.


uv
Trade\Jlark !
SYDNEY Show Rooms
1 56 Pitt Street.
J Melbourne
I 125 Queen Street.
</ '!!!!!!:;:iiWfu/
f -m
( adburys cocoa
A cup-ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
r Cadbury’s Cocoa is
not only PUREST and BEST,'
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to buy and use. A half tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
beverage it is possible to obtain.
. / u.>
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tobacco
Richmond Virginia.
by Larus& Brother C
Packed by RTown?. * Co. Agents,Sydney
£2.
Facsimile of 2oz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from a,
Tobacconists,
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3K®
jSs®f.ai
A dry foundation is tbe basis
of a faitbfully-built structure.
Ruberoid Dampcourse
is laid in tbe foundations of all
faitbfully-built structures.
Abb STOREKEEPERS.
r e K e o^= ale E- RICH CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SfECIM. LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
m
■
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
/>
7
7*
z
Beautiful Home Decorations
j
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EJfAMEI (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gag Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“BAPOIiIAf BV AMEEiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
BAPOLIH” BATH TUB ESTAMEt. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN” floor
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMI.NI'M ENAMEL, Eto.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street.. Brisb
J. M CAMPBELL,
Director.
g®
mm
*
c n
Cl
Lu
2
wli
U- <
pgj
r-fTTT f 11 TfflC-A 1
~ ffiffijffili fjf^
• j 1 1 f rr7Tt tr
Lu
Q
!
fia
Q
<i
o o r>
o>* > r-s
B
Bffll
A


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1443.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1907.
Price 6d.
THE JUGGERMOTORNAUT.
I.—The average citizen of the future will sell his life as dearly as possible—filling his pockets with explosives before leaving home.
II.—Ha ! Let ’em all come!
III.—How it will work out.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ' ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
llotv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishes. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, ivhether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin loill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. icill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A tnateiirs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. xlUin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1907.
REHEARSING A DRAMA.
There is in progress just now on the world’s
stage a rehearsal of a drama in which we seem
likely to play a conspicuous part not so many
years hence. It is a most instructive rehearsal,
for those who take the trouble to understand its
meaning, and who are not content to assume that
the future will be well because the past has been
well; and that war and desolation and ruin will
never come on us because they haven’t come on
us yet; and that we will never be dead because
so far we have been alive. We have a front seat
at this rehearsal —a seat right up against the foot-
lights. We have no book of the play, so we don’t
know how the drama is going to work out, but we
can already see which way it is tending. And,
for lack of a programme, we can’t say for certain
what actors are yet to appear, but the villain has
already turned up, also the imbecile heavy father.
And the imbecile heavy father interests us, for he
is our father in a sense, and his name is Bull.
* * * *
Within the last few months the arrogant
attitude of the Japanese, Hindus, and other
coFored persons towards the States on the
West Coast of America, aud the amazing
increase of Japanese, Hindus and sundries
in these regions, has driven the people of Cali-
fornia and British Columbia to fury. At Wash-
ington, as at London and Ottawa, the Asiatic
problem is only partially understood. In those
places the rulers do not live alongside the Chow
or the Hindu or the bumptious chrysanthemum
person, and so they fail to realise the fierce desire
of the white man on the spot to risk everything
rather than let Asiatic immigration proceed un-
checked. Therefore, President Roosevelt sought
to throw oil on the troubled waters, and presently
found that they were much more troubled than he
had supposed. In the distance the United States
can already see two alternatives. The Eastern
States of the Union must one day fight the
Western States in another civil war for the
despicable purpose of forcing them to allow
their country to be overrun by Asiatics,
or the whole Union must fight a great
Asiatic Power —possibly two great Asiatic
Powers —to maintain its right to keep the
West a white man’s country, and to avert the
horror of having two color problems instead of
one. For Japan intimates that it will not
negotiate on any basis which starts with the ex-
clusion of the Jap from the United States. The
one condition which is vital to the existence of the
States—the one matter on which arbitration is
impossi >le and on which compromise is unthink-
able—is also the matter on which Japan abso-
lutely insists. And it has insisted in such a
fashion.that its hectoring tone has aroused even
the pati ;nt officialdom of Washington to anger.
So the federal fleet is expected to lumber round
the Horn when summer woather makes the Pata-
gonian waters more negotiable, and there are
rumors of a German alliance to protect the eastern
seaboard when the navy has gone away. The
deadlock may last for years yet before the dispute
reaches a climax, but unless some wholly-unlooked-
for event breaks the power of Japan, the alterna-
tive is plain. The United States will have to choose
between civil war, waged for a shameful and im-
possible purpose, or war with Asia. And it will
choose war with Asia when a definite choice
becomes necessary.
* * • *
So the hand of Fate comes out and writes on
the wall for Australia to read. Japan will not
consider any proposition which includes the.
shutting of the door of America to the Japanese.
It may hang up the problem for a while, or it may
even profess to give way for a while till its
arrangements are more perfect, but there is likely
to be no permanent peace until Japan is utterly
defeated, or until its people have the free run of
American territory. Japan hasn’t made any such
remark yet to Australia, but it can’t feel one whit
more pleasant about Australian than about
American exclusion. It will almost certainly issue
the same kind of ultimatum to us when the time
suits. It may make it to us direct when Britain
is in serious trouble elsewhere, and has got its hands
full of foreign difficulties. More t 7 it will
make it to our heavy father Bull V. uu i ne comes
along for a renewal of the miserable and disastrous
alliance, and when, with the German spectre
looming larger and larger before his eyes, he is
ready to buy the alliance at a high price. And
there is no security in the idea that Japan already
has its hands full of its dispute with big Uncle
Sam. It may hang up that dispute for a genera-
tion, waiting for a more favorable moment, while
our trouble may come to-morrow, or next year,
or this evening.
» * » •
The rehearsal goes on, and reveals to us what is
likely to happen to unarmed, unprepared Aus-
tralia when the almost inevitable demand
comes. Canada has the Japanese trouble
badly and Canada —or, at least, the western
provinces of Canada—would fain adopt an
exclusion law. But Britain, which utterly
fails to comprehend the color problem be-
cause it has none itself, interposes its veto.
In order to buy the unreliable friendship of
Japan, and its unreliable aid in the defence of
useless India, Bull, our heavy father, is
willing that Canada, its great white depend-
ency, should be overrun and ruined by a
brown invasion. From the insistence of the Jap
demand for free access to Canada we can fairly
estimate the insistence with which the chrysan-
themum folk may yet demand free access to
Australia. And by the peremptoriness of Britain’s
refusal to let Canada shut out the Jap we can
guess how much our father Bull regrets his action
in assenting to our exclusion law. Still we have
our law, and we have our Constitution, and we
had the luck to get power, on paper, to shut out
the Jap before the late war bloated that brown
person to such a point of arrogance that he would
venture to dictate to Bull what the policy of
Bull’s dominions should be. But what, exactly,
are all these things worth ?
* * * *
The rehearsal goes on, and Australia sits in
the front stalls, and sees exactly what its paper
guarantees are worth. Newfoundland also has
a Constitution. It is older than ours; it is
written out quite as nicely as ours in a fair, round,
clerkly hand, on parchment or some such substance;
it gives Newfoundland the same right to manage
its own internal affairs that we possess. New-
foundland is a small place with less than 250,000
people, but it isn’t much more helpless against an
enemy, whose weapon would be a sea-blockade,
than we are. It has no navy and we have none,
and there can’t be anything that is less than
nothing. Newfoundland lately got into one of its
chronic troubles with the United States about
fishing rights. The difficulty didn’t threaten war,
as our Asiatic exclusion policy assuredly will some
day. It didn’t even threaten Britain with the
loss of a supposedly valuable ally, as our Asiatic
exclusion policy almost certainly will at one time
or another. Yet our father Bull desired to
placate the United States, as he will almost
certainly desire, at some future time, and
perhaps much more anxiously, to placate
Japan. And his simple solution of the diffi-
culty was to practically suspend the Newfound-
land Constitution, not by Act of the British
Parliament, but by some high-handed exercise of
the royal prerogative, and to deprive Newfound-
land of its self-governing powers for long enough
to enable the British authority to surrender to
the United States all the points at issue. This
humiliation was only averted by another which
was possibly even worse. Newfoundland sur-
rended the points itself. The event shows the
value of a paper Constitution that has no armed
force behind it. And when Japan demands, as
the price of something that Britain thinks it badly
wants, the free admission of Japanese to Aus-
tralia, and when the time comes for a suspension
of our Constitution and the conversion of Aus-
tralia into a Crown Colony for just long enough
to enable the new authority to repeal every law
which tends to exclude the Chinaman, the
Japanese, the Hindu, Kanaka, Syrian, African,
and all the rest of the undesirables—well, if that
time comes to-morrow it doesn’t seem that our
position will be very much better than that of
Newfoundland.
* * * •
That is as far as the rehearsal of the drama has
got. We don’t know what the remaining acts
will be. But we do know that Britain is now
ruled by a party which has for its motto, ‘'Peace at
Almost any Price.” We also know that our White
Australia policy fails utterly to appeal to Britain.
That country understands well enough that its
own isles shouldn't be overrun by Asiatics, but to
a great extent it regards a colony as a place that
is naturally infested with niggers—a place such as
India or (South Africa or Barbadoes. It rather
looks on a colony as a locality to which white men
go in a temporary way to make money by bossing
niggers, after which they come “home” again
with the profits ; and the idea that a colony may
be the permanent home of a white race, and that
it may be as grievous an outrage in the eyes of
that race for the land to be overrun by Asiatics as
it would be in Bull’s eyes to see twenty million
Chinamen settled in England, eats but slowly into
the British com prehension. Therefore, if the trouble
comes to-morrow Bull will.probably ask questions
in a purely business fashion. He will say : “This
White Australia policy is yours, not mine ; what
force do you back it with, if it makes trouble ? ”
And Australia will reply : “We are thinking of
putting up a small rifle factory, the work to be
spread over two years.” And Bull will make an
excited swallowing sound, but will repress his
feelings and say: “ This policy threatens to lose
me the Japanese alliance; what army do you
bring into the Imperial partnership to make up
for the loss?” And the answer will be : “Per-
haps 60,000 badly armed men and boys, including
rifle clubs and cadets.” And the veins will swell
out on Bull, and his head will enlarge visibly;
but with a great effort he will hold himself in
while he asks: “ This policy of yours may involve
a naval war in the Pacific, at a time when I want to
keep every ship I have in European waters to
watch Germany, to protect England from in-
vasion, and to guarantee the security of my im-
ported food supplies. What naval force do you
contribute under the circumstances? ” And Aus-
tralia will say, with hesitation: “Well, there’s
the superannuated gunboat Protector around
somewhere.” And when Father Bull recovers
from his apoplectic seizure, he will probably take
the law into his own hands, and White Australia
will end right there.
*_* * *
And, seeing that Australia has no army worth
mentioning, no fleet, no gun-factories, no immi-
gration policy, no graduated land-tax to burst up
the big estates and make room for settlement;
seeing that. it hasn’t taken over the Northern
Territory, that it has no transcontinental railway,
that it isn’t hustling much with its tariff so as to
create industries that will fill the country with
new taxpayers and new possible soldiers, and
that when even minutes are golden it allows
Bruce Smith to talk for 3J hours at a stretch
about the necessity for putting clothes-props on
the free list because they really can’t be made in
Australia—considering all these things, what
better luck can Australia expect ?
SENTENCED TO DEATH: A JURIDICAL
OUTRAGE.
A week or so back, at Dubbo (N.S.W.), Reuben
Ward was sentenced to death on the unsup-
ported statement of a girl, who really made no
definite statement worth mentioning. It was
the usual story of assault and wrong, with the
remarkable variation that the girl says she
became unconscious before any assault or wrong
was committed, so that she really knew nothing
about it. Reuben Ward and the girl, Cecilia
Smith, both living at Nyngan, were admittedly
friends, with the possibility that they were some-
thing more than friends. Ward, with the
greased rope round his neck, said they were a
great deal more than friends; and, quite apart
from all considerations of the greased rope and
other circumstances, there were points in support
of his assertion. On the night when the trouble
arose, the pair were out together, and they
drifted down to the lonely railway-carriage shed
at Nyngan (Ward was in the railway service).
That drifting in the dark certainly suggested a
considerable degree of friendship. They got into
a railway carriage that was in the shed; and that
also suggests a certain amount of friendly con-
fidence on the part of Cecilia Smith, cook and
waitress, who admits that she entered the carriage
at Reuben Ward’s invitation, and with his
assistance. And after that she had an alarming
attack of hysteria. It is admitted that she was
subject to hysterical attacks, and in addition to
her own acknowledgment of the fact, the Court
had the corroboration of its own eyes when she
became unconscious on the legal premises during
the hearing of the case. Furthermore, it had the
testimony of her employer, Michael Grady,
dealer in fermented and spirituous liquors, that
she “ was subject to fits.” On this occasion her
fit alarmed Reuben Ward, and he got a fellow-
employee to help him carry her back to the hotel.
Consequently, two persons— Reuben Ward and
his fellow-employee—knew that Cecilia Smith was
taken at night from a carriage in the Nyngan rail-
way shed. Two other persons— Michael Grady,
dealer in spirituous and malt liquors, and his
brother J ames —and possibly some more besides,
knew that she had been brought home after mid-
night by two railway employees. Plainly, it was
up to Cecilia Smith to explain these circum-
stances. She took the familiar line of least resist-
ance, and said that she had been assaulted
against her will. The statement might be strictly
true ; still, it represented the familiar line of least
resistance.
* • * •
As already mentioned, the statement might be
true, but a sane and sober jury isn’t supposed to
go by the truth unless it is proved, and this truth
(or delusion) wasn’t proved by a long way. In fact,
the lack of proof was huge and vast and ridicu-
lous. It was not alleged that Reuben Ward took
Cecilia Smith away from the hotel by force;
Michael Grady, dealer in spirituous and
malt liquor and provider of accommoda-
tion and refreshment for human being and
beast, was man enough to make sure that
no dissipated railway boy-employee would drag
a girl off his premises by the hair, or otherwise,
without her consent. It was not alleged that she
was taken forcibly to the railway-carriage shed.
It was not alleged, even by herself, that she was
taken forcibly into the carriage. Having gone so
far without compulsion, all that was alleged was
that an assault followed, and that the assault was
done under compulsion. The girl professed to
have lost consciousness before any actual criminal
assault took place. The doctor who examined her
failed to find any evidence that violence had been
used. The fact remained that she was a hysteri-
cal subject, and hysteria is a complicated nervous
disease, which undermines the will, confuses the
sense of right and wrong, and produces all manner
of delusions. Also, Cecilia Smith was under the
necessity of making some explanation to her em-
ployer, Michael Grady, dealer in wet goods,
when she was carried home in the early hours of
Sunday morning by two railway employees. Her
complaint would probably have a tendency to make
her unreliable and visionary, even if there was no
need to defend her character under a very awk-
ward set of conditions, and the awkward set of
conditions was calculated to make her even wilder
than she might have been. Putting the case in
the fewest possible words, Reuben Ward was
sentenced to death on the bare statement of a
woman suffering from a temporary nervous dis-
order that often makes its victims as unreliable as
if they were actually insane. And not only did
her statement lack any shred of corroboration, but
the medical evidence rather tended to throw
doubt upon it, so far as that evidence had any
tendency at all.
* * * *
There is one special reason, however, quite apart
from the evidence, why Reuben Ward— who may
be a bad and violent character, aged 23, for all
this writer knows to the contrary—should not be
hanged nor even imprisoned. There is a most
solid reason upon which he can claim not only
release but compensation. In every State of the
Commonwealth, and also in Maoriland, hardly a
fortnight passes without some girl making exactly
the same charge against a man as Cecilia Smith
made against Reuben Ward, and being proved
a malignant liar, a person with a diseased craving
for notoriety, and a perjurer of the worst deserip-
fcion. The charge is sometimes laid against a
man picked at random in the street. It is almost
always a charge of assault—the same old variety
of assault—though there are variations ; in Mel-
bourne a few days ago the variations took the
forms (1) of a girl who fired a revolver and said
that a strange man had come to the kitchen door
and shot at her; and (2) of a young girl who had
never committed an act of immorality in her life,
but who accused herself of an imaginary Past,'
and an imaginary murdered baby, till her imagin-
ings created quite a commotion. But in nine cases
out of 10, or 99 cases out of 100, the dreadful visions
of the girl who is bowled out, and whoblushlessly
owns up when she is bowled out, take the plain,
ordinary form of the charge which Cecilia Smith
of Nyngan brought against Reuben Ward. And
never, under any circumstances, does the law
prosecute that girl when she is bowled out. It
seldom even speaks severely to her. The Crown
Law offices, the Judges, and the Attorney-General
°f this country have made it known, as publicly
as . they could do, that any malicious and evil-
minded female can bring the worst kind of charge
against any man with impunity. If she can
persuade a foolish jury to believe her story she
play bring about a wholesale hanging, as
in the case of the Mount Rennie infamy ;
or . she may send a man to do 10 years in
prison ; and by so doing she becomes a
species of heroine and gets her name in the papers.
It is notoriety; and to the humble heroine, who
can’t buy Persian cats, or get up a Thaw murder
sensation, or ape the New York Four Hundred
in giving thousand-dollar hotel dinners to pet
pigs, it is almost the only kind of notoriety
\vithin reach. And there is neither expense nor
risk. The State pays the bill, and as to the risk,
even that Melbourne woman whose lie was only
bowled out within a few days of the date fixed for
the hanging of the man whom she had falsely
accused, was neither imprisoned, nor fined 55., nor
made to do penance with a white sheet and a
lighted candle. Instead, she got some more
notoriety through being bowled out; and her pic-
ture appeared again in the papers,
,f. , * ~ * ~, . *
While this outrageous state of things continues
men like Reuben Ward have a right to say that
they haven’t had a fair trial, and that there
is no semblance of justice in the business. If the
woman’s tale is proved to be false, she goes free.
yl , ie kas committed the one species of perjury for
which there is no punishment or pretence
°. f Punishment. Her crime may be hor-
ribly common, but still it can be committed
a b solute impunity. She is tacitly pro-
tected, aided and connived at by judges and
magistrates, and her felony is winked at
b y Attorneys-G meral and Crown Law officers,
Under these circumstances, it is an outrage for a
jury to convict any man of such an offence as that
of which Reuben Ward was charged on a woman’s
unsupported evidence, even if the unsupported
evidence looks much better evidence than it did
» this case. The game is not a fair one; the
dice are loaded, and the coin that is tossed up has
two heads. It has been advertised all over Au-
stralia and Maoriland for the last 20, or 30 or 40,
yearSj that if a woman has lost her virtue she
ma y> without fear of consequences, proceed to
rehabilitate herself by seizing on any male
.passer-by, and declaring that he deprived her of
i t by force and violence. Then, if there is a
f a i r -sized shred of plausibility in her tale, all the
money i n the Treasury and all the resources of
the Law are set to work to prove that that male
P a sser-by is guilty. He has to defend himself at
uis own expense, and, if he hasn’t the means to
do it, the result may be death or anything short
0 f death. And if he does manage to prove his
innocence at ruinous expense, all the satisfaction
he gets is that he is ruined instead of hanged.
The Law does nothing to make an example and a
warning of his false accuser. It doesn’t even
expect her to pay 2d. towards the expenses,
While this state of affairs continues, all such
trials as that of Reuben Ward will be ridiculous
travesties of j ustice.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Furniture Industry,
Thus a man who knows the trade:—
Under the tariff of 1902 general furniture was protected
by duties of 20 and 25 per cent, ad valorem. Under the
new tariff the duty will be 40 per cent. (British 30), with
an alternative duty of 10s. and 7s. 6d. on lounges and
settees and chairs. The Foreign-trade party denounces
this as spoliation, with a tendency to crush the working
man, and to grind the countenance of the poor. Australia
cannot make its own furniture for years and years, accord-
ing to the Foreign-trader, because (1) Australia doesn’t
produce suitable wood for either furniture or chairs ; (2)
we can’t get the labor, and (3), if we could, the furniture
would be too dear. If all the things which, according to
the Foreign-trader, Australia cannot make or produce
were listed they would make it appear that this conti-
nent is the most sterile place on earth, not excepting
Spitzbergen.
Yet Australia already makes a lot of its own furniture,
though the imports last year were valued at the
port of shipment at £212,526, which means,
roughly, that they cost about £650,000 by the
time the goods reached the homes of the people, per
favor of the shop-keeper and the time-payment robber.
If Australia had made that furniture itself it would
have had to-day the money and the furniture too. And
it must be remembered that a well-established furniture
trade would be only a branch of that great division of
industry grouped together as “Wood, wicker, and cane.”
And the whole of the division makes for better develop-
ment of our timber resources, and more trade for our
coastal marine carrying timber from Queensland and Tas-
mania to where the factories are. It also makes for the
encouragement of kindred trades, such as the making of
glue, machinery, varnishes and polishes, metal working,
wire-weaving, zinc-manufacturing, and the making of
paints, brushes, and a thousand and one other things. Here
are some of the Australian w'oods eminently suitable for the
making of furniture and chairs, and which are to be got in
sufficiently large quantities to make for a regular supply.
Besides these there are a number of “ brushwoods,” of
which the supply is irregular but which are useful for
making up specially-ordered suites of furniture, and Very
beautiful some of them are. But in discussing an indus-
try, it is necessary to keep to the woods that are always
on tap. Consider the list :
Cedar Growing in Queensland.
Australian Maple ~ ~ „
~ Silky Oak • ~ „ „
~ Beech ~ ~ „
„ Kauri „
„ Rosewood ~ ~ N. S. Wales only
„ Myrtle ~ „ Tasmania.
~ Blackwood ~ ~ ~
There is also Huon pine from Tasmania, which is exten-
sively used in Melbourne, but never seems to have got a
real grip of N.S.W., where it is said to be disliked on
account of its color.
Of the woods enumerated, maple, silky oak, beech,
kauri, myrtle and blackw-ood are all suitable for chair
making. There are large, untapped areas of these woods,
and it only requires a stiff duty to force the people to tap
them. With regard to labor, writer has seen some furni-
ture now being made up in the factory of Anthony
Hordern and Sons that is equal to anything he has
ever met. It is for Mr. Sam Hordern’s new motor
yacht, and is a dream of beauty. And it is all
made by local men, who are said by their foreman to be
workers who, when they go to Britain or the U.S.A.,
command higher wages than the general run of hands.
As to prices, at the present time good, solid, durable fur-


niture, made by white men, earning white men’s wages,
and working in airy, wholesome factories, and made with
a plant which was mostly constructed in Australia,
and which is driven by Australian-made engines, is
being sold by the same firm at reasonable prices. If the
duty on chairs is maintained the same energetic firm
will probably soon be employing a few hundred extra
hands making chairs alone. And Hordern’s is not the
only furniture factory in Australia, though it is one of
the best, and eminently typical of the sort of factories
which Protection will cause to spring up by scores.
The great bulk of the furniture that is imported is
made in Belgium, and shipped here as coming from Great
Britain. There are large importations of office furniture
from America, and a fair quantity comes from Germany,
all of which producing nations work under High Protec-
tion- Of late, as the Chinese competition began to
diminish, and the Chinese to turn out a better article,
the Australian furniture industry has begun to pay
decent wages, till now the remuneration ranges from
£2 16s. to £3 per week.
The reasons why the industry wants High Protection
are easily understandable. The insane prejudice against
Australian goods has to be combated. Furniture
making, to be carried out properly, requires a fairly large
capital, for the plant is composed of machines of precision,
and the only really satisfactory way of seasoning timber
is for the manufacturer to dry his own. That alone means
a considerable lock-up of capital. The Australian manufac-
turer has to pay higher wages than the foreign competitor,
and also has to pay higher freights on his raw material
from Queensland and Tasmania. These things, and the
greed of the importers, have always tended to make
furniture dear, and the best way to cheapen it is to en-
courage local industry and greater competition among
the local manufacturers. That will not only bring prices
down with a run, but furnish employment for thousands
of people, for the furniture industry has quite a number
of subsidiary trades attached to it, such as the making
of picture frames, wooden toys, copper mounts which
have to be beaten out by hand, mouldings of all sorts,
mantelpieces, Venetian blinds, ice chests, wire mattresses,
kapok mattresses, trellis work, stair balustrades, wooden
dairy implements, and the like. All these things are
made up in the big furniture factories, and give employ-
ment to almost as many men as the main industry, and
use up a lot of its otherwise waste material.
■ ♦
The Wire-Netting Duty.
Sydney Telegraph is in a hurry, and the Foreign
trade party in the Reps, is simply burning with
anxiety to get the duty on wire-netting settled.
The Telegraph described the duty as “this
severe penalty upon rabbit destruction,” and the
“ great rural industries on which the prosperity
of the Commonwealth chieliy depends ” were
depicted as being ruthlessly slaughtered in the
interests of “ the few persons engaged in the local
manufacture of wire-netting.” The wire-netting,
according to the Telegraph, is required to
combat the effects of a drought that is making
serious inroads upon their resources (pre-
sumably the stuff is wanted to catch the
uncondensed moisture that is floating away to
Tasmania) and to do battle with the ever-
increasing rabbit trouble. The matter is one that
“will not admit of delay.” It is strange how
serious this problem has suddenly grown.
Immediately the Sydney factory—there is only
one—stimulated thereto by the new tariff, com-
menced to turn out netting in such quantities
that the local supply overtook the demand,
and in consequence of the larger output the
price came down in spite of the duty, and
the evidence began to accumulate that there was
no earthly reason why the duty should not remain,
the Telegraph and the Foreign-traders in the
Australian Parliament—those honorary agents of
foreign manufacturers who betray their country
without being tempted with even the 30 pieces of
silver—suddenly discovered that the “matter
was one that will not admit of delay.” They
waited nearly five years under the old tariff,
surely they can wait a few weeks under the
new. one to see if the local factory can fully
justify the duty. The trouble is, of course,
that they would rather anything than that the
local factory should have time to justify the duty.
If the mill on the Parramatta River had been
unable to cope with the demand, and if it had
raised prices instead of reducing them, there
would not have been this deplorable outbreak of
fever in the office of the Telegraph and in the
caucus-room of the Foreign Trade party in the
Australian House of Reps. The Anti-Austra-
lian push would then be quite content to let the
local industry have a few weeks or months under
the tariff in order that the high price and
bad quality of the Australian article and the
insufficiency of the Australian supply might be
visible to everybody. In such a case it would
give the local industry a long rope wherewith to
hang itself. Now, however, the Foreign-traders
feel that the local industry isn’t going to hang
itself, and they are in haste to kill it before it has
a chance to convince all Australia that the wire-
netting duty has been a very good thing indeed
for Australia. Also they are in very special haste
because they fear that Australia is pretty well
convinced already.
The Call to Obstruction.
We can make every allowance for the fact that Pro-
tection is a stronger force in the House of Representatives
than Freetrade. But that is not a reason for surrender
before the fight for a revenue tariff is even begun. If
every item in the tariff is strenuously fought it may be
impossible to control the result, as Hr. Reid pessi-
mistically suggests, but at least a protest will have been
made. Then there is the educational effect of such a
struggle to be considered. A small but determined and
energetic Opposition has won a verdict in Parliament, or
in the country later on, in face of a disciplined majority
before now.—S. M. Herald leading article (3/10107).
In these words the S. M. Herald deliberately
calls on the importers’ delegates and the members
of the anti-Australian-industry party in the Reps,
to thwart the popular will, if they can possibly do
so. The Herald admits that the people have
declared for Protection in the only way possible—
by returning a Protectionist majority. The
majority is supposed to rule; if it doesn’t then
Parliamentary government is dead. The S. M.
Herald urges the minority to do all it can to
prevent the majority ruling, and to resist the will
of the people by talking loudly and fiercely and
interminably on every separate item of the tariff.
To prevent the creation of Australian industries,
to prevent Australian men getting employment
and wages and food for their wives and children,
to avert any chance of our having work to offer
the immigrant artisan, and to fatten the importer
at the expense of Australian manufacturers—to
bring about these results all things are justifiable
in the view of the importers’ press. Every one of
the countries which are rising swiftly and con-
spicuously to the high places of the earth—such
as Germany, Canada, the United States, Japan
and Argentina—is Protectionist; they all began
to rise about the time they adopted Protection ;
and it is the most conspicuously Protectionist
States, such as Germany, Canada, and the U.S.,
in which the rise is most striking and most
sensational. The fair inference is that Australia’s
future lies in the same direction, but Australia’s
prosperity means the importer’s adversity, and
the Herald’s soul belongs to the importer.' In
his interests even obstruction, and waste of
time, and the degradation of Parliament, and
the indefinite blocking of the country’s
business are justifiable in the Herald’s view.
Australia has much to do as soon as the
tariff is out of the way. There is great need to
create an army and navy, to take over the Terri-
tory and build that strategic railway which alone
can make the Lost Province defensible; to create
our own arms factory, and to attend to a hundred
other things for the safety of the country. But
all these matters must wait while the hopeless
minority in Parliament orates interminably, at
the Herald’s instigation, over each separate item
of the tariff, pointing out how the Australian is a
poor, mean sort of cuss, who can never hope to
manufacture clothes-pegs and dog-collars for him-
self, and must always import such articles from
abroad. The waiting may mean grievous danger
to this country, but in the importers’ interests,
and in the good cause of hostility to Australian
manufactures, even that is held by the Herald
to be justifiable. And for these and other
reasons it is about up to the Australian people to
be very tired of the Herald, and to warn its
wretched gang of public enemies off the grass.
Australia is mainly Protectionist. It has elected
a Protectionist Parliament to carry out a Protec-
tionist policy. The anti-Australian rag which is
published in the grimy-looking office in Hunter-
street incites a minority to block the carrying out
of the popular mandate by a dull, dreary, unin-
teresting, soulless process of discussion, by the
endless drip of declamation, and by the cackle
which passeth all understanding. It would be
reasonable for the House to intimate in reply that
majority rule isn’t dead, and to inform Bruce
Smith and his kind that their speech limit for the
future will be exactly five minutes.
The Sydney “ Telegraph ” and its Bogus
Morphia Fiend.
Under the heading “Crushing Tax on Sufferers”
the Sydney Telegraph prints the following from
a humorist, who signs himself “Artaxomnes”:
In drawing attention to the stupidity of those so-called
statesmen who are responsible for the new and ruinous
Tariff Bill you have done good service, and deserve the
thanks of all, even of those who, like myself, are rational
Protectionists. But there is still a lower depth of politi-
cal depiavity than you have pointed out. To needlessly
oppress the strong and healthy is bad enough, but to add
to the sufferings of those who have been stricken by
disease is an act of cruelty which is absolutely
beyond comprehension. It would come as a sad
surprise to the general public to learn how
many persons there are in this State who, through
no fault of theirs, are compelled to use morphia. . . .
I can speak from sad personal experience, being com-
pelled to have nearly 5 grains injected every 24 hours,
and I know of another sufferer who has to use even 20
grains a day. Before the tariff the wholesale price of an
ounce bottle of morphine sulphate was Bs., quite high
enough, for the chemist clapped on a large profit for the
consumer to pay. Now, a tax of 6s. has been placed upon
the ounce bottle, a sum almost as great as the original
charge, making the wholesale price 145., and the chemist’s
price one guinea ! For what purpose has this tax, pro-
hibitive to the poor, been enforced? etc., etc., etc.
If “Artaxomnes” and his morphinomaniae
friend happened to be genuine, which, of course,
they aren’t (persons that absorb from five to 20
grains of morphia every 24 hours are even past
writing anti-tariff letters), the best thing that
ever happened to either of them was the tariff;
and their families ought to set up a brazen image
to Bill Lyne forthwith, and strew votive offerings
before the same for all time. Lunatics who
absorb, and propose to go on absorbing, the amount
of morphia “Artaxomnes” and his degraded
acquaintance say they do, cumber the earth. They
are types that make humane but thoughtful
people seriously consider the euthanasia problem,
and question whether it hasn’t its merits after all.
These human outrages—their characters under-
mined by cheap morphia—have reached such a
stage (when they have attained to 5 to 20grs. per
diem allowance) that to get their dope they will beg,
borrow, steal, or murder. As citizens of a civilised
State, they are impossible outside asylums, the
maniacal determination they evince to seduce
others to the vice that has them down rendering
them a public danger. “Artaxomnes” doesn’t
even make a decent jiretence of looking genuine.
4
Th Importer Says it Would “ Pay Better.”
One exasperating fool of a tariff argument is
to the effect that it would “pay better” to
close up this and that and the other local industry
altogether, and pension off all the people engaged
in it. and abolish the duty, and import the whole
blamed outfit, rather than strive by Protection to
create an industry of our own. For instance, the
other day an indent person blared wildly in
Sydney
Now, look here, Lyne’s tariff means that we will have
to pay £5OOO a year duty on this one line. To fill Aus-
tralia’s requirements it would only be necessary to employ
24 men. So it would pay better to give these 24 men £2OO
a year each and allow the goods to come in duty free.
And we would get a better article.
It is an argument just suited to the size of the
importer’s pint-pot intelligence, and it is solemnly
quoted and almost believed in by quite a lot of
members of the importing brigade because of the
pint-pot nature of their intelligence. Yet it is
based on these glaring fallacies
(1) That Australia’s population will never grow any
bigger, and 24 men will always supply its requirements.
(2) That Australia will never have any export trade.
(3) That Australian goods must necessarily be rubbish ;
the imported thing must always be “ a better article.”
(4) That if we make the article locally we will still im-
port it and pay the £5OOO duty, which is the most raving
lunacy of all. The yarn quoted rests on the brilliant in-
spiration that it would cost less to pay £4BOO a year in
pensions to the men who make the goods here than to
pay nothing in duty on the goods that we wouldn’t im-
port just because the 24 men would be making them here.
(5) Further, the importer propounds the theory
that we shouldn’t employ 24 men locally at once, and
more later on (which men would support many others),
and learn a new art, and pay no duty, and send away no
money in payment for foreign goods, because it is cheaper
to have no men employed, and to learn no new art, and
to pay away, perhaps, £25,000 a year for foreign goods.
That is saying nothing of the £4BOO a year which the im-
porter says it would pay to give to local workmen.
And the importer can actually hire unpatriotic
papers to propound his amazingly unconvincing
lie. He can even find some people to believe it.
A Court of Inquiry.
The Australian Government would make a highly
interesting experiment if it appointed a Com-
mission to inquire into the “wrongs of New South
Wales.” The Commission should consist solely
of N.S.W. Judges—men like Owen, Murray and
one or two more of purely Cornstalk descent.
No Victorian should be allowed in or about the
Court even in the capacity of a tipstaff or
messenger, else the deranged Foreign-trade Syd-
ney papers would say the result was a Victorian
conspiracy. The Commission should sit in Sydney,
on furniture that had no suspicion of Victorian
origin, and it should have in front of it paper, ink
and pens that were either made in N.S. W. or im-
ported from England or Germany. It shouldn’t be
dressed in Geelong or Ballarat tweed Jest its
views should be biassed, and if any member of it
possessed a hat made at the Denton mills the
same should be sent back to Melbourne with
loathing before the proceedings opened. Then
the Commission could settle down to a long
job. It should have power to compel the
presence of witnesses, and to imprison them for
contempt if they failed to attend, or refused
to answer questions. For a beginning it could
call the editors and proprietors of the Sydney
daily papers, and lay before each of them the
seven op eight hundred vague yells about
“Federal tyranny,” and so on, which make up an
average month’s issue of his paper, and examine
and cross-examine him as to the exact nature of
the injury. It should call a multitude of politi-
cians and private citizens, from Caeruthers
down to J. L. Adams, the importer who writes so
furiously to the papers—all these being persons
who have made themselves conspicuous by objur-
gations about the robbery of N.fS. W. It is time to
ask them questions, and either make them admit
themselves to be malignant liars, or force them to
produce a balance-sheet showing where the rob-
bery comes in. If they produce the balance-
sheet, it should be carefully audited by a purely
N.S.W. firm of accountants. All the people who
feel that the Ma State lias been wronged and plun-
dered should be invited to attend ; and as they
probably wouldn’t attend, but would simply write
the old lies in the correspondence columns of the
daily papers and sign them “J.D.,” or
“Patriot,” or “ Anglo-Australian,” a special
force of detectives should be employed
to trace “J.D.” and “Patriot,” and the
rest, and bring them before the Court,
so that their wrongs might be righted. The
numerous persons who allege that the other
States are living on N.S.W. should be hunted up
with special energy, and invited to give full
details of the N.S. W. money that has gone to
support the other States, so that the misappro-
priated cash could be recovered. Arrangements
should be made, if necessary, for the publication
in at least one Sydney daily of a complete and
honest account of the proceedings ; and the publi-
cation of garbled accounts should be treated as
contempt of court. It would be a large contract,
but the necessity for finding out what really are
the “ wrongs ” of Ma State is very urgent. The cry
of the Sydney daily rag is merely a yelp out of a
densefog. There are statements about “breachesof
the Constitution,” but they are never accompanied
by the exact words of the clause which has been
breached; there are vague remarks about robbery,
but no figures or balance-sheet; and always there
is the hazy statement about malign Victorian
influences, but then “ Victoria” has been a stand-
ing craze and grievance with the Sydney Free-
trade press for 30 or 40 years or more—ever since
the gold boom shoved Melbourne suddenly ahead
and left Sydney temporarily in the shade.
Therefore, the need for details is very urgent,
and the most promising way to get them seems
to be an inquiry by a Court that has power to
demand particulars, and send the grievance-
monger to prison for contempt if he doesn’t
produce them.
The Tariff, Patriotism, and, Incidentally,
Brown.
This is the letter of “Jean Sibi ”
Brown is individual, and respectably suburban. He
stands for stability and strength in citizenship, for
rationalism, for the prestige of Christianity, for spotless-
ness in table linen, for domestic dignity, and for Brown.
That is the secret of Brown and his respect. He is
decent. Decency, or rather conventionalism, is the
secret of his patriotism. Decency, to which is added
band music and Brown, is patriotism.
And a nation, an empire, that is built on Brown’s
patriotism is a nation, an empire, of backyards.
The backyard is the realm of Brown.
He knows every stone of it, every weed of it, the dainty
formations of fungi upon his one fruit-tree, the manifold
differences in grain of the palings of his boundary fence,
each separate nail and the knots of the supports, the
paint blisters, and the thousand etceteras that decide
“ home.”
Thus it is altogether ridiculous to assume that Brown
is narrow and parochial. His outlook is wide and all-
embracing.
He is familiar with every inch of his yard. He is not,
as some would imagine, narrowly, nay, bigotedly, im-
mersed in the study .of moss surrounding the kitchen-
tap.
He is advanced—perhaps’advanced beyond Ids period.
He is sympathetic and practically cosmopolitan.
For his gaze is not centred for all time upon a tap,
that is peculiar only to him, but embraces quite a whole
yard.
Therefore Brown is a creature of broad views, as he is
a creature of unquestionable intellect.' He is interested
in the development of savage tribes that exist on the
confines of his kingdom. He is aware that thpy are
illiterate, diriy, and perhaps he nest, but human enough
in that they walk upright and have long since abjured
mats and leaves as articles of apparel. It is quite pos-
sible that he guesses their creation is due to .the good
God, since he is impressed with God’s handicraft in him-
self—Brown.
He knows that which is of first importance—that
which immediately affects Brown. His bigness, his
width of view, his intellectual supremacy, he owes to his
Evening News, an educative sheet of stupendous influ-
ence in a yard.
Now we are told by manifestly serious people that
patriotism is love of country, in no way resembling the
tiny, impeccable sentiment of two shop assistants in ,a
park, but a grand and dignified passion, a rather theatri-
cal idealism, defined as something noble, something
entirely voluntary and unselfish, only requiring national
calamity to exhibit its abundance.
Now, is there anything more absurd than this im-
practicable frenzy for country, since, primarily, there is
no country ; but, secondarily, there is Brown’s yard ?
Seemingly, it has not occurred, to even superior intelli-
gences, that, to the individual which is Brown, a back-
yard is the question and the whole question, beyond
doubt of first importance to the suburb of which it is, the
town to which it belongs, the State of which it is part,
and the continent which is not Brown’s.
Consequently, any cultured person, such as are notorious
in banks, insurance offices, commercial institutions and
in the warehouses of York-street, could well hope lor
derisive amusement in, say, the imposition of duties for
the benefit of a continent, when there is no continent
except on the map.
Obviously, the genius who has formulated a scheme for
the.imuiediate or future benefit of a vague thing called
“country ” has quite ignored Brown and his backyard.
Brown is not vague. He is ; he lives. He is of a thou-
sand who walk sedately and soberly along Pitt-street in
the mornings, each one fastened securely to a small
yellow bag.
Those things that are called Protectionists, fools if
they were not knaves, have quite overlooked the patent
fact that a tariff is not so much a benefit to a whole con-
tinent, which does not matter, as it is a violation of the
liberty of the thing that is called Brown, who does matter.
For the first principle of economics, which is Brown's,
is cheapness—that is to say, cheapness for Brown, cheap
clothing, cheap food, cheap literature, and art; indeed
everything cheap for the general well-being and satisfac-
tion of the community—which is, of course, Brown.
So that any attempt to tax the things that Brown
buys, though leading to the erection of more and more
factories ; the employment of more and more labor ; the
immigration of more and more farmers to feed the
labor : the acquisition of land by sound legislation to
feed the farmer ; though leading, in short, to national
welfare, health and greatness, is surely, reactive and mad,
since Brown is not concerned with continents and great-
ness. He has vast troubles of his own, a new beetle
having got at his fruit tree.
And thus we arrive at Brown’s patriotism and a judg-
ment of his value as a citizen.
To sum him up seriously, he is modest, and little, and
mean, servile enough to scrape to an educated coachman,
wholly suburban, un-Australian ; quite a repectably
sized worm whom it would be unwise to worry with big
theories lest he should sell out and migrate to a country
better conditioned for worms, and—who knows?—bear a
magazine rifle in the service of that country.
Under such considerations, a repeal of such reactionary
measures as tariffs and bonuses is demanded for the sake
of Brown.
A country might possibly find it rash to depend on the
patriotism of Brown, but certainly a backyard can
always raise a champion to protest its inviolability.
And that is something.
♦
Sweat and Cigar-Smoke.
“ Unpaealleled prosperity that’s the way in
which the Melbourne newspapers summarised the
report of the Victorian Kailway Commissioners
for the year ending June 30, 1907. The revenue
(£4.012,641) was a record. After paying interest
at the rate of 3.74 per cent, on £39,665,152 of
loans, and meeting all working expenses, the
system comes out with a surplus of £279,133. A
great deal of this is due to the good seasons; but
a good deal of the profit made is due to the
methods of Tait —the man behind the cigar. He
has made it his business to cut down expenses.
Wherever a man could be dispensed with, or a
boy or a woman set to do a man’s work, or an
employee of any sort made to work longer hours
for less pay, Tait found the person, and made
the economy with enthusiasm. In the earlier
years of his management he cut down maintenance
charges to the very bone; but the Glenbrook
smash and a hundred less sensational breakages
taught him a lesson, and he restored the main-
tenance staff to a nearly efficient strength.
Nevertheless, with a gross revenue which has
grown year by year, and which was, last year,
the highest per train mile for 29 years, Tait
has contrived to keep his proportion of working
expenses to revenue decreasing. Last year it
was the lowest he ever reached—sl’7s per cent.
Of whatever gratitude is due by the people of
Victoria for the splendid cash results shown this
year, about 30 per cent, is due to Tait and
the other7o percent, to the patient devils who
work for him—who have done extra work for the
same old inadequate pay, who have met the rush
of the prosperous seasons, and toiled early and late
so that Tait might save a few pounds here and a
few coppers there, and pose, cigar in mouth,
as “ the man who did it.” There was not a word
in Tait’s report of the wearied porters who have
lost arms and legs and lives in the sprints from
platform to platform between trains, their haste
being necessitated because every one of Tait’s
men must sometimes do two men’s work. There
is no mention of the station-masters, up country,
who send away goods trains all night, make
roads for passenger trains all day, and till in their
spare time telegraphing, and making out way-
bills and train sheets. None of this is even hinted
at. It is all Tait, and over the whole of the
railways lies a trail of cigar-smoke and over-work.
♦
Strikes, Active and Passive.
Melbouene had a sudden disagreement last
week which should embody a whole volume of
instruction. The Victorian Wages Board decided
that £2 14s. was a fair minimum wage for bakers,
but the masters appealed to the Revision Court
which is run by Justice Hood. The learned
Judge delivered himself of a mass of erudite
nonsense, and, finally, on the ground that no em-
ployees had come forward to swear that £2 10s.
was an insufficient wage, or something like that,
while the employers had rolled up in force to
swear that it was most liberal remuneration, he
reversed the decision of the Wages Board, and
wiped out the £2 14s. award. If Mr. Hood had
any plain everyday sense, it should occur to him
that the men who appear before the courts in
such a case generally lose their billets ; therefore,
to decide against them on the mere ground that
operative bakers didn’t go personally into the
witness-box was absurd. There w T as plenty of
evidence available without that, and the law
doesn’t specify anywhere that bakers or any other
people are to go personally into the witness box
when they aren’t needed there. The employers
were jubilant, of course, and then they overdid
things. A number banded together and bound
themselves under heavy penalty never to pay
more than 50s. a week. They turned the mini-
mum wage into a maximum wage. Also they pro-
ceeded to enrol ‘ ‘ free ” labor, having a suspicion
that trouble might be ahead. The trouble came
promptly, and the men ceased to work for the
bakers who made 50s. the maximum. These
economists went into the struggle with " a
light heart, and met trouble right away.
It wasn’t a strike after all (a strike being defined-
as a general stoppage of work with a view to
Northward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Japanese are gradually drifting towards Aus-
tralia.”—Bulletin, 1919107.
“ The movement of Australia’s population keeps north-
ward .... hurrying- with pick and shovel on his shoulder
towards the top of Australia’s map. — Bulletin, same
date.
Oh ! the years have shed a glory
Over all the shining west,
And the bards have sung the story
Of the land where red suns rest;
But the luring plains no longer
Tempt the restless wanderer forth—
Hark ! a call rings clearer, stronger,
From the silent, empty North.
They are lacking hands for shearing
In the Bogan sheds to-day.
There are tenders out for clearing
Lands along the Castlereagh ;
But the offers fall unheeded,
For Australia cannot wait:
Men—white men—are sorely needed
In the trenches at the “Gate.”
From each ridge, and range, and valley,
From the scrub-land and the plain,
From each street and sordid alley,
They come trooping out amain,
Unto Sodom and Gomorrah
(Vide Tory lies in town);
Land of fabled Grief and Sorrow,
That’s our Glory and our Crown.
“Land of Sorrow !” Gods in Heaven !
We, who’ve conquered flood and drouth ;
We, who’ve won where we have striven—
In the east, and west, and south ;
It may break “ the links that bind us,”
It may call down Bruce Smith’s wrath,
But when Asia comes she’ll find us,
And we’ll conquer in the North.
From the coast-line to the border
They are passing, passing by,
Trooping on in broken order,
Out to where the lone lands lie ;
To where Fortune waits the bolder
Of the pioneering band,
Pick and shovel on the shoulder,
And a rifle in each hand.
N.S.W.
VELDT.


Grasshoppers are appearing in millions m some
districts. The wide-awake pastoralist is setting the
Tyree Spray to work. The results are wonderful. In a
few days the pest is thoroughly wiped out. The direc-
tions are : Spray the stony ridges where the grasshoppers
lay their eggs. It settles them completely. No necessity
to grow grasshoppers, or prickly pear, or lantana, or
briars, or blackberries, or any other pest. Get a few
Tyree Sprays and make money out of your land. Provi-
dence helps those who help themselves. Write to Tyree
Limited, 314 George Street, Sydney.*
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
&s
V
*
o
*
Vint
*
a ge
woo
O
°cur
O
at
o
No
B ett
e»-
°n
the
Co
urs e
tta
the
arr «ot
bringing pressure to bear on an employer); it was
a plain, ordinary, but very large and sudden and
general resignation of the job with a. view to
going to work for new bosses. The Civil Service
Co-operative Society had previously been arrang-
ing to go into the baking trade, and now it went
into it largely and with a rush. Bread became
superabundant. There were, first, the old em-
ployers who hadn’t joined the agreement to make
50s. the maximum wage; they were turning out
good bread and working as usual. There were,
second, the new Civil Service bakeries, which
were also turning out good bread and receiving
enthusiastic support; they were manned by the
men who had left the economical employers.
Third, there were the old employers of the 50s.
maximum wage. Their bakeries were now manned
by “ free ” workers, old derelicts, amateurs, and
sundries, and this motley crowd turned out at a
great rate dough, burnt clinkers, and other kind
of alleged food which the public treated with scorn.
Instead of there being a scarcity, Melbourne had
an avalanche of bread, and it was a very poor dog
that didn’t capture a loaf all to itself in the con-
fusion. Then the masters surrendered. There was
no time to be lost. If the C.S.C.S. got the trade it
would probably keep it, and men who had capital
invested in bakeries would then find their
business gone. They climbed down immediately.
Had the unionists resorted to a passive strike, it
would probably have dragged on for weeks or
months, and in the end the men would have been
beaten. It was the sudden apparition of another
bread supply that settled the business. A strike
is industrial war, and the best defence in all war
is to be the attacking force. Where workmen
simply cease work the battle is half lost. But
where the workmen can back up their stoppage
of work by organising a co-operative or other
industry to collar the trade of the men who are
fighting them, they become dangerous. Capital
stands to lose everything then, and, as the daily
papers have told us in many kegs of ink, Capital
is very sensitive. It may not flee out of the
country, as alleged, but it is liable to make a very
disorderly retreat out of the bakehouse.
♦
S. Aus. Puts a Patch, on
S. Aus. has an elective House of Fat. That is to
say, 189,147 Assembly electors authorise the
Assembly to do something, and 52,651 of the same
people tell another House—which is the House of
Fat —to do something else. The absurdity of it
all has kept the State’s politics in a simmer
for years past. The 52,651 were not chosen to
veto the legislation of the 189,147 on account of
their superior intelligence. If a man occupied a
dwelling of the clear annual value of £25 a year
he was reckoned good enough to have a second
vote. It was the size of his house, not the size of
his intelligence, that gave him the extra politi-
cal pull. Even the House of Fat itself
saw the absurdity of that. It didn’t dare
carry the thing to its logical conclusion, and
give a man an extra vote for every three rooms or
so he added to his house, or one vote extra,
say, for a dog-kennel and a new fowl-house. Still,
many a man has become entitled to vote in S. Aus.
for “ the chamber of second thought,” as it calls
itself, on the strength of a fowl-house. If his place
was valued at £24 a year, and he added some hen
accommodation, the premises would be valued at
£25 a year next time; whereupon the fowl-house
passed him in among the select. The Liberal-
Labor Government, instead of deciding to
sweep away the whole absurdity, even if
it had to stop supplies to bring the Council
to reason, asked for a £l5 franchise plus a
vote for the woman as well as the man.
The Assembly, backed up by the country, adopted
that proposal unanimously. The House of Fat
was aghast at the awfulness of it. Elected by
enlightened men who (on the strength of the extra
fowl-coop)lived in premises worth £25 a year, that
House professed to belie ve that the whole firmament
was in danger if the State enfranchised people who
didn’t have a fowl-shed, and whose premises were
therefore only worth £l5 a year. Yet the Fats
Have the whole show away and allowed that the
size of a man’s shanty and accessories was no
criterion of the size of his patriotism or his intel-
ligence or his rights, by themselves proposing that
policemen, certain school-teachers, and a fewothers
specified should have the extra vote. With these
various proposals the two Houses got to a Con-
ference last week. And then the Assembly
“managers,” who had compromised already,
began to compromise more. The £l5 franchise
was thrown over in favor of one of £l7—so the
hen-house must be painted and have two roosts,
instead of being whitewashed and having only one
roost. In return the Council threw overboard its
“ rateable assessment ” fad—an idea for restrict-
ing the enrolments by making a £25 house appear
to be really worth only £22, and therefore not worth
a vote. Also the both-man-and-wife vote proposal
had to be abandoned ; and the Council insisted
upon even the little bit it gave away being re-
ferred to the present Council electors. Natu-
rally the Laborites don’t like the settle-
ment. They see they have got very little.
But, on the other hand, they have got some-
thing ; and in a matter like this every little
helps. Every little obtained makes it easier to
get more, because the new enrolments will cer-
tainly put their weight into the reform move-
ment. It is not as though Price threw away any
principle—no principle was involved in his Bill;
it was i tself a compromise, there being no more
virtue about a £l5-a-year humpy than there is
about one that only runs to £l4 10s.
The Beautiful Precision of the Law.
Justice may be blind, but it is painfully accurate
when it comes to details. The prosecution, no
matter how clear its case may be, is always liable
to come a cropper, by forgetting to prove some
obvious fact or other. It is calculated that one
Sydney S.M. has had it proved to him 234 times
that George-street is a public thoroughfare.
Should the 235th case come up without proving
the fact again» it would be “outed” for a cer-
tainty. At the same time, the method of proof
is ludicrous, and is no proof at all. A policeman
waves a paper, and says it is a Gazette, contain-
ing some remarks about “God Save,” and
everybody admits that something or other is
“proved.” If a smart lawyer were to ask the
constable to prove that it was a Gazette that he
was feebly wagging about, it is probable that he
would hastily withdraw his case, and resign from
the force. Here is a sample police-court case:
The Junee Council is proceeding against Adam
Smith for a breach (say) of the Country Towns
Act for allowing his goat to go to sleep on the
public highway at night. Inspector Mullins
goes into the box and produces :
(1) Government Gazette proclaiming Junee a town.
(2) Ditto notifying election of the Mayor.
(3) Ditto appointing, under the hand of the Mayor,
Marmaduke Mullins as Inspector.
(4) Ditto extending the Towns Act to Junee.
(5) Ditto proclaiming High-street, Junee, as a street.
(6) Ditto declaring that a goat is an animal.
(7) Incontrovertible proof that 11 p.m. is not daylight.
Having thus cleared the track, so to speak,
Marmaduke proceeds to laboriously prove that
Adam is the owner of the goat, and that the said
goat was asleep in High-street to the danger of
our lord the King, his crown and dignity, seeing
that, if Edward VII. had happened to come up
High-street, Junee, just after pub-closure, and
had fallen over the goat, his crown, if he had it
on at the moment, might have fallen off and rolled
a long distance, and his dignity would have gone
all skew-whiff, and his imperial robes would have
thereafter smelt of goat. When he has finished,
up leaps a pert young lawyer for the defence.
“ Y’rwursh’p ; I ask for this case to be dismissed,
as no offence has been proved under the section.
We are charged with going to sleep on the public
street. What proof is there, y’rwursh’p, that we
went to sleep on the public street ? For all y’r-
wursh’p knows we went to sleep in our paddock.
We probably did go to sleep in our paddock,
and walked in our sleep into High-street; or
Mulligan, or someone else, might have found us
asleep somewhere and carried us in our sleep into
High-street. Dozens of things might have hap-
pened. I insist, y’rwursh’p, that the prosecution
must prove its case properly. We can’t have
these slipshod methods. We’re reasonable.
There’s no proof that we’re in Junee. We pass
that. Mr. Mullins here doesn’t produce any
birth certificate to prove that he is Mr. Mullins.
I won’t press that. We really don’t know that
y’rwursh’p is y’rwursh’p. We don’t mind that.
But when we are charged with going to sleep and
there is not a tittle of evidence to prove it, it is
too much. I ask y’rwursh’p to dismiss the case.”
And thereupon the case is dismissed. The goat
was asleep, but no one saw it going to sleep, and
it might have been born that wav and the Law
hates looseness and inaccuracy.
♦
If the new Premier of N.S.W. takes the famous
referendum promised by his predecessor, this will
be the third question put to the people (the words
are Carruthers’ own): —
(3) Should this State accept the Commonwealth as now
constituted and administered, or take measures to secure
a more liberal and just Constitution ?
Now, supposing the public votes “No,” will that
mean that it doesn’t “accept the Commonwealth
as now constituted,” or that it doesn’t want to
“ take measures to secure a more liberal and just
Constitution ” ? And if it votes “ Yes,” will
that mean, “ Yes, we accept the Commonwealth
as now constituted” ; or, “Yes, we want to take
measures,” etc. ? Will the “Yes ” and the “No”
apply to the first clause or the second ?
And how would “Yes-No” fill the bill
to show that the voter was in favor of the
Carruthers idea, and “No-Yes” to show that
he wasn’t ? Also, how about “ Rats !”as a brief
answer ? And how would a ballot-paper look if
it read, “ Are you in favor of Brown or Smith ?
Say ‘Yes’ or ‘No’”. It takes a capacity for
muddle that almost amounts to genius to so build
a question that it really can’t be answered, and to
so construct it that it would be no good in two
different ways if it could be answered. In the
first place, the people can’t vote for “a more just
constitution,” unless they know what meaning
is put on the words; and, in the second place,
it is a wildly amazing individual who asks the
community to say whether it will or will not
accept something which it has accepted already.
He might as well ask the electors all in
one breath if they approve of Queen Anne
remaining dead or if they would prefer to have a
stamp-duty put on dried fish.
* Jacob McClosky ” sends The Bulletin a num-
ber of conundrums, culminating in this: —
You say : “What hasn’t yet been able to get past the
Freetrade fetich in Haldane’s mind is that, when the
deal is concluded, Britain will have, say, a million horse-
shoes, and won’t have, say, £25,000, whereas if he had
bought the horseshoes in England, Britain would have
had the million horseshoes and the £25,000 as well.”
When you can occupy your skilled labor on the building
of Lusitanias and Dreadnoughts, why worry about horse-
shoes?
A tradesman who gets in estimates for painting his
shop-front takes the lowest (oft-times lowest because of
some error of calculation) offer. He does not say “ I will
do my own painting, and have both the painting and the
money.” That is what The Bulletin says !
The common-sense tradesman handles the business
which is his. Let us do likewise. The textile industry is
ours beyond all others, therefore let us keep the wool
and export the products.
Let Britain build her navies. Let America make her
horseshoes at cut-throat prices—and her two-shilling
axes.
To which The Bulletin merely remarks
(1) When you can get pork, why worry about pickles?
(2) If you can employ 10,000 men on building Lusi-
tanias and Dreadnoughts, and you’ve got 12,000 men,
why worry about the odd 2000 ? They can go to Germany
or America. Then you can send an order for horseshoes
after them. It will probably do the horseshoes good to
have a sea voyage. Then also, in case of war, 2000 men
who have been driven out of their own land won’t need
guns. That will be a saving.
(3) A man who wants his shop painted doesn’t say, “ I
will do my own painting, and have both the painting and
the money.” No, he calls in a painter. The Foreign-
trader wants him to send his shop to Europe, or Japan,
or some foreign place, to be painted and then returned.
The Bulletin has a fixed idea that that is a fool of a
plan. Still, it is the Foreign-traders’ plan.
(4) The textile industry is Australia’s. But it isn’t
Australia’s merely because it is big. If the iron is here,
and the coal, and the waiting workmen, then the making
of a horseshoe-nail (not to mention a horseshoe) is just
as much Australia’s industry as the big thing is Aus-
tralia’s industry. It really isn’t sensible to kill the baby
just because it isn’t born 13st. weight.
The N.S.W. ex-Premier was so busy com-
plaining that the Federal duty on imported
wire-netting is “disastrous to the pastoralists ”
that he hadn’t time to attend to his own
business, and something a great deal more
disastrous to the pastoralists happened within
his own jurisdiction. The cold, verdant ele-
vated country round Kosciusko is the great refuge
of the N.S.W. pastoralist in drought time. It
isn’t used in ordinary seasons, but in dry years it is
taken up on short leases, and stock are removed
there for grass and water. The drought has ap-
parently resumed business now, and harried
sheep-men and cattle-gentlemen came in from
the West to take up annual leases round
Kosciusko. And they found that almost every
inch of land had been already taken up by specu-
lators, most of whom have no stock at all, and
already one of these individuals is said to have
refused a profit of 1900 per cent, on his bargain.
If Carruthers had been a little less busy with
his wire-netting curse he might have contrived to
see that these areas were reserved for genuine
Jiastoralists, and prevented this sinful corner in
and and this heartless trading on the misfortunes
of others.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Way to Kenmare.”
Criterion “ The Southern Cross.”
Theatre Royal “The Midnight Wedding.”
Palace “ The Yellow Peril.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Butt-Rumford Concerts.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Brigadier Gerard.”
Her Majesty’s “The Dairy Maids.’
Theatre Royal “The Great Rescue.”
Bijou “ The Shadows of a Great City.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Hitherto Mrs. Clara Butt-Kennerley Rum-
ford has been known to the Sydney public as a
good mother, pictorially represented as kissing,
dandling, and otherwise caressing a young family,
or as an affectionate wife who pours out her hus-
band’s tea, or assists him in his correspondence
quite like an ordinary person. On Saturday,
Sydney was made acquainted with her as a great
contralto singer with a Voice which is of immense
volume, yet presents scarcely a trace of the
accepted contralto timbre , has none of the
low contralto notes, and sets one wonder-
ing—if she be, in fact, regarded as typi-
cal of the modern contralto—whether the con-
tralto class of voice has disappeared from the
world altogether. The voice of Anak’s daughter
is more of the sort which used loosely to be called
a dramatic soprano than anything else, and does not
fully possess even the mezzo quality. What its
upward range might be the evening gave no
opportunity of discovering; its resources down-
ward were small, and the bottom of the voice was
easily reached, and more than once passed. There
is no real deep-sinking about that voice. Clara
Butt has less claim to be called a contralto than
even Ada Crossley. She has a much larger voice
—in the best parts of it, a richer voice. But
it is uneven, or not perfectly controlled,
since occasionally there is a curious deadness—
almost a funeral —about some of the notes. This
is observable in many fine voices, but in some
cases the singer has been able to cover it up more
successfully than has Clara Butt. She would pro-
duce a tremendous effect upon the average audi-
ence anywhere, astonishing by the sheer force of
a huge and often beautiful organ of sound ; but
the critical would be apt to break away from that
sort of spell with the feeling that there was some-
times that “something” wanting which distin-
guishes the great artist from the one who is
almost great. She is very much in earnest
in her singing, and with a general audience that
goes a long way. So much is this the case with
her that there is a tendency to over-lavish expres-
sion—a certain want of restraint, which also
characterises her Kennerley Rumford. She is apt
to be too exuberant. The Bulletin suspects that
these qualities, would be less evident in the calm
and unexciting atmosphere of oratorios, and as for
the compass of the voice, it must not be forgotten
that many of the most popular oratorio numbers
(such as “O, Rest in thw Lord,” with which the
Big Lady is said to have made such an impression
in Melbourne) are quite within the range of plenty
of soprano voices.
;** ' • *
Summing up this “ Voice of the Century ”
The Bulletin reckons that it is magnificent, but
it is not war. The best has not been made of a
phenomenal natural gift; the middle and upper
registers are superb, but thelowernotesare entirely
“ made ” —and not very well made. Finally there
is a lack of the keen sense of refinement that is
wanted to make the perfect artist. Kennerley
Rumford has a light baritone of which the best
has been made. He sings better than his wife,
though, like her, with a certain exaggeration of
sentiment. Her enunciation is particularly good,
his is wholly excellent; and this emphasises a
certain tendency to declaim after the manner of
the hero of melodrama. Otherwise, Rumford is
a more finished singer than his wife. Mrs. Butt’s
best number was the first—the Verdi aria. The
last verse of Elgar’s “Land of Hope and Glory”
was almost bawled. A recall for the final duet
was sternly refused. At guinea rates it might
well have been granted. Goliath’s daughter was
booked to set free her large voice again on
Tuesday, also to-night (Thursday), and some
more on Saturday; and to do the thing over again
on the 15th.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) Andrew Mack
is blessed with the most easily-amused audiences
in Australia. Or he isn’t blessed with them ;it
depends mainly upon whether you consider him
as Business or Art. Not for him the inveterate
whose theatre-toggery gets an airing once a week ;
he fills his house instead with mother and the
girls, who have heard that he’s so good—visits
cardinals and bishops, and sings to the poor
orphans in the homes (and doesn’t exactly kill a
reporter if one should happen to be listening). So
his audience is the audience that takes theadvt.
for gospel, and swallows the puff par. whole.
Mother and the girls had seats for “Jack
Shannon” the other evening. “Oh, isn’t he
lovely!” the gushiest of the girls said. They all
agreed in italics that he was lovely, and between
them they thought out six more adjectives for
him. But it happens that in “Jack Shannon”
A. Mack makes a late appearance. It is
the heavy villain who has the first “cut”
at the audience; and it also happens that the
heavy villain of A. Mack’s co. is the most awk-
ward and amateurish joint in a very amateurish
tail. Still he was lovely, etc., because the advts.
say A. Mack is lovely, etc., and the awkward
villain was supposed to be A. Mack. That sort
of thing is good for Business, but it kills Art.
* * * •
For Andrew Mack knows it is mother and
the girls that he is playing to, and he
plays accordingly, and also chooses his plays
accordingly. Like “The Ragged Earl,” “Jack
Shannon ” is pure, unadulterated melodrama
strung upon a chain of the most amazing coinci-
dences. The Young Ass has been gambling, and
buries his head in his arms on the table. His
fingers touch something. Ha ha ! What have we
here? A pocket-book, gadzooks! Let us ex-
amine it. “ There is money in it! ” A thousand
pound note, egad ! Now the Young Ass wants a
thousand-pound note. He has, in fact, just
stolen one from his father, and his father has
got the number of it, so he wants to change it
for another one. He changes it. The man who
owns the pocket-book is found with the stolen
note. The hero, of course. A. Mack, of course.
Gloom. But the heroine says she’s sure he didn’t
do it. (Great applause.) Father Lawler says
he’ll stake his life he didn’t do it. (Thunders of
applause.) Nevertheless he gets the kick-out.
Then Andrew Mack proceeds to say good-bye.
He risks his life to get into the drawing-
room by night unbeknownst to the rest of
the house (he at once warbles one of his
songs so as not to make a noise and disturb
them). While there, the Young Ass con-
fesses All to him. And of course the angry
father and the girl have come into the room (also
unbeknownst) and overhear all. Hero thereupon
restored to his pedestal amid more applause.
w * * *
Out of such paltry stuff Mr. Mack makes
a popular success. His perfect self-possession
and his easy ways are largely responsible. Then
his voice helps. For a man’s it is really a wonder-
ful voice—just like that of the star boy in the
church choir—-and he uses it with consummate
cunning. That is why he succeeds best when
the orchestra has a spell, and he supplies his own
piano accompaniment. Miss Mack Berlein plays
matronly parts with broad comedy effects in a
ripe brogue ; and that helps too. Fred Cam-
bourne as Father Lawler, W. J. Townshend as
the Young Ass, Phil Walsh as O’Donoghue, and
Miss Kelton as Maura Sherlock (the best girl)
give as much support as circumstances will allow.
“Mack Shannon” will run a week only; then
“ The Way to Kenmare ” will be resurrected.
** * m
“ The Yellow Peril,” at Sydney Palace, is
a whirling and gorgeous melodrama of the sort
that moves to ecstasy the admirers of Mrs. Camp-
bell Praed and the late Guy Boothby. As a
matter of fact, it is “The White Peril,” the whole
of the villainy—and the play reeks with it—
being the work of English aristocrats. Boiled
down, it is the story of an English girl, the
daughter of the aristocratic master of Ash-
ley Manor, who marries the Chinese Marquis
Lo-Feng-Tsao (which his name in the street
is Harry Diver), because her white lover, Lieu-
tenant Arthur Templeton, has proved neglectful.
The neglect is used for all it is worth by the
lover’s brother, Captain Templeton, who has
taken £5OOO from the Marquis Diver Lo-
Feng-Tsao to advance his suit. Exactly
why Lo-Feng-Diver wastes £5OOO in that
manner is hard to explain, for he has
the girl mesmerised and absolutely under his
control. When the Lieutenant comes home
and raises Cain, the Marquis says sweetly, “Let
the lady decide,” and obediently to his mesmeric
power she walks into her Chinaman’s arms. The
plot then whirls across the seas to a mountain rest-
house in China. There the captain tries to com-
mit murder, but encounters a stern resistance at
the hands of Miranda Rudd, and although
she is a bad egg, there is something taking
about Miranda. Her faculty for arriving
at the opportune time is delightful. Meanwhile
Diver-Lo-Feng has a bad time at the hands of
his disappointed and querulous wife, and with
the wisdom of Asia he proceeds to settle the matter
by selling her to his secretary ; but some friendly
brigands who are worked by Miranda Rudd, and
certain British blue-jackets who are worked by
the discarded lover, Arthur Templeton, save her
and take her to England, where she arrives just
in time to see the villain meet his just reward.
* * * *
This glowing and well-staged rot is quite
beyond criticism. Ridicule falls blunted against
its gorgeous Chinese armor, or gets lost in the
snow-drifts round the Chinese mountain rest.
Chinchuses, official torturers, and the amazing
Marquis, who loyally obeys the order of the
emperor to suicide, make up an atmosphere, and
that is all the modern playgoer seems to require.
In “The Yellow Peril” he gets it full and plenty.
The staging and setting are good ; and so is the
acting, and the injustice to our fellow yellow
subjects can be pas sed over.
** * *
Humanity in the lump, 20,000 or so in
round numbers, witnessed the re-opening of
Wonderland City on Monday, St. Eight Hours
Day. “ The Rivers of the World ” was the new
attraction and favorite illusion. It didn’t prove
a delusion, for the same passengers made the
grand tour of the mysterious waterways more than
once. The skating rink has been enlarged, and
as skating has Sydney by the wool and heels, the
open, wheel-feet form of amusement will be rushed
during the summer. The Katzenjammer Castle,
Alice the elephant, a Modern Venus, and the
working model of a coal mine were amongst the
other attractions. The wonderful city by the sea
will be open all day from 10 a.m. until further
(very further) notice.
** * *
“ The Southern Cross,” the “new Anglo*
Australian drama” which opened at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, is considerably more
Anglo than Australian. It is about as Australian
as G. Reid—no more, possibly less. Walter
Lisle, the hero, is English, as is Lady Linda
Lovelace, the pertinaciously faithful young
woman by whom he is loved. The villain, Lord
George Lisle, Earl of Eldermere (weird com-
bination of titles, unknown hitherto to
heraldry), is) essentially a Cold Country pro-
duct. Larry O’Leary, valet to Walter, is
of Irish extraction, and the same applies to
his colleen, Kitty O’Flynn, a maiden with
the Celtic temperament markedly developed,
who is in service with Lady Dunmore, mother of
the Earl—and eke of the virtuous Walter, since
the twain are brothers. Proceedings open at
Lisle Manor, Kent, where, despite the riot of
summer flowers and verdure that appears without,
the hunting season is represented as in full swing.
Lest there be a doubt on this score, Lord Julian
Lovelace enters with other followers of the chase,
spotless as to his top boots and pink coat, and asserts
warmly that “a finer hunt he has never attended.”
Plainly, from the immaculate state of his clothes,
Jule has done little leaping and galloping during
the day; but Kent is one of those counties where
very fair sport can be got with hounds from the
roof seat of a Margate omnibus, so no one
attempts seriously to challenge the nobleman’s


I Insure
! with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
V PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
boast. The chief purpose of this act is to show
the nasty ways of the Earl. A tenant, for
example, would have his rent lowered. “ Show him
in,” says Eldermere, with one of the most bitter
and offensive laughs the writer has heard in years ;
“ I would fain humiliate him before you all.” In
comes the wretched tenant, and gets as sound a
humiliating before the nobility and gentry assem-
bled as a man could wish for. (This amusing and
picturesque old-British sport of tenant-humilia-
ting seems to have fallen into desuetude of
late years. A matter for regret.) Walter decides,
at the end of the first act, since his brother, the
Earl, has stolen and done in, at Epsom, his
(Walter’s) entire heritage, that he will go to Aus-
tralia and be a digger. O’Leary fastens himself on
Walter with the limpet-like adhesiveness of his
genus, and says he will go too ; and everyone in the
caste with any sort of moral character shows a
tendency to follow suit. And Walter, with
O’Leary attached, sails on the Dunbar.
* » * *
In the ensuing couple of acts a series of wild
liberties are taken with established facts, any one
of which liberties is calculated to make the most
impudent of anti-tariffists fairly gasp with envy.
The Dunbar is wrecked before the Eureka Stock-
ade riot instead of three years afterwards; the
unhappy captain is limned as a villainous poltroon
as well as an incompetent; Walter, on his
arrival in Ballarat, is “ elected Commander-
in-Chief ” by the miners, and leads the
defence of the fortress that was stormed
of yore by the 40th Regiment. And so on.
The spectator is reduced to so dazed a state that
he gives no perceptible start of wonder when
Lady Linda Lovelace appears suddenly in the
doomed stockade, in a costly Paris confection,
and is introduced to the cheering miners by their
Commander-in-Chief as his future bride.
• • *
Later, Walter collects his “ pile,” goes
“ Home,” buys the ancestral estate (which hap-
pens to be up for auction on the very day of
his return), marries the girl, and otherwise
does himself proud. A futile play this. But
some of the mounting is fine, notably the scene
on the Ballarat diggings ; and the mimes handle
their sorry lines with what looks almost like con-
viction. Miss Duggan, as Lady Linda, makes the
hit she always does ; she has her own public,
which dearly loves its Eugenie. Mr. Gross is the
platitudinously upright Walter, a sort of youthful
B. Smith, and one whose life on any decently-con-
ducted goldfield would be a very Sheol till he
learned to jettison polysyllabic virtue, and talk
plain Australian. Bert Bailey takes the rdle of
O’Leary, an inconceivably dense Irish servitor.
Asininity attains, in O’Leary’s case, to epic
heights, and personally this scribe could have
done, on first night, with a good deal less
O’Leary than he got. But the O’Leary
humor touches the great heart of the populace,
and Bert Bailey’s ancient gags go as though they
were years and years younger than they are.
Laurence Dunbar plays the villainous Earl, and,
in sooth, if there is anything like him at West-
minster, the House of Lords merits not abolition
merely, but dynamiting. Quite conceivably,
“The Southern Cross ” will draw well; it won’t
be the fault of a strenuous band of players if it
doesn’t.
** * *
Miss Madge Mclntosh steps into the ring
at Sydney Royal, and joins holts with the World,
(stakes being the lady’s Love and a coronet worth
several purses of sovereigns) for the last time on
Friday night next. Thereafter “The Midnight
Wedding,” which is like “Her Love,” etc., only
more so, will hold the boards and the strained
attention of local playgoers.
* * * -*
The Molassos are this week’s new crop at
Sydney Tivoli. Melbourne has talked of these
whirling dancers for some weeks, and what Mel-
bourne said (it is painful for a Sydney person to
have to admit it) was true. They are an electri-
fying lot, who do with their legs what the juggling
Geraldos were the other day doing with their
hands.
* * *
Saturday night saw “ Beaucaire ” start for
a short, sharp sprint across the Mel bourne Prin-
cess’s stage (though sprint is scarcely the word for
a play so elaborately weighted with word and
gesture). It is dainty, ceremoniously pretty,
and the mounting is superb. If there
is any critical want it is in the mumming,
Knight is not the exquisite “ Beaucaire ” he was
two years ago. The dear Julius grows heavy, and
there is a faint subtlety of curve gone from the
Beauteous Legs. Nevertheless, it is a pleasing
performance, despite the want of feather lightness
in the portrayal of that spoilt and petted child of
luxury, the Due d’ Orleans. The magnificent
Elbert Orton fails signally in realising the
haughty Yere de Yere atmosphere that should
envelop Lady Mary, the icy Beauty of Bath.
She looks beautiful, in spite of the necessary fair
wigging that covers the warmth of her auburn
hair; but her haughty movements of disdain are
a flounce and a caricature, and her love-making—
when the icy barrier thaws and lets the Beauty
graciously unbend—is a furious onslaught that
seems to overwhelm the little Frenchman. Harry
Plimmer finds a far morecongenial part, in the Duke
of Winterset, than any other he has taken of late.
Mackintosh the Large, who showed up somewhat
in “ Robin Hood,” puts a big voice into a small
part, and tills the silky fittings of a peer of the
year 1735 with something of an air. Bently, as
Major Molyneaux, jerks stodgily through his
imploring part as the much-worried friend of
the Unknown, and quite as many pretty gentle-
men stand about in much frill, and speak
meaningless speeches with elaborate courtesy.
Next week “Brigadier Gerard” ousts the
feminine Frenchman.
** * *
The Holloway co. is providing a dramatisa-
tion of “Bleak House” for its patrons at Mel-
bourne Bijou. The version is a poor one (but that
statement applies to all versions, more or less), and
it leaves a lot to the exhausted imagination of the
playgoer who hasn’t read the book, or who has
read it and has committed the folly of for-
getting it, and has allowed William Guppy
to pass out of his mind. And there’s a
lot of sloppy sentiment in it, which Dickens
would surely swear at if he only had the
opportunity. Also there is a needlessly melo-
dramatic French maid, who talks altogether too
much. But it serves two good purposes. It recalls
the inimitable art of Jennie Lee in the part of Jo,
and it proves that the Holloway co. can act excel-
lently on occasion. In this production, with the
exception of one or two minor women characters
and Miss Alice Deorwyn as the hysterical French
servant, everyone is artistic. Jefferson-Taite, as
Mr. Snagsby, and C. R. Stanford, as Tulkinghorn,
take the palm. Snagsby becomes a figure of flesh
and blood in the careful hands of the gentleman
with the hyphened name. And Stanford’s pic-
ture of the sinister old brute who is potted by the
pistol of the French excrescence, stands out as a
beautifully complete bit of work. J. P. O’Neill’s
Chadband is fine in make-up, but his preaching is
too Tregearian in its exaggeration. Miss
Gresham, as Lady Dedlock, and Mabel Russell,
as her daughter, both excel themselves; and
Harry Sweeney gives a nice vignette of a coroner
ready for compulsory retirement. Also Miss
Beatrice Holloway, as the dirty little waif who
doesn’t know nuffin, is very appealing. Next
Saturday these players will wander through “The
Shadows of a Great City.”
** * *
Perhaps Brunton’s superb scenic painting
is the real reason why “House full” is the order
every evening at Melbourne Royal. Apart from
its scenery, “ The Great Rescue ” hasn’t much to
recommend it (though Jack Willis makes an
unnecessary Scawtchman into a thing of real
humor worth paying to see). The dialogue is on
the bedrock of inanity; the characterisation is
COMING BACK.
Mr. Iwasaki, the departing Jap Consul, expressed a hope on leaving that he might one day
return to Sydney. The artist has given rein to his imagination, and pictures the new Governor
landing after the bombardment.
inconsistent, and the human nature is of an old
and incredible and potboiling species. Also the
play is an immense success. With these few re-
marks this paper hurries on its way.
** * *
A huge tile-pink palace has risen in the
night with mushroom growth among the gardens
of St. Kilda Road and Prince’s Bridge, and its
capacious insides are being fitted up with much
glory of paint and plush, and airy ventilation for
the Greatest Show on Earth—Wirth’s Circus. The
plodding elephant and the raging wild beasts are
to have a menagerie with art furnishings
(and, let’s hope, sanitary plumbing). The forest
creatures are even to have fountains and rockeries
to remind them of the depths of their cool jungles.
The stables are a marvellous work of hygienic art,
and lead straight into an amphitheatre that will
raise a shout in the heart of the Small Boy (even
the grown-up Small Boy of 60 who just comes to
the circus “to oblige the children ”). The common
or garden circus benches are only a small item in
the amphitheatre, and real plush opera chairs
circle in glory above them, and backing
all is a tier of opera-like boxes —about
half a hundred—fitted with gorgeous cur-
tains and ruby lights. It’s a place to marvel
at. The Wirths attack Melbourne with a new
form of amusement, a combined circus, hippo-
drome, and stage performance, that will closely
follow the lines of the London Hippodrome.
The area covered by the pink building is 75,000
square feet (it sounds awful in feet), and there is
a road on every side of the square. The show
begins on October 19, and manager Peterson is
driving an army of bill-stickers round the city,
papering it with some 15,000 “ one-sheeters ”
(mostly expressive, tumbling, Norman Lindsay
elephants) and some thousands of assorted hoard-
ing posters, to draw the public within the area.
The Orpheus Society gave its twentieth
concert, on Tuesday, at Melbourne Town Hall.
Coleridge Taylor’s setting of the “Death of
Minnehaha,” with Professor Beard waving the
young tree, was the star item. This drama of
melody was finely performed all round. The
work of the chorus (all amateurs) was notable.
The orchestra, which also is largely unprofessional,
played both accompaniments and solo work
admirably. The two principals, Miss Ledwidge
and C. H. Ledward, who are yet young in music,
sang “ Minnehaha ” with such significance that
the cantata assumed the dignity of an epic. The
lady possesses a voice full of appealing earnestness,
tinged with that melodious warmth which jewels
some Australian voices. Mr. Ledward is a
baritone of real talent. The Orpheus, under its
new conductor, should be worth watching. It
resuscitates its original aim, which is to develop
the younger singers of promise. Those desirable
citizens get little early encouragement from the
bigger societies.
** * *
Next Saturday a huge carnival, in aid of
the Women’s Hospital, will be held at Prince’s
Court. A procession of ’Varsity boys, Chinese
citizens, and other nuisances will march to the
court to begin, and the folk who follow them will
find fifty side-shows awaiting their pleasure.
There will be two sessions, commencing at noon
and 7 p.m., and the toll-fee is stated at 6d.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House continues to add
new artists to its entertaining family. “La
Sylphe,” a classical dancer, appeared on Saturday
for the first time. The nymph who is advertised
by weird portraits representing an isosceles
triangle surmounted by a smiling face, proves
to be, in the flesh, a slender apparition
with a normal shape. Her dancing is
neat, and sometimes poetic, and her dressing is
a trifle audacious. The Geraldos are established
as a star turn, and the juggling G. whose hip
bones project like the details of a hat-rack,
is nightly encored when he makes his weird bow.
The Whiteleys have added some more weight-
balancing feats to their turn. The ineffable
Cranston is perpetrating an outrage called
“Nailed to the Mast.” Also, Miss Blanche, a fat
young woman with a medium voice, sings a senti-
mental commonplace about “Love.”
** * *
“The Grey Kimona,” making a first Aus-
tralian appearance at Adelaide Royal in the
hands of the “Fatal Wedding” children, is a
pleasant surprise every way. The music by
Wynne-Jones, who himself conducts, is tuneful.
The libretto (a much bigger problem) is designed
by Souter on Gilbertian lines, with a Daimio
(much the same thing as a Mikado) of Japan, an
executioner, and other familiar details. Novelty
comes in with an American troop of strolling
players, who play up considerably with things
Japanese. The executiener gets much legiti-
mate fun out of his sword, which he extols as a
priceless heirloom and then sells to a Yankee for
five dollars. But the “book” is too timid, sand-
wiching in about two minutes of dialogue for
every ten minutes of ballad ; also, there is a
whole row of named characters with hardly a line
to speak. With its one act worked up and ex-
panded into two, it would compare well enough
with-most comic operas. The acting is brilliant
in spots.
Brothers J. and N. Tait lately offered a guinea for a title
for their new open-air skating rink at St. Kilda (Vic.).
Well,,the Tait-a-Tait.
AT POVERTY POINT.
" Billy T.” : Bland Holt, usually so careful and precise
about the staging of his dramas and the correction of his
detail, makes a woeful bloomer in his mine scene in the
first act of “ The Great Rescue.” In a gold-mining coun-
try, a country in which every second man in an audience
may be held to be familiar at least with the appearance of
a mine, and where ss. worth of railway ticket would take
the property-man and scene-painter to the actual thing,
manager Holt puts on a howling absurdity that does not
at all resemble a gold mine, but is an excellent repre-
sentation of a public-house cellar. He has a large, square
hole in the stage, with alleged poppet legs over it, and
up and down in this hole people are borne in dry-goods
boxes, slung on ordinary inch rope. The dizzy depth of
the shaft is made obvious to the audience by the fact that
the four ropes which attach the calico cases to the haul-
ing rope never quite disappear on the down journey,
which takes a matter of two seconds. The pumping en-
gines play an important part in the plot, but there is no
bob, there are no lifts, and the whole arrangement is so
farcical that if Bland takes it into a mining district he
may expect it to be received with whoops of derision.
“ Trixie ” : The beauty of stage realism can usually be
depended upon to spoil the beauty of stage romance. In
the Bland’olt production of “ The Bondman,” f’rinstance,
a barn-door fowl turns a most affecting love-story into
an interval of joyous farce. “ Jason ” Rignold and
“ Greeba ” Ross exchange vows, and later break them
with much pathos, in a farm-yard setting which is
infested by fowls, pigeons, dairymaids, and other
live stock. Each time I’ve watched this sorrowful
passage my sentimental sympathy has been alienated
from the loving pair by the antics of an angry
hen. George Rignold proposes, Greeba assents ; then
the fowl disposes of everything in the way of seriousness.
“ I love you, my Greeba ! ” says George, in his most stately
manner. “ Crk-crrk-crrrk 1 ” sneers the fowl. Then she
proceeds to pick a quarrel with an inoffensive sister, who
is submitting to the perfunctory attentions of the real
rooster, which male fowl is crowing with prodigious
energy. Jason and Greeba gurgle on, and their talk is
ominous of coming trouble. Some uneasy pigeons squeak
a frantic obligato to their maunderings. Presently the
fatal fowl reasserts herself. Flying to the top of a
realistic fence, she makes a lengthy protest against the
stodginess and length of Hall Caine’s drammers. Two
other real fowls argue the matter exhaustively with her.
Then the trio indulge in a savage scrap, with the har-
monious rooster as referee. Off stage the dry cows, who
are milked on stage by damsels in dancing shoes, low
loudly, and the real live horse that appears before the
footlights neighs like a trumpet with a cold. The actors,
with straining throats, try to shout above the din pro-
duced by the laughter of a big audience and the clamor
of the poultry. And the realistic setting makes them
seem as unreal as marionettes.
“Melb.”: At Cole’s Hippodrome, on Saturday night
last, a drama by E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., on Peter
Lalor and the Eureka Stockade, was produced. The
first act was on the Murrumbidgee. Peter Lalor there
came in casually, in a brave encounter with Stormalong,
a bushranger. Captain Temple and Walter Randolph
were rivals for the hand of the heroine, who preferred
Randolph, and Temple vowed revenge. The drop cur-
tain then fell, with its view of Pittsburg. Mr. Cole came
forward. People were asking “Who’s he?” His long
hair was cut short, and he had a black boxer hat, instead
of his familiar King O’Malley cowboy sombrero. How-
ever, Cole explained that the Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan was
about and would be there directly. Further, that sur-
vivors from the real Eureka Stockade battle of 1854, at
Ballarat, were present. Mr. O’Sullivan then mounted
the stage, and held forth. The battle came off pretty
well. Lalor made a fiery and quasi-historical speech.
The Australian flag was duly run up on its pole. Captain
Temple, the discarded lover, was in command of the
soldiers. Randolph was Lalor’s second in command.
Lalor fell at the first volley. When the diggers had been
beaten, Temple yelled out, “Shoot the lot!” The
heroine rushed in with “No! You shall not!”
(Applause.) Temple demanded that she should also be
shot, whereupon Inspector Mills, in command of the
police, interposed. The baffled Temple next turned with
rage to the flag of the Southern Cross, with “Tear down
that rag ! ” The heroine : “ Never ! It shall wave over
a great and united Australian Nation! ” Curtain.
Great applause. O’Sullivan writes good dialogue, but
does not seem to have the dramatic instinct. Yet he has
nailed up a drama which may be a useful nucleus of some
sort.
*• J.G.”: Re that tragedy at a Melbourne suburban show,
through the gun not going off (B. 5/9/’O7), I have a recol-
lection of a tragedy through the gun going off too much.
I was a ferocious brigand in an amateur play. There
was a hair-raising situation, in which I had to pick up an
old muzzle-loader and slay the aristocratic and defiant
prisoner. I pulled the trigger, but the old blunderbuss
didn’t go off and scatter its blank charge in the atmo-
sphere, and cause the doomed sfwell to drop, and writhe in
mortal agony to slow music. The stage manager from the
wings acted like a raving lunatic. Then he grabbed thegun,
and pulled me behind the scenes, and whispered that the
fool forgot to load it; and he poured about a handful of
powder down the gun, and rammed in about an Age
and a half for wadding. I put a new cap on the gun
nipple, roared to the toff to meet his doom, and fired.
There was a roar like a cannon, and the old gun just
vomited flames, and I rebounded backwards through a
window into the street, with an active iron volcano in
my hands. The gun had been heavily loaded when it
missed fire. And the manager had thrown in a quart of
curses and a pint of powder, and an Age and a half,
and I had lit the funeral pyre, so to speak.
“ S. Snell ” : The Elbert-Orton lady of Julius Knight’s
dramatic co. justifies her exits and her entrances in one
respect at the least—she makes a fine picture on the
stage. She comes into a scene with an instinctive artistic
propriety. And she holds herself as a healthy young
woman should. No drooping or draggling for Elbert, and
she gets into a nicely conceived interior so harmoniously
that oftentimes I have felt somewhat hurt with the
audience in that it gave her no rousing cheer for
merely looking so apropos. If points were awarded the
female mummer for sure poise and charming pose, J.
Knight’s massive importation would score high.
Godfrey Cass, the well-known Australian actor, is son
of Mr. J. B. Castieau, at one time governor of Beechworth
(Vic.) gaol, and subsequently of Melbourne gaol. Mr.
Castieau was a member of the old Melbourne Garrick
Club, and occasionally played small parts under a stage
name.
A LEGEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Appeared to me in reverie
Two persons known to fame ;
The one pervaded legend’ry
With a peculiar name ;
The other came across the sea.
He left, and then came back—
The one was fair Andromache
The other Andromach.
In mythic lore one played a part,
And sat upon a throne ;
And one pursued the Thespian art
In manner quite his own,
Which some considered “ slommacky,”
Somniferous and slack—
The former was Andromache,
The latter Andromach.
One started out a modest girl,
Her troubles to endure.
One masqueraded as an Earl,
As Shannon, Shaun and Moore ;
And oft he’d croon a melody
And on the top notes crack —
The former was Andromache,
The latter Andromach.
The one was wife to Hector, that
Did find an early grave.
The other drank the nectar that
The gods concede the brave ;
And now he is too stomachy
To dwell in humble shack—
So much for fair Andromache,
This much for Andromach.
VIC.
W. ROCK.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long: standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises.
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and am simply delighted with it.”
DR. P. J. SMITH 8.A., M.A.0., writes:—“l cheerfully
endorse the ‘ EAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address: —
41 EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portuga I
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE TERRIBLE EXAMPLE.
“ Everybody flirts some. I suppose even you did once."
“ That's true, I did. And look at the result —I married your father"
Aimee ” : Many Bulletins ago a morbid
(Correspondent called for nominations for the most
.despondent town in N.S.W. How about
Bathurst ? Every other collection of bricks and
galvanised iron at which I have." slept fondly
imagines that it may yet be the Federal capital.
jßathurst alone has given up the ghost. A big,
handsome town, slowly decaying—a tired centre
of a fatigued and worn-out district—it presents a
melancholy spectacle. The importers’ carts rattle
round ; the cabmen strain their eyes in search of
a fare ; and an occasional hearse creeps by. That
is about all the movement there is. No one seems
able to prescribe for this particular “ Old Town.”
And, yet, imagine how a woollen mill would go.
Just repeat “ Bathurst Tweeds ” three times, and
you can see for yourself. There’s a ring of relia-
bility about the fabric that is pleasing.
The size a district takes in families seems
to be largely a matter of local habit and custom
and fashion. In Victoria, Bendigo and suburbs
have for years past run from 30 to 35 annual
infants per 1000 of the population—the record has
never fallen below 30. In Ballarat and district,
on the other hand, the record has never once
reached even 27 per 1000. Maryborough and dis-
trict keep up a steady average of about 30 per
1000; in Geelong and district the average is
somewhere about 26. It is the same in the
suburbs. Year after year the same districts
return very much the same figures ; Port Mel-
bourne, Northcote, and Brunswick stay at the
top, while Camberwell, Brighton, and Hawthorn
don’t feel as ashamed as they ought to be for
keeping at the bottom. It is obvious that the
size of families is nearly as much a matter of
fashion as the shape of the summer hat; only the
fashion in families is a local matter. And. when
you come to think of it, that is a pretty sorrowful
thing to have to say about one’s country.
* * *. *
“ S.S.” (from Melbourne): There’s no
holding Carlton these days, and it puts on so
much dog that it is getting itself bitterly disliked
by the surrounding suburbs. Of course, Carlton
has every reason for its uppishness, and can afford
to treat even Toorak with a certain amount of
offensive patronage, for Carlton has won the
League football premiership this year ! The effect
of this is most apparent on the Carlton small
boy, who is unbearably insolent towards every
small boy from outside, but it is not dis-
guised in the adult male, who swaggers abomi-
nably. I know of one enthusiastic Carltonite
who walks three miles to his work rather
than shift to a convenient street, and forsake the
premier suburb in the moment of its greatest
glory. A Carlton house-agent tells me that rents
have gone up all over the suburb since Carlton’s
victory, and to get a cottage there nowadays you
need a lot of influence behind you. But the
climax was reached when one prominent citizen
recently made public lamentation over another
prominent citizen who had had the misfortune to
die “just as our boys were on the eve of securing
the premiership, too.”
* * * *
The mystery about the disappearance of
the £6OOO or so, unaccounted for in the bank-
ruptcy of the two wonderful Myersons, of
Sydney, who were recently sentenced to con-
siderable gaol, proved a very poor mystery
after all. People fancied the two merchants had
gone to a wild, lone, haunted place and buried the
coin secretly at dead of night, like Sir John Moore,
and that they would digit up when their sentences
expired, and live a wild life of criminal riot on the
proceeds. But it now seems that Abraham Myer-
son did nothing more wildly ingenious than make
the money into packages, which Mrs. Abraham
Myerson carried about in her clothes. Mrs.
Abraham has now given up the money, except what
was spent and what dropped out of her clothes and
waslost. Itwasapoor,fecklessbusinessall through.
The goods were bought on bills and auctioned
wildly, in the garish light of day, for cash. The
suspicion that the firm meant to bolt loomed up
like a camel on a roof. A lot of the money went
in law expenses, George Reid being retained in
a Turkish bath when he had nodings on. There
was an expensive trial, and a conviction, and a
long sentence. Part of the badly-concealed money
dropped off Mrs. Myerson, and the rest was spent
or given up. In fact, there is practically nothing
but a gaol and a lost business to recall the unfor-
tunate transaction now.
“The Mayor recently attended a ball in
an official robe, with an ermine collar and silken
train. He was the cynosure of all eyes.” The
Lord Mayor of London ? Certainly not—the
Mayor of Camperdown, Sydney’s champion
squalid, insanitary, bankrupt, d’oyley munici-
pality. One wonders how the Mayor got to that
ball in his “official robe.” He certainly didn’t
walk, because the draggled tail of the garment
would have gathered unto itself garbage, hoop-
iron, old tins, etc., in his progress; and surely no
sane cabby would dream of taking his vehicle into
a Camperdown street. Perhaps the Mayor arrived
in a bullock-dray. A good, serviceable dray, with
a .veteran team and an experienced ox-conductor
accustomed to climb the Gippsland hills and to be
bogged on the blacksoil plains, might manage to
navigate the municipal wilderness without serious
accident.
* * » »
Whooping cough is a very dangerous
disease unless treated properly. Statistics show
that there are more deaths from it than from
scarlet fever. You cannot mistake the symptoms
—protracted coughing, worse at night—peculiar
sound or whoop—labored expectoration of mucus
—apparent suffocation after coughing. Give
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy at once, repeating
the dose frequently. The quick relief afforded
by Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy makes it a
favorite with mothers of small children. It
liquefies the tough mucus, making it easier to
expectorate, keeps the cough loose, and counter-
acts any tendency towards pneumonia. This
remedy has been used in many epidemics of
whooping cough, and always with perfect success.
There is no danger whatever from the disease
when it is freely given. It contains nothing
injurious, and may be given as confidently to a
baby as to an adult.*
FAITHFUL TO HIS PROMISE.
SPUDKINS : “ Oh. Brother Jolly , Brother Jolly!
After all your promises you have failed to
keep the pledge .”
JOLLY: “Not a hit of it, ole hoy. Here’tish.”
After the Melbourne Diocesan Synod had
fulminated lengthily, the other day, against
Matrimonial Agencies, and advocated the Church
as the only true inaugurator of connubial bliss,
W. T. C. Kelly gave the whole show away by
recklessly moving that “marriage fees be
abolished in this diocese.” The motion lapsed
for want of a seconder. The godly folk
objected to the agencies “making a business of
marrying ” ; they also wished to do away with the
risk of under-age and semi-secret marriages ; and
they knew quite well that nine out of ten persons
who are married at agencies go there because they
are afraid of the fees demanded by the regular
reverends. Yet when they were given the chance
to knock the whole business on the head by
making it unprofitable—well, there was no
seconder.
**•**
“ Kaban : What has become of the Chow
hawker, with the grin on his yellow face like
a shattered fissure in an over-ripe pie-melon,
who used to haunt our back gates with his
truck of garden-stuff, or jog patiently along
under a bamboo pole laden with a mys-
terious wooden box balanced by a huge,
faded megatharium of a carpet-bag ? Nowa-
days the Chinese greengrocer rides in his
£4O waggon, and the Chinese tea-mer-
chant bowls along behind a smart
pony. There is even a reversal in the
order of things, and you may see, as
I did the other day, the white hawkei
with his hand-barrow humbly offering
his wares at the back gate of the
Chinese merchant’s suburban villa.
We have the Chinese parson and the
Chinese lawyer; surely the time is
approaching when we shall have the
Chinese magistrate and the Chinese
politician. Oh, for the good old days
when a Chow was a dashed Chow and
not “our Chinese fellow citizen”!
This increase in “ social prestige ” is one
of the most dangerous features of the
Asiatic invasion.
Ten days after the s.s. Fortunatus was
aDandoned on fire in mid-ocean, a couple of
months back, it was sighted by a passing steamer.
This vessel’s captain was surprised to find a human
being sitting on the least hot spot on the still
burning vessel, the sides of which glowed a dull
red by reason of the heat inside. The party, who
was sitting, like Abednego of old, unharmed in the
fiery furnace, turned out to be a Lascar fireman who
could not be found at roll-call when “all hands ”
took to the boats. It was assumed that he had
gone overboard, but it seemed he was only sound
asleep in his bunk. The Herald, in describing
the weird incident, headed its remarks “ A
Rescued Coolie! ”
* * * *
“ K.” : Though the Civil Service Co-op.
Society helped, it was the working man’s wife that
settled the Melbourne “ bread ” strike. When, on
the Monday morning, nearly every master-baker
had got out his usual batch and had sent his carts
away on their rounds, he was weary, but never-
theless jubilant. He knew that the Co-operative
people had got union bread from Ballarat, that
they had already arranged with a few smaller
bakers in Melbourne, and that a few of his fellow-
employers had weakened at the start. Yet these
things troubled him but slightly. But he entirely
overlooked the fact that the worker's wife took an
even greater interest in the question of wages than
her husband did, and that the buying of the bread
lay in her hands, not his. She knew to a half-
penny the difference between 50s. and 545. oh a
Friday night. The papers gave the names of
those who were paying the union wages, and if
her usual baker’s name wasn’t among them his
driver was told not to call again. His carts,
therefore, came back half-full. Next day it was
worse ; the “ boycott,” as he called it, was in full
swing, and even the” smaller loads he sent out
came back almost as they left. Clearly, there was
bankruptcy ahead. By Wednesday night, there-
fore, the capitulation was complete, and each was
begging the union men to return to save him the
remnant of his trade. But it will take some of
them years of hard work and fair dealing to re-
cover the ground they lost in those three days.
The working women had put their little spoke in
the wheel, and the cart was upset.
“Stony” : Mel-
bourne’s hair-renovating
and hand-scrubbing re-
sorts for men, attached
to baths and restaurants
and such places, even
those in which it is not
necessary to chain down
the soap, are singularly
deficient in the matter
of hair-brushes. Not that
one ever uses the public
hair-brush except under
extreme pressure, but a
needless and superfluous
blight seems to have per-
manently fallen upon
Melbourne’s brushes.
The leading restaurants
have teasers that look as
if they hadn’t been
washed for six months,
besides lacking perhaps
half their hair on an
average. Most of them
are loaded with the hair-
oil of 1000 previous users,
and have their handles
smashed as though wine-
maddened washers came
and did battle with them
each evening. The City
Baths has one very good
brush —good as to its
bristles, that is—but it
is chained to the wall,
and I have a dark sus-
picion that it is chained
there for fear it would
retire quietly on its own
if let loose. This in no
way reflects upon the
honesty of the sports
who swim at the baths.
There is, however, an-
other brush—one which
runs about at its own
free will. No one ever
steals it. If it was stolen
it would probably come
oack again. Some day, perhaps, there will be
aan inspector of free public brushes. Of course,
hairdressers are in another class ; they know
better than to keep doubtful brushes. People
put up with things in restaurants and such places
they wouldn’t stand elsewhere. Then they go
bald, and wonder how they got the germ !
Some hair-raising tales are told at times
to the N.S.W. Arbitration Court. One that was
related last week is calculated to make water
frontages on the Parramatta river unpopular.
The master of a ferry boat said he worked 60
hours a week for Is. an hour. Sometimes he had
a deck hand and sometimes he hadn’t. When he
hadn’t he had to rush down from the bridge as
the boat reached a wharf, and personally heave
the rope and shove the gang-plank. When
starting he would shift the plank and the rope,
and then —time being a matter of importance—
would tell the engineer to go ahead. For the few
seconds between the time when the engineer went
ahead and the time when the master, with kanga-
roo-like bounds, reached the wheel, the boat ran
itself. When there was no deck hand, the boat
had to run wild while the master went round col-
lecting fares. Sometimes it ran wilder than other
times. The engine was at one end of the boat and
the stokehold at the other, and the engineer was
his own stoker. If there was an order to stop or
reverse while the engineer was away stoking, he
naturally didn’t hear it, and didn’t stop or reverse.
What might happen in such a case depended on
Providence. Plainly, what is wanted on the Parra-
matta is a master with three arms—an ordinary
one for steering ; an arm about 16ft. long with
which he can attend the rope and plank without
leaving the bridge ; and an arm like a fireman’s
hose, serpentine, and about 120 ft. long, with an
eye and two hands at the end of it, which, while
the owner is on the bridge, can be inserted into
all the remote cabins to collect fares. (The eye is
to see the passengers with, and one hand is for the
tickets, and the other for the money.) As for the
engineer, he wants two ordinary arms and hands
for his engine, and a third arm, 74ft. long and
ending in a shovel, to stoke with. And the fact
that Providence doesn’t make men like that shows
that it doesn’t keep a proper eye on the needs of
the Parramatta River.
* « « *
“Mariana ” writes :
Taking one thing with another, the life of a social
reporter in a small city is not a happy one. She requires
the hide of a land agent and the tact of a political candi-
date, without the expensive tastes of either. Sassiety
persons get haughty when their functions are chronicled
side by side with those of the “ common people,” and the
latter, as present or prospective advertisers, have claims
that cannot be overlooked.
One day a young butcher, whose XO-inch ad. had lifted
a cloud off the manager’s brow, invaded my sanctum, and
asked me to personally attend a ball—a very respectable
ball—given by the Ivy Club, of which he was president.
He assured me that my dignity would suffer no hurt. He
had established the club himself for folk who couldn’t go
to Government House, and his object was extreme
respectability. He said he insisted on everyone in the
ballroom behaving, and all “gents ” were obliged to wear
pumps and gloves. Also I would see “no funny busi-
ness.” That, he put a firm foot down upon. One night,
it seems, two gay young things had danced a whirligig on
a sixpenny piece, and instead of being offered a job at
the Tivoli, they were put out “on their ’eads.” Now the
club was purged of all unruly members, and respectability
pervaded its precincts.
I went to that respectable dance, and found it in full
swing. It was respectable with a deadly-dull respect-
ability. No one attempted the silver coin exhibition,
and all “gents” wore pumps and gloves and other
apparel. The dresses of the ladies were mild and chastely
cut, and all moved round with appalling solemnity. The
president drew my attention to the decorous nature of
the proceedings, and gave me copious notes for future
use.
I was about to depart, painfully impressed with the
way the people take their pleasures, when a riotous
person with vineyards in his matted locks, heaved him-
self into the centre of the room, and at the top of a very
badly tuned organ reeled off reminiscences of his boy-
hood’s days, of which he was reminded by the ivy on the
wall. He hiccoughed and wept when he spoke of the
little church where he had been confirmed, and was so
overcome that he had to seek the supper table for sup-
port. There, in his efforts to find something in a bottle
that was not sweet and gassy, he overturned the whole of
the festive board. Then there was howling and squeal-
ing from the respectable ladies, and strong language
from the sterner vessels. Threats of giving him “ one
to go on with ” and demands to “ stiffen him ” fell upon
my ear as I streak, d out into the night. A despairing-
whisper from the president followed me into the dark-
ness: “Say, if you meet a policeman down the street,
ust tell him to step up, will you ? ”
A BURBLE OF BLOODSHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ If, even at the risk of bloodshed , they had to overcome
tyranny and pull down the tyrants, it would be done in
Australia.”— The N.S. W. ex-Premier.
Aha ! The blood-smell, good and strong, it reeks along the
range!
Chill corpses crowd the billabong ; the waving grasses
change
From green to drabbled crimson. Where the wild plain-
plover calls
Pop-eyed the poor farm-people stare at blood-bespattered
walls
And curse the shaker-up of strife who bawls
For war and woe and broken bones, for mangled human
sheep,
For ghastly cries and dying groans, and spilt blood, ankle-
deep.
What ho ! Hot blood by gallons ! Come, a copperful for
me !
Hooray ! Red-hot rejoicings hum across a purple sea
Which is the heart’s blood of our enemy !
Red blood for me, please ! Also hair ! Gore-drippmg
hide, and all,
With blue streams running here and there where social
leaders fall.
I want to feel the shrinking flesh against my frenzied
steel,
And wade in leapirig blood-floods, fresh beneath my con-
quering- heel ;
To start new murder after every meal,
Dabbling in lovely blood that blurs the polish on our
boots ;
To hear the horrid howls of curs that tremble to their
roots
When flash the points of hate undimmed against their
fighting line.
We ride 1 Fill stirrup-glasses, brimmed— and gimme gore
in mine !
When gore’s on tap, what knave would call for wine ?
The scent of dreadful slaughter fills the gutters down our
street,
And from these trickling, crimson rills a battle-incense
sweet
Arises. Hi! We’ll seize the sword, and we, too, will
arise
And, as of old the legions roared, with blood-lust in then-
eyes
And half-a-dozen different battle-cries—
Blood-drunken we’ll go roaring through the shocked
metropolis !
These are the things that heroes do ! This is my dream of
bliss !
And this shall be my death-scene, please—l’ll breast tiie
fatal flood,
Smothered and sunk in awful seas of red Australian
blood,
My name, for ever, loud, inglorious Mud !
vio.
FRANK HENTY


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Ring's approved and used
by Medical Men.
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Ansemia, Insomnia, etc.
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MACNETiG, and
“Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Atistralasia), 46=47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency foi' }:.S. W. and Queensland:
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
CURES
BEWARE
XHE^EflAND
In November all Australia thinks of Horse.
The Lone Hand next month will fall in line
with the public taste, and give its readers some
sporting articles. The last task of the late
Frank Myers, before his death, was to write an
article for The Lone Hand “Of Many Cups.” It
touched on matters he knew well, since for
the greatest of the Melbourne Cup years he
described that great sporting event for the
Melbourne Argus. It is a brilliant article, and
will give a special interest to The Lone Hand for
November. “Hop” and Norman Lindsay give
their views of horse-racing in humorous pages,
and a delightful horse-picture by Douglas Fry (in
three colors) adorns the cover. In “The Cricket
Enemy at Our Gates,” G. Long Innes, deals,
with the English cricket team, now advancing on
Australia, from the point of view of an expert,
who saw all the comprised players play last season
in England.
That’s enough for the sporting community. In
“ A Dress Symposium,” the first instalment is
published of a series of chats on dress, A. Conor-
O’Brien, Grace Palotta, and H.C.McO. being
the authors.
In more serious vein; S. H. Prior writes of the
mineral wealth of Australia Felix, making clear,
with pen and pencil, the astonishing extent of our
natural treasures. “Brewing Eucalyptus,” by
E. S. Emerson, tells of a little-known Aus-
tralian industry. Publication is continued
of W. H. Traill’s Story of the early days of The
Bulletin, and Alf Vincent continues his humor-
ous record of “Vagabonding in Asia.”
About the stories, it is time to talk next week.
The ]one Hand
214 George Street, Sydney.
j
ĵ
A TWO-GARIENT SUIT, 26/6,
THE man who is dressed in one of these Two-Garment
Suits of coat and trousers will have a comfortable
time of it during the Summer Season. —He will feel free to
“knock about” without a fear that he will spoil his clothes
—he will be cool and easy—he will look smart, and feel
smart. We have these garments in all sizes, in Flannel—
Black ground and Grey ground with white stripes, and we can
fit any ordinary sized man. PRICE, 20/0 THE SUIT.
ORDER
FORM
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
Please send me the suit as above, for which I enclose
for 26/6. My Ohest measurement is Waist
Sleeves from centre of back Length of leg outside seam
of trousers Inside seam of trousers
Name Address
PEAPES & CO. LTD Men's Outfitters^
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
It is hard to find a more objectionable
curmudgeon than the employing person who
prays and makes the fact public. At Geelong
(Vic.) a butcher lately accused one of his employees
of having embezzled the vast fortune of 7s. Three
whole separate and distinct charges of embezzle-
ment were made out of this, and the poor devil of
a butcher’s boy was liable to ever so many years in
gaol. But the butcher was a praying bloke. Also
he did not pay full wages as required by the
Factories Act, and the butcher-boy had been in-
strumental in having him fined, and being made
to disgorge £2O 10s. for back wages. It was
after this that the master discovered the “em-
bezzlement.” He did not, however, ask the
butcher-boy for an explanation. He just rushed
off and swore an information. It might have
been thought that he was angry with his employee
for wanting more wages, but he explained to the
Court that—
He was not taking the proceedings out of spite>
although he had been worried, and “ wanted to go home
to pray and ask God the best way out of the trouble.”
The jury promptly acquitted the boy on all three
charges, but the praying beef-man at once lodged
a fourth accusation against him, and he is to
be tried again. A good many people are hoping
now that the sausage will go bad.
A PROPOSITION.
The Bulletin, with an eye to economy, sug-
gests a High Commissioner’s office in London,
done on plain hush principles. (The Commis-
sioner is sitting on the fence in front.)
The other day, one of the Victorian Board
of Health’s milk inspectors seized, on its way to
one of the generally-disreputable city butter-fac-
Rries, a quantity of cream, which “had not only
undergone ripening, but had undergone rotting.”
The Board withheld a prosecution, “hoping that
the seizure would have a deterrent effect.” Vic-
toria’s Board of Health is a sanguine body. If it
saw a man stab another, it would probably take
the knife away, and hope that the loss of the
implement would be a warning to him not to
stick any more people.
NO SPORT.
PATOCHY WILKS : “ Skinny Smiff says ’e's got four ’undred sixty-free cig'rette cards now."
BOSS PARKER (scornfully): “ Ye-es, ’n ’ ’e didn’ win one uv ’em in a fair gamble. Cadges
’em, ’n’ sticks ’em in a album. Might as well be a girl straight out.”
tti i i „ ~ ~ , ,
or sheer “ cussedness it would be hard
the performance of a S.A. landowners
daughter, who fell in love with one of her father’s
shepherds, and demanded to be allowed to marry,
Her parents pointed out quite kindly, so far as
can ‘ De ascertained—that at her age, a little under
15 \ ifc a fair thing to wait a while before
undertaking family cares. But she was not
taking any waiting, bhe took strychnine instead,
bherl wenfc to Sunday-school, sang a hymn with
hysterical fervor, and presently died in great
a g° n .y m the middle of a staggered Bible-class,
* * * *
“Stony”: It is a fact, worthy of the
cynic’s attention, that the most lcen-
nelish house in Melbourne is within a
giant stone’s-throw of State Govern-
ment House. Even in Collingwood it
would be difficult to find a place more
absurdly unsuitable for human resi-
dence than this hovel. The kennel is
in the old Malvern Village, within the
charmed area occupied by the Best
People, the largest housesnear by
being those of Justice Higgins and
Bowes Kelly, with the Guv’nor’s shack
adjacent. It has been in its present
position for years an’ years an’ years,
and has a Venetian blind for a front
door, and is about equal in cubical con-
tents to a 12 x 10 —certainly no larger.
It is built of shreds and scraps of
timber, and has spaced boards across
the glassless windows, while the fence
is patched with flattened kerosene
tins. Also, it is inhabited. This is
the strangest house in the Village, but
a great many others are of extreme
age and dilapidation—houses which
must give the Guv’nor a pang of joy
when in the mornin’ he looks out the
window of his blue-tiled bathroom, as
he is using the Turkish towel and
feeling a glow of health and a good
screw rushing all up and down his
generous length.
“ Cross Nibs ” tells a narrative of sin and
refreshment: —
’Twas after the heat and burthen of the day following
the recent polling business. An atom amidst the multi-
tude, I stood scanning the hoarding for the magic num-
bers to appear against the name of the candidate who had
been x’d by the wisdom of the electorate. They came.
A bounteously-freckled voter, with vineyard foliage
under his hat, whooped vehemently, and the contagion
rippled out to, and around, the circumference of the
stacked assemblage. An exodus set in, and I was swept
upon a high tide, through the swing-dcor of a drinkery.
A person was busy extracting bones from sheep’s trotters
when I arrived. The tan-speckled voter recognised him.
Throwing sixpence on the cedar, he growled huskily :
“ Two splashes outer th’ pond, without any neck-starch,
Mr. Tied-’ouse.”
The cellar cordial having been spilt inwardly, they
were preparing to retire, when an urbane individual
accosted them. He inquired in dulcet tones if they were
addicted to the dissemination of coin.
He of the rich foliage ejaculated, “None o’ y’r fancy
Hum, Old Ruins, or I’ll drag you out t’ th’ tip.”
The derelict gazed sadly upon him and remarked,
“ Ah, you are the gentleman that transports the miscel-
laneous refuse. Then that explains the myriad odors
that are present here this evening. Is it necessary that
you should disinfect yourself daily, sir? ”
“’Ere, ’ole me coat, Moper, while I flip th’ spruieher,”
vociferated the citizen with the rich foliage.
“ Spare me yares ! Y’r got none on—y’r wearin’ y’r ole
brown sweater,” drawled Mr. Tied-House.
“ Well, don’t go crook! ’Ole me till I furl me arm
knittip.’.”
“ No scrapping here,” interjected Mr. Fermented.
“ Strike me cunnin’! it’s alwus th’ way. A bloke never
gits a fair go. A tale-chatter comes in ’ere blamin’ other
people f’r ’is own perfoom. ’N’ just as I gits movin’ t’
fan ’im rapid, the Old Pot chips in silly ! ”
Ginger leaned upon the counter and directed his fierce
gaze at Bung.
“ I say, Ole Two-ales,” he said, “is it a true bill y’r
goin’ t’‘ ’ang th’ Comman’ments in y’r pubbery t’-mor-
rer ? ”
Then an aggressive barman loomed into the surround-
ings. and Moper and co. hurriedly departed into the noc-
turnal atmosphere.
The London detectives have only followed
in the steps of their Melbourne confreres in seek-
ing aid from a clairvoyant in what seemed a
baffling case. But they have done it publicly,
whereas the Melbourne D. denies that he does
it at all. All the same he sneaks down St. Kilda-
road to a well-known spookist and dead-raiser,
and asks for information about the blood-stain and
the dead body. It is only fair to remark that no
case has yet been solved by a clairvoyant
in Melbourne, which goes to show that the
clairvoyants consulted by Melbourne detectives
are not in league with the criminal classes (or
that they are in league with them, and won’t give
them away). It is a strange, weird thing that
the public should keep a pack of men as detec-
tives whose intelligence is of such a low order,
and whose ’tec capacity is so non-existent, that
they are taken in by the shallow trickery of the
person who communicates in a dark room with
the spirit of little Jimmy, deceased. It is com-
monly reported in Melbourne police circles that
the State has already spent some hundreds of
pounds in sending detectives on costly jaunts
after fool clues to the Bauer murder, which clues
were obtained from cheap spookists and then
presented to the authorities as the crop raised on
the loam of the force’s own gigantic brain. Still,
when you come to think of it, N.S.W. used to
have a Judge who, when he had an intricate case
on hand, rushed habitually to a spook-raiser to
ask if the accused was guilty. His favorite
spookist generally thought the accused was
guilty, and then the papers remarked that “his
Honor summed up strongly against the prisoner.”
* * * *
“Mani ” hankers for enlightenment: Can
anyone explain to me why converts to Booth’s
prayer and blare brigade are all such amazingly
crimson villains ? Have heard the testimony given
in many lands and in various tongues, but always
the rescued brand, by his own showing, was an un-
speakable Monster blood-stained as any Deeming.
The red jersey is not for the ordinary sinner who
beats his wife or drinks the other fellow’s beer.
This type has no hope of gaining a front place in
the sin-proof ranks. He’s too mild, too insipid.
T’other night I listened to a particularly inno-
cent-looking youth, with red eyes, a long, thin
nose, and no chin, reeling off a list of his pristine
atrocities, and if half he confessed to were true,
he could have peeled the hide from Satan himself
with one hand. Now, what I want to know is:
Where does the Salv’army snare these despera-
does ? Also, why weren’t they all hanged years
ago, or returned to the Leg. Ass. as State Blight
Ms.L.A. ? The problem has me down, and is
worrying me.
A section of the Constitution that pre-
viously hadn’t hit the poor little State-frights
crowd almost worried that good ’Groper, Roe,
P.M., to tears the other day. A Berth wine-
seller, who had a “colonial” wine license, was
charged—the villain ! —with selling Victorian
wine, whereas the ’Groper idea is that “colonial”
wine is Westralian wine and no other. The base
wretch asked the Court if it hadn’t read the 113th
section of the Australian Constitution —the brief
clause which says that liquor imported to a State
shall be subject to the law as if it were grown in
that State. It isn’t too clear how the section
applies; but, anyhow, Roe, P.M., said it did,
and added—“ For my part I shall certainly oppose
the renewal of these licenses at the forthcoming
general sittings.” There may be other reasons
underneath ; but the only one on the surface to
account for the ’Groper P.M.’s sour determination
is that he would rather stop the sale of wine
altogether than allow people to sell Victorian or
S. Australian wine. By way of escape when the
general sittings arrive, suppose Roe, P.M., asks
each applicant what wine he proposes to sell, and
acts accordingly ? He could go the whole hog
then in anti-Australian nastiness and ’Groper
little-mindedness.
“ Huffin-Guffin ” on a Vic. boom-day
township :
Alfcona Bay was a name to conjure with twenty
years ago. It was a boom township, and Melbourne in
those days was decorated with gigantic plans of streets,
boulevards and squares, and views of a splendid pier-
stretching half way over the bay. Now probably not one-
Melbournian in ten knows where Altona Bay is. I was.
there the other day. The “township” is four or five-
miles round the bay from Williamstown. An odd scrap of
railway extends from the Williamstown racecourse linetO'
Altona Bay. The railway station at Altona is a curious,,
little, modern-looking, wooden building gone ancient.
The paint fell off years ago, and the timber is following.
The “ streets ” of Altona Bay are still visible. Name posts
mark the corners, but the names have gone. The “ pier ” is
a little wooden affair in the same state of disrepair as
the rest of the surroundings. Thi re are a few houses in
which the sleepy folks dream of the time when their town
was to be the watering-place of Victoria. They live by
the produce of Oow. Cow wanders over what was once
Loch Avenue, Bent-street, and Benjamin Orescent, and
make them disreputable. The long rows of pines, planted
to shelter the bay excursionists who were to have
crowded Altona Bay, but didn’t, now shelter Cow. They
(the pines) are the only prosperous-looking items about
the place. One can hardly realise that at this curiously
old-new place he is within a few miles of the “ Queen City
of the South.” The Railway Department runs an occa-
sional train to Altona Bay for sand. A pit has been
lately opened there, and it is said that 40 trucks of build-
ing sand will be the daily output when it gets fairly
going. Poppet-legs are over the site where a coal mine
was to be. Said that Thomas Bent is interested in this,
and has his eye upon it as a supplier of coal when the
suburban railway lines are electrified. Now, Tait has
returned, and says the present Melbourne suburban
system is the best in the world, and he doesn’t seem
very keen on electrification. Wherefore Bent, with an-
other Altona boom depending on the new power, is
serious and cross, and smokes the cigar he borrowed
from Tait in a gloomy spirit.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance:
from George or King-streets.*
TO THE LITTLE AUSTRALIAN PARTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Clara Butt’s singing of “England, Mother Eng-
land,” roused the audience to enthusiasm, which became
a furore when the sonorous organ accompaniment joined
the singer’s glorious voice.— Argus.
You can shout and yell, and batter with your hoofs upon
the floor
When imported voices charm your copious ear,
You can make the rafters quiver with the foreign whoop
“ Encore,”
So you show you hold the “ Mother Country ” dear ;
But can’t you give a thought
To the Land your fathers sought,
To your Heritage, with toil and thirst, and long endur-
ance bought ?
You can ooze a damp emotion when you hear a song of
“ ’Ome,”
And a mention of the Empire makes you weep ;
When you hear that dear old England rules the wild and
raging foam
Your chest expands, and how your pulses leap 1
But you modify your tone,
Argulq gibber, cant and moan,
When we talk of backing “Mother” with a navy of our
own.
Are you proud of being, possibly, the only men alive
Who least among the nations count their own?
Are you sure the darker morrow than to-day will not
arrive,
When we shall face the music all alone?
Then you’ll raise a husky cheer
For the ships we’ll lay down here,
That will guard your bricks and mortar, and will stay
you in your fear.
We will raise a fighting army, and we’ll likewise build a
fleet,
And you’ll very likely have to do your whack.
When the ships are cleared for action, and the skirmish
parties meet,
We’ll see you get no chance of turning back.
We don’t very greatly care
How you rave and tear your hair,
We are going to hold Australia —and you’ve got to pay
your share.
VIC.
BRONSON ELLIOTT.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64- Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
English Machinery, vi*.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Sootch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumpe. Fuel Economisers,
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steei Rails. Locomotives, Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
ROBEY’S
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bent, of Victoria, whose kinks and comic songs
The Bulletin always comes nearest to forgiving when it
considers his financial work, uncorked another Budget
speech last week, and poured out a surplus of ±'812,210
for public inspection. The previous year the total was
£675,528 ; and Bent disposed of that in much the same
way that he proposes to get rid of this :
. . 1906. 1907.
Wiping off accumulated deficit .. £500,000 £614,000
Replacing railway rolling-stock .. 60,000 100,000
Grants for various purposes .. 65,528 50,000
Building and repairing schools .. 50,000 48,210
Total .. .. £675,528 £812,210
That distribution of the surplus does Thomas credit.
The modern method, adopted by the tricky Carruthers,
is to manufacture a surplus by deferring expenditure on
works; then you spend the money on the works, and
thus use up the manufactured deficit. Bent, however,
doesn’t do nearly as much financial juggling as a gentle-
man who has driven through a land-boom on a box-seat
might be expected to do. He has used over two-thirds
of the past two years’ surplus in wiping out old debt;
the other one-third has gone, or is to go, mostly to do
things which ought to have been done and paid for out of
revenue in former years. If they had been done and paid
for in that way, the accumulated deficit would have been
larger ; so there isn’t much difference between paying
for them now and wiping out an accumulated deficit.
They represent, in fact, accumulated deficits in the shape
of patches and renewals.
Victoria’s recent record has run as follows:
June, Revenue. Expenditure.
1900 .. £7,453,355 £7,285,636 Surplus £167,719
1901 .. 7,712,099 7,672,780 Surplus 39,319
1902 .. 6,997,792 7,398,832 Deficit 401,040
1903 .. 6,954,619 6,759,960 Surplus 194,659
1904 .. 7,319,949 7,339,608 Deficit 19,659
1905 .. 7,515,742 7,343,742 Surplus 172,000
1906 .. 7,803,958 7,128,430 Surplus 675,528
1907 .. 8,313,241 7,501,031 Surplus 812,210
1908 (Est.) 8,101,782 8,087,614 Surplus 14,168
Bent proposes to reduce the income-tax and to call for
less from probate duties; but the most striking thing
about his estimate is the increase in expenditure fore-
casted. For the jump of £586,583 two items are largely
responsible—new works and buildings (exclusive of schools
and asylums) £223,871 (as against £74,923 last year); and
aids to municipalities (£208,573, as against £96,137). This
lift to loafing local bodies, which are mostly in
difficulties because they won’t tax themselves, will call
for some explanation. It looks as though the money
will go in improving roads to add to the value of
Propputy; and then Bent, on account of one of his
kinks, will probably want to buy the propputy back for
settlement purposes ; whereupon the State will be bled
again for the value which its own expenditure has created.
It is a mad business this so long as there is no land tax to
even up things.
Victoria’s loan expenditure for the year was
£595,658, of which £339,497 went to buy land for closer
settlement—expenditure which wouldn’t be necessary if
a progressive land-tax made it unhealthy to rear sheep
on big estates. As Bent pays off £614,000 of debt, the
actual reduction of the State’s liabilities for the year
amounts to £18,342.
Bent proposes to bring in a Bill to put the Rail-
ways on something more like a commercial basis as from
July 1, 1908. For the current year he expects to get a
surplus of £192,562 from this department. He collars
that amount this year for general purposes, but
after this year he proposes that two funds shall
be _ established—(l) a Railway Interest Reserve ; (2) a
Railways Additions and Improvement Fund. The first
is to be limited to £300,000; the second to £200,000,
and half of any railway surplus is to go to each fund.
When the funds have reached their limit, fares and
freights will benefit from any excess earnings. It is a
good idea, but why does the good idea pull up so suddenly ?
It is proposed to make the Railway Interest Reserve
£300,000, and no more. Yet in 1892, the Victorian Rail-
way deficit was more than £300,000, and again in 1895, and
it was £493,949in 1896, and it was £315,924 in 1897, and it
was £394,446 in 1898, and it was £314,802 in 1899, and it
was £365,254 in 1903. If in the days of Victoria’s previous
boom it had established a Railway Interest Reserve, and
if by 1892 that fund had amounted to £3,650,000, it would
have been exhausted before the present run of pros-
perity started. The fund that Bent proposes is a mighty
good fund to start, and it will be a mighty good fund to
continue long after Bent proposes to sit down comfortably
and stop worrying about it.
Now, it is up to Bent to be also honest in con-
nection with the land sales money. Victoria doesn’t de-
rive the million or more from this source that N. S.
Wales is still able to do, but won’t be able to do much
longer; nevertheless, the Victorian offence amounts to an
average of £250,000 a year—an annual quarter of a million
derived from turning assets into cash and misappro-
priating the proceeds by using them as revenue.
If Bent must continue his land-purchase scheme,
and must also continue his public land sales, then he
ought anyway to make the one lot finance the other. To
sell one lot of lands and call the proceeds revenue, and to
buy another lot of lands and pay for them out of loans
instead of out of revenue, is the sort of finance that is apt
to get severely spoken of by a Judge when it is prac-
tised in private business. Bent’s one excuse up
to now is that, though he has paid for the
purchased lands out of loan money, he has really paid for
them out of revenue because his surpluses have exceeded
his borrowings. But Bent proposes this year to go on
selling public land, and also to go on buying private land
and paying for it out of loan money, and he doesn’t expect
to have any surplus worth mentioning ; so, on his own
showing, he doesn’t expect the old excuse to be any good
to him at the end of this current year.
• » * *
Most of the daily papers are an interesting study
just now. They bray with two distinct voices—the Free-
trade section of them in particular. WJien they talk
about their State Governments they point to the revenue
returns and say that the results are magnificent. Then
they point to the Commonwealth and the Customs, and
refer to the same figures as outrageous and as proof that
the burdens of the people are crushing. The State-
frights politicians play the same game. Carruthers,
going out of office, whooped that, if N. S. Wales went on
as it had begun in the three months of this year during
which he had managed things, it would have a surplus of
over £2,500,000. But in his other incapacity as a snarling
critic of the Commonwealth, Carruthers is appalled at
the wickedness of Federal taxation. Nevertheless it
is the payments made by the Commonwealth to the
States which mostly give the States their present in-
creases. In the first three months of this financial year
the Commonwealth paid N. S. Wales £989,209, or £213,516
more than in the corresponding three months of last
year. In the other States the payments have also in-
creased. That to a great extent explains why the figures
that follow have such a pleasant look about them :
State Revenues for September.
Sept., 1906. Sept., 1907.
N. S. Wales ..£911,707 £1,046,784 Inc. £135,077
Victoria .. 498,788 528,362 Inc. 29,574
Queensland ... 510,573 524,371 Inc. 13,798
Westralia .. 294,664 302,898 Inc. 8,234
Tasmania .. 56,796 64,854 Inc. 8,058’
And for the three months that have expired :
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Sept., July-Sept.,
1906. 1907.
N. S. Wales .. £2,861,738 £3,252,521 Inc. £390,783
Victoria .. 1,890,363 2,000,070 Inc. 109,707
Queensland .. 1,121,872 1,218,648 Inc. 96,776
S. Australia .. 611,721 783,360 Inc. 171,639
Westralia .. 784,825 764,723 Dec. 20,102:
Tasmania .. 192,737 206,578 Inc. 13,841.
On Treasurer Carruthers’ retirement he made a
statement, previously mentioned, which the S. M.
Herald was good enough to him to print under these
headings:—
State’s Great Surplus.
Mr. Carruthers’ Forecast.
Two-and-a-half Millions.
Of course, it is trickery—Mr. Carruthers’ political be-
havior is rarely anything else. The fact is that the
importers rushed in goods just before the tariff arrived so
as to escape the higher duties they knew were coming.
The revenue, therefore, bounded up. But it won’t go on
bounding. The importers will import less than usual,
because previously they imported more than usual. Even
if there were no drought ahead, the quarter’s figures are
no criterion of what the year’s figures will be; and
J. Carruthers knows that quite well. And in that respect
the other States are in the same position as N. S. Wales.
Nevertheless, by-and-bye Carruthers will be able to
remark what a poor showing his successors have made
compared with his own achievements.
The expenditure figures, as usual, don’t amount
to much:—
State Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Sept., July-Sept.,
1906. 1907.
N. S. Wales .. £3,182,679 £3,265,236 Inc. £82,557
Queensland .. 559,008 621,423 Inc. 65,415
Westralia . . 781,387 737,265 Dec. 44,122
The other States’ Treasuries issue no expenditure returns
at all. Of these three the position is as follows :
1906. 1907.
N. S. Wales .. Deficit £321,141 Deficit £112,715
Queensland .. Surplus 562,864 Surplus 594,225
Westralia .. Surplus 3,438 Surplus 27,458
Queensland, however, charges up its interest only at the
end of the half-year ; so the surplus shown is really the
amount available for interest. With regard to the N. S.
Wales deficit, it has to be remembered that income and
land tax are mostly paid during the second half of
the financial year. Also with regard to N. S. Wales
it has to be remembered that the expenditure
figures are nowadays faked by means of the Public
Works Fund, no less than £221,129 having in the three
months been charged to that fund for various “ works
and services,” most of which might very properly have
been charged direct against revenue. That, however,
would reduce the so-called surplus by £221,129, and that
doesn’t suit the book of the politician. It is a petty
little juggle: you make a surplus by not paying for
things ; then you pay for them out of the surplus. And
yet, in spite of the great increase in revenue, N. S.
Wales paid £367,479 out of Loan account in the quarter
to provide for works—at the rate of, say, a million and a
half a year. Apparently if the revenue doubled itself,
N. S. Wales would still charge a million and a half a year
to Loan account, even if it didn’t double its borrowings
on the strength of its prosperity.
* • » *
Two years ago there were 13 “Government
central sugar mills” in Queensland. The State had
established them in the first place, the growers mort-
gaging their holdings as security. Twelve months ago
the Pleystowe mill had paid off the debt (with the help of
the Q. N. Bank), and had passed completely out of
Government control. Of the other 12, seven were keep-
ing up their payments ; while the Nerang, Moreton, Mt.
Bauple, Gin Gin, and Proserpine mills were absolutely in
the State’s possession. In the past year the Moreton mill
was released on the same terms as the Pleystowe. There
now remain, therefore, only four State mills. When
these were taken over the Controller (sugar-expert Max-
well) had them revalued, and various amounts written
off. The progress since made is shown in the next few"
paragraphs.
Nerang Mill:—
Written Off Deficit
(Capital a/c). Loss. (P. and L. a/c).
Dec., 1903 .. £BBB6 £3921
June, 1905 .. £lB3O 5751
„ 1906 404 6155
„ 1907 100 6255
This mill’s experience is interesting as showing the effect’
of State supervision. Down to the end of 1903 the State
had advanced £19,999. Not a penny of principal and only
£839 of interest had been paid by the mill ; so at the date
named the total debt had been increased to £26,589.
Since 1903, though the mill remains the least profitable
of all, £533 of principal and £1639 of interest has been
paid. Moreover, before the State took the concern over,
the highest price ever paid the cane-growers was 13s. per
ton ; since then, in the past season, as much as 16s. 6d.
per ton was paid. Naturally, the number of growers is
increasing (it moved up from 24 in 1903 to 58 in 1907) ;
and it looks as though the mill will soon be nursed back
to a profit-earning business. The people who say that
“ Private Enterprise can always do better ’’will have a
tough morsel to chew when they come to deal with the
history of the Nerang mill.
Mt. Bauple Mill
Written Off Deficit
(Capital a/c). Profit. (P. and L. a/c).
Dec., 1903 .. £2575 £6165
June, 1905 .. £1551 4614
„ 1906 .. 2436 2178
Reserves.
„ 1907 .. 3658 1480
In the 10 years to the end of 1903 this mill paid in princi-
pal and interest £4678 ; it has since then already paid
£7178. The total debt to the State now amounts to
£39,623 ; but the principal is gradually being reduced,
and an accumulation of reserves will steadily improve the
State’s security. In consequence of extended tramw'ay
accommodation, it is expected that this mill will show
more rapid progress in the future.
Gin Gin Mill :
Written off Deficit
(Capital a/c). Loss. (P. and L. a/c).
Dec., 1903 .. £16,148 £5Bl
June, 1905 ~ £682 1263
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1906 .. 1856 593
June, 1907 .. 5879 6472
A very remarkable recovery is shown here. And it has to
be remembered that, in this case as in the others, the
profit is shown net; not only interest, but depreciation
also (£1051) is charged against revenue. This deprecia-
tion allowance averages rather less than 2£ per-
cent. on the written-down book value ; the charges,
are drawn up on a scale adopted at the outset by
the Controller. As ordinary maintenance and renewals
are also charged direct to profit and loss, this provision
for depreciation is really a reserve for anything extra-
ordinary in the way of renewals. The present debt to the
State is £57,632. In regard to the amount mentioned as
written off capital account, in this case and the others,
it ought perhaps to be added, to make the situation
clear, that these amounts have not been written off the
debt to the State. They are simply amounts against
which the Controller could not find assets when he took,
the lame ducks over. Consequently Gin Gin’s position
will still have to improve to the extent of £9676 before
the State will be able to see 20s. in the £ of its debt.
Pboserpine Mill
Written Off Written Off Deficit
(Capital a/c). Profit. (Old a/c) (P. &L. a/c).
Dec., 1903 .. £14,461 £5069
Reserves.
June, 1905 .. £5523 454
„ 1906 .. 931 1385
„ 1907 .. 4721 £1196 4910
The amount shown here as specially written off is mainly
in connection with advances made prior to 1903 on
■account of nursery farms. Before the State took it over
this shocking concern had not paid any interest at all on
■the £68,483 advanced to it by the State ; consequently,
■the bill had grown to £80,076. In the past three years,
■and a half it has paid £9498 of interest, besides instal-
ments of principal. The present debt is £70,463, so that
nearly £lO,OOO has already been wiped off under State
•control. Furthermore, the number of canegrowers
supplying the mill has increased from 83 in 1903 to
165 in 1907 ; and it is reported that 33 new cane-growers
have notified that they will be sending in next season.
iSocialism was represented a few months ago as a monster
with a particular affection for the gore, vitals, and other
tit-bits of the “ primary producer.” But the proof of the
monster is in the living with him ; and these figures'
■ought to be conclusive on that point.
The four mills mentioned above now belong
absolutely to the State, which has released the mort-
gages of the cane-growers formerly held by way of col-
lateral security. What will have to be watched is-
that they are not traded off to Private Enterprise later
on. The same principle applies to these mills as applies
to railways. It has been shown how the industry has
revived under State management ; it had been shown
previously how it languished under “ Private Enterprise ’’
management. The State surely hasn’t pulled the con-
cerns out of the mud simply t 9 restore the conditions
under which they got into the mud.
m * * *
The Brpken Hill traffic accounted in the past
year (to June 30) for 773,980 tons out of the total of
2,146,570 tons carried on the S. Australian railways.
That means about 36 per cent. The revenue from this
traffic is not stated separately, but the Commissioner’s
report says that the increase for the year was 123,320
tons in freight and £116,243 in revenue. That would be
equal to about 18s. 9d. per ton ; and on that scale the
Broken Hill traffic must be worth over £725,000 a year to
the S. Australian railways, or 46 per cent, of the entire
revenue of the department.
* * * *
Government Geologist Twelvetrees, of Tas-
mania, asked lately for a report re a State smelter on
the West Coast, was not enthusiastic. But Twelvetrees’
information wasn’t apparently very recent: if it had been
he might have been even less enthusiastic. Anyhow', he
seems to have assumed that the Westralian State-smelter
experiment was still going, whereas it has actually been
given up. When the Kaufman syndicate bought the
principal Phillips River claims, State Mining-Engineer
Montgomery saw that the position was likely to get
desperate. If the syndicate erected its own plant the
other shows wouldn’t be able “ to keep the furnace run-
ning for more than a short time each year; ” so the State
sold out to the syndicate, the latter agreeing “to
continue for a term of two years to purchase all
ore presented for sale by the public on the same
terms as the Government had been offering at time of
sale.” The State, therefore, got out without any loss of
capital, which was a better experience than the S. Aus.
Government had. There are huge fortunes in smelting—
if you can get enough of it to do. The trouble comes in
just there. Not one smelting co. in Australia that didn’t
have a mine behind it has been successful, and five out of
six silver-lead cos. that have depended upon their own
mine for supplies have been sorry for themselves before
long. Australia is big enough for two or three smelting
works; but (apart, of course, from copper) little local
works are nearly always foredoomed to failure.
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne), from the time when £10,333 forfeited
capital was added to reserves :
Nominal
July, Loss. Reserves. July, Loss. Deficit.
1897 .. £7688 £16,248 1902 .. £1585 £3,588
1898 .. 7307 8,941 1903 .. 1472 5,060
1599 .. 5648 3,293 1904 .. 2381 7,441
1900.. 3061 232 1905.. 3120 10,661
Deficit. 1906 .. 3033 13,594
1901 .. 2235 2,003 1907 .. 2941 16,535
In 1897 the advances, with a few other small assets,
totalled £631,631. They have now been reduced—in 10
years—to £445,560, so that £186,071 has disappeared.
Meantime the deposits and other liabilities have been re-
duced' from £383,893 to £230,605, so that £153,288
has disappeared from that side. In other words,
it has taken £186,071 of assets to pay off
£153,288 of debt, leaving on the 10 years’ trans-
actions a deficit of £32,783, which is represented
in this way : —Reserves exhausted, £5915 ; capital written
off, £10,333 (these two items make up the nominal
reserves of £16,248 shown against 1897 above); and pre-
sent deficit, £16,535. The present liabilities are £230,605 ;
if they can be wiped out at the same cost, they will call
for about £280,000 of assets, at the value at which they
stand in the society’s books. This would add about
£50,000 to the present deficit of £16,535; total, £66,535.
The capital is £231,490 ; so on that reckoning there would
be about £165,000 of it intact. But a lot of things may
happen before that is realised. Also it is probable that
the most saleable of the properties have been realised
and the unprofitable ones left. From the fact that
the advances (mostly foreclosures) don’t now bring in
quite 1 per cent, gross, it anyhow looks as though
there are left on the books either many appallingly
over-valued house premises or a large proportion
of vacant lands ; and to a great extent the latter are a
gamble—nobody knows what the future has in store for
vacant suburban land. Of the £230,605 of liabilities,
£37,763 is bank overdraft; and that doesn’t improve
matters for the depositors. In 1898 a scheme was fixed
up with the creditors by which depositors were to get 2£
per cent.; and this arrangement was renewed in 1903.
The return is small enough to account for a good deal of
the realisations —many depositors prefer to relieve the
society of some of its property even at book-value, or
thereabouts, rather than hang on indefinitely and help
pay management expenses.
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the time when capital was written down from
£123,586 to £12,762
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1897.. £1237 Nil £1237 £1,743
Loss.
1898.. 182 Nil 1,561
1899.. 125 Nil 1,436
Profit.
1900.. 2002 10J per cent. =£1458 £544 1,980
1901.. 3923 21J „ „ 2920 1003 2,983
1902.. 1700 Nil 1700 4,683
1903.. 673 Nil 673 5,356
1904.. 1753 Nil 1753 7,109
1905.. 1221 Nil 1221 8,330
1906.. 1816 Nil 1816 10,146
1907.. 2458 10f per cent. = 1465 993 11,139
Profit and loss account is charged with depreciation;
but replacements are charged to capital account, and the
two about counterbalance one another. In five years
the replacements charged to capital account have
amounted to £3353 ; the amount provided out of revenue
to cover depreciation totals £3389. Practically, there-
fore, nothing has been written off for general wear and
tear ; the actually smashed crockery and the completely-
legless chair have been replaced, and nothing has been
provided to cover the partial smashes. Boom borrowing
was at the bottom of this co.’s troubles. The co. thought
a time of prosperity was a good time to borrow, just as
some politicians think now ; wherefore, 1895 saw the co.
with a mortgage of £68,000, and times so shockingly bad
that the co. had all it could do to pay the in-
terest on the loan. As for its own capital, that
just had to slide. And by persistently letting
dividends slide, the debt has beet: gradually re-
duced until to-day it amounts to £52,425, or £15,575
less than it was 12 years ago. As shown above the capital
was written down from about £124,000 to £12,762. Since
then a small amount has been got in by calls, and the
paid capital stands now at £13,493. In the 10 years since
the writing down the dividends have been nominally 43
per cent, in all; but on the old capital they are only
■equal to 4 per cent, altogether. Still, for years past
things have been better than the long absence of divi-
dends would suggest; but very properly the directors
have been struggling to get the debt incubus off the
doorstep. And there is still a lot of shovelling to do.
* -x * ir
The Farnham Cheese and Butter Factory
Co.; which makes curds and whey and moderate divi-
dends at Warrnambool (Vic.): —
Bonus
Dividends to Written Re-
Profits. (7 p.c.) Suppliers. Off. serves.
Jan., 1903 £212 £B6 £3828
July, 1903 126 86 £B7 3781
Jan., 1904 333 86 300 3728
July, 1904 228 86 £l3l 3739
Jan., 1905 1073 86 906 3820
July, 1905 449 86 206 150 3827
Jan., 1906 1637 86 1163 50 4165
July, 1906 305 86 204 4180
Jan., 1907 329 86 154 4269
July, 1907 382 86 194 400 3971
This co. charges maintenance and repairs regularly to
profit and loss, but it does not regularly provide anything
for depreciation ; consequently it has to write off amounts
in large lumps, and that isn’t a good way to do things.
General wear and tear on machinery is as much a proper
and necessary charge against revenue as wages are. The
bonus to suppliers has varied considerably. This is to a
great extent due to a change in methods of computing
payment. The Victorian factories used to pay according
to charts, which were supposed to show how much butter
there was in milk of various qualities. The payments the
suppliers didn’t get straight-out they subsequently got as
bonus. Now Vic. factories must pay per lb. of butter fat,
so the profits (and consequently bonuses to suppliers)
have shrunk. The change didn’t matter much in co-
operative concerns, because if the suppliers didn’t
get the money one way they got it in another;
but it mattered a lot where the factory was
run on Private Enterprise lines. (By way of general
information : According to the half-year’s figures, it took
20'331b. of milk to make lib. of butter, or 23'031b. to
make lib. of butter fat; while the average price paid to
suppliers was s'2Bd. per gallon of milk, or 10'735d. per lb.
of butter, or 12T6d. per lb. of butter fat. Also, according
to some previous figures, it took 3246 gallons of milk to
make 34701 b. of cheese ; and it took 9'351b. of milk to
make Lib. of curd, and how many lb. of curd it takes to
make lib. of cheese writer firmly declines to mention for
the best reason in the world.)
» * * «
Ballina Co-operative Produce Co. (N.S.W.) :
Suppliers’, Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves.
1903 .. £1503 5 p.c. = £l3l £428 £437 £1156
1904 .. 827 5 „ „ 148 229 465 1141
1905 .. 1549 7\ „ „ 242 425 547 1476
1906 .. 1269 6 „ „ 163 258 531 1793
June,
1907 .. 338 304 1827
The half-year thus shows a net profit of only £34, which
was due to unsatisfactory butter sales in England ; but
later results are reported to have been better. The co.
made 261 tons of butter in the six months, paid an
average of 8 - 92 d. per lb., and realised an average of
10T2d. per lb.
» * * *
The ’Change gossips, in the press and elsewhere,
say they can understand copper shares slumping, but
they don’t know what is the matter with silver-lead.
Barrier stocks (including Zinc Corporation), at the end of
last year, were worth on the market £11,345,000 ; at the
end of September, they had shrivelled to £7,875,000, and
were still shrivelling. Yet silver is firm and lead is a
phenomenal price ; wherefore the critics say the problem
has got them beaten. Well, what do they stop at Decem-
ber, 1906, for ? Let them go back a bit further. At the
end of 1905 the aggregate value was much less than it is
now ; for Barrier stocks, it was under £7,500,000. Just
about that time, the zinc booinsters got to work ; and those
boomsters got the papers firmly by the wool, and filled
them up with vague yarns about extra millions of profit
being in sight. Broken Hill’s future, in fact, was to be
chiefly zinc ; lead and silver were to become by-products.
On the strength of that the Broken Hill boom started.
Now zinc has fizzled right out. It never did have any-
thing solid to stand on. At the best, as was pointed out
repeatedly, most of the cos. had bonded their zinc-bearing
tailings, and several had also bonded their future output,
for 3s. or 4s. a ton, and there were not “ millions ” in that.
Nowit is very doubtful whether they will get even the
three or four shillings. The Broken Hill Prop, announces
that it is only clearing about 225. per ton of zinc concen-
trates, with spelter at £23 per ton ; and that only means
4s. 9d. per ton of tailings—and picked tailings at that.
Moreover, £23 per ton for spelter is above the average.
The boom was, therefore, engineered on the millions in
zinc, and the bottom has fallen out of the millions in
zinc ; so the bottom is also out of the 1906 Broken Hill
share boom.
Certainly the price of lead is still phenomenal;
and while it lasts most of the Broken Hill cos. can coin
money. But the market hasn’t forgotten that the copper
boom didn’t last, though dozens of columns were printed
about the new consumption, and electrical requirements,
etc., etc., to prove that the price simply couldn’t fall.
Consequently, having been deluded as to copper, the
market now hasn’t any faith worth mentioning that lead
will keep up where it is. It looks back over the past
20 years, and sees that the average has been somewhere
about £l2, which is a long way off from £2l ; and it
knows that more than one Broken Hill mine couldn’t go
through that fall and live.
The enormous size of the lode (370 ft.) struck in
the bottom level of the Broken Hill South, gave a further
lift to a market that didn’t need any extra lift. Since
then, however, the public has been thinking over that
enormous lode, and wondering whether the lode doesn’t
merely bulge at this bottom level. In the middle of it is
a “ horse ” of hard stuff so poor as to be almost mullock,
and the chances are that that intrusion has bulged it out.
For all that, the South remains a very great mine. But
if you admit that it is a very great mine, you don’t
necessarily admit that its market value should have
jumped, as it did, from £825,000 at the end of 1905 to
£1,675,000 at the end of 1906—an increase of over 100 per
cent, in 12 months.
Still there are stocks—both copper and silver-
lead—which have suffered in this slump beyond their
deserts. And that is easily enough explained. A large
proportion of the boom transactions were on credit or
“ cover ” —time bargains. Big broking firms of tremend-
ous respectability joined in this gamble. In Sydney,
which isn’t a big mining market, one such firm came out
with an offer to take 1000 Broken Hill Souths at six
months at £B. All round, men who owned a few good
sound shares were encouraged to put up £5O and buy
£5OO worth of doubtful stuff. Now the doubtful stuff is
coming home to roost, and, as it can’t find a market, the
good, sound shares have to be sacrificed to meet the time
bargains. It is this compulsory sacrifice of good, sound
stuff that has got some lines lower than they ought to
be, and will probably take them a good deal lower still.
Under those circumstances, the state of the mine has
little say in the matter.
* * * ■*
“ Prospector,” from Westralia:— "Re remarks in
regard to decrease in prospecting in Westralia; also the
falling off in the values of leading mines and the absence
of discoveries to replace the old mines: As regards pros-
pecting, the conditions are such that the would-be pros-
pector finds it more profitable to work for wages. It is
very hard to get backers, and the prospector has
to thoroughly test his find before he receives attention.
Even then when he has proved beyond doubt the
existence of gold in fair quantities, he has to submit to
an option on hard terms ; and if his property is not to the
magnates’ liking, it is thrown back, beggared for the time
being. At this point the State battery should be useful;
but it is impossible to tolerate the crushing charges. They
would be too high if the batteries were fitted up as
modern gold-savers ; but as they are now installed, they
are mere pulverisers, without blanketings, concentrators,
or the other common means used where the intention is
to save gold. And besides making excessive charges for
ineffective work, the deductions are absurd. The pros-
pector knows all these things, and consequently only the
positive failure to find wages work will now drive him
out into the wilderness.”
Nevertheless, in spite of the alleged exorbitant
charges and deductions, the Westralian State batteries
don’t show a profit. Down to the end of 1905 the loss on
actual working was £11,090 ; last year working account
showed a profit of £2BBO, leaving to December 31 last a
deficit of £B2lO. The total outlay has been £225,679, on
which no interest whatever has been paid, notwith-
standing that £135,448 of it is borrowed money on which
the- State has to pay interest. Moreover, nothing has
been provided to cover depreciation, and many of the
plants are already only fit for the scrap-heap. As usual
in Westralia, the State of loose finance, no profit and loss
account is kept in connection with this State Batteries
department; but charging interest at 3J per cent, and
depreciation at 7J per cent, (which isn’t enough), a loss
last year of £22,000 would have been shown. The State
batteries may be charging too much and their deduc-
tions may be‘too heavy ; but the Treasury isn’t getting
fat on the proceeds.


ABSOLUTE SECURITY
for Trust Management
can only be obtained
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company* (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents, (Sic .
2,4 i Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
LOHMANN (gl COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; also at Sydney and Fremantle.
Sole Agents for
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
« — — Large Stocks always on Hantf. ——
Importers of Tramway, Mining 1 , Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds.
BOCHUM UNION
Another periodical estimate of ore reserves has
been prepaid by the South Kalgurli management.
With the exception of a few thousand tons, the whole
of the ore now in sight is credited to the main or eastern
lode. This body, however, is looking so sick in
the bottom- levels that the mine authorities have
decided to devote most of their attention in future
to Morty’s lode on the western side of the co.’s lease.
Little or no work has been done on this body for some
years past, but now that ore as low as 6Jdwt. can be
worked at a good profit, its usefulness as a contributor to
the mill supplies is recognised. The additions to. the
South Kalgurli mill are expected to be completed in a
month or two from now, when its monthly treatment
capacity (which now stands at about 8500 tons) will be
gradually raised to 10,COO tons or thereabouts. The in-
creased tonnage will, of course, bring down costs auto-
matically, and probably enable a reduced grade of ore to
be treated at a profit. To hazard a guess, a monthly
profit of about £3OOO should then be maintained for
about two years, but after that everything will depend
on how Morty’s lode shapes in depth. The main shoot
can, in view of recent developments, scarcely be taken
into account at all.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance shareholders will get
another shock before long—the announcement of a
further drop in the grade of the ore treated, with perhaps
a wail thrown in about how stoping values fall short of
sampling assays, etc. In the meantime manager Borrowe
has taken a sea trip in charge of a nurse, the under-
ground manager has resigned, and the remaining officials
are in a state of funk. It is a wonder speculators have
any faith left in this stock.
• * * *
A new alluvial lead is alleged to have been
f found at the north end of the Kalgoorlie field and close
ito what is known as McAuliffe’s Gully. Some wash struck
•• at a depth of 40ft. is said to have given good dish pro-
f speets, but whether it will pan out as well in bulk re-
i mains to be seen. At the time of Hannan’s rush
: McAuliffe’s Gully was one of the richest surface areas in
- the district, but it was soon worked out, and has been
idle ever since.
* * * *
Garden Gully lease, Ooolgardie (W.A,)] will
shortly have a mill of its own. This is the mine from
which four tons of “golden stone ” were alleged to have
been stolen a few weeks back, and also the mine which
subsequently gave a poor test crushing. The battery will
probably have something the matter with it in the next
act, and after that the curtain will perhaps be finally
rung down.
* . * •
Past year’s report of the White Feather Main
Beefs, Ltd., makes rather depressing reading. A good
deal of development work was done during the
period under review, but without furnishing any payable
result. The Board has decided to hold on to the remnant
•of the £29,600 raised last year, and let portion of the
mine on tribute. By doing this it is expected that suffi-
cient revenue will be earned to pay the co.’s current
working expenses and leave the cash in hand intact. As
the members of the Board divide £750 per annum, this
arrangement ought to work out very well—for them.
Between 1898 and 1904 this mine paid dividends aggre-
gating 9s. per share, which is but a small percentage of
the capital already sunk by the various companies which
have given it a trial. Since then its shoots have gone
wrong at depth, and, judging from present appearances,
it is in a hopeless condition.
* • • *
Great Fingall reef (W.A.) is now being tested
at two points below the No. 13 level. At that depth two
shoots of ore were exposed north of the shaft. One of
these shoots has since been followed with more or less
satisfactory results to a depth of 280 ft. below the level,
while the other, which lies 350 ft. further north of the
first one, is now being sunk on to see whether values go
■down or not. The management has a theory that the
two shoots are part of a new body of stone—perhaps of
poorer grade, but as extensive as that which made the
mine famous in days gone by. Should this theory be
borne out by results, a considerable enhancement in
share values will follow ; on the other hand, if it proves
to be wrong, the outlook will be no worse than it is at
present.
* * ♦ ■*
That hardy wild cat, the East Fingall (W.A.),
seems to have a charmed life. Since 1902 something over
£90,000 has been frittered away in working expenses
without any return to speak of, and Heaven only knows
what was spent prior to that date. The property is now
under exemption, but deep boring is to be started shortly
with a Government diamond drill. There may be a
chance of the drill striking something of permanent
value, but if such a chance does exist it is very slender.
* * * *
Meekatharra (W.A.) seems to be turning out
just as this paper expected. Hitherto the gold .returns
from the district have been kept up by rooting
the rich quartz veins out of the soft schistose formation ;
but a time is coming when that sort of mining must end,
and, from all accounts, the time is not very far off. Color
is lent to this surmise by the fact that young man
Doolette has thrown up the option held on the Fenian
and Marmont leases, and that no one seems over-anxiouS
to step into the breach. Both these mines have crushed
well in the past, but in view of Doolette’s refusal to take
them on, it looks as if prospects are not “all there” at
depth.
* * * *
The frantic eagerness on the part of the late
management of the Golden Link (W.A.) to put a new mill
*Oll the ground is fortunately not shared by 8., M. and Co.,
who have just taken charge. Latter are convinced that
the money now in hand can be much better spent in
mine development than plant construction, and hold that
it will be time enough to think about installing a mill
when there is sufficient ore in sight for it to treat.
* * * *
The latest concerning the Princess Royal,
Norseman (W.A.): “After driving a few feet from the
bottom of the winze between the Nos. 4 and 5 levels a
*ode was met with, 30ft. in width, and showing good
payable values.... Manager Treloar regards the discovery
as most important, and as a verification of the accuracy
of his theory formed since resuming charge of the mine.
...The development is sure to arouse interest in the
mine.” The Bulletin moves to strike out all the words
after “ arouse ” and insert “ suspicion.” Seeing the game
that is being played, speculators had better handle the
shares of this co. as cautiously as they would an adder—
or two adders.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia output (W.A.) is to be put up
in value to pay for the new plant, and leave present pro-
fits unimpaired. When this liability is wiped off the
Board may decide to maintain the output at a figure
sufficient to pay the old rate of dividend, viz., Is. 6d. per
quarter, or something near it. This can be done without
distressing the mine in any way.
* * * *
Misfortune still dogs the Lancefield (W.A.).
First there was a difficulty about getting the stipulated
tonnage through the furnaces; then the damp ore
choked the Krupp mills, and necessitated the installation
of driers ; later on the fuel question worried the manage-
ment ; after that the generator broke down. People are
now wondering what sort of calamity is going to happen
next. 8., M. and 00. still have faith in the concern ; but
very few other people have.
* * ♦ *
Two directors who recently visited the Great
Ophir (W.A.) are quite certain that the alleged gold con-
tents are in the ore, and that the plant (variously de-
scribed as decrepit, out of date, gimcrack, and unsuit-
able) is a good one. The first crushing will tell the tale
about both mine and plant. In the meantime the public
had better look on.
■* * * *
An experiment in cyaniding ore without first
crushing it is being tried at the old Great Eastern lease,
Bulong (W.A.). It is alleged that, as the gold in the mine
is of the paint variety, this is the only way that it can be
saved. However, the present test, like previous ones,
will probably show that the property is more in want of
gold-values than it is of plain or fancy treatment processes.
Since Kaufman and 00. took control of the
Phillips River copper shows, 9683 tons of ore have been
treated for a revenue of £61,401. Working costs have,
however, eaten, or very nearly eaten, the whole of
this sum, so up to date Bull Gohen has not received any
return for capital invested.
* * * *
Any sort of prospectus seems to do in the West.
One just issued by the promoters of the Ooolgardie
Redemption provides for the purchase of some 30 acres of
leasehold near Bayley’s find. The purchase price is £3OOO
and about a seventh interest, but where the funds are to
come from is a mystery. The nominal capital is given
as £15,000 in 15,000 £1 shares, but as the pro-
moters intend to collar 5000 for themselves, give the
vendor 2000, reserve 6000 for future issue, and do
something (not stated in the prospectus) with 3000, only
1000 remain for public subscription at par. The usual
rigmarole about what the property has produced to date,
and what it should do in the future, is tacked on to the
end of the prospectus; also a letter from the Mines
Department promising financial assistance conditionally
on sufficient capital being raised to wipe off existing lia-
bilities and do some development work. But as no pro-
vision has been made for doing these things, the Depart-
ment isn’t bound to anything at all.
• * * *
There is nothing modest about the Gordon
Gold Mines 00. (Vic.). It proclaimed lately that it had a
7ft. reef and a 26ft. reef, a 10-head battery and a 5-head
battery ; and it proposes to have a suction-gas plant—of
23-horse power, no less -to drive stamps, Wilfley tables
and pans, “ which will be required.” Everything is set
out so nicely and so exactly, from the 23-h.p. to the tail
of gold from the 26ft. reef, that one feels quite sure the
legal manager wears a spick-and-span tall hat and a frock
coat. Exactly where the Gordon gold mine is need not
be stated, or where the office is either ; for with a 7ft.
reef, and a 26ft. reef, publicity can be scorned. It is a
pity, amid all such detail, to drop across this: “Work
is still being pushed on in order to get under the good
shoot of stone worked in the early days.” With a lode
7ft. wide (from which 462 tons averaged 7dwt. 14gr.), and
with a drive on a 26ft. lode which gave a good tail of
gold, why drag in the early days and the deeds of long
ago ? Let the co. get to work and prove by yields of gold
that that new 23-h.p. gas machine is on the mine and not
in the office.
* * • *
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), is to have a new
battery, and the directors hope to put it up without
cutting into divs. As the co. has a solid reserve, this
ought not to be difficult if the stone keeps up. The weak
point about the mine is still its ore-reserve. The best
that can be said of the south level at 2775 ft. is that there
is 12in. of lode formation in the face; so there is not
quite the same “ boost ” in Walhalla wires, though the
town still sticks to Tunnels and eschews Extendeds. The
co. is tackling the unwatering of the north-west ground.
Here 60,000 tons of Bdwt. dirt are stated to be waiting, and
it is because the stuff is believed to be there that the Tunnel
Board has gone for a new plant. But first the directors
should have seen actually what stone is left there and its
value. Putting the cart before the horse has, however,
paid all through at Walhalla, and, so long as luck’sin, the
Board will no doubt go ahead in that fashion. Moreover,
a new plant of some sort is certainly wanted at the mine ;
that is proved by the fact that private grinding pans are
to be found along Stringer’s Creek, working the tailings
that have come from the big mines.
» * * *
Britannia United, Ballarat East, has come
under the hammer, and has been bought for a local
crowd. That, on its records, anyone had faith to pay
£4ooo.for the property indicates a healthy optimism ; so
far £220,000 worth of gold has been got, and only £7BOO
paid in divs., the cost to shareholders incurred
amounting to £230,000. The show has been going for
half a century, so it ought to have done better. Its shaft
is only down 1050 ft. and another 250 ft. of a sink is to be
carried on. Victoria United, next, door north, is on
monthly 6d. divs., and there is a hope that an indicator
may be hit in the Britannia. Ballarat is always full of
hope. Once the gentle public outside shared in that
hope; now Ballarat has to train its own nestlings to
fly. With the Ajax, Star of the East, South Star, and
Glenfine South collapses to keep in mind, Ballarat will
find it hard to get Britannia to float far up in the specu-
lative atmosphere.
* * * *
Duke United, Maryborough (Vic.), is still
alive. This is the show that Baillieu, Tom Harvey and
others passed on to J. Bull, since which time Peacock
and one Hain have been at the helm in Vic. The co. has
been distressful ever since Finder left, for it never hit a
decent patch of wash after the tributary ground was
panelled. Now it looks as if the lead has
turned north. If so, the co. has a chance ; for
gold is more, regular when the lead runs parallel to the
reef system than when it runs across. The bottom, too,
is more regular, making for cheap work. The Duke
gutter at best cuts a crab-holed course. Therefore, it is
not surprising to find at the No. 8 branch bumpyground,
which takes time to cut up and drain ; and hundreds of
feet of the lead south carry just about enough gold to be
left alone.
* * * *
It would take a lot of explaining to smooth over
the trouble that has arisen over Sailor’s Falls, Daylesford
(Vic.). All the piloting was done carefully, and the market
haven seemed near, till some one at the half-yearly meet-
ing asked the manager what stone there was in sight.
To be on the safe side, he modestly replied that he could
crush for six months. The market didn’t think this good
enough. Sailor’s Falls consequently went thud. It will
take good stone and good divs. to lift values now, ai.d
there isn’t the same belief that these things exist as there
was before the meeting. Anyway, every one seems sorry
that someone spoke.
• * * *
New Imperial, Buninyong, oppressed like many
another Victorian mine by the cost of fuel, proceeds to
test the value of suction gas.
* * * *
Shares in Central Plateau, Ballarat, have
moved along since the stone going north at the 1100 ft.
level yielded rich specimens. There is 200 ft. of virgin
ground overhead on the underlay, and the face is about
370 ft. distant from the South Star boundary, and about
200 ft. from an intervening crosscut. It is expected
locally that the stone rides over this crosscut.
$ * ♦ *
After driving to the North Broken Hill boun-
dary, the British people discovered what they might
have known weeks ago—that they had no ore on the
600 ft. level in that corner of Marsh’s section. Now they
have gone back along the drive and are putting up a
rise. A good deal of ore will probably be found between
the back of the 600 ft. level and the 600 ft. in the northern
corner of Marsh’s section, but the main portion of the
body has evidently gone into the Junction North and
North mines, from which it was stoped years ago. In the
main portion of the British workings various small shoots
of fair-grade ore, most of them located by the diamond
drill, are claiming attention, and wiil keep the pot boiling
till something larger is found. Rhodonite is fairly plen-
tiful in the British, and, besides increasing mining costs,
it gives color and variety to the language of the mill-men.
* * * *
Enlarging the name of the old Rupee mine to
the Broken Hill Lead and Zinc hasn’t increased the size
of the lode any, as recent development work has proved.
A crosscut put in at the 200 ft. level, where a rich bunch
of zinc sulphide was cut, gave the show away as far as the
widening of the ore body was concerned ; and therefore,
having failed to find the good thing where they expected
it, the directors will probably look for it somewhere else.
The amended theory is that the ore will be found to the
south of the shaft. Patience and perserverance, backed
up by the necessary cash, may yet tusn the Rupee into a
real live lead and zinc mine, but the odds are that they
won’t. But, because what ore there is occurs in bunches,
it will probably string the shareholders on for a long
while.
* * »
The Rising Sun, one of the “ outside ” Broken
Hill shows, weary of seemingly endless development
work, which, neverthel. ss, brings the productive stage
no nearer, has availed itself of labor suspension. Little
has been done on the mine for months past; and, in spite
of the fact that the shareholders had a shaft 500 ft. deep,
with 300 ft. of lode on the bottom level, they hadn’t the
faith to disgorge the few thousands needed to continue
the search for a permanent ore body. Like all the mines
on the White Leads line, the Rising Sun has first-class
ore, but not much of it. If the price of lead keeps up,
operations may be resumed next year.
* * ■* -
There is talk of law proceedings over that dis-
covery of worked-out ground where the British Broken
Hill expected to find ore near the Junction boundary.
The British swears it never got that ore ; and the only
alternative it suggests is that, in some bygone year, the
Junction made a mistake about the boundary line.
* * * *
In spite of the long run of past failures, Adelaide
people were last year enticed into one or two floats, with
the object of again trying the far-west N.S.W. tinfields—
Euriowie and Waukeroo. The Imperial talked loudest
about what it was going to do. Now the report of a
12-ton trial parcel sent to Melbourne is stowed away as
inconspicuously as possible among the mine reports.
The lot “gave 2cwt. lqr. 51b. concentrates, assaying
63 per cent, metallic tin, equal to a recovery of 0.6 per
cent, of metallic tin.” It is added that the tailings
“ contain a trace of tin only.” That ought to be about
the last of the Imperial.
• * * *
The south-weststopesat Mt. David (N.S.W.)are
worked out, and No. 2 level, which has been driven 200 ft.
south-east, with about half that distance on a payable
shoot of gold, will have to be relied on to feed the battery.
Fortunately, the reef is well defined at the end of the
level. The' recent burst of excitement was shortwindtd ;
and it was just as well, for shareholders in Mt. David can
easily become too optimistic about dividends. Assuming
the big reef continues downward (which seems
quite likely), it will take some time to extend No. 3 level
from the bottom of the winch winze, when it is deep
enough, in order to drain the water and open up ground
for stoping. Meantime, 60ft. of backs over No. 2 level,
with an average of 2ft. of stone, are expected to pay ex-
penses. Mt. David will be fortunate if the cost of
developing practically a new mine is paid for by the bat-
tery returns. The tentative proposal to sink a new shaft
may have more in it than is generally supposed. The
present method of developing a big shoot of ore is cer-
tainly not the best or cheapest.
* * * •
The Sunlight, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), is often in
the mouth of the professional tipster nowadays. But it
can in no way participate in the prosperity of the Baker’s
Creek mine. They are separate reefs and run at different
angles. Originally the Sunlight was worked by tunnel-
ling into the side of Baker’s Creek gorge ; and as the
underlay was towards the creek, this was an easy method
of working. A shaft has been sunk from the tunnel to
No. 10, which is a long way below water level; the new
manager has had this level cleaned up, and he is also
prospecting No. 6, which has a footwall reef, carrying a
little gold. A parallel vein is also being prospected at
No. 2 level. Sunlight has been a half-ounce show
(75,085 tons for 36,8730 z.), with a big expenditure on
plant, and rather high mining costs. Close proximity of
the fine-grained granite was supposed to threaten the
life of the reef; but, on the other hand, the con-
tact of the formations may have caused the reef. Neither
argument is, however, good enough to go nap on; and
that is merely another way of saying that the Sunlight
reef isn’t to be trusted much further than you can see it.
*• * * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) crushed 322 tons for
the very fine return of 6820 z., 1470 z. from the plates, and
250 z. in concentrates ; total 8540 z. But Smith’s reef is a
small and tricky vein, and there is a very slender track at
the end of the level 360 feet from the crosscut. A parallel
reef, known as the big reef, was a stand-by for the battery
a few years since, and an output of 1000 tons a month kept
the mill going. They are now driving into the hanging
wall of Smith’s reef in the hope of picking up
the big reef again. It was imagined that the New Hill-
grove bad cut it in crosscutting from the new shaft.
There is certainly some ground for thinking that the big
reef is as continuous as the small vein has proved to be,
so the crosscut is being driven opposite a golden zone in
Smith’s reef. The Sunlight is also following the track of
a parallel vein in No. 2 level; wherefore altogether the
situation at Hillgrove is interesting.
• • • *
The Australian Smelting Co. startled Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) last week by closing down without
mentioning beforehand that it had so much as thought
of such a thing. It is a misfortune that 150 men have
been turned adrift; but the really startling thing is that
they were ever put on. It was the most premature co.
of the boom. It was started primarily to smelt the silver
and lead concentrates that were to be produced (as a by-
product) by the Zinc Corporation ; and everybody knows
what happened to the Zinc Corporation. With one reflec-
tion Kembla can comfort itself—it will get the electrolytic
smelting works all right, for the co. behind that busi-
ness isn’t the same sort of co. by a long street.
* * * *
Some of the reasons why the North Queensland
tin float, the Lass o’ Gowrie, didn’t come off early this
year have just leaked out. The Lass had no end of pre-
liminary puffing, for Ernest Hunter, who had put through
a few deals that had turned out all right, was at the
mouth end of the trumpet. The thing not having gone
through, Hunter lately wanted Judge Chubb, at Cairns,
to order the Lass syndicate to pay £lOOO compensation.
His explanation was that the syndicate had stretched the
mine’s output outrageously. While the option was
running, Hunter had to pay the wages ; per contra, he
was to have the ore. The public didn’t, however, bite ;
as remarked at the time, they wanted a little more for
their money. Then troubles occurred in the N.Q. camp.
Hunter had paid £5OO for the option, and he didn’t want
to lose it. He accused the syndicate of increasing
expenses, said that that was a breach of agreement, and
wanted the option cancelled. The syndicate said that it
increased the expenses because Hunter had hinted that it
would create a good impression if they could “ rip out
the ore and make a good show.” The Cairns jury was
rather sympathetic, but the Judge wasn’t; and so
Hunter went out without any part of the thousand.
K * * *
The rails are now down to within 29 miles of
Clonqurry (Q.). Like most of the others, the Queensland
Department has just revised freights, and pulled the
“mineral” rate still lower. For ordinary merchandise it
will cost about £ll a ton from Townsville, on the coast,
to Cloncurrv (say 500 miles) ; but crude ore will be hauled
down for about 265., and matte, or blister-copper in
truck-loads, for 755. per ton.
•tc * . * *
A block of 20,000 shares in Mills’ United, Char-
ters Towers, from Pfeiffer’s estate, are to be absorbed
locally ; price not disclosed. As Mills’ United has large
ore reserves, this big deal will not affect the market
much. When shares were selling at 265. Mills’ United
werfe talked of as a splendid investment; yet now, after
allowing for the allotment of shares in Pfeiffer’s Day
Dawn, they are down to 13s. Meantime quarterly divi-
dends of Is. have been coming in. Since the beginning
of the year 34,722 tons produced a total value of £138,277 ;
dividends amount to £45,000, and the credit balance is
said to equal that. The future of the mine is not so cer-
tain ; much depends on the development in the deep
levels. Nevertheless, the show presents less risk at a few
shillings than most of the things Sydney people have
been so eager to gamble in. T. Mills, who has pocketed
many thousands in dividends, continues to stand by the
Towers, and is spending some of his cash in prospecting
new shows.
* » * *
The English directors of the Talisman (M.L.),
who had got such a fat thing in hand in the shape of
salary and percentage, have climbed down before the
resolute attitude of the M.L. shareholders, who now
constitute an overwhelming majority. One director will
retire on compensation (Maorilanders offer him six
months’ salary), and is to be replaced by a M.L. nominee ;
the directors score a point by objecting to a broker, and
it’s a good objection, anyway. The directors’ emolu-
ments are reduced, and a fixed date is named for the
annual meeting, with two months’ notice to M.L. share-
holders, and provision for proxies. Shareholders must
also be consulted before any additional properties are
acquired. One director retires yearly, and, as the M.L.
nominee comes last, in four years all directors may be
M.L. appointees.
*•. * *
The worst knock the copper slump has given
S. Aus. so far is the sudden collapse of the Paramatta—
owned by a French co., with head office in Lille, and a
count for man ger in Australia. Apparently the co. has
been overdrawing against copper shipments, for in the
end its count had to meet the 300 or so men and announce
that the till was empty, but if they would wait fora week
or two he would sell something and pay them. The same
co. owns the Yelta.
* * * *
According to the latest records, these are the
three deepest shafts in each Australian State—Victoria :
New Chum Railway, 4318 ft. ; Victoria Quartz, 4254 ft. ;
Lazarus, 3777ft.—a1l of Bendigo. Queensland : West of
Scotland (Gympie), 3136 ft. ; Oriental Consols (Gympie),
2655 ft. ; Deep Levels (Towers), 2650 ft. N. S. Wales : Bal-
main Colliery, 2940 ft. ; Lloyd’s, 2300 ft.; Lucknow, 1700 ft.
Westralia: Great Boulder, 2213 ft. and 2206 ft.; Ivanhoe
S. Extended, 2030 ft. S. Australia: Moonta, 2520 ft. ;
Wallaroo, 2250 ft. ; Yelta, 1200 ft. Tasmania: New Golden
Gate (Mathinna), 1803 ft. ; Tasmania Consols (Mathinna),
1619 ft.; Tasmania (Beaconsfield), 1208 ft.
* * * *
The Bulletin, having a vacancy on its staff,
wants to hear from a bright writer with a sound know-
ledge of finance.
■» * * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for I andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [d.]
* 4. # *
The Insurance India (London) in its Septem-
ber, 1906, issue writes regarding the report for the year
1905 of the Society mentioned Taking the report
throughout we think it indicates that The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society’s prospects were never
brighter than at the present time, and while the results
in the present are excellent, the outlook is still more
encouraging.”*
* • * *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* # * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E'. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar-,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrbero and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager,*
* * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said :—“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the>-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
* • *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* •* * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


Education by Post.— Until recently young
people in the country who desired to better their finan-
cial condition by the pursuit of knowledge have been
handicapped by the difficulty of obtaining expert instruc-
tion in general educational, business or technical
subjects. This state of things has now been remedied,
and the facilities of the greatest private educational in-
stitution in Australia may now be brought to their very
doors. Stott and Hoare’s Business College has elaborated
a system of practical and comprehensive postal instruc-
tion in Bookkeeping, Shorthand, Typewriting, Penman-
ship, Arithmetic, Correspondence, Electrical and Mechan-
ical Engineering, Architecture and Building Construction,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, Pen and Ink
Sketching, etc., and effective methods are employed to
prepare by post candidates for all public examinations.
The Principal will forward a beautifully printed descrip-
tive booklet, entitled “ Home Study,” on application to
Dept. 8., Stott and Hoare’s Business College, Moore
Street, Sydney.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Heschs Limited, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“K.”: I have just been reading McDouall
Stuart’s journal of his first crossing of Australia,
from south to north. As I read on, and followed
the progress of the plucky little party, past Her-
gott’s Springs, on to Central Mount Stuart, I
kept wondering when they were going to enter on
the Great Australian Desert of the lying map-
makers. Stuart found no desert at all. Instead,
he found the following :
July 24, 1860 (Van Diemen’s Gulf): Thus have I,
through the instrumentality of Divine Providence, been
led to accomplish the great object of the expedition
(the crossing of Australia), and take the whole party
safely as witnesses to the fact, through one of the finest
countries man could wish to behold— good to the coast,
and with a stream of running water within half a mile of
the sea. From Newcastle Water to the sea-beach the main
body of the horses have been only one night without
water, and then got it within the next day. If this coun-
try is settled, it will be one of the finest colonies
under the crown, suitable for the growth of any and
every thing. What a splendid country for producing
cotton 1
The italics are mine. McDouall Stuart pub-
lished his journal—in England—in 18G5.
*#* * ■
From “Judex” (which is a misprint
possibly for “Mendax ”): Twenty-three years ago
the back country of N.S.W. suffered from a most
severe drought. The stock route from Hay to
Wilcannia was smothered with the
carcases of dead sheep, and men were
known, for a wager, to blindfold them-
selves and find their way, with their
noses, from one town to the other,
a distance of 260 miles. Experts
at the game used to take short
odds that they could pick the
various boundary fences by
smell. They won almost
invariably. Tho bodies of
the sheep soon became
desiccated in the hot, dry
air, and great masses of
them lay in the corners
made by fences. Then
rain came, and drovers
started taking mobs
of jumbucks along
the road to stock
up the empty runs.
They used the
dried bodies of
the sheep in the
corners to make
fences for yards
at each camping
place. These yards
were put up in an
incredibly short time.
Generally only two sides
were required—the post
and wire fences making
the other two. They were
easy to repair, too, as there was plenty of
material handy, and they were for years most
valuable to drovers ; saving night watches, dogs,
calico fences, etc. They were still in use when I
left the district in ’BB.
« * * *
“ Hamer ” : I have experienced the hyp-
notic influence a hat exercises upon a snake. I
nearly trod upon a snake one moonlight night as
I was walking along a bush track, and in my con-
sternation my hat fell off. I retreated, but a
manly desire to reclaim my headgear brought me
back to the scene with a stout waddy. The snake
was lying where I had left it, gazing at my hat.
I rushed it and hit it hard, and it sprang up and
smote me on the cheek. Then I banged it and
the atmosphere and the soil and everything handy
for about three minutes. It put up a game fight
before I discovered that it was merely a fallen
branch ; and then I picked up a battered hat that
seemed to have got most of the blows, and went
sadly homewards.
“Polstan”: Struck a, casual sort of a
dwelling a little while ago. Near Avoca (Vic.) a
Chow lived in the usual sapling-cum-kerosene-tin
mansion amongst some diggings. One night an
old-man tornado blew the yellow peril into an
adjacent hole, and, with unusual consideration,
flung the flimsy hut over the top of the orifice.
When, a week or so later, Wun Lung recovered
consciousness, he “whaffored ’’ his way out, and
immediately approved of the situation. He cut
a fireplace at one end of the cavity, and has ever
since lived in the hole, leaving the shelter above
just as the tornado arranged it.
* *• * *
“S.S.”: The Bulletin has not yet told
of the boss cocky’s detestation of a watch, but this
prejudice against a time-keeper is very marked
amongst agriculturists, and is much commented
on by bush-workers. The experienced hand seek-
ing a billet from John Cocky, is careful not to
expose his watch-chain, if he has one. I have heard
of one cunning farmer, who, before engaging the
applicant, innocently asks the time. If a man
fishes out a watch he is passed on. “ I want no
blanky man round my place splittin’ minutes ! ”
growls John Cocky. Cocky prefers to be his
own time-keeper, and his clock is fast in the
morning and slow at night.
■* * * *
It isn’t only to-day or yesterday that
Malay proas developed the habit of wandering
along the northern coast of Australia, picking up
anything that happened to be floating around loose.
When,in 1870 the little steamer Omeo took round
the party that had the job of pushing on with the
overland telegraph line from the North, a big
proa was sighted, and presently appeared to come
in pursuit. The little Omeo happened to have
one small cannon on board, and this the captain
loaded up with broken glass and scraps of iron.
It wasn’t much, though he reckoned it might do
something if the worst came to the worst. What
were the precise intentions of the piratical-looking
crew nobody ever found out; for steam easily
beat wind that time, and the proa was before night
lost over the rim of the Gulf.
* * » *
“Janor”: This is a sad Spring tail. It
(the Spring) was but a day old when young Pete
rushed into the kitchen and stated loudly that a
snake lurked in the wood-pile. Mother hurried
to the spot, the gleam of battle in her eye. In
the dim twilight was visible the terminal six
inches of the reptile, protruding over a log.
Mother seized the axe (she’s a bonserina with the
axe), and the blade descended with unerring
accuracy. The wood heap heaved and scattered ;
a 40-horse-power yell knocked a hole in the
atmosphere ; and the house cat shot skyward,
turned 14 somersaults, and disappeared in the
golden wattle scrub, all but his tail—that lay
motionless on the log. Mother picked it up
and she was so upset that she smote Pete on the
head with it and called him a devil. Pete hurried
after the balance of pussy. Then mother cried
over the tail, and carried it inside. Presently
Pete timidly returned, bearing the mutilated
feline as a peace offering. Mother (who is the
“wise” woman of the busliland in which she
dwells, and dispenses first aid tc suffering neigh-
bors) had a happy and generous inspiration. She
prepared a surgical needle, and, young Pete hold-
ing the cat, while another nipper held the tail, she
began to stitch Thomas to the caudal ornament he
had been so firmly attached to for years. But, alas,
Pete’s strength was not equal to the task. Af
the first prick of the needle Thomas sprang on to
mother’s neck, all claws and curses, and vanished,
never to return. Mother sobbed that there was
a conspiracy to drive her into an early gpave.
Pete buried the severed tail at the foot of the
cherry tree. It is still Spring.
THE COSMOPOLITAN.
WILLIAM: “ Wot’s this ’ere bacteria, ’Enery ?"
HENRY: “ Oh, that’s the Australian name for
’em. Yer see them insects is called Parisites
in France, an’ in Germany they calls ’em
Germs, an’ in Ireland they’re Microbes.”
“Picard ” reports the case :
I strongly advised myself to become an All Black, and
swung my chest out some distance as I strutted on to
the field of battle, blood and groans for the first time.
The ball was kicked high up in the oxygen, and I dashed
forward and obtained it. Then somebody obtained me.
Have you ever been run over by a motor-car? But that
is interrupting the story. Well, what is called a “ scrum ”
was formed, and I was in the centre of it on Maoriland’s
breast, and looking upward could see nothing but a lot of
hairy legs, after which somebody made a doormat of my
visage as I was trying to crawl away from the scene
of strife. I shook myself well, and tried to remem-
ber my name and what was the number of the
motor-car that killed me, when I slowly realised things.
Somebody bawled out, “ Get into it, matey,” and matey
did so ; and, seeing the ball coming towards him, ran
away from it; but it chased him. Then, looking towards
the direction it had arrived from, I could see the enemy
bearing down on me again, and a fierce face was hanging
on my starboard quarter, and after that I seemed to be
hovering in space for some years, and eventually came
back to the planet again. After coming back, I felt like
ringing up for the ambulance van, and to get the opera-
tion room at the hospital ready.
After the first spell, I threatened to resign, and was
presented with an orange, and got into the thick of
it once more. At last I resigned in dead earnest, after
getting mistaken for the ball by someone, who presented
me with a kick that brought about hcemorrhage of the
nose and a black eye. My recovery will take place some
time during the present century, and this is written in
bed. Please put this par in the sporting column. It will
act as a warning to trespassers.
NOTHING MUCH.
At Carlton Police Court John Smith, for striking his mother and cutting her eye, was fined 10s At the
same court W. Cogau, for stealing a pickaxe, got two months’ hard labor.—Daily Paper.
MEMBER OF PUSH : “ Wotcher got my mate in for 1 ”
POLICEMAN: “ Murderous assault on his grandmother
MEMBER OF PUSH: "Is that all ? ”
POLICCEMAN : “ Yes.”
MEMBER OF PUSH : “It’s all right. I was afraid he’d bin breakin’ winders!”
“Chink” writes from Maryborough (Vic.):
“ Barb ” effuses joyously (B. 26/9/’Q7) : “ A wqodpecker
divyts up a tree-Jirugk, pausipg jjhlfqyay to' give opt his
j;wot)eautifplsustajnedp6j;q§.”
Let “barb ” kqo'w'fclqqt \yqqdpeplcers qrp
in Australia. Their nearest Australian Relation is the trep-
creefper. And as for calling that fyrcj’s shrill piping notes
beautiful-well, I must havp ap unmusical earl
Further, “ Barb ” inquires: “ Isihc the thrush art
importation ? ”
There are some fifteen species qnc} spb-specips of native
thrushes ip tips cqqntry, arjd tmt ope imported membey
of th.e gepps—Le., the English jihrush po\y so plentiful in
Melbourne gaydpns. This Jptpey f}op§ pot say “ gluck ”
like thp bird qf “ Barb's ” admiratiop, \yhich I wquld infer
to be a thickheafj.
Also “Repeater” whites to Sdy thpt “Barb's”
alleged thrush was a hell-hjrd, apd that it says
“bob-bob-bob bob-whitey,” which seems a per-
fectly reasonable remark to make. How this
world is given to contradiction !
* » * *
“Manx”: Has any Aboriginaliar heard
of, seen, or smelt, a dop ole- barrelled gohanna? I
recently heard of one that was killed on the
Grampian ranges (Vie.). It was between 3ft. and
4ft. long, all its legs were fore-legs, and it sported
a perfect head at each end. In other words, it
was two of him each chopped in halves, with the
head ends joined together with paper fasteners
and gum, and the tail-ends given to the dog.
This is a true bill, for the man that shot the lf go”
told me so. When I asked him why he didn’t
bring it home he said he was dog-tired, he bad a
long tramp before him, and the reptile was smell-
ful. To my unsophisticated mind, this lie
sounded true, and I believed the story. Any-
how, it wasn’t bush whisky, for the shootist
sports a liver, and is a teetotaller in consequence.
* * * *
“ J&ybell,” from Queensland
The bush-school committeeman is often an awesome
hunk of the country’s backbone. Most times he is a
nominal farmer with a broken hoe and a woeful overdraft
at the store, but he contains enough energy to worry an
unfortunate school-teacher over the whole seven preci-
pices of damnation. He is a genius at detecting the weak
spots in the local curriculum, and fills in his spare time
shoving round petitions to have Miss Alpha Bett, or Mr.
Geo. Graphy passed on, so that the youngsters “ will git
moar and a better eddikation.”
Nine times out of ten he is either a warped Wesleyan
or a barbed-wire Baptist, who views the world through
sapling sliprails and an impenetrable Bastille of bigotry.
Frequently-, through lack of circumference to his cranium
and his dearth of forehead, he has to put a belt round his
hat to prevent it slipping C„.vn and chafing his shoulders.
As a rule, he hasn’t many cows po milk, so that his
youngsters are thus able to obtain the full benefit of his
State’s munificence. Sometimes, though, he manages to
rise above the hoe, and lands in the exalted realms of
Cow. Then God help his youngsters and their “ lamin’.”
He just allows them to scurry to and from the school for
a couple of hours a day twice a week, and, as often as
not, under his altered circumstances, heartily damns all
“ eddikation.”
The possession of the cows converts him into a J.P. or a
Shire councillor, or both, after which such an insignificant
personage as a mere school-teacher is beneath his notice.
So he eschews scholastic dissensions, and develops into a
sort of ambulatory encyclopaedia on milk and the grease
thereof. This and the frequency with which he opens
his face to dilate, about the hole in the culvert, and the
dead tree at Snider’s Grossing, builds him a reputation
that figures on his monolith when he wafts hence for
Kingdom Cow.
But his real history is only to be found in the bush-
school records, where things like the following remain
strewn in his thumb tracks
“ I visited - school to-day found the things all nice
and clean the children were bussy at doing the sums all
very good."
“ All very gud in cheool.”
“ Attendance fair records generally good kept rapidly
progress made.”
“ J.G.” : “Brad’s” snake and whirling
bike-wheel yarn (B. 5/9/’O7) recalls vividly to me
a horror of yesteryear. Was biking- to Bendigo,
and suddenly saw as I sped madly down a hill
steep enough to give pause to all the pork in
Gadara, a mighty tiger snake reposing on the
roadway. Even as I glimpsed the reptile my
front wheel hit it. An awful nightmare of dust,
oaths, cold sweat, and periodical smackings over
the face with something that felt like the tail
(or head) of a giant Anaconda (iced) then beset
me. At the three-dozenth smack I vouchsafed a
loud moan and leapt for space. I struck space
with unerring aim, and rebounded off it on to the
hard unyielding road. When I came-to I ex-
amined myself for bites. I could find no part of
my frame that hadn’t something that looked like
a bite, and became unconscious again. For some
obscure reason I didn’t die, and later T found the
remains of my bike with the tiger’s corpse twined
creeper-wise among its ruined spokes.
* * « *
“ G.S.K.” : Be various modes of travel-
ling in the ultra-Sheol country (“Mo,” B.
19/9/’O7). Have in a week met travellers pro-
ceeding in many ways. Tnere is the coach, wftn
its fifty-mile stage horses, also the station coach
and pair. Camels are used for carrying wool to
the towns, and returning with provisions and
other loading. Thf norse teams cannot effectively
compete with the Hindu-driven camels. Once
met a horse-team drawing Cobham station wool
with the horses eight abreast in two rows—rather
a unique team. On the Cobham sandhills I
passed an Afghan mounted on a hack camel, and
leading a pack. He was bound for Hergott
Springs and had a three months’trip in front of
him. Travellers on horseback, mostly drovers
with attendant pack horse, are also met with.
The swaggie and his wife Matilda are not as
prevalent in these remote areas as in the eastern
districts. Shearers mostly travel per bike. At
Lake Bancannia I saw the remains of a bike
which had been abandoned by a shearer who pre-
ferred the coach to his smashed machine. The
ruin had a rope tyre as a substitute for the real
article, and this makeshift was splendidly fastened
to the rim of the machine. At Mt. Poole the
famous Marks mule-team came under my notice.
This consisted of a dozen mules attached to a
hawker’s caravan. The traveller outback is not
very particular as to the means of transit so long
as he gets to the end of his journey.
* * * *
“ Agricola ” : The course of true love never
did run smooth. The other day I saw a large lady
eaglehawk sitting on the dead limb of a gum-tree,
not very far from the ground. Above hovered her
best boy. He came down rather suddenly, and
landed with a flop on the limb close beside her.
The flop and the extra weight proved the last
straw for the dead limb, and it collapsed. The
lady, who was just moving up to make room for
the gentleman, and who was consequently a bit
off her balance, was unable to get her wings in
motion in time to avert an ignominious bump on
the earth. The gentleman who was proposing to
her fared a little better, and managed to recover
himself. The lady saw me, and hurried off to
hide her confusion. She perched on an old stump
which was secure enough for anything. Un-
abashed, he came over towards her again, but she
was full up of him and his clumsiness, and rushed
at him with her mouth ajar, and read the Dog
Act over him. Whereupon he got the spike, and
flew over the hill, and another of life’s young
dreams was wrecked.
AN INSANE MELODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Deep in the droomy stroom of night,
The dreadful Gooloomoomeroob
Was bloobledoobing in the gloom,
Goomoomeroomeroomeroob.
In Gompershump one slob in frum,
The Groyber wumpt in wortled wike.
The Groyber wumpt, for through the strank
He spied the great Goankipike.
Goankipike in strufHed glore
Ingurgitated Groyber quick.
Then slunked along in stranky state
To meet the gury Bamberkik.
The Bamberkik unconquered stood,
And strashibashed his smurded beak.
And then began a combat dire
The borungunded trees bedeak.
Ten times the Bamberkik did pierce
Goankipike with sworfish bite.
That smurded, skowded, scrawish beak—
In truth it was a grubious sight!
At last the great Goankipike,
All swaffled in that gury fray,
Made one great swash with swankish paw,
One swashing swink and won the day.
In Gompershump at dead of night
They whisper tales of spoogling spooks—
The Groyber and the Bamberkik,
All spiggling in the floodling sploots.
Deep in the droomy stroom of night.
The dreadful Gooloomoomeroob
Was bloobledoobling in the gloom,
Goomoomeroomeroomeroob.
VIC.
H. TATE.


Earring Display
Conveys only a suggestion of our enormous
stock of all the latest designs in Earrings.
Write for our latest sheets of designs.
Wo Make the Earring's. We Mount tho Jewels. We Set
the Cems. We Cut the Stones wh;n Australian.
No room for middlemen’s profits in our prices. The exouisite
refinement of design of some of the latest creations has to be
seen to be fully appreciated.
FAIRFAX (Si ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
Plain Figures Strictly Casln HX,NTE « STREET.
Pearls and Tur-
quoises, 84s.
Olivines and Pearls,
£5 ss.
Amethyst or Peri-
dot Centres and
Pearls, 90s. pair.
Diamonds and
Kubies, £25 pair.
Pearls and Sap-
phires, £8 Bs. pair.
Pearls and Peri-
dots, £6 6s. pair.
Pearls and Tur-
quoises, £5 ss. pair.
Murwillumbah, the N.S.W. North Coast
town which had its business end charred the
other night, probably has its name pronounced
in more ways than any other Australian town.
The uninitiated call it MurwiPwmbah, while most
of those who reckon they know call it Murwillum-
bah. There are many,, however, who term it
Murwilliambar the “william” part being
the same as Bill’s Sunday name. Defence
Minister Ewing, who represents it in the Aus-
tralian Parliament, calls it Murieidumbah, and a
Scotchman of prominence thereabouts calls it
Murrawillumba. The name is alleged to be a
corruption of Murrawillyumbah, the aboriginal
name for the hill on which the place is built.
But there is really so little of it left, because its
aldermen were too busy thinking about Cow to
bother about a fire brigade, that it might very
well be now shortened for good to “ M’bah !”
“Barb”: Some settlers encourage their
cats to raise large families, preferably out about
the barn somewhere. When the kittens are old
enough, they are violently advised to-flee to the
bush and become wild. Generally the advice is
tendered with a brick and a dog. The belief is that
the cats eventually become expert rabbiters, and,
as is well known, they very often do. Lately, I
thought I had discovered a new kind of rabbit.
It was a black rabbit with a long tail, and it
rubbed itself against disgusted grey rabbits with
short tails. It’s behavior was most childish. It
rolled over and over on the grass, and seemed to
have no sense of dignity. Every afternoon, tor a
week, I saw the amazing thing inviting the
nibbling bunnies to a game—kiss-in-the-ring, foi»
preference—and one day I got close enough to
make it out, before it dived into a hollow log—an
ordinary domestic cat, wild as a hawk, and for
which the rabbits had the utmost contempt.
SCOTCH, YOU BET.
BROWN: “ Give's a pipe er tobaccer, boss.”
MO TAGGART : “ Houts, touts, monl Wha 1 the
de’il ”
B ROWN: “ Yer can give's a match, too, while yer
about it.”
McTAGGART : “A’ weel, ma freend, if ye hae
na ’ ffot a match ye dinna need ony to-bacco! ”
Itan : The prospector has been placed
alongside the explorer for intrepidity, and now
something should be said for the ’possum-shooter
and the rabbiter. They have often pioneered the
prospector. It was a skin-hunter who located
the Grafton copper mine; another recently dis-
covered the new copper blowat Wellington; a third
lately struck a line rich reef in the inhospitable
region of Mount Rainbow (N.Q.). The pathetic
side of the case is that the discoverers of mines
generally get little or nothing out of them. Often
they miss the ’bus altogether. It is not always
their own fault either. An old bushman the
other day arrived at Longreach with some good
specimens of copper and gold-speckled quartz,
discovered right out at Boulia—close to the Edge.
But he was fever-stricken, and, passing out, his
promising shows remain to be re-discovered.
His work suggests one thing, however—that there
appears to be no end to the Cloncurry copper
belt, which goes north nearly to the Gulf, west to
within cooee of the S.A. border, and south to the
weird outpost of Boulia.
Snell ” : Melbourne cable trams are
always a source of great perplexity to country
visitors, and conductors are still full of quaint
yarns of the blunders of Bill and Jim during Show
week. Bill has been heard to ejaculate : “Gripes !
the things never turns. What I can’t make out
is, how the dickens they gets ’em back agin ! ”
Bill and Jim dashed at a standing tram in
Bourke-street. Both
were loaded down
with parcels.
Hastily they
dumped their
luggage all over
the side seat of
the dummy,
and then
climbed
aboard. The
tram started
east. Bill
sprang to his
feet, a kind
of horror in
his face. “Hi,
bloke,” he
cried, ad-
dressing the
gripman,
“she’s goin’
the wrong
way!” Then
he jumped
off. He
jumped
facing the
rear of the
course, and
his feet flew
up, and he
struck Mel-
bourne with
a shock. For
a moment
Jim gaped
in conster-
nation.
Then he
fell upon
the bundles
like a man
demented,
and started
hurling them
from the tram
as he might have
unloaded split wood. When the last parcel
was cast overboard, Jim made a wild jump
for life and liberty, struck the adverse current,
threw up his legs, and bounced on his neck!
Bill and Jim were both knocked out, and from
Ehzabeth-street to Cole’s Arcade there was
a long line of parcels on the road, with a busted
bushman at each end.
* * • *
Wusslean : One of the sturdy farmers
who joined in the shriek against his wallow being
interfered with by Victoria’s Dairy Supervision
Bill got a rude shock the other day. He inter-
rupted a lecture by Dr. Cherry, the expert the
Socialistic State sends round to teach Anti-Socialists
their business, by asking what was the cause of his
calves early demise. And the answer was simply
Dirt. I hen a subdued son of the soil sat down
to thoughtfully sift the arrears of hay from his
ragged whiskers.
* * * *
“ Toby ” : Was sinking a post-hole on
Rodney Downs, outside Bar-
caldine (Q.), and had got it
down about two feet, when I
noticed some queer contrap-
tion embedded in the side
of the hole. Hooked it out,
and found it was the common
or garden variety of toad. He
was firmly set in solid clay,
and compressed like a chicken
in an egg. In the first place
the question ariseth, “How
did he get there?” As soon
as I touched him he gave a
squeak while still in his clayey
tomb. That shows that he
must have had air. Then how
did the air reach him through
the solid clay ? Then, if he
could get air, it follows that
there must have been a wear-
ing away of his organism
which would require replenish-
ing. If so, where did the food
come from? As soon as 1
dragged him from his tomb,
he blew himself out almost to
bursting point, and then re-
gained his normal size. Evi-
dently not liking the look of
me, he did a bit of Postle
across the paddock; but,
being weak from his confine-
ment, he soon collapsed. He
squatted and glared at me for
a while, then did a couple of
hand-springs, turned over on
his back, spread his little toes
out, and expired. My post-
mortem disclosed the fact that
he was nothing but a mass of
jelly—no hones, no regular
muscles, nor anything that
an ordinary self-respecting toad would have.
* * • •
“ J.A.C.” : “Full-up” (B. 3/10/’O7) pro-
tests against the use of “ yer ” as bush vernacular.
It is some years since I had any truck with the
bush, and my memory does not sufficiently serve
me to either corroborate or contradict “Full-up.”
I regret this, for the question is a matter of deep
moment to Australia, and should be cleared up.
I do know that “yer” is freely used in towns,
although there is a Cockney-like tendency to drop
or slur the “ r.” In the high-born families, whose
hospitality, for a consideration, I have for some
years reluctantly accepted, the disposition has
been to adopt the simple “yez.”
• • • •
“Jimmie Pannikin”: I am right fair in
the magnificent midst of the Golden Splendor of
the Bush, saturating soul and senses with glorious
sight and exquisite smell of the loveliest flowering
tree in the world, the Wattle Wonderful. I wish
that some of you could spend a week with me in
such sunshine as gilded and glorified this one
just ended. You could drug yourselves with sun-
shine and sight and sound and smell of the Bush
making towards its best. It is hard to understand
why Australian teachers in Australian bush
schools do not cultivate the golden wattle and
other splendid native trees and shrubs, instead of
filling their playgrounds with imported articles.
Surely it’s time our children believed in their own
land, which certainly gives them good grounds
for an abiding faith and love and loyalty. All
the Pannikins are patriots, anyhow—lusty
lovers of their own land.
CAUSB FOR
JEALOUSY.
MRS. JUMBUK
(on a period-
cat inspce-
tion): " My
word, Tilly,
where you get
that dash feller
dress!"
TILLY: "Oh, Mr. Jumbuk."
MRS. J.: "What! My son!"
TILLY: "Oh, no! ole man."
“ Aimee ” : Blayney has earned the repu-
tation of being the bleakest town on the (N.S.W.)
western line. Well, I’m prepared to back it
against any other town on any other line. It's
colder than the doorstep of a Salvation charity.
In fact, it doesn’t really know how cold it could
be. It hasn’t tried yet. Just let its reputation
be threatened—that’s all!
* * • *
“Hamer”: There seems to be a general
ignorance of the fact that the chief’s caste amongst
the Maoris is quite distinct from the common or
brown herd. A Maori girl of the chief’s class
is notably distinct from the others; her features
are finer, she lacks the heaviness of the nose and
lips, and her complexion is rather olive than
brown. This is probably the result of more tender
nurturing and the chiefs’ careful selection of wives.
The chief, I presume, has had for centuries the
first pick of the girls, and apparently he selected
the slender, light-colored girl, not the fat girl
with a bay countenance that seemed to be made
of rocks.
THE GOLDEN WATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I long have craved with homicidal fingers,
To clutch the throttle
Of that poetic soul whose fancy lingers
With Golden Wattle.
A saccharine rehash of poet chatter,
Of sweets unseasoned.
Perhaps he is a she, if so no matter —
I’d slit its weasand 1
Though editorial taste is deprecated
By us (and rightly—
For has it not our own work under-rated
And treated lightly?)
Yet when it slates the jingle meretricious
Of themes acacian,
I read the dicta, never mind how vicious,
With keen elation.
My soul condones the horsey back-block chantey,
About the bottle—
There’s merit in your she-oak or Chianti,
But pane wattle !
I duly give the bloom itself my praises ;
I have no quarrel
With it; my spleen is for the bards of phrases
And diction floral.
If I were king, when past endurance carried,
A poisoned pottle
Would slay the bard that praised or bloke that harried
Our Golden Wattle!
VIC.
A.B.C.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.K. : In 1905, 1570 steamers and 261 sailing
ships entered Sydney ; Newcastle, 462 steamers and 253
sailing- ships ; all Victorian ports, 2376 vessels—the Vic.
“Year Book” lumps things like that. But the Vic.
shipping outside Melbourne doesn’t add much to the
lump Tambl: Verse rather ragged. Pictorial sugges-
tion may serve. No name or address Cranberry:
Rejected. Don’t answer mere paragraphs in this column
except under great pressure. There are thousands
A Friend of “ The Breaker " : Suggestion for picture of
Clara Butt in her nightdress, and Mr. Kennerley Rum-
ford coming home intoxicated, declined W. Rudd:
That was old before Christopher Cook Columbus first
went fishing for new continents Slap-Up: Disremeni-
ber Brewer. Don’t know him from a kangaroo or a light
giraffe with pale stripes J.H.A. : You say you
enclosed paragraph, bit of verse, and cartoon, but devil a
thing was enclosed F.W. : “Manly Tragedy” de-
clined. Considering “Friend.” Peep o’ Day: Your
statement that “ Dormant ” exaggerated when he accused
Ballarat of being dead is many pages too long for insertion.
... William D.: A very humble effort Dew K.: Unwill-
ingly rejected on account of faults of details Chiniquy:
Funny in places, but feeble in most places Lancelot:
Interest not vivid enough Eukareena; Please give
name of yarn in question Ursa Major: One is but a
boy’s yarn, and the other is too awkwardly told
Harvey W. : The story is too flabby and colorless of treat-
ment. The verse is a little better C.C. Bendigo : Not
nearly good enough J.E.P. : “Sunset” is convention-
ally pretty. The others haven’t point enough J.W.0.:
Point noted. A little reflection should show you
how impossible it is that we should select subjects
for you—out of AU-There-Is Trevlyn : Your trite
reflections in heavy verse cost us 4d., short postage.
Also stuck-on Vic. stamps are useless here
L’lnconnu : Correct in form, but has nothing in it...!
J.G. : England was a High Protectionist country for 300
years, and by virtue of it was the richest country on
earth. It had the largest national capital on earth, and
had more wealth per head of population than any other
country. The poverty among the working masses was
due to the fact that the Parliament of Britain had care-
fully legislated to keep them poor. The whole object of
the Labor policy of the House of Commons from the
passing of the Statute of Laborers in 1349 till the repeal
of the “Combination Laws” in 1825 was to keep the
working classes at the mercy of their employers, and
leave the fixing of wages solely to the masters. The
object of the Freetrader/Obbdten in abolishing the Corn
Laws and the Navigation Laws was not to benefit the
workers, but to make it possible to still further reduce
their wages by making the -cost of living lower. Wages
have increased in all cotthtiies during the last 50 years ;
but they have increased. faster iii highly-protected
countries like Germany and Prance, than they ha,ve7in
Freetrade Britain. And so haye the Savings Batiks
deposits, which are a fairly reliable Vindication- of the
prosperity of the working classes. The"ie&fier in last
week's Bulletin on Ireland and the Australian Tariff
explains the phase of the subject you are struggling with.
....Brad: Item about Brown in type and waiting for
space 0.P.: Perhaps the statement that the professor
*• discovered a waterfall ” wasn’t meant in the sense you
mention. For instance, writer last week turned a
corner and found a man named Smith. But he
doesn’t mean that Smith had never been found before....
E.: “True Grit” wants a better climax. Three good
verses and a bad one ... Tenia : “ Three Dead Cats ” de-
clined. ' Nothing short of 16 dead cats would induce us
to publish H.W. : “Secession” too wooden and
formal.... Dion : Well, we nearly accepted it K^me
Dirrott: Don’t know whether it’s a sonnet or not, but
it’s a very flimsy little item General: “ Cockvlarid ”is
a remarkable effort in the way of rhyme, but it is too
laborious, and it is difficult to make real poetry out of
“ mumps ” and “ chumps ” and “ stumps ” however well
they rhyme Kiwi: Well, hang the thing, here goes
with your poem :
WHEN YOU PUT LITTLE WINSTON TO SLEEP.
(All Rights Reserved.)
SOUTH AFRICA, YOU NEED A POET.
So we’ll “ sing-song-sing” to your past “golden glories,”
And of the “ Wild Cats ” we have seen,
Of your faked-up “ Tin ” and “ Diamond ” stories.
And of your “ Mines,” where none have been.
Chorus:
Rub ! rub ! rub !
Rub it in with a sneeze wood-picket,
Or a two-year-old hickory club.
To the “ ping-pong-ping ” of a Shangaan fiddle,
You’ll tear your hair for another “ boom,”
Till “ Good Old Joe,” to solve the knotty riddle,
Has to “ fire ” C.B. right “ up the flume.”
Chorus:
Drub ! drub 1 drub !
Drub him bang through a thorn-bush thicket
With a greenstone Maori club.
Then grub-grub-grub, boys, dig- a merry Hell,
Where the “ Bug-Bears ” always creep,
For the “ Het-Volk ” Bell will toll a baby-knell
When you put “ Little Winston ” to sleep.
Chorus :
Grub ! grub ! grub !
Grub him in where the blue flames are thickest,
With a gummy old Gum Tree Club.
When they’re “ dead ! dead ! dead ! ” they will see their
“ Brother Boers,”
Grazing ant-bears on their grave,
Letting g-round-hogs root poison-toadstool spores
Among the flowers “ Miss Hobhouse ” gave.
Chorus :
Root 1 root! root!
Root them out, little pigs : save a tiny slicket
For the woolly little “ Bug-Bear” Club!
.... Ardyk : You have a great hunger for correcting other
people’s statements. What that Bulletin correspondent
said was that there was only one telegraph town on earth
named Bondi. In your frenzy of argument, you dispute
the assertion on the ground that there is also a telegraph
town named Rockt 0n. .. .J.M.S. : “Roses” spoilt by the
ungrammatical 4th stanza... .Dew, W. : Sorry you so
often just miss the mark... .Hypo: Good central idea,
but no executive skill.. ..Andrew C. : It has no proper
form or coherence... .Spitz : Fairy-tale idea not fresh....
W.G.H. : Wouldn’t advise you as to placing your “ Cure
for rheumatic gout ”on the market. There are quite
enough nostrums already .Shareholder: You are
curiously sensitive. You call your mine the New
Dempsey, and then get mad when it is alluded to as
“Ould Ireland.” Change the name to the New
McDougall, and we’ll allude to it as “ Ould Scot-
land,” if that will make you feel any better.,..
G.A.: Conversation between Benno and Jimmer re
Squires not of much account... Mrs. E. S.: Alas, we
can’t “ lick it into shape.” It's too dry... DouglasL.:
Can’t “ put it in the Children’s Column." We don’t own
0ne.... Ardy K.: Prolonged obituary notice of Bag Singh
to hand. Hadn’t previously heard of this particular
Singh. As you point out, this cow-infested land of ours
is a harassing place for the convinced Buddhist, so take
cheer from the thought that Bag after all is probably better
dead... .Tough Texture: You take too many words to
describe an abortive effort on the part of yourself and
Taranaki Joe to shift mosquitoes from a hut in Raupo
(M.L.). Pars re unsuccessful attempts at mosquito-
shifting should never exceed 400 words Le Roy: The
Statesman’s Year Book (1907) reports that authority had
been granted for the construction of 720 miles of
railroad in the Philippines.... Camp Oven: No points
about them... .Trader: It’s quite simple. Take a bit of
curved lead pipe and experiment. Or take a curved
tunnel going through a mountain, and shift it round till
it comes out the same side of the mountain at which it
entered. Strongly recommend you to take a tunnel....
Charles A.: Thanks ; but such commonplace horse-
roguery is hardly worth recording C.S.G. : Only just
not bad... .Sweetbriar : Your tragedy lands you in unin-
tentional comedy... .L.A.M.: Has a poetic atmosphere
and much beauty of expression, but the workmanship is
defective Tom G. : Pretty well versified, but hardly
worthy of print... .Mrs. J.H.P. : Not far short of the
mark.... W. 8.5.: That’s an old varn....E.R. : The idea
isn’t too bad, but the execution is weak Will M. M. :
Doesn’t carry enough guns Geo. S.: You “ want an
outlet for your energies.” Well, how about digging?....
Zora C.: It’s a miracle of incoherent discursiveness....
A.B. : Well meant, but clumsy' in construction....
J.A.L. : Your “Methodist clergyman” wonders (re
“ Martin Luther’s ” article on John Wesley, and the allu-
sion to Judkins, Woodful, and Worrall) “ how much The
Bulletin gets for heaping ridicule on the enemies of
Tattersall and Co.” It is a curious parsonical delusion
that certain people are so much afraid of folk like
Judkins, Woodful and Worrall that thev would
pay large sums to have them attacked. Probably
if the most influential paper in Australia made
an offer to Tattersall to denounce the precious trio for a
consideration, Tattersall would offer 2d. at the outside....
M. and B. : Nothing special about such cases. They are
common in all large cities.... Eric B. : You versify- neatly,
but otherwise you don’t impress us....Kareela: Your
modesty deserved more success. There’s no skill in it....
G.W.G.M. : Don’t see much use in your persevering. You
haven’t the necessary literary- equipment... .Lai D.:
Indifferent in quality, and you’ve got the Scriptural
original mixed up... .F. J. 8.: Absolutely nothing in that.
....Ah Pooh: “Just a Yell" to hand. It is a well-
meaning noise, but penetrates nowhere new. All Aus-
tralia (barring B. Smith and a few other such back
numbers) is yelling earnestly re the undesirableness of
the Yellow brother.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
: P*°t' ure no g'ood, and frivolous jest about “an
old chook” worse than useless... .X.X.X. : Quite hope-
l6SS'w a P wars hip picture of no earthly value.
• • • •Y.S. : Sketch tore three times, and then fell into a
sort of ventilated opening- that stands some 2ft. above the
floor ...Tom F. : Hen-and-eggs picture wouldn’t raise one
laugh m a whole continent... .Pick : Defies all the known
laws of perspective.


Tte off of/enks of fXbor
“borrowing
/
f>s>"' /
Ct Coroe : *' A w,Ce Way
of 't^ r ' r !
~fi/ere aye some- wKo
Po from cradle. +0
"tfe wi ever
d* mA»Ce.
* *** ” (Reid)
<• J
|j- o|>«hs J
]oK«. K>v»«l€r—
S c H°pl !’ /f
C|reAt'comblak'n'fs A*" 6 beinp
njAde- of %*■ w X*d~ °f. .
[jKofcr living
|cr in Country
Schools
Cliil4l'€r l> cio AS
| 'feH you you II AH
£>KoW tijs Jo)(es
T3g§ Nn^(^'
mjr I”
C? m bine.
* Rev. F. B.H?yer P«y4«*if'of
oA|d?st~ Onior> Conceived A
Scheme for uy>l Fine "me Wljole
of flje Ifree churches )
\ r«£K
"Wera'S
Vet'
M' Hedges (W A)
disbUyiiyo Aos+>aJiA*y
didn't* believe.
(pm monW* *|Hf IIAd f> j»OW«r to
go CO ster rv,o«jdi7|^
Why. morj.ye dxa. lov/onri dignity o . .p”
Tommy:-."crust" so- Dy.flie way, yo« giving to ifje New
Si me ; ' Hech i MOn j But ye’re A njAisf" Awfu' buffoon J
o to * ill
lg|
Tire CoaJ Cov*»l>ht€.
Wont" r<Vse "fife brice of-
coaJ i^e 1
WIVIfCT S+V’ 4 * .”
(Howl'd
del**! HAna^er)
H/oWavyro^n’- I
'frouble y 0« ~fb
over XS wittok XS
you r J)Kejc‘i'T Circumstances
. W.’II aJIo w f
IN BENT’S COUNTRY.


Exit Carruthers 1
Applicants for
vacancies in
the “ Reform ”
Cabinet.
f THE LION
J AND THE
f MOUSE.—
Carruthers’
version—only
there Is not
that expression
of gratitude on the
lion’s face that one
would wish to see.
Bulletin Art Staff: “Glad to see you at the head of the Government, Mr.
Wade. Delighted 1 ”
Premier Wade: “What! you? Why, 1 thought The Bulletin was inclined 1 to
be—er—that Is ’’
Bulletin Art Staff: “So it is. But I’m pleased because
your face lends itself so easily to caricature.
The late Premier’s was simply hopeless 1 ”
Napoleon at St. Helena-Carruthers
at Sans Souci-a Rartdwick jockey out
breaking-ln a new pair of boots,
Whatever you like.
His Medical Adviser: “What! Play-
ing bowls, and I told you not to
over-excite yourself! Leave off
at once I Why, it’s more strenuous
than State politics ! ”
■Carruthers (after a pause): “Er
doctor, do you think it would
hurt me to—to—collect
_ stamps?”
I ** The Sultan of Morocco
{wants 4400,000 on his
I jewels.”
I He is willing also to-
throw in a gun-metal
watch, but “ Hop ” isn't
on. The way to lose a
friend is to lend him
money, and our artist can’t
afford to let dear old
Hafed - Al - What’s - Hls-
Name slip through his
fingers just yet!
CARTOONLETS.-CARRUTHERS AND OTHERS.


\
lipsWortifc
The fact tHat some
of your teeth are decayed
although you have always cleaned them
is proof that the preparations which you
have used do not preserve the teeth.
Use Odol! Being a liquid preparation it
reaches all parts of the oral cavity, and
being an antiseptic it arrests the action
of the bacteria which attack the teeth.
The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Thomas Bent : “He says I am a fine old
has-been. That’s true; but, by God. I still AM ! ”
Despite all the daily paper assurances that
Cartuthers wasn’t shoved out of the N.S.W.
Premiership, but retired, broken down by hump-
ing’ the vast burden and tonnage of the State, it
was a very cheerful-looking Joseph who went out
in the bleak atmosphere to see the horses run at
Kandwick on Saturday.
Ancient N.S.W. history is revived by
Sydney City Council’s proposal to resume 47h
squaiefeetat the corner of Oxford and Crown
streets. The Land described is part of 25 acres
granted on Aug. 26, 1796, to Alexander Donaldson.
Donaldson Was a private in the old Rum-selling
Corps, whereof John Macarthur was lieutenant.
AUSTRALIA'S SEA POWERI
Crawford and Young, two of the English
cricketers now on their way out, wear specs, to
play in.
Old skipper Murray and his old steamer
General Gordon, which—propelled from the rear
by a contrivance like the hind wheel of a buggy—
has been the means of conveyance of trippers up
the Hawkesbury River for many years, are at
present on the shelf. Advancing years are getting
too much for the skipper, and he proposes to
chuck it.” As for the General Gordon, the pride
of old Murray’s heart, he maintains that age has
no terrors for that vessel, and that when things
are fixed up it will continue to grunt and snort
along the Hawkesbury reaches, skittishly kicking
up the water behind, for a long time yet.
Elected Speaker now by his fourth N. S.
Wales Parliament, W. McCourt puts up a record
shared by Arnold and Allen, but only beaten by
J. P. Abbott. In 50 years the N.S.W. Assembly
has had nine Speakers, while Victoria has had
11, in spite of Murphy’s 15 years’ record. A
vague idea floats around that Peter Lalor, of
Eureka, found a haven in the Victorian chair
for generations; as a matter of fact he was
there only seven years. McCourt didn’t
push his way to the chair, nor was he
pushed there; he just gravitated. He
was a patient plodder, who came out of
a not-too-affluent country newspaper
office, so they made him Chairman of
Committees, and on J. P. Abbott’s
resignation they gave him the Speaker-
ship because he had done pretty well
in the other chair, and hadn’t trodden
hard enough on anybody’s toes to
make enemies, and was about the
right size. Size is most important.
Abbott and Bent and Matthew
Davies and Jenkin Coles all became
“first commoners” by sheer avoir-
dupois; and even Murray, Arnold,
and Barton owed something to their
inches —both perpendicular inches
and stomach measurement.
A note from Victoria ;—.
Bishop Langley, of Bendigo (Vic.), who formerly kept
a kindly, archidiaconal eye over the parish wherein The
Bulletin ekes out its peaceful, contemplative days, has
been made a 1J.I). by the Archbishop of Canterbury
(Eng.), one of whose ancient privileges it is to confer the
“Degree of Grace” (sometimes called a “Lambeth
Degree,” because the “ ticket ” is issued from Lambeth
Palace, same as the pawn-ticket is issued from the pre-
mises of H. Samuels). There is no special badge or milli-
nery attached to tbe “ Degree of Grace,” but the recipient
is entitled to wear the hood and gown of the Primate of
England’s University. Consequently, Bishop Langley
may put on the Oxford toggery whenever he feels that
way, and I form a pleasant mental picture of The Bulle-
tin’s old pastor beaming forth occasionally from the
midst of “ a cassock of purple ribbed silk, over an open
flowing robe of scarlet cloth, faced with black velvet
down the front and on the sleeves, and over the robe the
doctor’s hood.” By the way, the first Australian recipient
of the “Degree of Grace” was Archdeacon Cowper,
father of the late Dean Cowper, of Sydney.
A notable Maorilander who has just joined
the majority was Major Brassey, who departed
this sphere at Wanganui. He had seen much
service in India during the Mutiny, and when
that unpleasantness was settled he drifted along
to Maoriland. There he got work right away
as boss of 400 volunteers, who were stationed at
Pipiriki to overawe the Maoris. The
Maoris flatly refused to be awed, and,
surrounding the post, called on Brassey
to surrender. Brassey replied with
language which shocked the herald, who
was a deacon. When he went back and
reported the language to his brethren,
they were also shocked, and opined that
to try and storm a place held by a man
who could use such language would mean
that a lot of them would get hurt; so
they sat tight and waited till lack of
potatoes should modify Brassey’s lan-
guage. Every morning the Major used
to come out and ostentatiously drink out
of a bottle which he afterwards threw
into the river. As a matter of fact the
drinking was dumb show; the bottle,
securely corked, contained a message
in dog Latin to the officer at Wanganui,
telling how things stood. The supply of
bottles ran out at last and things looked
blue, but the major tightened his belt,
and fried the uppers of his hoots, and
eased his mind by inviting the Maoris
to come up and get killed. Down at
Wanganui corked bottles were noticed
and for a long time allowed to pass
unexamined, but at last a curious person
fished one out of the river, opened it.
and found it to contain a paper in-
scribed in an unknown language. He
passed it on, and the major’s dog Latin
was at last translated, and a relief force
sent out. The major’s message is now
in Wellington Museum, but his language (alas !) is
scattered to the four winds.
Norman Moses has been arrested in Bris-
bane on a charge of attempting to extract money
by threats from Samuel Hordern. And Norman
Moses is neither a Scot nor a Jew; he’s a Syrian.
A quiet and unobtrusive life has been that
of A. P. Clapin, who retires from a Legislative
Council clerkship, after 57 years’ connection with
N.S.W. Parliament. He drove his quill studi-
ously and faithfully when Wentworth and Deas
Thomson were in the front of things, and no less
studiously and faithfully did he shove the imple-
ment very nearly up to the coming of the Wade
Government. He was an absorbed man at work.
It wasn’t very useful work, but he clerked for
the House of Fossils as if the fate of nations
depended on the careful avoidance of blots.
“Ob”: A quarter of a century ago the
deceased ,T. P. T. Caulfield helped to run a public
house agency in Melbourne, and even then he
impressed those who met him with the fact that he
was only understudying for the position of Berry
or Service., He was always Caulfield, the “ Boy
Politician ’ “ the Boy Pollycaulfield,’’ according
to somebody’s abbreviation—and he buzzed with
energy, like a steam tram. He did his best brain
work as editor of the Lithgow Mercury, but he
changed his point of view with so much facility
that he was regarded more as an auctioneer of job
lots of opinions than as a man with views of his
own. He hailed libel writs as stirring texts on
which to let himself go, and did not mind much
whether he was plaintiff or defendant. He cer-
tainly put into his 43 years of life double the
amount of living the average man gets through.
There was little to show for his work in the end,
but he worked and toiled and rushed and hurried
and buzzed like all Gehenna.
A gentleman who thinks he ought to be an
Earl has just transpired in Melbourne. His name
for years past has been Hazelton ; but he says it
is really William Styles Coke, and that his father!
was the eldest son of the Earl of Leicester. Dad
however, caring little about titles, came to
Australia in 1853, and took no further interest in
the peerage or the Bloated Grange. Mr.
Hazelton, who is quite elderly, being 78 in fact
says that he visited Holkham Hall, Norfolk,
where the Leicesters camp, about twelve years
ago, travelling incog.; but he found the people
in possession so happy and comfortable that he
hadn’t the heart to turn them out, and this paper
cordially approves of the old gentleman’s senti-
ments. Ihe present Earl has been in the business
now for 65 years—he succeeded in 1842—and,
after living all those years luxuriously on the
Bloated Grange, it might come hard on him to have
toturn-to and sell whelks. But the dates suggest
a difficulty. If the man who came to Australia in
1853 was the real heir, why wasn’t he the ear]
instead of the heir, seeing that his father and
predecessor had then been dead for 11 years ? •
TIRED BUT DESIRABLE.
Sir David Masson, from India, recommends the
Indian pensioner as a desirable immigrant for
Australia.
The A.M.P. Society has had as directors
three generations of 8. M. Herald Fairfaxes:
(1) The original John Fairfax; (2) “Mr. James”;
(3) J. 0., appointed the other day to succeed the
late Hollo Cape.
By Thr Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
Apropos Anthony Hordern (B. 26/9/’O7). The original
Anthony Hordern left five sons, at least. John, in the
early ’forties, was in business on the corner of George-
street and Charlotte-place—now Grosvenor-street. He
was the father of Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street. Anthony
founded the Haymarket business, and was father of Sam
and Anthony No. 3 (of Westralia). Edward was on the
historic slope of Brickfield Hill. Leibbus was in partner-
ship for a time ; and William always lived in Melbourne.
The original Anthony was a coach-builder, who estab-
lished himself in King-street, Sydney, in the early
’twenties, while his wife had a millinery and straw-
bonnet business where the Star and Garter Hotel now is.
There is a fourth Anthony, son of Anthony No. 3 of
Westralian railway fame ; and a fifth Anthony, grand-
son of Sam aforesaid. The third Anthony was born
at Melbourne in 1842. The first Anthony speculated at
the early sales of land in that city, and on the death of
the widow in 1872 the whole of the property
was put up to auction sale in terms of the
will. It had cost £370, and it sold for £65,321.
The second Anthony died in George-street, Haymarket,
in 1876. The third died at sea off the coast of Westralia,
September, 1886. He had contracted with the Westralian
Government to construct a line of railway between
Albany and Beverley (234 miles) ; he was to introduce
5000 immigrants, in annual lots of 1000, and for this he
was to gee 12,000 acres of land in specified spots. On
board a J 3. and O. steamer, when nearing Westralia, he
succumbed to sunstroke. Had the executors continued
the railway scheme, this branch of the Horderns would
be extremely rich ; but the Equity Court relieved the
estate of what at the time did not promise to be a suc-
cessful speculation. Anthony No. 3 married in 1864 Miss
Elizabeth Mary Bull, daughter of Mr. John Bull, of
Liverpool (N.S.W.), by whom he had 12 children.
“ Melb.”: The Edward Wilson estate
gives £lOO,OOO to Melbourne Hospital. Wilson
came to Australia in 1842. He was a Lon-
don native, and began life in the softgoods
line, at the London agency of a Manchester
house. This did not suit. He meant to
live in Sydney, but Melbourne enticed
him to stay, just as with Duffy a decade
later. Wilson had no notion whatever
of journalism. He settled at Merri Creek,
near Melbourne. Then he partnered with
Johnston, in a sort of cattle ranch, near
Dandenong. Governor Latrobe muddled
up things, and the Akgus, established
by Kerr in 1846, pitched into him.
Wilson was a powerful correspondent of
this new paper, under the signature of
“ lota.” In 1847 he and Johnston bought
the Argus. Then ensued Wilson’s slap
dash at all abuses. Reading over his
leaders, I don’t find any skill, but his
intense convictions bore him along. He
founded the Acclimatisation Society.
Introduced larks, thrushes, and sparrows.
Returned to Lndon. Wrote a book
called “Rambles in the Antipodes.” Helped
to found the Colonial Institute. Died at
his estate of Hayes, in Kent, 1874. Buried
in Melbourne.
Thus “ Duncan Israel ” :
The sudden illness and even more sudden recovery of
ex-Premier Carruthers looks like an inferior replica of
the incident in last year’s history of John Wren. In the
middle of the anti-gambling agitation, Melbourne awoke
one morning to find that John o’ the Tote was in a state
of nervous collapse. He was worn out, broken up with
the persecution to which he had been subjected, and his
medical adviser had insisted upon his leaving the strenu-
ous existence of raking in money if he wished to save his
life. Accordingly John announced that, being desirous
of saving his life, he had decided upon the grand tour
and had taken his passage to San Francisco. A hundred
of John’s admirers got together to give him a farewell
banquet as a token of respect and esteem. The banquet
was duly held the night before the departure of the
vessel which was to take him to freedom and health. In
reply to the toast of the evening, John made a stirring
speech, in which he referred to the way he had been
hounded down, even as Carruthers was hounded down by
the Australian Government, and the Federal capital, and
William Lyne. John’s voice broke as he patriotically
referred to his grief at leaving the place where he had
made his pile. Then a small, still, well-drilled voice
called out “ Then, why go?” John paused for a moment.
Next, a look of determination swept over his features
and he cried, dramatically, “ I won’t ” 1 There were loud
cheers, and John has remained in Australia and been
quite well ever since.
A new word has been learned by T. Bent,
Esq. It is a French word —Mat. First time
T.B. used it he called it “ee-clatt”—the thing
the young lady made her de-butt with. Some-
body must have talked to him, for in his next
outbreak he remarked : “I find as I had it wrong.
It ought to be ‘ ee-claw
A man who will be missed in Maoriland
.is lately-deceased Factories Inspector James
Mackay, who died about a fortnight ago at
Wellington, aged 51. He had been many things
in his life—-a farm hand, a laborer, plumber, clerk,
carter, agitator, political organiser, and, last of all,
civil servant. He had a weird and fearful
memory; if once, ten years ago, he had been
introduced to a man named John James Chris-
topher Benjamin Binns, he could identify him
and remember all his names at the first attempt.
When that secret political society, the Knights of
Labor, irrupted into Maoriland politics, and drove
the press crazy with curiosity, he was one of the
leading spirits of the organisation, and much of
the influence it wielded was due to his power as
an organiser and his talent as a diplomatist. If
ever the inside history of the Ballance revolution
is written up, James Mackay will occupy a lot of
space therein.
Speaker McCourt, of N.S.W. Assembly,
has only two official predecessors surviving to
keep him from feeling lonely. Edmund Barton is
now on the High Court Bench, and Spud Young
does penance behind his chaff bags for his many
political sins. McCourt is still under 60. He
was born in County Monaghan (Ireland), and is
another proof that Patrick is not without honor
save in his own country.
“ Squidge,” re a fading bobby , and the
next bobby:—
The Victorian Government is at last bethinking itself of
shifting Chief Commissioner of Police Tommy O’Cal-
iaghan. The O’ person is getting rather feeble in health*
He falls off trams, footpaths, and level ground, and has
been more often in his bed than his office, of late. Be-
sides, he still continues to give the same old dissatisfac-
tion to everybody within his jurisdiction. The police
don’t police, and the detectives don’t detect worth
shucks, and the principal reason why is said to
be Tommy O’Callaghan. The difficulty is the
finding of a successor. The next man for the job in
ordinary circumstances would be Michael Mahonv, who
is “acting chief” during O’Callaghan’s frequent bed-
nesses. But Michael is just simply Impossible. Nobody
has pluck enough to promote a man over Michael’s head
even if there were anybody fit to be promoted. So the
appointment has to be made from outside. And that’s
where the shoe pinches. There are so many who want
the job and have influence enough to get it. Ability
won’t count for much. Hoad would have got the billet
flying, but the pay is only £6OO and he is now getting
£1250. Bruche, major of the instructional staff in Mel-
bourne, who was a practising lawyer before he took to
soldiering, is the man who ought to get the job. He is the
brains and organising power of the Victorian military
district headquarters. But Bruche, beyond the fact
that he has the right kind of ability, carries no guns.
There’s a man up in Peacock’s country who wants the job.
He pulls ever so many tons of weight politically, and is
accordingly first favorite for the billet. He may not
know much about police work, but he has more pulling
influence than sixteen bullocks. So, after all, the Vic-
torian police force doesn’t stand much chance of improve-
ment even if Tommy O’O. is pensioned off.
A MORNING LECTURE.
THE SON AND HEIR: "Say, dad, what's the
meaning of this tariff business in the papers
every morning ?”
THE IMPORTER FATHER : “ Ah, my hoy, that
suck should have attracted your notice! It
is a wicked evil, a moral canker, which is
eating to the very core the life of this young
nation. Avoid all reference to it as you
would the sting of a serpent."
The new Queensland Legislative Assembly
has had its first change. Laborite Barber, who
defeated Speaker Janny Leahy’s little brother
Patsy, has been unseated on Patsy’s petition.
Nineteen years ago Barber, then a builder,
liquidated his estate, and did not worry
about a certificate of discharge. He con-
tested the sent, not knowing- that that
gun could blow him out of it. As soon as he
learned the truth, he offered no defence to Patsy’s
petition. Leahy is the only name owned by two
men in the Assembly, though, strangely enough,
until this change took place, there were two
George Barbers.
TAFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Secretary Taft, of the U.S., has been received in Japan
with expressions of good will and affection. —Cable message.
In Nippon, where Each street and square
Our “brave allies ” Rings out with cries
On countries fair Which peace declare
Throw slanting eyes, Unto the skies,
And don’t despair, While geishas fair
The Monkey tries Sweet amorous sighs
To get abaft Do gently waft
Of Taft. Towards Taft.
And loud does swear, But best beware
Ha3'ashi wise The Monkey’s lies ;
And debonair, For shrewdly glare
As he denies The Monkey’s eyes,
His project there, And everywhere
And he applies His host of spies
His subtle craft Has daily laughed
To Taft, At Taft.
N.S.W;
MILTON MACGR[?]GUR.


■
WPr*:
mi
- :
m
m m
i /•
. ’
wk -m
.’ I':}'* g*'*.
. . .. '*>
• r_
wrn
&
I
V"? I
r
yys
*9
€L
I*.
A:;--:, •
SS
.
V
o
&
iffii
:: ■
V
•y
' ¥/
I:
1 **
r j
m
\
- ■ .
HHBH
iS'-Sie i SI
■
i'A ~ »
.ivs
Itl
’ ' • ;
lfip«
■■ s ;
:!j
. •■
rt^aasaas
> •• '
mmi
~ -r.tmm
m : m
*>■
: :
66
CAPSTAN CIGARETTE” wins all the way
on "PUBLIC TASTE.
9>


By Special appointment to
Jtis -Maj estyThe King.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld„
Sydney and Melbourne.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FA C/LE PRINCE PS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 8, 1907.
My Dear Arxni,—
Saturday, the first day of the A.J.O. Spring
races, was a day of wrath—for women. After
nearly three months of opal-colored days and
smokeless incense, and spring-painted pictures
mile on mile, the rain fell alike on the just and
the unjust bookmaker, and compelled some ten
thousand women to forego the wearing of the
costly, perishable, fragile, immediate raiment
prepared for the day. Bashed tailor-mades,
rain-coats, and reach-me-down-looking gar-
ments were worn by the majority under
the low-lying rain-clouds on Randwick lawns.
But hope springs infernal in the female
breast. She never is, but always to be drest.
Wednesday and Saturday may be days worth
marking with a vermilion pencil.
Although no frocks of unusual gorgeosity and
latest style were worn, every woman had a new
season’s hat. And verily nothing dowdier or
slouchier or more run-over-by-a-tram-car than the
really fashionable hat has ever been put by woman
on woman’s inconstant head. She can’t look
smart with a hat hanging on the back of
her head, and her hair towed out in a
vain effort at balance effects. Curves of
head, of neck and shoulders are blotted out. The
Hat and the Hair own the woman, and she
doesn’t look what she hopes—picturesque. Listen
to the apostle of beauty, Dr. Emil Reich : “I, for
one, would not hesitate to tell the social position
and general importance of a given class of women
by looking at their spines only.” He says they
are betrayed by their backs :
Thus, in countries, as here in England, where women
are not taken with sufficient seriousness—that is, where
they play but a subordinate part—their backs are
straight, down to the hips. The American woman, full
of the consciousness of her power, and—even much more
so—the French woman, have backs swung in a proudly
undulating line.
He may be talking hot air. All the same a
smart back is mighty rare, and women are
making it still rarer by hanging hair, and
feathers and straw on its upper curves. Some
lawn pacers at Rand wick looked like Callan Park
, Juliets. I am told by an authority that Mrs.
Fred MeEvoy’s Saturday hat was “ dead-
swell.” It was a big cretonne, with gold pen-
cilling, and a plume, and a lot of black ribbon
arranged by an artist who had feeling and im-
agination.
“ Her Love Against the World ” Macintosh
was present, in a tailor-made unobtrusive as to
tints, and so severely simple as to build that it
seemed to be saying “ Don’t.” It had a collar
and belt and bindings of leather. And her toque
—she owned her toque, It didn’t own her. Its
waving plume of greeny-bluish cock’s feathers- —.
This lady of Romantic Drama is what Mrs.
Humphry Ward calls “miraculously slender”—
like the heroine in her book, “Lady Rose’s
daughter.” Thdre’s an obvious difference between
the slenderest slenderness and thinness. The last
means the publication of yofir bones, and conse-
quent angularity—which is wickedly inartistic.
Miss Macintosh hasn’t an angle, and she doesn’t
issue her bones, either in book or serial form.
New State Premieress, Mrs. Wade, was out
under the grey skies on Saturday along with the
Ministerial Moores. She is a rather fragile-look-
ing young party, with eyes of a shade of grey
that you come across rarely. It is darker than the
shade known as Copenhagen blue. A lambkin
Moore frisked under a hat in a shrill shade of
green. It wasn’t exactly a shriek, but it was
shrill. On any but a lambkin it would have
yelped. Another violently-green-hatted lambkin
was Miss Trixie Manning. Her brother Fred
(youngest son of the W. P. Mannings) who lives
in the Old World, has accomplished a long poem,
“Brunnhilde,” which John Murray will publish
before December.
Miss Lesly Harris, one of a bunch of girl
friends to whom the late Mr. Tom Lawry left
legacies, was in the dismal race whirl of Saturday.
She is a niece of Mrs. Felix Levien of Melbourne,
a lady who used to cut considerable of a smart
figure in the southern capital some years ago.
The late rich bachelor Lawry would seem to have
made a most sensible and kindly disposition of
his money in leaving most of it to unmoneyed,
unmarried women. Miss Lamotte (not Lamonte),
who takes such a big share of the effects, is a
friend of deceased’s sister, Mrs. Plunkett.
Second race day, Monday, wept for a few
hours, then smiled in blue and gold, and out-
fluttered the painted chiffons, the pastel-toned
ninons, the Irish crochet gowns—there were two
or more ; Mrs. Harry Levy wore one with a hot
pink feather boa—the zephyrs and. Shantungs.
Word ran around, quick as tire through Pampas
grass, that Mrs. Maud Jeffries Osborne was pre-
sent. She had arrived but a few hours previously
from Old Kentucky, or wherever in America the
parental Jeffries live. The smart and the dowdy
swarmed around her, and ascertained bv personal
observation that she wore a striped blue and
cream frock, two big pink roses in her white boa,
and a tired-looking hat with white plumes.
Rawsons, Fawkeses, Darleys, Napiers, with the
Wilson and Vaughan girls, sat in the seats of the
haughty, wearing their “ other ” clothes—which
weren’t very other—and what a Sydney pressman
calls their .“best, pale-grey manners.” Mr.
Harry Darley was the most humorous male bird
in the throng. His get-up was on mummer
Huntley lines. He published his socks—they
were like a clarion blast—and his patent leathers
had a frieze of brown suede. Am not sure about
his bangle. The Maorilanders wore smiles as
wide as earthquake rents because of the success of
the Dominion’s horses.
A smart Randwicker was Mrs. Frank Browne,
of Mudgee. She hatted herself with a Leghorn
that contained two blue roses, one drought-stricken
rose, and two long blue feathers. Some of the
newest hat-pins dominated the hats. They were
quite three inches across and quite flat. Enamel,-
turquoise, or just plain glass. A bunch of jolly
little cadets from “ the largest sailing ship in the
world ” worshipped the winners and admired the
losers. I forget the vessel’s name, but it’s a Ger-
man craft lying off Cremorne. Sea dogs rave
over its lovely lines and “fiddle bow.” It has
five masts and five million or so ropes. A big
number of cadets are aboard, so maternal ladies
are taking an interest in the craft.
Ex-State Premier Carruthers was two-stepping
about the members’ reserve, looking as if his
mental fur had never been caught by barbed wire.
Amongst the Melbourne visitors here for the
Week of the Horse are Mrs. Tom O’Brien, wife of
a well-known racing man. She exploited a smart
green tailor-made at the first meeting. Miss
Geva Stanley takes her racing and Clara
Butt-ing in company with Miss Eadith Walker.
The Allister Clarkes and the Percy Chirnsides,
Mrs. W. Cameron, and Miss Cumming are amongst
the Melbourne contingent. Baronet Rupert
Clarke is staying at Petty’s this trip.
There is an ultra-sudden male person clamoring
for a mate this bright spring-tide. Here is his
screed in the S.M.H. :
VG. Gentwould marry Young Lady, m. appt. Wed.,
Sat., or Sun. evg. R.A., Ashfield P.O.
A gent, and yg., and he doesn’t seem to care
whether he marries the girl on Wed., Sat., or
Sun. evg. ; also he doesn’t give a cuss who she is.
Will he be suffered to go unshackled further?
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and her infants have
abandoned the flat habit, although it was such a
peach of a London flat, and are installed in Miss
Amy Castles’ house in St. John’s Wood. Mrs.
J.C.W. mentions that it is beautifully furnished,
and is provided with a garden back and front.
Amy herself will be lifting up her voice in foreign
parts for two months. She has taken Patti’s
place in the Harrison concerts, and makes a yearly
pile at big as the war indemnity that a small
State owes after the disturbance. Bright Ola Jane
Humphrey is staying with Mrs. J.C.W., and the
brace are chasing the rosy hours in a motor car,
and overtaking them quite frequently. As some-
body says in verse, “ The wind lags after their fly-
ing forth, And the lightning is left behind.” The
Williamsons leave for America at the end of
October. J.C.W. reports himself a new man
after his visit to Marienbad—he has been re-
cuperating there while his wife devoured time and
space and tore a bright streak through the atmo-
sphere in the car. It can only be hoped that the
new man will be as pleasant to meet as the old
one was.
A note from a Miowera passenger, written just
before the vessel cleared from Brisbane, tells that
the only humorous thing on board is Miss Tittell
Brune’s deck-chair. It has a buggy-hood and green
curtains in front. So when “Sunday” doesn’t
feel like mixing with week-day persons, she can
go into ambush inside that amazing chair, “ The
world forgetting, by the world forgot.”
Miss Marie Narelle was staying at Medlow last
week, when a Maorilander fellow-visitor offered
her a spin in his car to look at Somebody’s Leap,
or Anybody’s Falls, or some such Jump.
W 11537291384444 (the M.L. cars carry numbers,
so that when they run over a person the crushed
party is able to tell the constable the
slayer’s figure ere he sinks back a mangled
remains) —well, K33725J, with its owner and
the melodious heavyweight aboard, whizzed from
the premises in the presence of all the guests. It
did so in a blinding shower of rice. The waste of
rice would have made a Chinaman weep. Pas-
sengers and chauffeur shed grain on the dusty red
roads, and the birds of the air ate thereof. The
inhabitants of the various townships stared and
grinned. A motor hates to be laughed at, just as
a dog hates sarcasm. W 115392 began to run hot
with rage. Not until it got back to Medlow did
it discover that, besides its tail, it carried
dangling shoes and white rosettes, and suchlike
official earmarks, incurred by persons who have
just had “ How Welcome was the Call ” or “Per-
fect Love” sung at them. And the reason of
these things is unknown.
Miss Narelle will probably give a concert in the
Town Hall before November burns far towards
December.
After the Butt Concert.
Time : 10.5 p.m. Place : Sydney Town Hall. Persons :
Some of the three thousand or so auditors of the amazing
contralto who, with the bulk of the three thousand, are
now squeezing and being squeezed towards the main
exit.
A Woman : Isn’t she a female gladiator 1 I wonder if
she bars butter or allows the word “ potato ’’ in her
presence ?
Snarling Man : She wasn’t doing Sandow. She was
singing, but perhaps you don’t know the difference.
Woman ( playfully ): Go away, bad man ! What a
Briinnhilde she would make ! With a shield and spear.
(Her fringe net catches in the eyeglasses of a strange
man.)
Grammar School Youth (to pal): What a hug she
could give !
Old Lady: Yes, I agree with Mrs. Brown that what
we’ve got to admire about Clara Butt is that she’s subor-
dinated the artist to the woman—and those darling seven
children haven’t spoilt her voice. Eh ? Not seven. O,
three ” (Looks disappointed.)
Thin Voice : It was a Princess gown, I tell you, of
chiffon velvet, pleated from corsage to knee.
Bass Voice : To call her a eontralto is aUlurd, and as an
artist she’s much inferior to Crossley.
Carping Voice : She has no boot notes. A contralto
ought to have a lot of boot notes. Maud Dalrymple ...
O, yes, a true contralto. . . .
Friendly Voice : Maud sang at our house once, and
our dog—as big as a calf he is—at the first note jumped
up from the rug, and dashed through the drawing-room
window. He always left when singing began, and the
deeper the voice the more hurry he left in. Clara Butt’s
lower notes would never make a dog do that.
Critical Voice : Her platform manner is not in good
taste. She certainly lacks charm. ... O yes, Crossley’s
charm reduced one to a mush. .. .
Tired Superior Voice : Her platform manner is epic.
Tangle of Voices : Mighty bows, and bows of a medium
kind . . . bows like grace notes .. . arpeggio-like bows.
Pouring rain !... After nearly three months’drought... .
Look at Mrs. Corisande taking out her earrings. . ..
A Wiiinf. : There’s such a cold nose against the back of
my neck.
A Wail : It is 10.35, and we are not at the door yet.
Male Voice (soothingly): All the fault of the rain and
evening dress. Everybody’s got to cab it.
Whispering Voice : I think she has a lovely voice, don’t
you?
Growling Voice : If it rested with me I wouldn’t pay
a guine i to hear the herald angels sing.
Voices : They say she doesn’t wear any shoes or stock-
ings so’s not to be taller than her husband. .. How old is
she ?... Born in ’73. .. That makes her 28... doesn’t...
33. She was singing “Kathleen Mavourneen” when
Ramshackle—no, Ratnford—first saw her... Isn’t Rans-
ford a pet ?... wish she’d left him for me.
On the steps of the Hall. Ten to eleven. Rain. Even-
ing dressed crowd in bad temper. Policemen in shining-
wet mackintoshes. A commissionaire is bellowing the
vehicles 1
Commissionaire: Six-six-six! Thirty-four! Mrs.
Snooker’s cab ! Forty-eight! Mrs. Cohen’s carriage !
Mrs. Moloney’s cab ! Mr. Levy’s motor ! One-nine-five !
Nearly-hysterical Young Woman ( with wet feet in
open-lacework heliotrope hose) : Commissionaire, call me
six-six-six again.
Commissionaire (hoarsely): Yes, lady, for the tenth
time—six-six-six. Pass on, you, eighty-five. Mrs. Joram
Aron’s carriage ! Mrs. Kelly’s cab ! Mr. Solomon’s motor!
Nearly Hysterical Girl (with the wet mauve feet):
Heavens, will Judea go on for ever ?
Gentle, Jeering Voice (in her rear): You’re jealous.
Don’t you wish you had a motor instead of a dismal cab ?
Furious Girl (with the wet heliotrope feet): Do try
for six-six-six again, Commissionaire.
Gentle, Jeering Voice : What can you expect, dear, if
you will have a cab same number as the Beast in Revela-
tion ? Tell the bellower to call “Number of Beast in
Revelation,” and see what luck you’ll have.
Shocked Childish Voice : There’s a woman over there
telling another that her cab is full of beastly relations.
Commissionaire : Six-six-six ! Four-one-seven ! Mrs.
Isaacs’ brougham ! Mr. Smith’s cab ! Mrs. Macgregor’s
cab ! Mrs. Saul Phillipson’s motor !
Enraged Party with the Wet Feet (tearing lace hand-
kerchief to shreds): Commissionaire, can’t you dam the
Hebrew stream for a minute and get the Beast in Re
I mean Six-six-six?
Post-office clock chimes eleven.
There was a commotion over one “woman’s
work” item at the Brisbane Exhibition. It didn’t
occur inside; it happened in the doorway. When
an exalted ci vie personess arrived the janitor didn’t
know her, as she wasn’t wearing any King Billy
medal or other certificate that she was entitled to
travel on the nod, and so he put out his hand for
the usual shilling admiss:on fee. He assured the
lady firmly but kindly that his business was to
collect shillings. The exalted lady paid the bob,
and then promptly “lodged a complaint”; and
the doorkeeper was “ publicly reproved.” Also
it is pleasant to chronicle that the exalted
personess’ shilling was restored to her. As an
exhibition of woman’s work that item was the
best-remembered thing about the show —so far,
anyway, as one man is concerned.
All the Pointers deserted their water-side
frontages last Thursday to rush to the Glaciarium
Fancy Dress Carnival. Most Sydney women are
still very ungraceful on the skates; they hunch
either shoulder alternately to the corresponding
foot and lurch ahead. Mrs. Alec Hay is one of
the few exceptions. She, as Red, White and Blue,
was grace materialised. Two David Anderson
girls and two Macnamara damsels made a ripping
“ magpie ” team. A bunch of Maclurcan pretties,
as Three Little Maids from school, would have
made any schoolboy play the wag.
Don’t forget the concert arranged by Miss Ger-
trude Palmer, in aid of the funds of Sydney Hos-
pital. Other bright artists will assist the bright
organiser. Beethoven’s Famous Quartette in E,
Flat will be given, and at 9.15 Liza Lehmann’s
charming song cycle, “In a Persian Garden.”
The Y.M.C. A. is the place, and Monday next the
time. Dr. Jar vie Hood is the hon treasurer.
Miss Beatrice Grimshaw, the writer of charming
S.S. Island stories and books of travel, is back in
Sydney, and at the Metropole, after a stay with
the Napiers at Tresco. She leaves for Papua later
in the month.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide :
We had our distribution of prizes for the local Women’s
Work Exhibition last week, and the Excellencies spent
two hours doling out a cartload of certificates and
cheques. Some of the latter amounted to a whole vast
guinea. The felirf6 population thought it had gone back
to its giddy girlhood, and trotted coyly up and curtseyed
prettily to the Vice-Royalties, and felt lost because it
hadn’t its slate and its jography under its arm. When
the prize-winners had been disposed of, the judges were
called up and lectured kindly but firmly on their good
services to the State. Then they too had certificates of
merit cast upon them. All the judges still survive. The
unsuccessful competitors haven’t slain any up to date,
though rio one knows what may happen, and it is always
well for a judge to take the middle of the road when out
after dark in lonesome parts.
Mr. Conservatorium Bevan, with a concourse of his
brightest star pupils, shone upon the Lyric Club last
week, and the resulfwas good. Mr. Bevan prefaced the
programme with a dissertation on one Henity Bishop, a
musical personage of the dark ages who, for a classical
composer, seems to have been quite tuneful. His various
glees, choruses, rounds and soli were warbled by a dozen
unusually good voices, among them a trio of sopranos
belonging to three pretty damsels in their teens—Misses
Muriel Cheek, Clytie Hine and Doris Wylie. Each of
these merry maidens achieved a solo with much applause.
The chief circular vegetable for wearing on the head
went to Muriel Cheek, who has the kind of voice
that makes its audience interestingly sobful. The
Peerage turned out in its evening frills (except that
portion of it that had appendicitis, influenza, or whoop-
ing cough), and everyone fell upon Mr. Bevan and his
nightingales, and implored them to come again.
The Lyric folk are to manipulate a dramatic perform-
ance in the new Unlev Town Hall on October 19, when
“Ladv Huntworth’s Experiment” is to be staged by the
Lyric Comedv Club, under the direction of Percy Walshe.
The Salt of the Earth has let down the drawbridge, and
come forth from behind the battlements of its seclusion,
and added its proud and ancient name to the patronage
list.
The Automobile Club put on its goggles and proceshed
into our everlasting hills, the other Saturday, a perform-
ance which was called “ opening the season.” Therefore
the season is no longer shut. The club ambled into the
National Park at Belair, had its pretty little photo taken,
and drank its afternoon tea where the gums brush the floor
of Heaven with their crests. After all these strenuous
achievements it ambled homewards, feeling very pleased
with itself. It isn’t often it gets through so much hard
work in one day, but the season had to be opened to let
the air in.
The Souter-Jones “Grey Kimona” is a tunefui and
jolly little operetta, in which the canniest of the “Tin
Can ” kids do some good work. The she-population fell
over itself in gushful comment of the clever babes, and
filled the theatre nightly, but the eternal male mostly
found the show too infantile for his great intellect, and
looked very “ bawed.” The youngsters are well trained,
and the love-making of the miniature prima-donna and
her three-feet of tenor evoked applause. Rosie Fitzgerald,
the “ Grey Kimona ” girl, has a remarkably fine voice for
so young a child.
Winifred James, whose book “ Bachelor Betty ” gathers
general applause from the British press, is an Adelaide
woman, or at any rate she dwelt in this State for a while
what time she devoted her enterprise to the running of a
tea-room. I am told the tea-room was as much the rage
at the time as her book is now. Another Adelaidean to
burst into book-form is Sydney Partridge, but she deserted
us for Melbourne and matrimony a year or so ago. For
some reason Adelaide scribes invariably go away and
write books about England or Melbourne or some other
foreign country, and the flowing Torrens and beautiful
Patawalonga remain unsung in song and untold in story.
Honors were equally divided last Saturday between the
Hunt Club races and the opening of the bowling season.
Mr. and Mrs. Kuhnel—he presidents the Adelaide Bowl-
ing Club —issued invitations for a frilly gathering on the
green, and a vast crowd rushed there to see the giddy
bowl hurled to its doom. Lovers of less furious sport
preferred the Hunt Club races. Adelaide always buys its
new spring garment for the latter event, wherefore is it
very frocky and popular. Owing to the exigencies of the
mail service, I have to write this before either of the
events has happened, therefore details are impossible.
In fact the item is more a prophecy than a record.
“ Mario ’’ writes from Brisbane :
With his pale Ex. Freemasoning in the North, and Miss
Scott and the vice-regal infants holidaying at Southport,
Lady Chelmsford is having a quiet time. With the Du
Cane and a guest, Mrs. Ramsay of Harrow, she drives
about the suburbs in the forenoons, but Society (with a
big S) will see her no more until the 12th, when she and
the infants will attend a juvenile ball. After that, she
joins her Governor on a Melbourne Cup trip. All
Governors have urgent business in Melbourne at the
beginning of November.
The Royal Queensland Yacht Club opened its season on
Saturday, with a stiff breeze and about 700 guests. The
Newstead point was commandeered to accommodate the
club’s friends, and there the reviving cup was provided in
plenty. The procession, headed by the Sunbeam, and
including about 10 other motors and some 60 sail, was a
fine sight. The Federal Chief Justice and the other
High Court Judges, as well as our own C.J. and
daughter, and the Pyramus officers, graced the scene.
Private parties included a jolly crowd on the Vera, busy
bidding farewell to Dr. Byrne and Mrs. B. Jim Clark, of
pearl fame, had a crowd, and the Champion, the Beaver,
and the Lucinda each another crowd.
Pretty Miss May Suter, who wintered here as the
guest of the Slade clan, left her heart and her promise of
future obedience with Fred Hart, son of the one-time
Q. N. Bank director, F. Hart, of Alice-street. Another
engagement is that of Dr. Arthur Anderson to Nurse
Nelson, formerly a sister at our local general hospital.
- At the De Burgh Persse-Parr.v Okeden wedding, on
Wednesday last, in the little church at Lutwyehe, nearly
every family of the old Brisbane days was represented.
The pretty little bride was a vision of chiffon gauze oyer
taffeta, and her court train of brocade was veiled with
some lovely old lace caught and adorned with true
lover’s knots and clusters of white violets. Her jewels,
excepting some diamonds from the clan Persse in ould
Ireland, were the gifts of her jolly bridegroom. Sister
'Constance, the final treasure of Tabragalba, assisted in
the glove removal. All the members of the Persse clan
were there, including sister and brother Joyce with their
newest and most up-to-date baby.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“Poneke” : The Dominion proclamation
ceremonies depressed me. Maoriland bas governed
itself—not altogether badly—for 60 years. During
those 60 yea-rsit has piled up a debt-liability of some
£60,000,000. Of late the tendency has been to in-
crease the borrowing rate, which was sufficiently
awful before. And now that a turning point or
landmark or ham-frill has come in the country’s
history, it is impossible to find in the Legislature
one single man with the pluck or honesty to de-
clare for sane finance. At the present rate Maori-
land is due to owe about £200,000,000 by the time
its Dominion jubilee is due. But who cares?
The man who knows the Jap best has the
least to say about his honesty. Thus A. H.
Hasell, who handles the Jap superphosphates that
come to Australia :
Japanese traders, with the exception of a few very
large firms, have very little idea of the sacredness of con-
tract. Whether in buying or selling they have no
hesitation in repudiating on the flimsiest possible pretext.
Very few foreigners have the courage to go to law to
enforce contracts, owing to the terrific expense and delay
involved.
And that’s the sort of Monkey the blundering
Bull has made an alliance with ! Yet, though the
alliance will last only just as long as it suits the
Monkey’s book, Australia is being invited to feel
quite safe, and go trustfully to sleep.
The Referendum Bill introduced into the
Victorian Assembly by Outtrim and Elmslie will
make a splendid Act —if it ever becomes an Act.
It provides that any Bill (except a money Bill)
which is passed by the Assembly in two consecu-
tive sessions, and rejected by the Council, shall
be sent to the people for decision. Also, any Bill
not passed by the Council without substantial
alterations within two months of its receipt shall
be taken as rejected, the Assembly to be judge as
to what constitutes “substantial alterations.” A
law of this sort would settle a lot of troubles in
one act; in fact, it could even settle the obstrepe-
rous and superfluous Council itself in one act.
Consequently the Council may confidently be
expected to see that there is no Act.
Noteworthy slab of evidence from the
Myerson bankruptcy case (5/10/’O7): —
Mr. E. W. Perkins (for the Official Assignee): Why did
you pay Mr. Reid (his fees) instead of through the
solicitor ?—Abigail said to me that I had better pay Mr.
Reid myself.
Why was that?—l don’t know. He said, “I do not
want to have anything to do with this. You had better
go up and pay it yourself.”
Did you tell him where you were getting the money
from ? —No. I never told him, and he never asked me.
I suppose Mr. Reid asked you nothing about it ?—No ;
he did not ask me where I got the money from.
The amount you paid to Mr. Reid then, outside the big
brief fee, was £335? —Yes. I don’t know if that is right.
I am excluding the amount you gave Abigail, the
£163 14s. 6d. brief fee, because that was paid by you to
Abigail. lam talking about the money only that you
paid Mr. Reid yourself. There would be six days at
£52 10s. a day, and one day at £2O. That makes £335 ?
—Yes.
One of the ancient and traditional jests of
Parliament is the request of the newly-elected
Speaker that his Excellency will “put the most
favorable construction upon all the acts and pro-
ceedings ” of the House. Speaker McCourt
made the usual request when the N.S.W. As-
sembly met, and his Excellency promised to give
the Legislature the benefit of the doubt.
A Red Nose is the bane of many a woman’s exist-
ence. It detracts so greatly from her appearance that all
sorts of subterfuges are resorted to to hide the defect. But
ladies should know that an absolutely certain and pain-
less cure can be had at the Valaze Institute. Here Dr.
Lassar’s Electric Device, operating a process of Nasal
Massage, restores a Red Nose to its normal color in from
six to eight sittings. Mile. Helena Rubinstein secured
this treatment from Vienna, where it is used in the
Beauty Salons for which that city is famed. Of course,
one must personally attend the Institute to be treated,
but those who have to delay their visit may secure a
Cream and Powder from 8/- that hides the defect.
Then, when opportunity offers, they can call and need
have no further trouble with the disfigurement. Call
or write either to the Valaze Institute, 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 158 Pitt Street, Sydney.*


■J&r,
<*S
*T>
Dunlop
Hose
IS BETTER THAN
OTHER HOSE AND
NO DEARER.
UNRIVALLED FOR
Garden
or
Stable Use
Does NOT KINK ot BURST
and LASTS for YEARS.
Made Id Australia for Australians
Stocked in 3 Qualities, in
60 ft. Lengths. Obtainable
from all Leading Stores. If
“ Dunlop” Brand not stocked
WRITE US. DIRECT.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
148-150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
617 Hay Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield SL, Christchurch. N.Z.
h 3 —l ' ■ ~-X-. i
OXO
KLEINERT’S
Helps to smart Dressing.
Still Another
Tbc (SibSoi) SbUld
Worn under Corset cover.
No Straps over the arm.
Tapes tie below the bust.
YOUR DRAPER HAS IT.
■
Me Stbson-.
IV 1903
m
■
BL
•-?.. ..4
G
f SOMETHING • -NEW'
“JTILLtJMPL
I
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 7, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—-
Arthur Streeton opened his exhibition of Sydney
sunlight panels at Bernard’s gallery on Tuesday,
and closed it on Saturday. The first afternoon
the Northcote lady came along and purchased a
panel. The paintings were instinct with a goodly
gaiety and glow of color. All the same, they didn’t
stand as the highest pinnacle of Streeton’s achieve-
ment. They were not too carefully painted, and
sometimes the composition was less decorative than
it might have been. But, oh ! for the singing colors
of them. To live in such a realm of beauty might
make poets out of paragraphists, and lovers out of
anchorites. “ Golden Honeysuckles and Blue
Sea” and “Sapphire, Bronze and Gold” were
full of sensuous color-charm. “ Coogee Bay,”
which was characteristically arranged, was another
fine piece of work. Some few treasures, “ not for
sale,” by Conder, Lambert and the two Lindsays,
were engrossing. The two Norman Lindsay
“Bacchanals,” with their saturnine humor, and
passionate, Pagan riot of humanness (if one may
coin a word), were especially arresting.
The dedication of the show to Marshall-Hall
was rather naive. “In admiration of his great
force, humanity and genius,” said Streeton.
Some favored folk have had P.P.C. epistles
from the Brune Tittle, which epistles talk tiredly
of raggy nerves, overwork, and anxiety to rest.
Also she makes threat of a definite return in
March. Some cat boasts of her courage in pre-
scribing a special course of study to the Brune
lady. It was that she should learn what to wear_
under given cirouinstances, and how to wear it.”
Whereto the tragedienne answered with a
Siddonsesque sigh, and a large gesture: “ The
Australian public doesn’t pay to see the produc-
tions of a draper’s shop. They pay to see my
soul! ”
In the latest Bland’olt drammer, Frances Ross
pirouettes through the remarkable scenery as a
school-girl of seventeen. And her appearance in
the part is as astounding as the scenery. Sweet
Nell used to throw off her age in ingenue parts in
a wonderful way. But she never eclipsed Miss
Ross’s latest achievement. Frances wears a
pigtail of her own gloomy hair, drawn rigidly
back from her brow, a short skirt and a linen
collar, and manages to look like a well-turned-out
picture in such raiment. Like Ninon de l’Enclos,
she must wear the signals of age on her heels.
And now admirers arise asking who could intro-
duce them to “ that dashed fine girl”—who inci-
dentally boasts a married daughter.
There’s one thing about Blan’ Holtian heroines.
Whatever fearsome adventures they have, how-
ever vividly theyshriek—even if they’re murdered,
they never get “mussed up.” Mrs. Vidal-Ireland
goes down a mine in the most correct of mining
gowns—pink silk with chiffony bobs —and the
villain floods the tunnel with water, mud, slush,
grime, and everything that is wet and froggy.
There is a frantic rescue, and the lady is dragged
up gasping and fainting—but the pink silk is
intact, and the long white gloves and dainty tan
shoes are guiltless of mud. I call it considerate.
Realism would demand a wet, draggled rag of clo’
dripping and nearly torn off; a lost shoe and a
shoe that “squelched” as the lady walked ; black
dripping hands, hat lost, hair down and wet and
rat’s-taily, and ridiculous smudges on the face.
In actual life a beautiful woman, coming up after
such an experience, would look so that her best
friend would say, despairingly, to a maid, “ Take
it away and turn the hose on it.” But the Bland
Holt genius hasn’t turned a hair, and there is
upon her neither slimes, tailings, mud, slurry,
nor sludge.
The Alexandra Club is breaking into an epi-
demic of prospective Teas (quite with a capital
letter). There is a belated Bun scramble that was
intended to welcome home the Madden lady. Her
illness postponed this affair, but the clubites are
determined to eat the welcoming bun at all
hazards, though the to-be-welcomed One has
almost forgotten that she ever went away.
Then they are preparing for a Tea to
welcome the Talbot Dame (that bun will be on
time). Yet another notable who is to be tea’d
and bunned is the Northcote Lady,'and the same
frivol will serve to greet the race-time Govern-
ment House party. Energetic Secretary Bors is
working with hair at electrified angles. After all,
women must be the unselfish sex. Man’s idea of
a club is a place where he can make himself com-
fortable. Woman regards it as a place where she
can welcome somebody else.
Lawyer Whiting’s pretty chicks have fluttered
back from their Japanese jaunt, and are raiding
distracted dressmakers for something more than a
kimona apiece to deck themselves in for the races,
Eileen, the little, dark, adorable roly-poly one,
declares she laughed all the time she was in the
land of the little Monkey—all the time she was not
asleep.
Miss Topsy Conn, of the voice, was a gay little
hostess at a glorified Tea on Tuesday afternoon,
as a welcome to the Whiting shoal. Mamma
Whiting, youthful and pretty, in a hat weighted
with lotus flowers, and the two blooming “ dawts ”
(to quote Dairying Leslie), guested radiantly.
Sister Lily talks about Carrie Moore :
No, she’s not coming out to Australia. She is to be
married before the end of the year, to Mr. Proctor—
“ Billy ” Proctor. He lives in Paris, and has motors and
things. He’s very rich. Don’t see how Carrie can leave
the stage. She has three pantomime engagements to
run yet.
Lily Moore is with Williamson, in “The Dairy
Maids ” — a lithe little black-eyed girl, very pretty,
and as thoroughly alive as a whirlwind, or an
ants’ nest, or a bee in arrears. She is next in age
to Carrie, and very small. Eva, a younger sister
(she is in the Queensland back-country just now),
towers above her. The youngest sister of all,
Oily, is a ’cute maiden, and is now on a children’s
tour with the Lilliputians. Sister Lily says her
likeness to Carrie is marvellous. “ Every move-
ment, every word she speaks, is just Carrie over
again,” says Lily.
Some just-returned Melbourne girls—gadders
round the Australian States —yap excitedly about
fellow-travellers who happened twice to put up
at the same hotel as their wealthy selves. At the
first hotel the fellow-travellers roomed in the
next number to the girls down a quiet corridor.
In the dim, hazy time of the small hours the
maidens would be aroused from the drowsiness of
bed by excited stage whispers. “ M’ria, M’ria !
Open the door, M’ria!” A blank silence. Then
more excited whisperings. Anon louder wails.
“ Open the door to your lawful husbin’,
M’ria!” “Get away, you drunken brute,”
would sound in a snake-like hiss from the
locked room. The whispered arguments would
climax in loud wails, and a porter would
arrive and discuss the matter. The Maudlin One
would appeal to the porter as a man and a brother,
and he would coldly offer the wailing one another
room. Then the eerie hour would be restored to
peace after one last cry from the retreating one,
“ I’ve done with you thish time, M’ria.” In every-
day hotel life the Disturber wits a spruce American
who looked as if he scarcely knew that wine was
red, and M’ria was his magnificently-dressed girl
wife. One night, when M’ria, for the peace of the
hotel, unlocked the door, the husband in turn
locked her out, clad mostly like Godiva in her
beautiful hair, and the Giris-Next-Door gave her
shelter from the draughty corridor.
“Tryphena,” from Paris: —
I fancy I know where Pansy Milo-Montague evolved the
idea of her pose for Godiva of Coventry. She adapted it
from a stupendous canvas in the inspiring- Salle de
Rubens in the Louvre—which work of wonder depicts the
conquering Marie de Medici on the bridge of 06 after
the taking of the town. She is mounted on a superb white
palfrey, and looks down from her saddle-perch with a
sweet air of valiance and just the merest suggestion of
coquetry. If it weren’t for that feminine touch Marie
would have looked—asGodiva-Milo-Montague might have
looked in her hair mantle—an uninspiring braggart.
It’s just marvellous how, in half-a-dozen canvases,
Rubens gives his Marie a delightful range of moods.
Hand in hand with her Henry at the moment of betrothal,
when all the heaven is alive with gorgeous cherubim and
fat angels of ravishing bloom and brilliancy, and the air
vibrates with pulsing glory and happiness, an expression
of soft joy, of entirely feminine sweetness lends a beauty
to her fine face. On the field of battle, Marie shows a
countenance ablaze with burning pride, with violent pur-
pose and the air of complete righteousness. But the fat
angels are always floating in the Rubens sky above the
blessed Marie.
“ The Executioner” is one of the strongest examples
of realism in pigment displayed on the rich walls of the
Louvre. Regnault has given nothing more attractive
and repellent to the records of Paint. In the canvas an
Arabian executioner wipes the fresh gore of the beheaded
man with his white drapery. He stands, a pillar of sooty
strength, almost majestic in his attitude of triumph—of
having completed a job to perfection. At the foot of
the marble steps whereon he towers, the head of the
victim rolls, leaving a startlingly real stream of life-blood
in its course. The body at the severed neck drips more
scarlet gore, and one looks away disgusted, and looks
again attracted and yet again disgusted at this gruesome
canvas. And a one-armed student youth was attacking
this bold subject with the corner of his eye on the
crowd.
The. one wholly earnest toiler I saw in the Salles was a
pale little English Miss working with white energy and
taut veins at an ambitious copy of a Boucher canvas.
With her intense eyes fixed on the original she seized on
the effect, and then endeavored with passionate zeal to
repeat it on her canvas. The crowd streamed past her
all the morning. She didn’t know them. Three days of
an interval gave me the opportunity of seeing her pro-
gress. It was bad. The zeal had" been misdirected.
The little pale student was working her body thin and
her soul faint over a failure.
A contrast in students was a cheeky old dame who
must have seen half a century of French summers
rolling over her vivacious head. She copied a religious
canvas of Le Brun, with many intervals for chat; and
she was painting rather well. Her methods were interest-
ing. She daubed with her wise old eyes fixed on the
canvas, her brush seemingly guided by an inner eye or a
vigilant consciousness difficult to understand. When
she had brushed in an effect, then she looked at her
work closely, and tried it from a critical range, and
nodded promiscuously at the crowd, as much as to say,
“ What did I tell you?” And she wore a bonnet! And
she was French. Had my phrlez-vous been facile, I’d
have sought a chat with this saucy, impudent-looking
old paintress of the gay grey spirit.
Uncle Sam’s brethren plague one in Paris. You can’t
get out of earshot. Saying an Ave in the lovely chapel of
the Madeleine, one afternoon, I heard a raucous Yank ex-
press himself aloud in a way that ought to have made
France declare war. The light poured over the carved
white marble of the sanctuary. “ Say, isn’t that a cute
effect, honey?” he drawled, and the devotees around (no
service was on) felt unholy and curseful things toward*
all inconsequential and dollar-stuffed sons of Uncle Sam.
Paris is overrun by the tiresome Yank. You pick a nice,
quiet, sunless morning for a motor run to Fontainebleu.
It isn’t the day for the most enjoyable long spin. And
you select it for that reason—storing up the hope of a
quiet, poetic day in the scrumptious Palais of profligate
kings and strenuous emperors. And the air of
the great old forest through which you flash strikes
piercingly cold on your "face, but it’s fresh and
brings the scent of old trees to your nostrils, and
you snuggle under your furs and don’t care. And
you have two-and-a-half hours’ run through wonder-
ful, long green avenues, the tr«es ever arching away in
the leafy distance and ever drawing back their green
mantles as you spin onward, to grant a side view of
France, affording glimpses of golden fields—the gold
waving languidly this grey August morn, or piled high
into conical mounds of good granary account. That run
through the great o d forests of Fontainebleu to the
Palais is a dream—a gold-and-green dream that comes
back to one with the memoried scent of the trees
.clinging to it as the pungent odor clings to the euca-
lyptus, ever in the home-sick thought of the real Aus-
tralian.
To return to that rich hope of a quiet morn 1 Arrived
at the Palais, the shock was quick and prompt. Two
drag-loads of the übiquitous Yank had been dumped down
at the garden gates, and they clamored in twang for the
“ Concierge,” the “ Gar§on,” the “Guide,” the “Devil
Knows Whom,” and they had to wait for the official to
unlock and instruct; and we, our hopes all smashed into
little bits, had to wait with them, our ears filled with the
ceaseless twaddle of Sam and Co. The grey, clean-faced
official who opened each sumptuous apartment, and
reeled off in French a record and history of kings, queens,
and ministers, passed a pitying eye over the Yanks who
listened to nothing, but gaped prodigiously, and whispered
lots, and questioned the price, and hazarded guesses in
dollars on every noble old tapestry, every piece of Sevres,
every plaque of porcelain.
An amateur charity performance of “ The
Mikado” —a society venture —is jolting along
with jerks in the rehearsals. First shock was
when one of the he-amateurs suddenly blazed out
as co-re. in a divorce case, and Yum-Yum’s
mother and Katisha’s brother wouldn’t hear of
those ma’dens rehearsing under such circum-
stances. Things were just getting smoothed and
sorted nicely, and now the impressive tenor has
rushed off to Fiji. It looks as if “ The Mikado ”
will be suppressed again—not for political reasons
this time.
The much-discussed idea of a Henley-on-the
Albert-Park-Lagoon has been abandoned, and the
muddy lake of dead memories will be left to its
gruesome broodings and its ghosts.
“ M. A.P.” records that at Miss Stone’s marriage
to Sir George Doughty the organ played Sir
Edward Elgar’s “Pomp and Circumstance” ! It
sounds appropriate for an expensive wedding.
Mr. F. M. Dickenson goes off to that edge of
the ocean where little women are used as steve-
dores, and Fuji Yama raises its pallid crest. His
charming missus remains here.
Mr. Harvey Patterson is about to plunge into
matrimony. His partner in this venture is Mrs.
Sharpe, a widow, who had some stage experience
with the Wilson Barrett co. The cup of bliss
will be filled to the brim before the first Tuesday
of November.
An object of interest to casual visitors to the
Australian Parliament is a pair of petticoats.
The petticoats aren’t the property of any present
Parliamentarian, and both are witty and pretty.
For the last couple of years hardly a sitting has
dragged its weary length without their presence.
Day after day, night after night, the ladies sit,
enduring the air (which isn’t so awful since
the new ventilators were put in) and the afflicting
speeches. And they never can have the last
word or any word in the discussions. The states-
men repay their attendance and their fortitude
with occasional tea and toast. But that can’t be
enough reason for their strange devotion. They’re
not suspected of wanting to marry any of the
members, so their hobby remains a mystery.
The addition of young Harry Sweeney to the
Holloway co. is likely to induce a production of
“Romeo and Juliet.” Pretty Miss Beatrice, of
course, will play the wedded maid whose rose of
love blossomed and died in one day and a night.
And Harry will be the ardent Romeo. (Once
before he poetised in the part, with Tit tell Brune
as his inspiration.) Beatrice has for inspiration
the fame of her cousin, Essie Jenyns, to help her
on to success in the character.
Sydney Society of Artists’ Exhibition (trans-
planted from Victoria Markets, Sydney) will
open on or about October 23 at the Guild Hall.
T. O. Lothian, who deserves much credit for his
practical encouragement of Australian art, will
manage the show, and as Melbourne is the picture-
buying centre of the Commonwealth, doubtless
much of the show will remain here.
Mr. L. Abrahams, another enterprising art
patron in this town, who owns fine specimens of
every notable Australian painter’s labors, is going
to build himself a picture gallery. It is to be a
fitting temple for the worship of his canvas
deities, with artistic discrimination in every
detail, from the art burlap on the walls to
the painting of the skirting-boards. He lately
acquired some work of G. W. Lambert’s, he owns
a Conder and a Streeton or so, and of the resident
men’s productions he has had the pick. So the art-
lover who can only find about sixteen ill-chosen
specimens of native industry in our National
Gallery, prays for the speedy materialisation of
this wide-hearted project.
A new song bird of some brilliance and value is
Miss Irene Ledwidge, who sang the soprano part
in the Orpheus Society’s “Minnehaha” on Tues-
day. She has a voice of warmth and music, with a
good range and an undeniable temperament to help
it. Also she has honey-colored hair, prettiness,
and years that only verge on twenty. The
damsel has learnt all she knows under the
direction of the Catholic Ladies’ College on
Eastern Hill, which is a further argument against
wasting steamboat fares when a girl and a voice
can be combined into a sterling artist within a
mile of our own G.P.O.
Folk in the stalls at Her Majesty’s have a
unique diversion nowadays, in the shape of a
conductor who rolls about in his seat convulsed
with mirth at the doings of the mummers. Who
has heretofore seen a stick-shaker with aught but
the glassy eye for the puppets and mimes of the
boards? Since the departure of M'Cunn, sedate
and Scotch and quiet and youthful, back to the
land of his wildly musical Hamish brother, the
comio opera has a new music-guide—a friendly
soul, who has not yet got seasoned to Lauri and
Leslie, and who breaks all precedent in the ways
of the man-with-the-tree by his scarcely suppressed
guffaws.
Melba runs up and down the “Ereildoun”-
Melbourne road as if it were a mere mile. The
Cliveden lady had a dinner in her honor. Melba
dressed for dinner, ordered her chauff and the
biggest benzine buggy (the one with the toot like
the Gabriel blast), motored right there, then raced
and tore and tooted back in the evening, as if it
were the merest suburban jaunt.
People insistently discuss the problem—" Will
Melba sing?” I saw the almost certain answer
at a Clara Butt concert, t’other night. Mrs.
Rumford was singing a scrap of an opera that
Melba revels in. The listening diva sat with
tense face, chin tilted, and throat-column swelling
like a bird’s. She looked as if she must rise up
and sing—sing with all the wonderful melody
held in leash. Her whole pose seemed to cry,
“ That is my platform ! This is my audience—my
people ! Give me back my continent! ”
Yours affectionately, Johanna.
The Australian Foreign-trade papers, hav-
ing now had time to read a few foreign remarks
on the tariff, dread to think of what they are say-
ing about us in England. Well, generally they
are saying nothing at all; but, even supposing
they said a lot, The Bulletin recalls the remark
of the Foreign-trade papers’ own small joss, John
Bright:—
If I were a Canadian, or a N. S. Wales man, or
Queenslander, or Victorian, I would take good care, as
far as I was concerned, that my voice should never go in
favor of the policy of the old country.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artiitic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantaad.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
pi's
GO TO HQJLL-
IGOLAND {or Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
DENYERS Emasculators
j
45/-
EACH.
For Castrating Perfectly Horses, Bulls, etc.
Crushes before it cuts. Haemorrhage impossible.
DENVER. BROTHERS,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
and at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is worth recalling, now that universal
compulsory service for Australia is in the air,
that that sturdy radical, C. 0. Kingston, once—in
consultation with the S.A. Commandant, General
Gordon—had a Compulsory Service Bill drafted,
and it was very near going through. But some-
thing which seemed more important obtruded,
and S.A. lost the chance of leading the continent
in this matter.
After all, the truth shall prevail. S. M.
Herald, dredging the well for an explanation of
Premier Carruthers’retirement, disinterred this:
All through the elections he was buoyed up by the
hope that the country was with him, and that his‘work
during the last three years had met with popular
approval. It was a great disappointment to him that the
public response to his appeal was so poor, and he felt
discouraged accordingly.
And it s only a few days since the Herald was
whooping about a “great lleform victory,” and
Carruthers was “perfectly satisfied,” and every-
thing was going beautifully.
The Anti-Sosh residents of the burnt-out
town of Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) are making a fine
row because the post office proposes to charge the
nett cost of the new telephone instruments which
will be required. They think they should get new
phones free. The Bulletin would like to hear
the dignified refusal of Chairman Cohen, of the
Australian Gaslight Co., if it was calmly proposed
that the co. should supply without charge pipes
and fittings in 50 or 60 new houses put up to re-
place premises destroyed by fire. All the same,
Murwillumbah thinks itself ili-used, and is thank-
ing its stars it returned an Anti-Sosh candidate
at the recent election.
ON THE HIGHEST PEAK.
The Attorney-General in introducing a Judiciary Bill
said that his reason for doing so was that he wanted to
see the High Court of Australia in its proper place
News Item.
When Kidston was pushing his Queensland
Railway Guarantee Act through Parliament the
Philpites groaned that it would just about stop
railway extensions in the future. Yet at present
the Minister for Railways has no less than 20 pro-
jects on hand, all of which have been asked for by
people who know they are responsible for the
interest and working expenses. It is hard to say
whether Philp is worse as a prophet or as a
financier.
Cocky in Queensland is making a noise about
the recently-introduced Wages Boards Bill. He
is quite sure that he pays fair wages, but he
evidently has his doubts about getting an inde-
pendent Board to believe it.
From the S. M. Herald (6/7/’O7)
Jhe industrial development of Sydney since Federa-
.Tust stop and think here. That is, the industrial
development since N.S. W. got the benefit of Pro-
tection (even moderate Protection) and union
lias been largely responsible for the demands made for
current
Electric current that is
as a motive power, and this may reasonably be expected
to increase in the future.
The Herald was perfectly aware that a new and
more highly Protective tariff was coming, and it
frankly stated that things were about to look up.
The British Labor leader, whether he be
lom Mann of the Beer-and-Water Hotel, or the
Tvrir? era^e Ben Tillett, or Ramsay
M‘Donald, or Keir Hardie, seems to be mostly
the same kind of person. Keir Hardie has been
preaching the “Awake” and “Arise” and
Break your chains” doctrine in India, and the
babu has taken him literally, and has thrown
mam 3' bricks at the Calcutta tram-cars. One way
and another our brown fellow-subject gets very
unpleasant these times, and Australia has every
reason to be glad that it has shut him out. If
there is to be another massacre of Oawnpore, it is
much better for us that it should be at Cawnpore
than at Cairns.
“Red Tape, Junior,” write# :
TlmN S.W. Public Service Board has at last published
the result of appeals against the regrading, which result
was due in January, 1906, and as the rises granted will
probably have to wait until Parliament passes the Appro-
priation Act before they are paid, the fellows who have
wrested an increase out of the Board will have been done
out of their money for about two years. Out of 1122
people who appealed, 453 got something, those who got
what they expected being represented by the odd three,
ine ft. M. Herald again gave dire offence to the Service
by publishing the list of the salaries of the appellants,
now would Granny’s office feel if Premier Wade ordered
P u ‘d'oation of all salaries paid by the Herald, and
the date when the chief reporter got his £lO rise. And
it a detailed account of Mr. Janies’own income was set
out in the Government Gazette, it would probably be the
death of ‘ Mr. James,” or, at the very least, it would
afflict him with a serious internal complaint.
Chanter, M.H.R., weakly proposes that
the wire-netting duty should be suspended for
two years, and during that period the industry
should be built up with a bonus of 12s. (id. per
ton on locally made netting. This is the tale of a
feeble man who gives way to the clamor of one or
two importing papers, mistaking them for the
voice of the people. The wire-netting industry
is here now. It has arrived. It is past the bonus
stage. I here has already been a big reduction in
the price of Australian-made netting since the
new duty was put on, and the Australian factory
is sufficiently far advanced to make all the netting
that Carruthers’ rich squatter friends require.
Chanter s idea is probably to allay the bogus roar
of the importers’ press, but it is never wise to
make concessions to mere bogus roar. It is better
to kick the bogus roar hard.
“ Roneke ” (Wellington, M.L.) : The
average Freetrader is about as consistent as an
earthquake or a chameleon. The
Maori land farmer is a great stickler for
Freetrade, and when Customs Minister
Jack Millar suggested a tax on the im-
ported reaper and binder, the backbone
of the country almost collapsed with
fright. It sent for the doctor right
away. The backbone was lying sick
unto death, when suddenly A. W.
Hogg, Mi.H.F.. for Mksterton, very
nearly got Parliament to wipe the duty
off flour. This aroused the backbone
from its invalid couch to join in a tall
howl for Protection ! ’Twas ever thus.
The Maoriland Freetrade farmer is a
much-protected person, yet he never
ceases to admire the beauties of Cob-
denism, so long as they are applied to the
other fellow.
“H.E.R.”: As Lyne said, “Like
the comet, it has come—like the comet,
it will go away again.” Over here, in
Westralia, there is only the liazv tail of
rank secesh left. The last dying yelp
got as far as East Perth and petered
out. The doctor who reported the death
of the Federal baby has not been able to
supply a certificate to that effect. The
chemist of the green “home rule”
banner and the secesh medal has dis-
covered that cheap notoriety does not
help the sale of salts, and has with-
drawn his flaring placards. The rag
in St. George’s Terrace, mis-named
Daily News, which was, for a brief
period, in daily throes with scare head-
ings such as “Strangling Westralia,”
and “Bond or Free?” has spun itself
out, and burns but dimly. JVlonger,
the beloved follower of your own Jokur-
ruthers, having no wire - netting to
“shake,” talks referendum at York, sup-
ported by a hairy-looking individual. The
tariff subject is strictly tabooed. R.I.P
Vic. Speaker Madden was betrayed by his
prejudice into a shocking mistake in law last week.
After Prendergast and J. W. Billson had stated
at a public meeting their opinion concerning
Justice Hood’s weird performances in the bakers’
appeal, Watt, M.L. A., appealed to Madden for a
ruling on the question of privilege. Of course, no
breach of privilege had occurred, and Madden
had to say so. But he added (quite Unnecessarily)
I am of opinion that the judge can commit
them for contempt.” Which was such a wild
piece of folly that even so poor a Speaker as
Madden should have been ashamed of it.
Just now there is much talk in Victoria of
building new railways, and Bent has again told a
crowd of Anti-Socialist cookies, who have been
demanding Socialist railways, that if these pro-
posed lines are built the landowners who derive
the benefit will have to load their land to meet
portion of the loss and cost. The cookies are
raising Cain, and also Sheol, and they say that
this proposal bangs Banagher. Incidentally, they
ask if it isn’t possible to get railway laborers at
about £1 per week, and thereby save money in
the building of the lines. They allege that Bs.
per day is an extravagant wage, and they say they
feel sure that if a proper supply of labor were
arranged for, the railways could be built so
cheaply that there would be no necessity to load
the land. This idea of taxing the land to pay for
the railways that double and treble its value is
calculated to scare away capital, they declare; and
they announce that it will prevent people taking
up land ; also they roar that it is a tax upon thrift,
and they bellow that it is a burden upon the poor
producer, and they state that it is opposed to the
best traditions of Liberalism.
Last Yic. Assembly election (45 contested
seats) cost Victoria £5499; and to get the seven
Rich Landlords, in June, the bill ran to £2422.
But that was only a little to go on with. They
will cost the country a lot more yet.
Brisbane Worker prints a line to the
effect that a House of Commons committee has
found that women making shirts in England earn
from Id. to lfd. per hour. The Worker didn’t
tack on to that item a tag to the effect that it still
believes in Freetrade for Australia, so that the
Australian workwoman may also either work for
a penny an hour, or lose her job and the chance
of earning even a penny.
When the recent bread trouble began, the
Melbourne morning papers indignantly published
lists of the master-bakers who had refused to
stand out for low wages, and who were paying
545. a week. They meant to hold them up to
scorn for their backsliddery conduct in not stand-
ing by the Tory cause; but the great aggregate
Bill and his wife had badly wanted just that
information, and they cut out the lists and dealt
with the men mentioned thereon, and with no
others. These lists did a lot to hurry on the
downfall of the short-wage push.
IT MIGHT BE A CASE OF PREMATURE BURIAL.
The Labor party proposes to take a referendum of the people of Australia on the tariff question.— Daily Paper.
.Labor . Wait! Wait 1 It mightn’t he dead!!! I will take a referendum! ”
Samuel Mauger, who has> been driven to
resume swearing since he became P.-M.-G., has
heaved an embittered curse at official routine,
which he says is wooden to a degree. His plaint
concerns interruptions in telegraph lines. It
seems that originally men were appointed to
inspect the lines, and they inspected the lines
honestly, ,but didn’t inspect the posts. Later,
someone dropped to this, and bade them inspect
the posts. They inspected the posts; but many
of them didn’t, till Mauger came along, inspect
the insulators, for they hadn’t been told to do so,
lienee most of the breakdowns. The remark which
Mauger made sounded like the name of Blastus,
the King’s Chamberlain, and his first idea was to
fiercely order these men to inspect everything ;
but it was pointed out to him that they would
doubtless take this literally, and inspect scenery,
railways, and coal pits. Mauger is now drafting
an order : “On and after this date all officers of
the department are required to have some horse
sense.”
Chanter, M.H.R., informed the Reps,
recently that the following items printed in a
Yankee paper are vouched for by recently-
vamoosed Professor Jordan :
That rabbits were dying in thousands from some
strange disease in Central and Eastern Oregon.
That the Government, after investigation, had dis-
covered the germ of the disease.
That Professor Jordan chanced to be on board an Aus-
tralian-bound vessel, upon which a sheep-breeder of
N.S.W. was bringing over a shipment of legs of diseased
rabbits from Hay Creek for examination in Australia.
That the steward of the Moana threw them (i.e., the
diseased legs) out of the porthole.
The thing that remains unexplained (though Bill
Lyne promises to butt in and make the fullest
inquiries) is, why that steward didn’t also throw
the sheep-breeder out of the porthole. Wouldn’t
he fit? Did he stick in transit? Or what?
The Sydney Telegraph published a dia-
gram of the N.S.W. State Assembly the day after
the new Parliament opened. It was eloquent of
the reasons why Joseph Carruthers was shoved
overboard like Jonah. There were exactly 20
members on the Ministerial benches, while on the
Opposition benches there were 30. On the Minis-
terial cross-benches—the place where sit the
dubious supporters and the free-lances and unre-
liables—there were 22, and on the Opposition
cross-benches 13. Total: Government, 42;
Opposition, 43. Then M‘Court left the Govern-
ment side to swarm up to the Speaker’s chair,
making things : Government, 41; Opposition, 43.
True, there were five members absent, and they
might alter the position a little, but it was a
bleak outlook for the Ministry all the same,
and seeing that some of its scarce supporters
threatened to vote against it on the matter
of the wire-netting steal, it just had to throw over
the man who was responsible for that huge
foolishness. Still the S. M. Herald lied
heroically (like the bushman who swore lie used
to do ringbarking in London at £1 a week) as
follows :
The general elections were just over, and the Ministry
bad issued successfully from that trial of strength.
Nothing seemed more certain than a three-years course of
Ministerial prosperity, with a majority strong enough to
enable it to carry out all its platform pledges and bear
the flag of reform to the furthest height indicated by the
policy of liberal and progressive reform. The political
atmosphere has been full of rumors as to the reasons why
the late Premier withdrew in this moment of victory, but
it is not necessary to-go behind the obvious fact that the
conditions of ill-health under which Mr. Carruthers is
known to have been suffering for some time at last
claimed their toll.
The Wade (N.S.W.) Ministry starts its
tobf™ T? stiro ®£- 1° the old days when posts-,
telegraphs defence, customs abd excise ha'd All
to be looked after by the State Government biWe
Ministers used to be regarded as a fairly large
team, but the Reform crowd believes id doing
things on a big scale.
“ D. ” : There’s at least one brand of Free-
trader in N.S.W. who hasn’t kicked his big toe to
pieces to any extent over the tariff and all its
works, viz., the fruitgrower. The new duty on
fruit—equivalent to 4s. 2d. a case—strikes this
particular Cobdenite as the very thing ; and, so
far as fruit is concerned, he hoorays wildly now
for Protection. In fact, it is only by being, in other
respects, an even more convinced Freetrader than
ever he was that the Cobdenite fruitgrower now
saves his outraged foreign-import face.
Nearly every sizeable Queensland town
has a Chamber of Commerce, mostly composed of
importers and of the retailers who squeak when the
importers squeeze them. Nearly all of these
bodies have lately been passing resolutions con-
demning Lyne’s tariff. The Maryborough Cham-
ber, however, is an oasis in the desert. It
wants Bill Lyne to put his large foot
down and remember that the reason why
he can hear the importer so plainly is
because the factories and the factory-hands that
ought to drown the importers’ cry are not here—
they are in America, Germany, Japan, and
other foreign places. Also, the Maryborough
Chamber knows what Maryborough was under
the old Queensland Protectionist tariff, and what
it became under the mongrel lately masquerading
as a Protectionist tariff. It has an object lesson
in Protection every time it looks at Walkers,
Limited.
A sanguine man writes from the Victorian
west: —
Premier Bent and 13 motor cars scurried over the
western plains, a few days ago. The cars contained 30
odd members of Parliament, who were being shown the
huge sheepwalks that Bent proposes to resume. Although
the Agf, says that Thomas has dropped this scheme,
Bent, when at Streatham, announced that, after all, he
was going on with it, even if it cost him his job. Mackey
said he would also risk his job over it, and the farmers
at the luncheon cheered. The chances seem to be that
part of the project will be gone on with, and that some
250,000 acres will be resumed. There is no doubt about
the value of the trip, from an educational point of view
While the crops north of the Dividing Range are almost
at the last gasp, the Government party drove through
thousands of acres of fine growing wheat around Lake
Bolac and Willaura. The whole western plain is situated
in country that is drought-free. Some years are better than
others, but there is never anything remotely approaching
the desolation that regularly visits the Mallee district. For
some inscrutable reason, the Agf is now violently oppos-
ing the Plains resumption. The net result of Bent’s
motor-party trip may, however, be set down as settling
the fate of the huge western sheep-walks. Whether by
compulsory resumption or a land-tax, they have got to
go. This was the feeling of nearly every member in the
party.
But there are still in the way the House of
Landlords and the wobblesomeness of Bent. And
at the best, purchase of the western lands in the
open market only means robbery, on a huge scale,
of the State and of the prospective settler by the
monstrous grabber in possession. How would it
be for the Australian Government to further
exasperate Joe Cook by suspending the tariff dis-
cussion again for a couple of days, and rushing
through a really heavy Federal Graduated Land-
Tax Bill? That would be a grander piece of
velocity' than all Bent’s 13 motor cars.
"AH ME!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little Boy at Manly was in sad and solemn mood.
“ Ah me ! ”
Sighed he,
“ Ah me 1
I seem upon the threshold of my early nationhood
To be.”
Sighed he,
“ Ah me ! ”
He saw a host, a threat’ning host, becloud the northern
sky !
He thoughtless statesmen, all unheeding, passing
Some heard ; some did not even hear, his low and
plaintive cry
“ Ah me 1
Ah me !
Arm me!”
K.B.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
THE SELFISHNESS OF JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Labor League passed a resolution deploring
t p“ re ft in th « salary ot m «®bers of the House of
Representatives.— News item.
About his rig-hts he’d oft engage
In arguments, and figures flirt;
The beauties of a living wage
Appealed to Jones, who shovelled dirt.
But still his yell near bruised the skies
When Hogan scored that shilling rise.
Long hours of labor earned his curse,
While sweaters, he oft said, he’d boil;
But, though he swore the universe
He’d run with fewer hours of toil,
His heart was filled with bitterness*
’Gainst Smith, who worked some minutes less.
N.S.W.
NULLA.


I©
:
*
Ladies’ Glace
Kid Shoe,
10/9
Or Post Paid any-
where in the
Commonwealth,
11/6
FIT
is
The First
Essential
Send
for
Our
BOOT
STYLE
BOOK.
Wo Post
It Free.
Good Material
Is Necessary in Making
a Good Article.
BUT, in the case of Boots,
GOODNESS NEEDS FIT
To give the Boots a Chance of Showing their Goodness.
Try One Pair c f _
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES
a.nd you. will certainly find that they excel not only
in FIT, but in COMFORT and CONG WEAR,
as well as in the Goodness of the Leathers used. That’s why
we are always busy selling CALLAGHAN Boots and Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 gegrge street, Sydney.
ĵ
Satisfaction Guaranteed
in our
£3/3/-
SUITS.
Write for Patterns and
Self.Measurement Forms.
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
' Malthoid Dampcourse
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
A SYDNEY ARCHITECT says:— “l have been building for some
years, and have used IMALTUOID DAMPCOURSE with most satisfactory
results. II 1 IS ALL YOU CLAIM EOR IT, and I have never had or
heard of a complaint. I still recommend it with confidence.” WE
WANT YOU TO TEST IT.
9,
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
'CUfIZ-
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt .Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & 00., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
The Edge of the Plum Razor
is a “ shaving edge.” We personally test each Razor
before it is sent out, and see thrit it possesses the
proper shaving edge. The Plum will give you a
good shave every time yo>u want it.
The Plum Razor, 10/6
POST
FREE
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
S ingle Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKENt 654 George Sydney,
Established
25 Years.
TENNIS.
AUSTRALASIA v. WORLD.
These Racquets were used by Our Men.
AYRE’S
Wilding
Champion
Handicap
Clarence.
BY
mm
m
WONj-T
DOHERTY
RACKET*
SLAZENCER’S
Doherty
E.G.M.
Whitehouse
Demon.
ADD Postage 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. interstate.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPY
Sports Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TlME—They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS,
m
COUPON
Thousands of Homes Have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY, and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have f urnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ww
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS- !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY,
Therefore, when shopping', say
GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Oup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
An Abo. writer (3/10/’O7) remarks that
there are many brands of bush girl, also there are
many brands of whisky. But while every sort of
girl is the best, only D.C.L. can be awarded that
distinction among whiskies. Anyway it would
be a foolish male who undertook the matrimonial
assimilation of any brand of girl—bush or other-
wise—without a judicious alliance with that wise
domestic counsellor D.C.L., the good old family
whisky.*
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
In the best regulated families the little ills of
life will creep in. Some member of the family
circle may occasionally suffer from biliousness or
indigestion, and one or the other will from time
to time exhibit the well-known symptoms of con-
stipation. From these little troubles more serious
D?
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS T*«**fc«*u»
CHILDREN X Maw »o a
Wnou Piix Oissooco
In Sweetened Water
Take before ref/rin&
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
complaints arise, and
should therefore not be
neglected. The slight head-
ache, bad breath and a
discolored tongue are the
index to a disordered
stomach ; and the necessity
of keeping a safe, sure, and
reliable remedy in the house
is apparent. By following
such a course the most
expensive method of calling
in a doctor will be quite
unnecessary. That Dr.
Morse’s Indian Boot Pills
are the very best family
medicine is vouched for by
thousandsof grateful mater-
familias, who speak from
personal knowledge and
experience of the wonderful
efficacy of these pills to
overcome all family com-
plaints. Girls don’t forget
a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when
shopping, and always see that there is a supply in
the home. Keep a bottle in your own room, and use
occasionally. A dose now and again will remove
the cause of many of the troubles to which you
are subject, and assure a pure and healthy com-
plexion, and a well-regulated system. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a sure remedy for biliousness, con-
stipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
AUSTRAL MEETING.
MELBOURNE CRICKET GROUND,
7th and 14th DECEMBER.
NOTICE.
£lOO. £lOO.
£lOO. £lOO.
The Melbourne Bicycle Club offers ONE HUNDRED
POUNDS (£100), more or less, for any novelty that may
prove attractive, and can be shown on the MELBOLTRNE
CRICKET GROUND, on the 7th or 14th DECEMBER,
1907, the dates on which the AUSTRAL WHEEL RACE
will be held, such novelty to be first approved of by the
committee. It need not be a “novelty race” or any-
thing connected with Bicycle Racing.
Any IDEA submitted for a novelty will also be con-
sidered, and, if adopted, paid for.
Applications, which will be treated with absolute con-
fidence, must be sept to the Secretary without delay.
ROBT. McOULLAGH, Secretary.
Melbourne Bicycle Club, 243 Collins Street.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & GO., 16 Moiiatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In the absence of the other-State horses which
are to come along presently—some of them will be in at
the death of the big Caulfield festival—the October meet-
ing of the.V.R.C. was only a great success as regards the
human attendance. But it had its sporting revelations.
There was a pretty general curiosity to see how the
strapping Scobie would shape as a 3-year-old in the Pad-
dock Handicap. Scobie ran second in several events last
year, and he was runner-up in the Maribyrnong Plate.
Improved in appearance, but palpably short of condition,
the tall son of Haut Brion and Trieste was reckoned
good enough to win the Paddock Handicap (six
furlongs). If he was to have a great chance for
the Caulfield Guineas, next Saturday, it was his
duty to win. Once again the disappointing fellow
ran second, a neck behind a light-weighted four-year-old.
Apparently he lacks “ finishing power,” and although the
gallop may sharpen him up somewhat his Guineas chance
is not very tempting. Squatter Armytage is not getting
fair encouragement to put a lot of unearned increment
into the horse-racing game. Scobie’s luck seems to slip
the stable up every time. Then there is Lady Joan, who
cost thousands as a yearling. She carried the Armytage
colors as a bad last in the October Stakes, what time
Subterranean, in the ownership of t’other squattah—E.
Manifold—was running away from the field. Landed pro-
prietors are straight-going sports as a rule—they can
afford to be—and the bad luck of Armytage is deplored
by punters.
Subterranean aforesaid was the hero of the day.
With 9.11 on his back the newly-discovered crack
from Maoriland made pork and beans of the opposition in
the October Stakes, which is a w.f.a. race of a sort. His
time for the 10 furlongs was good under the circumstances,
and when he had been spurred, by way of reminder, the
horse needed no further urging on his way. After the
race Subterranean was the least heated of them all. If
he can stay a distance he should be good for Melbourne
Cup. But does Subterranean stay'? His long record
suggests that he is best at a mile to 10 furlongs.
The Caulfield Cup chance of Ellis was disposed
of, to the present scribe’s thinking, by his failure to beat
Yabba Gabba in the Stand Handicap. Ellis is very good-
looking, and he has some good achievements to his
credit, but the misguided gee-gee, in a Judkinsesque way
of speaking, is “ viciously inclined,’’ therefore his ding-
dong struggle with Yahba Gabba may be said to discount
the Cup chances of toth horses. The winner outstayed
Ellis, but the superiority was not sufficiently marked to
make him a very tempting candidate, for the big event of
Saturday week. As for the Melbourne Cup, it is pretty
certain that Dyed Garments, who finished a long way
behind Yabba and Ellis the other day, will be just as far
ahead of them in the two-mile race at Flemington, if all
three go for it.
* * * *
The first day of the Caulfield meeting will
probably give an idea of the strength of the Victorian
candidates for next week’s Cup. But in the meantime
Poseidon and other horses from Randwick are talked
about, and there is another issue of The Bulletin in
which to hazard a prediction, with very little hope of
picking the right one.
- * * * *
The A. J.C. Epsom, which was run at Sydney
last Saturday, will smell for the next year or two, and
should supply good material for Pa Levien, when the
father of N.S. W. Assembly introduces his Totalisator Bill.
The threatened scratching of Collarit eventuated the
afternoon of the day on which The Bulletin mentioned
it, but not before a few Pitt-street operators had plucked
the last bit of down from the punter. The day that
Collarit disappeared found Ikey busy in another direc-
tion, laying wildly against several nags with the
very best of prospects, and it looked as though only
a miracle' could save him from the debacle of his
life. It was generally, conceded thht the brilliant
track performer, Mooltan, would, with a start, win
the event; but the most unsophisticated punters
knew, or thought they did, that owner Samuels only
allowed Mooltan to remain among the eligibles because it
was too much trouble to scratch him till the absolutely
last moment. Samuels’money, it was commonly reported,
was all on the horse for the Metrop., the race he had chosen
to win. The brotherhood of Moses, it is alleged,
deliberated over the situation and decided to pool £3OOO,
which it offered to something like £6O against Mooltan,
and Mooltan’s owner is said to have risen to the bait —
which, after all, was legitimate enough. Then the odds
came tumbling down from twenty-fives to fours, and
finally to twos on the course. But in the race Mooltan
was beaten by a little better than a nose, through the
superior navigation of Melodrama by Jockey J. Barden.
•V ■* « •
Notable features of the course betting on
Epsom Handicap were the shortening of Legation’s price
from 25 to 1 (to which he had dropped through disquiet-
ing reports during the prior few days about a “leg ” and
soreness generally) to 12 to 1, and the placing of a lot of
money on Kyadgerie, which at once shortened odds against
him to sevens ; also the coin heaped on English-bred
Antonio and Mooltan, about each of whom 5 to 1 was
offered at one stage, though Mooltan started at 5
to 2, and Antonio at 4 to 1. Hundreds to four on
the winner, Melodrama, were plentiful up to flag
fall. Tlie serious business of the struggle began at the
home turn, where Buddih resigned leadership to Mooltan,
and the race looked surely his. Then, at the distance,
Melodrama shot forward as if fired from a catapult, and
a high-strung tussle resulted. Every inch was stubbornly
battled over by nag and rider, and Mooltan just appeared
to stretch his gaping nostrils in front of Melodrama’s,
but the judge said Melodrama —the nearest animal to
him. Antonio’s third was a fine achievement. In
the last furlong, and after being smothered in the
ruck for some time, he gave the leaders fully two lengths’
start and finished only a length in their rear; Virtu
was a good fourth—not nearly as used-upas the lad on
top, which is probably why the mare didn’t sustain a big
effort made near the Leger reserve. Time (1.38 J) says
much for the clip at which the race was run ; it equals
Sequence’s record made six years ago. Melodrama was
alw'ays a public favorite, through things he had done in
races and on the track ; but in the Tramway Handi-
cap (6 fur.) at Tatt.’s meeting (little more than three
weeks ago), though the horse seemed at one time to
own the race, Legation shot out in the straight, and
outstayed and beat him with a good deal to spare. In
the Epsom, Legation met Melodrama on 91b. better
terms than in the Tramway Handicap, thus making it
appear absolutely certain that wherever Melodrama was,
Legation would be easily in front of him. But the race
resulted very much otherwise; Melodrama won, and
Legation finished lengths behind the placed horses.
There’s food for reflection in Melodrama’s remarkable
improvement, and many a punter is kicking himself
to-day because he didn’t take the “ office ” from the
scratching on the course of a public fancy in Pompous—
Melodrama’s stable chum.
* * * *
The Derby was a disappointing and unsatis-
factory affair. It threw no light on the relative qualities
of the various competitors, by reason of the slow pace at
the beginning of the race. The first furlong occupied
15sec., and the half-mile 58sec., but the high pressure
over the concluding five furlongs, which were thrown
behind in 48isec., worked up considerable excitement and
made some amends, from a spectacular point, of view. At
the Leger the second favorite, Peru, and the eight to one
Welcome Trist were leading the hot favorite (at 2 to 1 on),
Mountain King, by a length, and his defeat looked much
more than likely. But jockey Hickey proceeded to shake
his mount up, and as Welcome Trist shook off Peru,
Mountain King ranged alongside. For a moment
or two they tore along neck and neck, while thousands
yelled their names and begged the Almighty to take a
hand. Then Mountain King got away and crossed the
winning line half a length to the good. Welcome Trist’s
display astonished almost everybody, for though he had
quite recently won the Rosehill and Hawkesbury
Handicaps, few credited him with being up to Derby
form. But this Derby was run in 2min. 41fsec., or 9Jsec.
slower than Noctuiform’s, two years ago. Mountain King
is by Wallace from Bonnie Rosette (imp.), and was bred
and is owned by John McDonald, of Mungie Bungie
(N.S.W.), who, when figuring in the book as “ Mr. East,”
won the A.J.O. Derby of 1903 with Belah. Mountain
King is full brother to the great gallopers Scottish King,
Bonnie Chiel, and Kinglike.
* * * *
Though Crick’s Collarit did not win the Metrop.
the way he tried to suggested that the Epsom would have
gone to him had he started. Mary of Argyle led the field
up to the straight, where Melodrama, Collarit and Mooltan
went to the front. A little later Apologue sailed in
among them, and a wild-cat struggle ensued down the
straight Opposite the Leger Collarit was done and
dropped out, but Melodrama, with 9st. up (including 101 b.
penalty for the Epsom success), worried Mooltan and Apo-
logue very much indeed. But that staggering load told its
tale, and Mooltan got the money, with Apologue a close
second. On the Saturday thousands said Mooltan really
won the Epsom, and on Monday thousands more said
that Apologue really won the Metrop.; but the judge’s
word decided the destination of the cash. The Metrop.
win was not quite so profitable to the owner as the
Epsom would have been, as he stood to win £5OOO on that
event.. The time (2min 34Jsec.) is lfsec. slower than
Mamapoto’s record of two years ago. Starting at sto 4,
Mooltan was the hottest favorite the Metrop. has ever
known.
* » * *
Monday’s steeplechase attracted a bigger field
and better quality of horses than the event has drawn
for many years. Ten of the 19 in the book shaped, and
among them were M.L. Grand National winners Phseton-
tis, Eclair and Haydn. They filled the places in that
order, and thus emphasised the superioritv of Maoriland
jumping cattle. There wasn’t a single fall in the two
and a half miles, which was probably due to the atten-
tion recently given to the various fences. Phsetontis and
Haydn, soaring like birds, led halfway, but at the foot of
the hill on the home run Eclair flew to the front and left
a gap of 10 lengths between him and Phsetontis. They
were roaring Eclair’s name as that of the winner when
Phsetontis began to move. Stride upon stride he gained
on the leader, and, coming up alongside, won with a lot
to spare.
* * * *
The happiest man at Randwiek on Monday last
was a Christian Moses, who looked on at the finish of the
Metropolitan with the true contentment begotten of
having drawn Apologue in Tatt’s sweep, and having
Mooltan going for the second leg of a £lOOO double.
- - * * * ■*
N.-S.W. politician Levien will introduce a Bill to
authorise the State to run a totalisator at all race meet-
ings, and utilise the profits thereof for the maintenance
of hospitals and charities. He does not propose to abolish
or interfere with the bookmakers in any way ; they will
be allowed to go laying the odds as heretofore. The
tote will stand there for the benefit of such
as have no faith in the bookmaking system, and
after the fleecing of the public over the last Epsom, they
should be many. Take it year in and year out, the odds
given by the tote in S.A. and Westralia'have been about
three times as large as those laid by the bookmakers, and
the investor gets a squarer deal all the time, while the
chances of scooping in a really big prize for a paltry
sovereign are always floating round the. tote, especially
the doubles portion of the machine.
* . * •
The Australian football competition for the
Rawson Cup and the premiership of N.S.VV. League just
fizzled out on Saturday on Kensington racecourse. It
was a poor game, neither side playing up to expectations,
and the weather and the ground were both against the
players. In the first quarter Sydney ran up 11 points to
Newtown’s nil; the second saw Sydney fail to score, while
Newtown made three. In the third Newtown kicked a
goal (six points) and Sydney made a solitary behind, and
the final quarter commenced with Sydney leading by 12
to nine. In the last 20 minutes Newtown scored another
point, and then the whistle blew, leaving Sydney vic-
torious by 12 to 10 ; which is just about the lowest score
by which a championship has been gained in the Aus-
tralian game.
* * * *
Yic. Football League last week decided
to admit the strong University team —heretofore playing
in the Metropolitan Association—to its ranks next
season, and also to invite another club to join—probably
Richmond —so as to obviate a bye. The proposal to
regularly engage half-a-dozen umpires for each season at
50s. per week was also favorably looked at, but not
settled. The League might double that fee without
straining its resources. Also it passed a balance sheet,
which chiefly notified an interested public that the
finals realised altogether £3lOO 16s. 10d., of which £l4l
Bs. lid. went to the Australasian Football Council; £147
19s. 6d. to the League ; £154 Bs. sd. to financing the
Sydney Fort-street boys’ visit ; £231 2s. to Melbourne
charities ; £4OO was held to meet next year’s expenses,
and £253 4s. 9d. was handed to each of the eight com-
peting clubs.
* * • •
“ F.C.” : Like the average importer, football in
Melbourne dies hard, though—thank Heaven —it doesn’t
lie as heftily. Though the League clubs had folded their
tents, so to speak, a fortnight, and the Association a
week ago, last Saturday saw Yarraville, as “challengers,”
and Footscray Juniors, as winners of the V.J.F.A. final,
battling once more for the pennant, the Wren challenge
shield and 18 medals. The ’bailers themselves were pass-
able infants, varying from 18 to 24 or so, and no more
uproarious than the Leaguers, though their science was
vastly inferior; and some 3000 or 4000 barrackers
journeyed to Victoria Park from the contiguous
western suburbs, and yelled, roared, and raved
while the argument proceeded. Also another 1000
casual spectators added to the uproar;' Both teams
sport the “ tricolor,” and the hard-faced “ peb ” with the
flaunting ribbons in his hat or elsewhere, pervaded
everything; likewise the little Lizzie, in blue concertina
skirt, white blouse with .yellow sash and Scarlet hat,
adorned the landscape. These were afflicted with no
ovenveening shyness, and earnestly adjured Yarraville to
“ bog inter it ! ” Yarraville bogged accordingly. Then
'Scray was besought to bog into it likewise ; to “ line ’em
a treat, Juniors !”...“ Bump ’em out, Yarras !” . ..
“ Send ’em a box o’ dead meat, Juniors !”...“ Bog into
’em, you blitherers !”...“ O, Yarraville, slob into it! ”
“Slob” was the acme. You slob when you bog
something extra. To this cheerful chorus Juniors and
Yarras “ bogged ” for two hours, a couple of happy little
mills enlivening the proceedings on the ground, while a
good half-dozen “outside” distracted attention from the
game. Both teams were dead tired at three-quarter
time—it was ideal cricket weather —but “ Juniors ” man-
fully strove to keep their lead, while “’Ville ” just as
valiantly bucked in to reduce it. They got within five
points, when a forward marked 10yds. in front of
’Scray’s goal. He placed and took a long run—and sent
the ball out of bounds, w'hile the barrackers dropped their
jaws and swore. Just as the bell rang, giving’Scray Juniors
the shield and medals by five points, the writer noticed
several Lizzies making towards the gate leading from the
ground to the dressing-rooms, and furtively withdrawing
wicked-looking hat-pins from their head-gear. He be-
came interested. They crowded close, and patted their
own men on the backs and faces sympathetically. Oppo-
nents they ignored. But when the umpire came along
there was a suspicious downward movement of the hand.
But the police knew their Lizzies. Six stalwart Johns
marched fore and aft, and fended off all enthusiasts. But
for them some of those hat pins would have got badly
stained. That he was a perfectly fair umpire made no
difference. The losers hadn’t “bogged into it” with
sufficient vim—and that was obviously his fault.
* * * *
At present all the indications are that Broad-
meadow will win the Gardiner Cup in the Sydney Soccer
football competition. The match is to be played off at
the Agricultural Ground at Broadmeadow, instead of in
Sydney, and it is said that some of Pyrmont’s most for-
midable players will not be able to get away. On the
form displayed at Epping, Pyrmont will require all its
best players to have a fighting chance against the country
team.
*** ;.„
The Otago Cricket Association has placed it on
public record that it does not want any more English
cricketers like the crowd sent out by the Marylebone
Club last season. Boiled down, the remarks amount to
something like “ Yah ! Why don’t you pay your
washing bill and part up your owmtips?” Considering
that the English cricketing g'entlemen were given a
weekly allowance to cover those tw'o items, it certainly
does look like the trick of a gentleman whose uncle died
in Fiji to leave the laundry women and the hotel servants
unpaid, with instructions to collect from the Cricket
Associations. However, they were not the only ones who
departed leaving unsettled accounts behind them. One
big cricketing gun from England is said to have left
all his board bills unpaid, and when subsequently
asked to come out he inquired if the Australian people
would pay up his old accounts, and thus make the way
clear. Altogether he is as great a “bilk” as he is
a cricketer, and he is a great cricketer.
* * * *
On Friday afternoon the Sydney cricketer
looked at the sky and promised himself a fine Saturday
and a hilarious time with the bat. Out at Paddington,
some careful soul thoughtfully watered the wicket, and
when the rain came down on top of that on Saturday
morning, the pitch became a pond. Which brought
about the abandonment of the match with Balmain. For
the rest, Gordon beat Burwood with 306 to 115. Waver-
ley, which had declared with six wickets down for 359,
drew with Redfern, w'hich lost two for 54. University
(five for 221) beat Glebe with 195. North Sydney beat
Middle Harbor outright by seven wickets. Petersham
downed Sydney, having scored 289 and two for 14 against
196. Central Cumberland walloped the country team by
43 on the first innings.
The batsmen went to pieces and the bowlers
held high carnival. Country bowler Hancock knocked
down five of Central Cumberland's for 11 runs ; and Pye,
of C. Cumberland, responded with four for 22. Also
Connolly, of C. Cumberland, smashed up six of Country
Districts’ for 53. Johnson, of North Sydney, wrecked
eight of Middle Harbor’s for 56. Macartney, of Gordon,
snavelled three of Burwood’s w’ickets for 26.- Gee, of
Middle Harbor, knocked down five North Syd. wickets
for 47 ; and Pitt, of Gordon, took four of Burwood’s for 38.
These be tall figures, and the numbers of them testify to
the awful state of the ground.
« * * •
Cricketer Connolly, of Central Cumberland,
who took 13 Southern District wickets for 89 runs, is a
left-handed bowler of much promise. Last season he
showed good form for a first year, and his opening feplash
this season is good enough to bring him under the notice
of the selectors.
* * ★ *
The Paddington (N.S.W.) Council, having care-
fully noted the presence of the barracker on the hill
overlooking Hampden Park, and the powerlessness of a
10ft. fence to interfere with his view, has acquired the
hiil, and proceeded to fence that. Now the barracker
will have to choose between paying for admission or
investing in a pair of field glasses. There are still spots
whence the ground may be surveyed through binoculars.
* ■* * *
The Balmain sweep is in full blast, spite of
N.S.W. Gaming Act, and last week filled with 21,000 sub-
scribers at Is. each. The promoter takes 10 per cent.,
and divides the rest among those who draw horses and
cash prizes, ala Tattersall. It seems to be a very secret
affair in which there is a deal of “honor,” and unlimited
faith. The shillings are paid in, in sweet ignorance of
where or how the sweep is drawn ; and in the face of this
sublime confidence in the probity of the party running
the show, the police and the Act gaze helplessly at the
thing and weep.
The Melbourne Bicycle Club is offering £lOO
for some novelty that can be shown in the Melbourne
Cricket Ground, and which will help to boost the waning
popularity' of the once great Austral meeting. The
Austral will be the only' classic bicycle race in the world
held on a grass track. That should be novelty enough
for any'body, but the chances are that it will not prove
an attractive one. The present-day' follower of wheeling
amusements wants speed, and plenty of it.
* * * *
The motor-car fatality begins to dot over the
daily' papers with grim persistency, and the time has
arrived, as these same papers say, to consider what should
be done to people who rush through the country' spread-
ing death and smash as they go. Curiously enough,
doctors seem to do most of the killing. To be run
down by a doctor is certain death ; to be smashed up by
a layman is only a fair gamble. However, occasionally
Providence is good, and it is the motor-car that comes to
grief. As it is quite evident that people in motor cars
will not consider the lives of other people if it involves
depriving themselves of the joy of whizzing, some special
legislation should be introduced to meet their whiz. This
has been found necessary'in both France and Germany'; in
the latter country the motor-fiend who kills a bread-winner
has to maintain the widow and family of the slain till the
children are able to support themselves and their mother.
This law greatly diminishes the whiz. Till some such
legislation is introduced here it is necessary 7 , when
travelling on roads infested with motor-fiends, especially
medical ones, to carry about one’s clothes sufficient dyna-
mite or nitro-glycerine to blow up the fiend who runs
you down. There is no hardship about this for the
pedestrian—he will be killed in any case, and he may as
well make his end sudden and painless. And he will
have the joy of taking the car and its driver with him
across the Styx.
» * * *
N.S.W. sculler Dick Tresidder is having some
difficulty in the collection of his stake of £5OO for his
race with Webb, of Maoriland, for the world’s champion-
ship. At present he has only managed to get £250 on
paper, and the first deposit of £2OO is due one month
after the signing of the articles, and the articles are in
Sydney awaiting the autograph, having been signed by
Webb and Friar Tuck, of Wanganui, before they' left Maori-
land,so theN.S.VV. champion is evidently in a tight place.
Rowing has fallen on evil days when a N.S.W. man of any'
note finds difficulty' in getting a stake for a race for the
w'orld’s championship. But the grim truth of the matter
is that mighty few take Tresidder’s chances at all
seriously, and his appearance is looked upon as a forlorn
hope. On the other hand, a man who does the forlorn
hope act ought to be encouraged—that particular move-
ment has been successful so often.
* * * . *
Saturday last saw, Sydney Flying Squadron
shake out its canvas to a light south-easter which made
for anything but ideal conditions. But in spite of
threatening rain, the nasty rawness of the atmos-
phere, and the counter attractions of a race meet-
ing at Randw'ick, the whole of the available
space on the steamer . that followed the race
was occupied, besides which many came in their own
boats to see the first handicap of the season, which was
run off in two heats and a final. Four new boats,
all owned and manned in Balmain, were competing, but
failed to set the harbor ablaze. The first heat was an
easy victory for Maritana, and Viking won the second by
half a bumpkin from Young Jack, which was travelling
fast and cutting down the leader in great style. The
final was exciting till just before the finish, when Gladwyn,
luffing on Maritana, was disqualified, and left the opera-
tic boat in undisputed possession of the course. As in
the second heat, Young Jack came with a great rush at
the finish, but the brevity of the distance killed his
chances, and Maritana sailed home winner of the double.
• * * *
When Bill Squires went down to Yankee
bruiser, Jack Sullivan, at Colma (California), he lost his
last chance of competing for the championship of the
world. He will now probably return to Melbourne
and knock the stuffing out of Bill Lang, who has
usurped the championship of Australia in Bill Squires’
absence. He is still probably able to do that. There was
nothing wrong with Bill, excepting that he didn’t know
how to fight men who declined to be rushed. Bill Lang
doesn’t know how' to avoid being rushed, although writer
wouldn’t dream of trying to rush Bill Lang.
* * * *
“ Snell’’: Willie Squires has been beaten again,
but beaten in circumstances that give neither the stale
fish brigade in Australia nor the screaming eaglets in
America a chance to throw the decayed article at the
man from ✓Newcastle. At least it will be admitted
by all those who know anything of the game, that
the man who stands to Jack Sullivan throughout
19 severe rounds is no mere gas-bubble. Jack Sullivan is
the better of the Sullivan twins, and has recorded a victory
and a draw in his contests with Burns, the present
champion of the world. He twice beat Mike Schreek
after Schreck had beaten Burns, and Burns has since
shown a marked disinclination to meet Jack Sullivan,
who is now quite as much improved as Tommy Burns is.
At an.y rate Willie has made a long, hard fight with one
of America’s best heavynveights, and has asserted his
right to be taken seriousb . By the way, the men who
developed and spread out the crude cable received from
San Fran, took large liberties. The bare cable plainly
asserted that it had been a punishing fight. The
translators assumed that this meant dreadful wallop for
William alone, but it is fairer to assume that John got his
share of the thick end of the devilment.
* * * *
Bill Lang, who made a mess of Peter Felix at
Broken Hill, the other night, is probably the only pug in
the world who possesses a set of fighting teeth. Not that
Lang has any idea of worrying his quarry round the ring
like a terrier ; but, having lost the greater part of his
teeth, he is unable, under ordinary circumstances, to
clench them in the manner necessary to the fighter who
does not desire to run the risk of a broken jaw. Mel-
bourne.dentist Arthur Russellmade the fighting set out
of vulcanised rubber, and every time Lang goes into the
ring he is fitted with a pair of pneumatic or false jaws to
bite on hard as he delivers the knock-out blow. One of
these days, a scientific opponent will steal Lang’s teeth,
and there will be a new champion.
* * * *
The report that Ellegaard and Piet Dickent-
mann will be in Melbourne in time for the Austral meet-
ing is probably true enough as regards the great Danish
rider. His little son was buried in Sy'dney, and he told a
Bulletin man that he would return when two years had
elapsed to take the leaden coffin containing his baby’s
remains back to his Danish home, where the family has a
private corner in a little cemetery' outside the Danish
capital. What Dickentmann will do is not so apparent.
He is a pace follower, and there is not much demand for
that sort of thrill in this country, owing to the lack of
suitable tracks.
* * * *
Just after the conclusion of the Crimean War
someone with a taste for statistics discovered that, in
proportion to numbers, travelling on the English railways
was much more deadly' than fighting Russians. In this
country railway accidents are fortunately scarce, but we
have the trams, and the murderous motor car. Last
Monday’s paper recorded three motor car accidents in
one day, two of which proved fatal to the people run
down. A decent life policy costs between £3O and £4O
per annum, while an accident policy with the South
British Insurance Co., which covers both accident and
death, can be obtained from two to eight guineas per
annum. Why not have one ? Anyone can afford two
guineas per annum. Head office for N.S.W.: 12 Bridge
Street, Sydney.


RUGELMANN’vS
a
U
m
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors— \
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
When on
your single gear
yOu toil up that long
ascent—iust stop and con-
template the difference had
you a low gear in reserve.
Then “toil ” would be unknown
—you would just “ sail UP)” and
what is more, be able to have a
higher gear for the level and the
down hill spin.
THE EADIE 2-3 PEED
COASTER HUB
gives you these two gears—“lt
makes hill climbing easy”—
further, it makes “Coasting a
delight,” as it embodies in one
shell both variable gear and
back-pedalling brake of absolute
efficiency under all conditions.
Think what that means—then
write for latest Art Booklet.
Dept. >*
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd,
4 Stock Exchange Bdgs.,
Collins Street,
Melbourne
WORKS : REDDITCII, ENG.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
ft REFEREE ” says The prince of living
Astrologers."
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL Co f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Bi rth,
SIGNOR MARCONI says:
V,
w
(H
s
V
u.
■
V 9
55
Zi
(as
a
“So far as the mechanical
construction of the COLUMBIA
GRAPH=o=phones is concerned, 1
do not see how they can be im-
proved. I think they have a
wonderful future, and I hope to
do my part in aiding their de-
velopment.”
The improvements suggested by Mr.
Marconi’s genius are being embodied in
the CYLINDER and DISC
COLUMBIA...
CRAPH-o-phones
which already have first reputation for
pure musical Tones.
Write for Catalogue of Our Latest Improved Models. It will interest you.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. GENL., 255 "s” Clarence Street, Sydney.
Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in the World.
Continental
&
Melbourne to Sydney Cycling
Record beaten by Continentals.
Once again have Continental Tyres furnished the Cycling cornmu*
nity with a convincing proof of their great superiority.
ilr. J. Salvano, the well-known Sydney cyclist, left Melbourne at
2 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 25, arriving in Sydney at 3.31 p.m. on
Saturday, Sept. 28, thus beating all previous records by 1£ hours.
2100 MILES WITHOUT PUNCTURE.
In his three attempts to lower this record, Mr. Salvano covered
over 2,100 miles, the greater part being over thorny flats and loose
mountainous roads, and his Continental Tyres went right through
from start to finish without a puncture.
Don’t you think the same make of tyres that carried Mr. Salvano
so successfully through this severe test should be fitted to your machine ?
SYDNEY DEPOT: CLARENCE STREET.
a*
The Australian Accent.
“H.” WRITES:—
During the past few weeks or months an unusually
large number of orators and writers have been revealing
their ignorance of the English language by denouncing
the Australian accent, and, at the same time, citing ex-
amples of what is not accent at all, but pronunciation.
Accent is a quality quite distinct from pronunciation,
a fact that all these wise persons seem to have over-
looked. And it is quite possible for a man to possess a
most marked accent while at the same time pronouncing
individual words perfectly'. If an Englishman, an Ameri-
can, and an Australian were in the next room talking
loudly enough to be heard, but not loudly enough
to enable anybody to catch their words, it
would, nevertheless, be a matter of ease to dis-
criminate. Max Hirsch, the Melbourne Importing
apostle, possesses probably the most horrible German
accent ever heard, yet his pronunciation of individual
English words would shame the average Oxford Pro-
fessor. Whether the Australian says “grapes”, or
“ gripes ”is innnaterial. His accent is there, one of its
most marked characteristics being the tendency to raise
the voice towards the end of the sentence, and to prolong
the last word. A.s for mispronunciation, it is question-
able whether the average Australian does not speak
better English than the so-called educated Englishman.
It is all rubbish to talk about London nursemaids
having introduced the “gripes” abomination into Aus-
tralia. This seems to be world-wide. Even the Yank —
who has escaped the English dropping of the aspirate—
frequently boasts of the “rileroads” of his native land.
And, while Australia has succeeded in giving full value to
the “ow ” sound, no Londoner can do so. It is only the
East Ender who talks about “ gripes,” but from one end
to the other of the big city, educated and uneducated
alike are Unable to pronounce “ ow.” The coster talks
about going “rahnd the tahn,” and the resident of
Berkeley Square habitually refers to a “ bunch of
flahs,” and speaks of milk as being drawn from a
“ cah.” Further, London has other forms of linguis-
tic eccentricity which Australia knows not. The East
Ender, just as strongly as the Irishman, says,
“Oi’ll troy and foind a foile,” while the West Ender
always speaks of female acquaintances as “ Poll ay,”
“Minnay,” or “ Maray.” What Australia has imported
from England, with a number of other objectionable
things, is the dropped aspirate, and this is what the
schools should try to overcome instead of trying to teach
young Australia to talk like Willibmotor Kelly. Aus-
tralia has a tendency to over-accerituate its “ ows,” and
turn such words as cold and hold into “ cowld ” and
“howld.” This should also be jumped on. But to try
and eliminate accent, as distinct from pronunciation, is
as foolish as it is futile. Why should Australia have to
put up with an imported accent ? Let us have an accent
of our own, so that the travelling Australian may be a
standing advt. for his country.
+
Several Cold Country papers lately sent a party
of journalists to Denmark to investigate the why
and wherefore of the Dane’s prosperity ; and the
Standard tells much of what they learnt. Chief
among Denmark’s lessons is the peasant farmer
on the small estate which he owns himself. Of
the little country’s adult males 46 per cent, are
actual farmers, whose holdings are classified thus:
7 acres and under .. .. 68,000
7 acres to 50 acres .. .. 121,000
60 acres to 270 acres .. .. 51,000
Over 270 acres 2,100
The Dane who can persuade one of these 270-acre
“ monopolists ” to sell him a block can borrow a
third of the purchase money from the Govern-
ment without interest. If he repays that
loan he may do what he likes with his
land; but he need never repay it all,
only in that case he must cultivate the land.
Every Danish farmer must breed his new stock
from pedigree bulls and boara. His cows and
pigs are inspected and tested; if diseased they
are destroyed, and if not otherwise up to the
mark they must go to the butcher. He also has a
genuine system of co-operative butter and bacon
making, through which he not only sells his pro-
duce, but buys his feeding stuffs and other re-
quirements ; and he has a system of agricultural
education as advanced and much more generally
availed of than any other in the world. His
country is too small to permit of much else, so he
attends strictly to the business of dairy-farming,
which he has almost reduced to an exact science.
And having discovered these things the Cold
Country papers didn't propose that Britain should
remorselessly burst up its big estates and follow
Denmark’s example. Such a thing would have
offended the House of gods.
+
The Chinese vernacular press is marking, learn-
ing, and inwardly digesting the fate of Korea
and Manchuria, for the fate of the “recovered ”
province is very little better than that of Korea.
It, too, is governed by its own officials under the
direction of the Japanese representative, who has
behind him an overwhelming military force.
Quite recently at Mukden the editor of the Tung
Pao (which, being translated, reads Enlightened
News) printed a list of irregularities and deeds
of misconduct by the Japanese officials and
troops in Southern Manchuria. The Jap officials
demanded that the paper be suppressed, and the
Manchurian authorities were compelled to
acquiesce to prevent some fatal irregularities
happening in their own vicinity. Th,e Chinese
native press is hard at work drawing the atten-
tion of the throne to the fact that the attitude of
Japan towards China is that of a mentor towards
a child, and urging that the creation of a
modern Chow army should be pushed on apace,
so that the Heavenly Kingdom may be able to
present a firmer front to the arrogant islanders,
and the Brother of the Sun and Moon may be able
to argue the point. Only a few years ago Korea
was a Chinese dependency, and but yesterday
Manchuria, the home of the ruling race, was a
part of the Empire. To-day, Manchuria has
been recovered from Russia by Japan, and the
Chinese are beginning to remark that it is time
steps were taken to recover it from the rescuers.
When the Chinese army is modernised the indi-
cations are that Japan will be the first nation it
will deal with.
The Good Japanese Servant and Sundries.
“ Medi-cuss ” writes from the North :
One thing the writer learned while staying recently
in Cairns; The Bulletin is wrong in stating that up
there the white man takes off his hat to the Chow. The
white man’s hat is now off most of the time to the Japanese,
and if he took it off to the Chinaman also it would never
be on at all, and then he might as well be without any hat.
After spending a few days in Cairns I remarked to a
youngbusinessman: “Well, you read a great deal about the
tired feeling caused by your climate, but one can’t notice
it in the way your men hustle along the street. Just look
at those young chaps rushing to lunch.”
“ Yes,” was the reply. “You see those chaps know
that if they are not at the table on the last tap of the
gong the Jap cook will turn them down without any
lunch, hence we have the most punctual lot of boarders
in Australia.” And this statement I found to be abso-
lutely true.
Not even in the U.S. has this wanderer seen such inso-
lence on the part of employees as among the Jap cooks
and laundrymen of N.Q. They hold absolute rule, and it
is positively dangerous for a white servant, especially a
girl, to even look crossways at the Simian.
In one of the leading hotels in Cairns, only a few days
before my arrival, a Jap cook hurled a heavy dish at a
white waitress, and cut her face severely, merely because
she had dared to come between the wind and the
Monkey’s nobility by entering- the kitchen without his
permission.
During a stay in Atherton, about the same time, another
Jap cook severely injured a girl employee by striking her
across the small of the back with a heavy broom. She
had committed the criminal offence of taking a cup of
hot water for a guest without asking the Great Monkey’s
leave.
There are white men in the North. I can swear to it,
for they made themselves conspicuous by failing to lynch
either of those Japs. A flogging for the Asiatic who dares
to lift his hand against a white woman might do a lot of
good—though this heathen frankly admits that he prefers
the rope in all such cases.
All over the North the Japs hang together. If one is
sacked the whole lot go ; hence the hotel-keepers and
other employers of the heathen are daily compelled to eat
dirt for fear of being left without help. Last Christmas,
at Atherton, in the hotel where writer stopped, the land-
lady sacked the laundryman, and both her cooks and the
yardman struck. The chief cook laid down the law
forcibly, and that gang of browns could have swam in
“blandee” had they so desired, so fearful were the
people of the house of being left with a mob of guests
and no cooks.
Why don’t they employ whites ?
Ask me something easy'.
In one big northern town I saw playing about a fine-
looking residence two as typical-looking little Chows as
could be seen in Canton. The mother was a half-caste
Chinese and the father an alleged white. A former
employer of the shandv-gaff lady told me that when
about the age of 18 the girl was very pretty, but now, ye
gods ! both face and figure would knock a gentleman cow
off a bridge.
In another far northern town, some time back, a
somewhat prominent citizen, occupying a good position,
and married to a half-caste Chinese, casually, but
methodically and successfully, blew out his brains. The
explanation was not that he suicided whilst tempor-
arily insane. His first child had been born, and it was a
reversion to the pure Chinese type. The thought of
having a whole family like that seriously impressed the
citizen, and he died.
“ The mills of God grind slowly,” but they get there as
certainly as a Berdan pan, and that these mixed mar-
riages are a crime against God, Nature, and the State,
the above and hundreds of like cases prove right up to
the hilt.
When are we going to get that Federal law, making it
an offence punishable with gaol for any parson or official
to “ solemnise ” such unholy unions?
“ Araemo ” (Melbourne) : Look here, Mr.
Bulletin ! We Victorians have had just about
enough of the yelping of Carruthers. Now I’m
going to yelp back at him. Does the Joke think
that New South Wales has a monopoly of wrongs
and that because we don’t yelp “ secesh ” on
seven days of the week, we have no wrongs or
State Frights ? If so. he is wrong, as usual. Here
are a few instances of our grievances :
New South Wales is bigger than Victoria. (Yap !)
The Riverina should belong to Victoria, and doesn’t.
(Yowl!)
New South Wales has more Federal members than
Vic. (Yelp.)
New South Wales won’t play our game of football.
(Yell!)
N.S.W. gets more players into the Australian XI. than
we do. (Yah!)
It gets more Federal surplus than we do. (Booh !)
Stevenson played up to his best form in Sydney, and
did not in Melbourne. (Secesh !)
Sydney faces the dawn, and Melbourne' does not.
(Down luith Federation!)
N.S.W. is to have the Federal capital. (Revolush !)
It costs us 2d. to write to The Bulletin, and anyone
in Sydney has only to pay a penny. (Ordinary bark !)
And yet, with all these wrongs, we consider our-
selves well off in having escaped getting the
Worm Carruthers for our Premier, and we hereby
offer our sincere sympathy to New South Wales.


SHOPPING BY MAIL.
A. SAUNDERS.
PERPETUAL CALENDAR, pure sil-
ver-plated frame, richly embossed, xy-
lonite, tablets 4£in high.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
Patrons residing at a distance will find it both convenient and
satisfactory to purchase through our Mail Order Department,
Every order receives personal attention and prompt despatch.
FREE CARRIAGE.
We deliver all goods carriage free to
any Post Office, Railway Station, or Sea-
port in the Commonwealth.
FREE CATALOGUE.
Write for a copy to-day. Contains over
3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silverplate, and Optical Goods.
Send post free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING UUP, pure silver-
plated on white metal.
POST 22/6 EREE *
Other stilts, 13s 6d, 15s 6d,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK, em-
bossed handles, polished steel ends, Hu
long.
POST ij FREE.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Gd,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, richly
embossed, best white bristles.
POST 20/6 FKEE -
Other styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and STAND,
pure silver-plated, richly hand-
embossed.
POST £2/5/-* FREE -
Other styles, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR TRAY and MATCH-
HOLDER, pure silver-plated
nickel silver, pierced base.
POST 4/0 FREE.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
HEAD
SAUNDERS.
SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut glass, pure
silver top.
POST 0/0 FREE.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 8s
10s 6d.
6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR-STUD BOX, pure silver-plated, pierced
design.
POST 7/g FREE.
Plain, 5s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH, solid nickel, highly burnished, fine
badger bristles.
POST g/0 FREE;
Other styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
& M
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH and COMB, richly
embossed, long white bristles, in silk-lined case.
POST 15/0 FREE.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255, 80s, 85s, 40*.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
enamel dial, onyx ba3e, richly orna-
mented case, 12in high.
POST 4Q/- FREE.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, solid silver, embossed handles,
finest Sheffield steel.
POST 15/@ FREE.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s, 255,
30s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
&X)TH or HAT BRUSH, solid silver, handsomely
embossed, long white bristles.
POST rj /g FREE.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
ttu,
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated, richly embossed,
silk lined, size 4|in x 2Jin.
post 12/6 FEEE -
Other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO POUCII,
rubber lined, pure silver shield.
POST FREE.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING STAND, polished
nickel frame, swing mirror,
with brush and bowl.
POST /g FREE.
Others 14s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
AUTOMATIC SHAVING STROP, pure silver-plated,
handsomely embossed, finest selected leather strop.
POST 13/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 17» 6d, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION INKSTAND, Emu Design, pure sil-
ver-plated, A 1 quality, fine hobnail cut-glass bottles,
embossed base.
POST £2/10/-- PKEE -
Other styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 60s, 60s.
SAUNDERS,
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver, richly embossed, floral
design, long white bristles.
POST FREE.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 17s 6d, 20s.
n
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET BOOK and LETTER CASE com-
bined, black morocco leather, silk-lined, pure silver
mounts and shield.
POST 12/6 free.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
ft
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, pure silver-plated, richly pierced
and embossed, carved base.
POST /0 FREE.
Other styles, 9s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
PLAYING-CARD CASE and IVORY ROTARY COUN-
TERS, pure silver-plated, handsomely embossed.
POST Yl /6 FREE.
Other styles, 15s, 255.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st.,
SXS&JSSB*. SYDNEY, N.S.W.


SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for KODAK LIMITED,
and GENERAL PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
KODAKS
Photography
Appeals with equal force to Ladies,
Children, and mere Men. Kodaks
are easily carried, simple to use, give
the most perfect results, and require
no dark room at any stage of the process. EVERYTHING DONE
IN DAYLIGHT, NO WASTE MATERIAL, NO STAINED
FINGERS or SOILED FROCKS.
It
" "S, *
Kodaks of all Patterns,
from tke effective JZ?
“ Brownie ” at 0/0 to
tHe elegant Half-Plate.
AMATEURS’ FILMS
Developed and Printed.
m
■ •
v »-
m
'kk<: fkf¥
m m
■ •
HM j
■*, > *
■
kkkf if
;■ •
II
;./ vV, ",
■
... i.
m
\
T r
ill
Irar
BARER & ROUvSE Propt’y. Etd
SOLE AGENTS FOR KODAKS and PREMOS,
375 & 377 George St., Sydney; “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide ; 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
LIVER TORPOR and BILIOUS HEADACHES
Removed At Once.
BRITISH VICE-CONSUL
WRITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate, Tarragona,
“March 12th, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using Kutnow’s
Powder, and find same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised to do.—l re-
main, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES, British Vice-Consul.”
RICHARD WARNER, ESQ.,
WRITES :
“Grenada Lodge, Stockwell Park Road, S.W.,
“July 12th, 1906.
“Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in testi-
fying to the efficacy of your Kutnow’s Powder,
which I have taken for some considerable time,
and derived a great deal of benefit from it. I
have been a great sufferer from biliousness and
gastritis, and am only too pleased to give you
this acknowledgement.
“RICHARD WARNER.”
NURSE A. WHUR
WRITES :
“ 2 Ethelbert Road, Birchington Bay,
“ August 14th.
“Gentlemen, —Thank you for the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder; for years I have suffered
from severe headaches, and have tried almost
every medicine, without doing me the least
good ; your Powder, I am thankful to say, has
been most efficacious. Several members of the
household have tried it with the same results.
“A. WHUR (Nurse).”
REV. A. LEES
WRITES :
83 Whorlton Vicarage, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
“July 2nd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have tried Kutnow’s Powder
and found it highly satisfactory, so much so
that I shall recommend it to my friends. —I re-
main, yours truly, “ (Rev.) A. LEES.”
ANDIDATES FOR HEALTH must first of all recognise the paramount
influence of the liver ; it is the organ which holds the key of life and
death. It regulates the whole mechanism of the human frame ; it is
UgMIU-O
+-*
KUTNOW’S i
iMPPOvro erfrp«Esr.£M carlsbad
POWDER.
-Fir-
Hiischansprung or Deer Leap
LONDON
A\. FARRIHCOOH ROAD. E£.,
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
(ENTERED AT STATIONER'S HAUA
only when the liver acts properly that all the other
organs—the kidneys, bladder, stomach, and intes-
tines—work efficiently, and there is general good
health. The liver, furthermore,, exercises a still
higher function than that of mere mechanism. It
produces great moral effects in the influence it
exercises on the temperament; an active liver
creates brilliancy, energy, shrewdness, keen intel-
lect, and many other excellent qualities. Reverse
the picture and see the irritable, nervous, fidgety,
and morbidly despondent individual. In despair,
the victim of liver torpor will sometimes endeavor
to thrash it into temporary activity by drastic
medicines. This is useless. The proper remedy
for a disordered liver is a course of Kutnow’s
Powder, which is always safe, sure, and efficient.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Imitations.
The Genuine and Original Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations,
and know
Howto Get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
A GENERAL IN H.M. ARMY
WRITES :
“ 104 Seymour Place, London, W.,
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have much pleasure in stating
that I have derived very much benefit from
Kutnow’s Powder, and, after taking four
bottles, am completely cured of abscess on liver,
contracted after a residence in an Eastern cli-
mate of twenty years. I now take a dose once
or twice weekly, and would not be without a
bottle.—l am, dear sirs, yours truly,
“ 0. ANDERSON (General Retired).”
REV. J. M. DRYERRE, LL.B.,
WRITES :
“ Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset,
“ November 9th, 1906.
“ Gentlemen, —It may be of some interest to
you to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder
from time to time with most excellent results,
and I consider it only fair to acquaint you of
the benefit I have experienced from so useful a
remedy, which fully carries out what it is
advertised to do.
“(Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., E.R.G.S.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your
publishing my testimony concerning the excel-
lent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only
wish I had tried it years ago. In my case it has
proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient,
cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort,
and regulating generally the whole organic
system. I have much confidence in recommend-
ing its use to my friends. —Yours truly,
“(Rev.) E. L. BULLEN.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
1 [l-7]


Wi
■ft
31
When buying
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made from cultivated limes.
“MONTSERRAT” is always
fresh and pleasant to the
taste, and mixed with water,
soda water, or other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
“ Montserrat ” Is sold by all Obemists, Grocers, etc
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEE WEDNESDAYS.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
A Stirring Spectacular Drama of Australian Life
BY EDMUND DUGGAN
(Part author of “The Squatter’s Daughter”).
Box Plan open at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
HER LOYE AGAINST THE WORLD
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 12,
THU MIDNIGHT WEDDING
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of JACK SHANNON.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 12,
ANDREW MACK IN
THE WAY TO KENMARE.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
A LACE THEATRE, S Y D N E Y
General Manager: Charles W. Taylor.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of CHAS. W. TAYLOR’S
NEW ENGLISH and AUSTRALIAN
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
In the Greatest Drama of Modern Times,
THE YELLOW PERIL
A MAGNIFICENT PRODUCTION.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
yyONDERLAN D CIT Y, BONDI.
The Giant of Australian Amusement Enterprise.
Sole Proprietorand Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEW SHOWS.
NEW PAGEANTS.
NEW FEATURES.
DAY
and
NIGHT.
FIFTY The World’s Greatest Novelties FIFTY.
Adults, 6d. ADMISSION Children, 3d.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
THE MOLASSOS, Continental Cyclonic Dancers.
THE DIEPPE CIRCUIT, the most Sensational Animated
Picture ever presented in Australia.
Magnificent Reception of HAYMAN and FRANKLIN,
Hebrew Comedians and London’s Laughter Distributors.
Continued Success of PRICE and REVOST, The
Greatest Comedy Acrobats of the Day.
MONAHAN and SHEAHAN, Refined Musical Artists.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FIVE WHITELEYS, Acrobats, Wire Walkers.
LA SYLPHE, Classical Eccentric Dancer.
HAMILTON HILL. ERNEST FITTS.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Descriptive Vocalist.
FOUR JUGGLING GERALDOS.
LA BLANCHE, Phenomenal Dancer.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
EDWARD CRANSTON and Company in Comedv Sketch,
entitled “THE ADVENTURESS.”
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES —cSs, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
FIFTH WEEK, and STILL IN THE HEIGHT
OF POPULARITY.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
First Appearance of MISS FANNY DANGO
and MISS EMMA TEMPLE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
NEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
A Brilliant and Most Gratifying Reception Nightly
Accorded to
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Co. in
THE GREAT RESCUE
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
LAST FOUR WEEKS OF THE SEASON.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, OCT. 10, FRIDAY, OCT. 11,
Last Two Performances of MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12,
JULIUS KNIGHT
SUPPORTED BY A NOTABLE CO., in
BRIGADIER GERRARD.
LAST 11 NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies, and The Grand.
NEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
THURSDAY, OCT. 10, FRIDAY, OCT. 11,
Last Twio Performances of WHY WOMAN SINS.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 12,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
In the Exciting Sensational Drama,
THE SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
. By Arrangement with Mr. J. O. Williamson.
AT HENAUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
OCTOBER 19th to NOVEMBER Ist.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. For Matinees see Daily Papers.
BALLARAT EUREKA STOCKADE,
A PICTURE STORY of the GOLDEN ’FIFTIES.
Thrilling and Amusing Animated PICTURE DISPLAY.
Films all Absolutely New and Original.
AUSTRALASIAN P CINEMATOGR a APH S CO. Ppty., Ltd.,
3l QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME AND MENAGERIE
OF TRAINED WILD ANIMALS,
OPENING in NEW PALATIAL BUILDINGS,
“ OLYMPIA ” (Melbourne),
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19.
Special Booking Arrangements for the Opening Night.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand—Monday
Morning, 14th inst. Book Early.
PRICES —45., 35., 25., and Is.
FIRST GRAND ILLUMINATED MATINEE—
WEDNESDAY, 23rd OCT.
&
©
NEW SONGS.
ONLY 7d, EACH.
Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
When the Harvest Days Are Over—Stop
Yer Tickling Jock—Blue Bell—Walking
Home With Angeline—Little Boy Called Taps—ln the Shade
of the Old Apple Tree—Keep a Lit'.le Cosy Corner—Hear the
Pipers Calling—Singer Was Irish—Waiting at the Church-
Starlight—We Parted on the Shore—and many others. Our big
lists and Illustrated Novelty Catalogue posted free. Drop us a
postcard for one to-day (mention this paper).
* STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Colling St., Melbourne.
A Modem Electric Battery.
S3?
Medical Electricity is used all over the World
in every hospital, and by every doctor. But
you can have a battery right in your own
home.
Our Medical Battery is of the most modern type, and is
worked by means of simple dry cells. There are no acids to
spill or burn, and there is no trouble. The battery will last six
months with daily use, and the refill battery is cheap and can be
put in by a child.
Many drugs are poisonous and therefore harmful; hence the
argument in favor of Electrical treatment Electricity does
nearly all that drugs can do and leaves no poison behind in the
system. It is both a tonic and a sedative. Properly used, it is
a safe remedy that can be placed in the hands of any person of
ordinary intelligence.
This Battery will cure
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NERVOUS DISORDERS, Etc.
BOOKLET OF FULL PARTICULARS SENT FREE ANYWHERE.
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
HOT SUBJECTS.
«
WARD STOVES
... FOR ...
TOWN AND COUNTRY
Cook under any Conditions with any
Fuel —Coal, Coke or Long Wood,.
Heads of Families •. •
Send for General Catalogue.
Farmers and Selectors...
Send for Catalogue of Country Stoves.
Hotel Keepers...
Send for Catalogue of Hotel Ranges.
Station Owners...
Send for Country Catalogue.
JAS. WARD,
Stove Show Rooms,
501 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TWO LEADING BRANDS
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER,
RISK S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Guaranteed Life Preservers. Wholesome and Refreshing.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding: Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Him., Sydney. Telephone 4547.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Only known
Cures,
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elisabeth St., Melbourne.
Last week, Circular Quay (Sydney) had a
break in the monotony of things. A steam launch
blew up. Sydney had wonderful luck that day,
for though parts of the boiler were scat-
tered round the vicinity, and the furnace door
blew on to the deck of the mail steamer Eastern,
no complete strangers were hurt. Also the
20 men sitting around the engines, who
went overboard simultaneously with the re-
mains of the boiler, were unharmed, all save
the engine-driver, and he was only singed.
Two dozen lives might have been lost in the atfair,
and the possibility is enough to draw attention to
boats like the Clive. These launches rank as
“ working plant ” in different forms, one of their
uses being to convey the owners’ employees from
place to place. As the law stands, these craft are
outside the liability to inspection and survey.
They needn’t be overhauled or docked, and though
they may be crowded to the gunwale with
laborers, they are under no obligation to carry
floating apparatus in case of accident. Some of
the launches which flit among the crowded ship-
ping are said to be just loaded torpedoes, and a
constant danger to themselves and their sur-
roundings.
One of the sights of the Eight Hour Pro-
cession in Sydney was a huge van—a perfect
caravan—loaded almost to the sky with Austra-
lian-made chairs and bearing the inscription
Made Under Protection, by White Labor.
Also, Australian iron was represented by two
huge castings from Lithgow, also made under
Protection by white labor. Truly, with these
examples before their eyes, it is time Labor
dredged up that sunken fiscal issue.
The law is supposed to afford protection to
the proprietors of trades-marks and labels, and
does so in a way and at a price. But, just the
same, tricky traders find means of playing peek-
a-boo with legal enactments, and pirating much
of the trade created by the plucky advertising of
manufacturers of popular articles. The inventor
of an appetising sauce or an alluring drink which
hits the public taste quickly finds imitators
springing up like mushrooms to palm off on
the public other compounds, generally in-
ferior, disguised as the refreshing beverage for
which the smart advertising of the genuine manu-
facturer has caused a vogue. The disguise is
easily achieved by adding a letter to a brand,
dropping one from it, or by brazenly using a label
which is the other label’s illicit twin. In Sydney
recently one of these cheerful annexers of another
man’s rightful revenue did a thriving trade bv
impudently putting up an imitation of a drink
manufactured by a Melbourne trader in that
trader’s own bottles, and with a brand which
followed the genuine one so closely as to be un-
distinguishable at a little distance. The popular
liquid in question is known as “ 0.T.” The
first of these two letters appears on the imitators
label, and the other, although not the same as the
original, is certainly as like it as it knows how to
be. Furthermore the bottle used by this
label pirate has the name and address of
the Melbourne manufacturer blown in the glass,
the lettering being neatly covered by the imitation
label. The law, of course, can, if pushed hard
enough from behind, be induced to fall with con-
siderable force upon such things, but the cost of
pushing the law from behind becomes very great
when the operation has to be frequently per-
formed to meet the demands of many imitators,
one of whom pops up as soon as the other has
been popped off, and the manufacturer wishes
some less expensive remedy could be found.
The Englishman seeks work almost
everywhere except in Freetrade England these
days. Busy German ports like Hamburg are
crowded with him ; in France he toils for an
ultra-reasonable wage, and now, in his passion for
employment at any price, the busy prosperous.
Britisher is wandering yet further afield. At
Norkoping (Sweden) many thousands of English-
men have been indentured (coolie fashion) to work
in the local docks. True, there, as at Hamburg
and elsewhere, the natives throw bricks, etc., at
the interlopers. But the inhabitants of the dear old
land that B. Smith wants Australia to accept as a
model don’t mind a little unpleasantness if they
can only get enough to do to keep meat and ghost
together, and so they take the foreign job and all
its risks.
Wonders op the Ear. —The wonderful in-
vention of Dr. C. M. Jordan, the world-renowned aural
specialist, has revived hope in the hearts of the legion of
people who for years past have been martyrs to deafness,
head-noises, ringing in the ears, and diseases of the ear
generally. The ear, which is the most fragile of all human
organs,' has baffled all scientific thinkers until the
Baroscope was happily discovered by Dr. O. M. Jordan to
attain the desired end. This treatment contains no drugs,
and no electricity, but pure natural Aural Kinetics,
which is used by all patients at their own homes
without the aid of any physician and without
any interference to daily routine work, business,
or social duties. Anybody desiring to know how
this Pure Aural Kinetics (Nature’s own treatment)
should be used for the various aural diseases, can
obtain full free particulars by writing to or calling at the
Earoscope Institute, which is situated at 90 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.*


Legal Notice.
IN the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
In Probate. In the matter of CHARLES
FITZROY LANDERS late of Sydney in the
State of New South Wales. Railway Clerk last
heard of at Goulburn in 1887. Pursuant to direc-
tions in this behalf given by the Honorable Mr.
Justice Street Judge in Probate an order was
made on 11th June 1907 for the undersigned to
administer the Estate of the above-named Charles
Fitzroy Landers who has not been heard of by his
relatives for twenty years. Application has
recently been made by George Napoleon Landers
for payment out of his share of the Estate of his
brother the said Charles Fitzroy Landers now in
the hands of the undersigned and unless the said
Charles Fitzroy Landers communicates with the
said undersigned on or before the 24th November
1907 his death will be presumed and his Estate will
be distributed amongst his next of kin.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Queen’s Square,
Sydney, 22nd August, 1907.
PATERNOSTER’S
pills
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TT ACJ TVmUTX’V rn/> T ° n Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
XlAh 1 U JjIjXV U Cit y or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 50 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
You Cannot Afford to
Waste Your Shorthand
Writer’s Time.
The most modern letters are “ phonographic conversations
—spontaneous replies or flashes of thought that strike the
reader with their force and earnestness because they are
dictated independent of the office routine, and the limited
speed of a shorthand writer.
Waiting, with its irritation and loss of time, is entirely
avoided with the employment of the
Edison Commercial System
conducted with
The Business Phonograph.
v
We cannot tell you all we would like about this remarkable
invention here, but even if you are a very busy man you can
spare a minute or two to fill in and mail us this coupon, and
we will send you complete details.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please mail me printed matter about the Edison
Business Phonograph.
M
National Phonograph Co. of Australia uo.
Dept B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly
Ik-fore
After
A Certain Moustache Grower
CAPILLARINE will actually and positively pro-
duce a full-grown moustache for any man who
follows the simple directions on the label. It is
nice to use and absolutely undetectable. . .
Price, 10/6 Per Pot Post Free to any
Address in the World.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
A MAGNIFICENT
PANAMA
Post Free
OTHER GRADES, 12/6
and 15/6 Post Free,
21/-
MAYBE you think you can’t buy
a magnificent Panama for 21/-,
but—YOU come and look at these.
If you can’t come, just write for one,
enclosing the 21/-, and if you are not
absolutely satisfied in every way
simply ask for your money back. We
bought these in South America,
where the genuine native Panamas
come from. They are the finest
quality the finest plait—splendid
color, and have sweat-proof leathers.
—THE—
Murdoch Panama
REAL PANAMA. Very fine
plait. 3to 3J inch brims.
All sizes ....
21/-
If you don’t like it when you get it, send it back and
say “ Please return money.”
MURDOCH’S,
IN PARK STREET,
SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.
SGT
Medlcater, size
35 Inches Ion;.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
_ Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
'Diana” Houssaye,
folio size Photo,
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
DUfvrae with 700
rnUIUu Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 in
Money Order or Stamps of any
country 1 Sample Collections of
Photos, and Post Cards at 5/-,
10/-, 20/-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
Postage 2id.
r i
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name |*~
j
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS
&
&
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo.=* welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
SF
x>
<V
#
&
$
V 3
&
<s>
ft
Alexander Jobson, who used to be actuary
of the Equitable Life Insurance Co. in these parts,
goes to England to help the lawyers nose put
matters in connection with the Australian Morris s
claim to the alleged Page millions. There is
£5OOO of capital in the new “ business ” put up by
speculators, lawyers, and others. The fixing up
of the agreement, prospectus, etc., called for
wary navigation, lest the enterprise should bump
heavily against that curious rock called champerty
—the ancient law which holds out promises of
boiling oil to people who put up money to pursue
for gain, or to resist for gain, an action in which
they are not legitimately interested. But they
reckon they have dodged champerty all right.
Grattan Wilson, the Anti-Sosh Representa-
tive for Corangainite (Vic.), is the last remnant of
the renegade Victorians who stuck to the Freetrade
party under Allan McLean after every decent
Protectionist had ranged himself beneath the
Deakin-Lyne banner. All the others were emptied
out at the elections. By some oversight Wilson
got back, but his prospects for next election ought
to be arrested under the Vagrancy Act. So Wilson
made a noble bid for the support of the miners by
offering the £2OO a year recently added to his
salary to the worn-out miners’ fund of the A.M. A.
And the worn-out miners reply was that they
were deeply grateful, but would prefer to struggle
along without the money.
“Squidge ” writes :
There ought not to be many rogues and vagabonds and
convicted persons abroad in Melbourne by the time the
Cup comes along, unless they disguise themselves as Dr.
Bevan or Archbishop Clarke or Thomas Bent himself, for
Parliament has passed “an Act to amend the Police
Offences Act, 1890.” Under this new statute any police-
man can run in any man (and in this connection “ man ”
includes “ woman ”) whom he deemsto be without lawful
means of support. Then the justices will be entitled to
know all about the man’s record, and all that the police
believe about him, while the man will have to prove that
he has lawful means of support. The happy sharper who
has hitherto collected a decent living by finding mugs in
Melbourne sees his revenue swept away from him at one
fell swipe, and the gaol door yawning wide. The lady
who patrols Collins-street with swishing skirt and
hoarsely whispered endearments is doomed ; what lawful
means of support has she, unless she can produce
a real or alleged husband ? And then he will have to prove
his visible means. The thief, the housebreaker, the forger,
though the Victorian detective cannot catch them for
crimes they have committed, are all liable to be drag-
netted in, and at the first glimpse of their records the
prosy old justices will simply remark, “12 months.”
There are 500 professional criminals with records—all of
them living on the game—in Melbourne to-day, or there
were last week. The new Act means good-bye to them ;
and in that it will do good. Fortune-tellers, spiritual-
ists, palmists, the entire gang of swindlers are fitted with
an adequate punishment if the law' is enforced. Mel-
bourne will be the holiest of holies, the city of the pure,
inhabited only by Woodfulls, and Judkinses, and Tregears,
and Worralls, and—and -and Bents.
It is a solemn fact that if a mere majority
—not the present three-fifths majority—were
sufficient to decide the no-license question (as. the
Cold-Tea party wished), about half of N.S.W.
would now be beer-dry. The omen is so disquiet-
ing and the future looks so gloomy that many a
wise man will lay in a small keg before next
election.
Bannerjee, the Babu barrister who was
arrested the other day for incitement to sedition,
has for long been abhorred and feared by the
Anglo-Indian authorities. Bannerjee’s method of
disaffecting the native soldier was effective and
particularly subtle. For generations the fighting
Indian has labored under the pathetic delusion
that all British officers are, in their own country
across the “ black water,” “ pukka sahibs ” — i.e.,
men of caste. The Indian, with his hide-bound
prejudices on this score (prejudices that are apart
altogether from his religious tenets), is a snob
sublimated. The thought of obeying and follow-
ing to battle one whose father sold things over a
counter revolts his type. Bannerjee has made
it his mission to explain, both in the vernacular
press and from public platforms, that not 5 per
cent, of the officers shipped to India are “sahibs”
as the local nigger understands the term. Hence
open contempt towards the white man on the part
of the formerly humble brown, followed by
amazed recriminations, assaults and batteries,
runnings amok and trouble generally. “ Extra-
ordinary care,” says Lloyd’s military expert,
“should now be exercised in the selection of
British officers of all ranks for service with the
Indian army.” It is coming to a sore pass when
the harassed old Pall Mall War Office has to look
up its officers’ family trees before sending them
abroad to teach Hingland’s chocolate-hued alien
subjects the goose step.


Preserved, Purified, and
Beautified by
Vr.
1
i>
l_j
~x
twm
(trticui^
SOAP ♦
I
For preserving, purifying,
and beautifying the skin,
scalp, hair, and hands, for
irritations of the skin, wind
rashes, chappings, redness
and roughness, for lameness
and soreness incidental to
outdoor sports, for sanative
antiseptic cleansing, and for
all the purposes of the toilet
and bath, Cuticura Soap,
assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment, is priceless.
Sold throughout the-world. Depots: London, 27 Char-
terhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns
& Co., Sydney; Boston, U. S. A., 137 Columbus Ave..
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
B3J“PoBt-free, “Book on Treatment tor the Skin."
This Lady’s Patent
Leather Tie Shoe,
■fl C With the new Cuban heel this Tie
10/ Ob Shoe will specially appeal to lovers
of neat Footwear. It is in ail
Patent Leather, with pump soles and fashionable
round toe, 16/6. The same style of shoe, onlv with
hand-sewn, welted sole, 21/-. Or again in'the newest
shades of Tan, either pump or w'elted sole, 14/6.
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price it can be had in either Patent
J. "ther, in Tan or Black, Glace Kid, or in Willow’
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering-.
Price, 14-16. Posted in Victoria, lextra :to other
States, 1/S.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swans ton Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
ooo'sn
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed ! 1 ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S
1/■ COOKERY BOOK
CONTAINING 480 RECIPES
TO BE HAD AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
AND—
Tike Hotel Wemtworth.
rut BEST NATURAL APERIENT
Huiiyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
Huny&di J^ nos hss invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with ct
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
CAUTION.
The MISSES ISAACS
{Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
LADIES’ PREMIER HiiDnnceciun ’ Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
ParisHn ft n® NC SALO( fN TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
RMtST’ suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
ltayuisUES and accessories instock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
Personal BK POST PROMPTLY A TTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSINC ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
■e>
the TOWN of
INVER ELL, NM.
FOR SUBDIVISION
AUBURN VALE ESTATE,
Under instructions from the Owners, Messrs. Stirton Bros, and Beauchamp.
21,000 Acres Rich Basaltic Soil
WEDNESDAY, 30th OCTOBER, 1907, at INVERELL.
Growls 6 and consists of the very richest Volcanic Soil suitable for Lucerne
„ ,^ dm ' rab^ 'y adapted for Dairying 1 , Mixed Farming and Grazing. A laro-e and
■ quipped Butter Factory is established close to town, and within easy reach of all parts’ of the Estate.
and „'* d '® won< ?f rfu, Jy Productive, growing- luxuriantly Lucerne, Wheat, Oats, Maize Peas
and Beans, while all Root Crops return splendid yields. maize, reas
Average Annual Rainfall 31 inches. Title, Torrens.
« ®?" fc t Dc P°S it > balance in equal Annual Payments, extending over lO Years,
imS i at 5 , pe ' cent ' Instalments to commence on February 1, 1909. The Estate is watered bv
umeious cieeks and gullies run by springs, and water can be obtained anywhere at shallow depths orsinking!
Lithos, Descriptive Sheets, and full particulars from the Auctioneers—
THE NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD.,
T. A. STIRTON & CO., Narrabri. ARMSTRONG & FARRAND, Inverell.
S^,:^ UCed Fares will be granted from all Stations in N.S.W. to lona fide land seekers unon
to Inverell, £4 Department, Sydney. Ist class return fare, Albury
Half per cent. Commission allowed to any Agent introducing Buyers. Buyers met and driven to inspect
by Local Agents, Armstrong & Farrand
rr
RE/-
THE
Dim.
<fi> TtlC
A
WARRNAMBOOL
TO MELBOURNE
(DUNLOP)
ROAD RAGE
WON ON
“FLITE”
TYRES.
AT this important con-
test the machines of
the 237 competitors who started repre-
sented several makes of Tvres, but the
RACE WAS WON ON “ ELITE ” TYRES.
M. B. Dobie, the successful contestant,
covered the 165 miles in 7 hours 45 minutes
37 seconds, thus only being 2 minutes over
J. Arhst’s world’s record. The severe
weather conditions of the race, and the
speed attained b.v the winner speak elo-
quentjy for the durable, reliable, sterling 1
qualities of these famous Tyres.
Ask your dealer for the “ FLITE ” (the
guaranteed-for-12-months Tyre), or the
“ DADDY ” (the guaranteed-for-6-months
Tyre).
Manufactured at the Footscray Worlcs of
BARNET GLASS CSb CO.
Back to the Old Address : 85 Clarence Street,
Sydney. 226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne;
10 McHenry Street, Adelaide.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, apd Brisbane.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
3t*
*0
CUARANTt^ S^
PIPES
to theTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from at! Tobacconists
THE DEAF HEAR.
DEAF Persons need not despair. Out of the
mass of failures has come a genuine success. Head
noises are cured, and Deaf made to hear so effect-
ively that they wonder if they really were deaf.
Particulars of a startling discovery, based upon
the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that
will assist all persons suffering from Deafness
fully described. ’
FI?FF ? Send •mine and address to THE
I . L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, and you will re-
ceive a description of this method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense ; and you will be delighted to learn how
easily you can obtain relief.
Shadows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia holds two peoples—and not one.
The Folk Who Are—bone of our bone —whom
we meet at every turn. Then we know.
What of the Others—the Shadow Folk Who Are
Not, who crowd at the Gate of Life ; but neither
now nor at any time will they win through ? The
selfishness of the Men Who Are and their Wives
called them to their shadowy existence —and
Shadows they must remain.
Their formless forms press outside the bars of
human existence, and they strive to pick the lock
of admittance, but to no purpose. And their Hell
is that they know it always will be to no purpose.
The Shadow Multitude grows fast. Every
ante-natal murder —every quenching of the
flame of human life in its beginning—adds another
to the Ghostly Folk ! For man cannot create a
soul at his will, nor uncreate that which Is.
The Men Who Are know but little. The Past
is theirs, and the tiny dot called the Present.
But that is all. Their faces are pressed against
the thick wall that divides Now from The Future,
and they wear leaden shoes and cannot rise and
look over the Wall at What is To Be. And the
shoes may not be removed.
Not a chink is in the Wall—and never will there
be one.
Once in a while a shout arises that a peerer has
found a crack, and the light is glinting through—
but they take him away; much looking hath
driven him mad.
Not so with the Shadow Folk. For them the
Wall does not exist. As far back as stretches the
Past, so runs the Future—and farther. Their
vision carries them to the outside rim of Time;
and it Is because they see what they see that they
cry with soundless voices for admittance to the
World of Shape.
But it cannot be. The deed that gave them
the Life that Is Not is done—eternally done ; so
they must live on tormented by What they see on
the other side of the Wall.
Their warnings cannot be heard by the Men
Who Are—and they know it, but they cry on.
They have the double bitterness of sure know-
ledge and utter helplessness.
And this is what they see—those Shadowy Aus-
tralian Folk, who should be As We Are, but are
Otherwise :
A restless world of nations, ridden by the devils
of commercial greed and territorial desire; and
urged on by mad rulers and swollen armaments.
This, on the one hand.
On the other :
A People, few in numbers, and spread thinly
along the edge of an empty land—a land whose
smell has reached the nostrils of the hungry, and
proved sweet.
A People whose eyes look backward and not
forward, so that they mistake the Past for the
I uture. Terrible will be their awakening when
the avalanche of woe shall descend.
A People who forget that the blow struck
perishes with the striking, and that ten thousand
blows dealt by their fathers in the Past will not
avail so much as one blow delivered in the Pre-
sent by themselves—for in this matter nations
are without taproot.
A People who play at soldiers; who put
seeming before reality; who count the uniform
rather than the man ; who put their faith in gold
lace, and who spend upon anything rather than
upon the Man and the Gun.
A People who permit the Few to possess the
Land so that the Many cannot enter thereon.
Therefore that which should support a nation
becomes only sufficient for a handful—so the
Sponge is Full.
A People who forget to be fruitful and
multiply; who count the full quiver as a weak-
ness, and not a strength—a People who breed
Shadow Men.
And this they also see :
The Nations, grown strong, breaking the leash
of fear, rushing on the Empty Land to possess
it—and accomplishing their desires, because of
its emptiness.
They see the Men Who Are gathering in their
puny strength to push back the invaders, but
without avail. Neither ships, nor cannon, nor
rifles, nor warlike stores are to hand—only gold
lace. And the Men are too few, and the Shadows
too many.
But the Shadows gather, to pass through the
Hell of conscious uselessness for the land that
refused them human birth. Their swollen bat-
talions form side by side with the scanty ranks of
the Men Who Are. Side by side! Ay!—and
behind and before and filling the air—for the sin
of the people is very great, so the Shadows are
beyond counting.
Together they rush the enemy’s guns up to the
muzzles, and the Shadows put their useless
deathlessness between the foe and the Men Who
Are, but the shot and shell shriek harmlessly
through their ranks—and the Australian men die
where they fight.
In their hundreds of thousands the Shadows
charge again and again and strike with their
ghostly might, but the blow falls harmless.
They throw themselves under the gun wheels
of the advancing artillery, to stay them, but the
guns pass through them unheeding.
They rush the foemen’s rifles—but a cloud of
thistledown were of more avail.
And the thin lines of the Men Who Are are
gapped and torn and scattered—and the invader
works his cruel will on the little children and the
women.
So Cause has had its effect, and the land is lost
because of the need for the Men who should have
been born—but were not.
And the Men Who Are pay the price—the
price of contemptuous carelessness; the price of
foolish self-sufficiency; the price of lack of
defence,—of mistaking the name for the thing
itself; the price of breeding Shadows.
And the price is National Death—from which
there is no Resurrection.
FEED DAVIDSON.
J.A.C.lllustration (B. 26/9/’O7) of
the considerate boxing instructor who remon-
strates with his pupil for “ dropping his guard ”
saying “I might ’a’ hurt yer,” recalls a yarn
about Jem Mace. Jem was once in a drinking
saloon in God’s Kentry (which is no relation to
the town of Gould’s Country in Tasmania), and a
young fellow present bet a friend that he would
smack Mace across the jaw with impunity. It
was the rash youth’s intention to strike Mace
from behind and then immediately apologise
saying that he had made a mistake. He’ hit
Mace all right, but before he had uttered the first
letter of the apology he was performing somer-
saults from one end of the bar to the other and
rebounding eignt feet in the air. His friend tried
to pacify the irate slugger, explaining that it was
only a joke—a foolish joke, he admitted. “Oh
that s all right, my lad,” said Jem : “ I’m glad I
didn t hit him hard.”


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
!AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERT.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
) Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them' and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal. ,
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named..
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and r whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. Bkanch Office :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the bo *k is free—or write
S. GREEN,- 210, Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
HYPNOTISM
A HYONE can learn to exert a magic
influence over others. You can
tecome proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age," 64 pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Cuaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29
ĵ
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
i
GUARANTEE
3 JEST
jßy
TJEST
MB '. •
mtMsmum
72
I
JK!
Wm% w*™” ELASTIC CARBOnvXHg
m PAINT T l
MANUFACTURED BY I
f\ ATLANTIC REFINING 1$
C LEV ELAN D,Y>HIO. .
u. s.a. t
vV/';Y_ T■"Y ; f V;
sag
Y •' *'4
' f .
■
FIRE PR
PREVENTS RUST
YTHING
k
ReQUMMHOTHE-..
W
V
, T ; - - \ '
Jfam//&cfi/recf only by 4
mzjmMr/aimivm co\
ctEiruAm o. us. a. i
BP*
GUARANTEED
FOR
5 YEARS
Write for Samples and Further Particulars.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane & Adelaide; Tasmanian Woolgrowers Agency Co,, Launceston, Tas.
W. D. Moore & Co., and Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Fremantle; J. S. Munro & Co., Zeehan, Tas
Head Office: The Atlantic Refining Co., Melbourne.
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
FRMTODS
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-*
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and soencourago
business in your own district? If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE 3
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney,
*
ANTI-
BILIOUS
»
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
% FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family, ff.


The Bushman
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA.
Lever
14/6.
/
S'
*
miwinnwe
315
MELBOURNE
m
*J*HIS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas. We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
Watch
14/6.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315, 317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t £ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GO
XE3
BITTER
Are You
low spirited
and suffering
from the ex-
cesses of
youth? If so,
Sulphur Bit-
ters will cure
you.
Is your Urine thick,
ropy, cloudy, or high-
colored? Don’t wait I
Your KIDNEYS are
being ruined. Use
Sulphur Bitters.
One bottle of Sul-
phur Bitters will do
you more good than
——l all the Latin pres-
criptions of drugs and mineral poi-
sons which will remain in your sys-
tem, destroy your bones, and make
you a poor, weak, and broken down
invalid. No person can remain long
sick who uses Sulphur Bitters. If |
YOUR DAUGHTER’S FACE
is covered with ugly sores, and fest-
ering Pimples, give her Sulphur
Bitters. Ladies in delicate health,
who are all run down, should use
Sulphur Bitters. None better.
Try Sulphur Bit-]
ters TO-NIGHT,
and you will sleep!
well and feel better
[ for it.
Sulphur Bitters
will make your blood
pure, rich and strong
and your flesh hard.
Get a bottle now.
Are You
nervous and
fretty, or in
DELICATE
health? Sul-
phur Bitters
will make a
new person
of you.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SimiXTBY.
MOCK MANHOOD
S3*
Many men who at first glance look the picture of health and strength
are but little more than nervous wrecks. Nature gave them a strong
physique, but Nature has been imposed upon, and it is
only a question of time when they will have to acknow-
ledge their weakness to the world. Through ignorance ;
weakness and disease fasten themselves upon men like
a vampire, sapping their life and vitality. For all such
men there is a certain cure in Electricity properly applied.
DRUGS ARE USELESS
in such cases, for the best they can give is an unnatural stimulation such as
spirituous liquors give to the brain, and are more injurious if persisted with.
Electricity, properly applied—as it is with Dp. McLaugfhlin’s Im-
proved Electric Belt —is the one cure —the only cure—for vital
weakness and disease in men and women. It has cured 500,000 men and
women in Australasia, and we have thousands of testimonials to prove
our assertions.
V r all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality,
Stomach, Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Lumbago,
and wnen used with our newly-patented Electro-Plastic Truss, is a certain cure for Rupture.
It is easy to use; no Sting, burn or Shock ; put it on when you go to bed, and you get up in the
morning feeling like a two-year-old colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt,
and have special attachments for men. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of vour
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
lO
That Bald Spot
When you part your hair at night have you
noticed that bald spot ? Does’nt show when
your hair is dressed but it worries you just the
same. Why don’t you do something to stop
your hair falling out and to grow new hair
on that bald place ? Tried most everything,
have you, and they don’t do any good ?
Pretty much generally disgusted eh! with all
“hair restorers,” “hair growers,” and “hair
tonics?” So are we. There are so many
people asking the public to pour things on
their hair, that no wonder it has grown
suspicious.
Try Once More
Try once more to cover that bald spot
with hair. Try once more upon an entirely
different principle from any you have tried
before. Try Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. Get a
bottle at your chemist’s, apply it twice a week
for a month or six weeks and see the change
which will take place. That bald spot will be
covered with a fine, downy growth of new
hair which in time will develop into long,
silken strands. The dandruff will disappear,
and your entire hair will be stronger and more
vigorous.
How Tri-coph-erous Does It
Barry’s Tri-coph-erous is a scalp food. It
nourishes the source from which your hair
grows. By building up the scalp it supplies the
hair roots with new life. As the scalp grows
stronger, it is better able to' withstand the at-
tacks of the disease, dandruff, finally growing
so healthy that it throws it off altogether.
Tri*coph>erous Treatment
Part your hair with a coarse comb and
sprinkle (an eye-dropper is an excellent way)
Tri-coph-erous on until the entire scalp is wet
not drenched; then manipulate or “knead”
your scalp gently. Do this for four or five
minutes every night; keep up the applications
of Tri-coph-erous twice a week; give your
hair a thorough shampoo with Reuter’s Soap
every ten days; continue this treatment for a
month or six weeks, and you will not need
further argument to convince you of the won-
derful hair-producing properties of Barry’s
Tri-coph-erous.
Trade Thieves
Be sure that your chemist gives you Barry’s
Tri coph-erous. It has many imitators, and
salesmen will try to sell you something else
on which they make more money. Insist up-
on Barry’s Tri-coph-erous.
Across the end of every wrapper is this
trade mark:
Trademark.
Note the name Barclay & Co.
A shampoo with Reuter’s Soap thor-
oughly cleanses the scalp and makes it
receptive to the treatment of Barry’s
Tri-coph-erous. It’s fragrant, foamy,
antiseptic lather cures pimples andblack-
heads. At your Chemist’s.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
j
»
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
WEW SERIES—IV., V., VI
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet.of Ten, lOd


(235)
“Svea”
Cream
Separator
ĵ
No Better
Separator
Ever
Made
Complete
Stocks
of .. .
Repairs
Carried
in .. .
Each
State
SAVE
MORE THAN
£2-0-0
by posting us your request
for a “ SVEA” Separator of
any of the below sizes to be
shipped to your nearest
Railway Station FREIGHT
FREE on a 30 DAYS’ FREE
TRIALfrom date of shipment
GAIN
thereby absolute assurance
BEFORE you sign an order
that the Separator will act
right up to the terms of
our protecting warranty.
BENEFIT
by a reduction of £2 on our
ordinary prices, and by the
below EXCEPTIONALLY
EASY TERMS.
OR
if the Separator fails to do
good work as per warranty.
Return it to us AT OUR EX-
PENSE, in good order and
condition, fair wear and tear
excepted.
PP The above prices are £2 LOWER than our regular list
prices published in Jan. 1907. thousands of copies of which
have been distributed throughout Australia.
State the size of Separator you require, and we will forward
It on to you under the above conditions.
w
We reserve the rlpht to withdraw this offer without
notice, or to reiect orders from parties whose credit
we do not consider satisfactory.
IMPORTANT ! !
Address your letter to Department ®
of our Branch Mouse in the State in
which you live. Write quickly if you
intend to take advantage of this remarkably favorable offer.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
ROMA ST.. BRISBANE; 37 BROADWAY. SYDNEY;
543 BOURKE ST.. MELBOURNE; BANK ST.. ADELAIDE
and 75 YORK ST.. LAUNCESTON
Australia’s Exquisite Production.
“BOOMERANG”
PURE GRAPE BRANDY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895.
THE LANCET says:
"It is a sound, honsst Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
j
It is supoEied
under Roys! Warrant
to
His Majesty the King
rr.
ft
m
m
A
✓
Ml
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to nut a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to disiti-bute among friends. In order thatour goods maybe appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and jin addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Radies’ ; -
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
@s*
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? I his
great offer is only open for a limited time, „ ,
Write at once. THE GUTTA PERCHA TRADING CO., J2Q Ash St., Sydney.
ĵ
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
9
Prof. P. W. Stevenson.
JIU JITSU.
GREAT PRAISE.
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Messrs. Fisher and Co. 7/12/’O6.
Dear Sirs, —Yim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute
essentials for a teacher of Jiu-Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and Pupils find FISHER’S GREAT NERVE
TONIC unrivalled as a tonic to invigorate the whole human system.
To combat the after and weakening effects of Influenza I have found
FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC invaluable to set me up good
and strong. I write the above to benefit my fellows,_ voluntarily,
without any monetary consideration whatever, and confirm the same
on oath.
I believe FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC to be one of the
Finest Medicines on earth.
Prof. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu-Jitsu Instructor to the Police of N. S.
Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.
Declared before me on oath,
LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
The Most FAMOUS TONIC for
Nervousness, Indigestion,
Headaches, Malaria, Loss of
Memory and General Debility.
“Fisher’s Great Nerve Tonic”
Gets There Quickest
-so
CURES INDIGESTIOII>®
HEADACHE & NEURALGIA^
FISHER’S
GREAT
NERVE TONIC/;
-
All Chemists II- : four times the quantity, 2/6.
INSIST UPON FISHER’S.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After
Meals is the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, Syd-
ney, writes and declares on oath the fol-
lowing ! —“I suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning
pain. My tongue got a thick coating over
it, and I constantly suffered from Nausea.
Why, I used to be almost constantly vomit-
ing. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield
for years without getting relief. But in
three weeks FISHER’S GREAT NERVE
TONIC completely cured me. I am
Noble Grand for the Loyal Ashfield
M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been in the Lodge
for 13 years. Most of the members know
of my illness. Five to ten drops of
FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC
always takes away a sour taste in the
mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular
order. Let everyone know of my case.”
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this
Twentieth Day of August, one thousand
nine hundred and three, before me,
uu tniet?, ociuic me,
A. R. LEM AIRE, J.P.
SCIATICA AND MALARIA
At Alice Downs, Blackall, Queensland.
it Gets There Quickest
£
A7*
TVE
S'
FISHER’S
Great NERVE TONIC,
All Chemistst 1/-.
Four times the quantity, 2/6.
Five drops in water after meals is the Greatest
Aid to Digestion Known.
Invaluable to combat the after-effects of
Dengue Fever and Influenza.
Mk. William Shaw Divarty, widely known
throughout Australia, sends the following re-
markable testimony :
Messrs. Fisher & Company,—“l find a
wonderful benefit from your GREAT NERVE
TONIC. Last January, February and March,
in the moist Malaria weather, I suffered terribly
with WEAKNESS, SCIATICA and GOUT,
and was in the hands of the local doctor and
the hospital for some time and got no benefit
from either. They thoroughly drenched me
with lodide of Potassium and Sulphur, and my
system got so low that I was quite unmanned
in every way. But a course of your GREAT
NERVE TONIC gave me life and vim, and I
was raised from a cripple on sticks to the feel-
ings of the proverbial man who ‘could jump
over the moon.’ It is indeed a great Tonic,
and most suitable for the relaxing climate of
Queensland.
“ Both my friends, to whom I have recom-
mended it, and myself enjoy the best of health.
It is a great strengthener of the system, and if
at any time I strike a poor ‘ unfortunate ’ I
always tell him of FISHER’S GREAT
NERVE TONIC, as I am a firm believer in
its beneficial qualities.”
“Fisher’s Great Nerve Tonic”
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-; Tour Times the Quantity, 2/6.
POST FREE FROM THE SOLE MANUFACTURERS—
FISHER & CO., Chemists and Druggists, 337 George St., Sydney
(Opposite General Post Office).
FOR THE “AFTER EFFECTS” OF
Influenza, Dengue Fever & flalaria,
THERE IS NOTHING TO EQUAL
FISHER’S “Great Nerve Tonic”
REGISTERED IN NEW SOUTH WALES AS “ PHOSPHERINE.”
Always Ask for “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE
TONIC” as sold throughout the
whole of Australia .


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. t.o £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents; JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies A ct, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £SOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.289 6 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 b 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Qolonial fQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bpon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ZKT.S.'W.
fflontdepietej).*LCo.,|;ti.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadb,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COOOWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. - ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gi.
Shipping.
3XT. 33. L.
(N ORD- D)IUTSCH ER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. Lonrlon, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Comp.cues, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
nun not. ”
Capital Paid-up £4(17,581 0 0
Reserve Liability or Shareholders .. 174,350, 0 0
Reserve FuKD(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acdt., E. H. Matthews
London Omcs :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STdEET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches iu Queensland. Aaents and Correspondents
Throunhout the. World.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
♦MARATHON Tn. Allan 7. "Tnooii. Oct. 11
SALAMIS .. .. |R. Mclvilliam .. I Noon. Nov. 2
tDAMASCUS ... |H. A. Sohleman .. I Noon. Dec. C
* Twin Screw. t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalt/ety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
j
PLYMOUTH & LONDON Via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
* KARAIVIEA, to sail about tBth Oct.
*TROPIC, to sail about 2nd Nov.
PERSIC, to sail about 27th Nov.
RUNIC), MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC
to follow.
* Cargo only.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A implication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Ua/yetij and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> HOLIPAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makatnbo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ĵ
CRUISES. *
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CftNADIM-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA,
"Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Public Notices.
DON’T EE HARD UP.
This can be easily avoided bv writing- AT ONCE to
THE MINING iNVESTMENT AND AGENCY COMPANY,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolutely in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested by us in the very best stocks.
ADVICE FREE,
W. Bruce Fox, General Manager.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
Asvaana
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send bobk of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
W;
X&Y
WNS
A3E
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find, every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon jfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house irv
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing- Beacn,
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, |-houi
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
QEORGE
HOTEL,
«St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Voigtlander’s
Binoculars.
m
m
$£2
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD'S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOICTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
■S.S.
Grantala, Saturday,
October 12, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norfh to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Oct. 12.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 19.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Gold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IVXessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be.disuatched MONTHLY, as follows •
.... oujvcu. du Duuiudy, iiKiicij Lmna,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2 10s,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P- de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F. H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For LONDON & LIVERPOOL
(Calling at DURBAN to land passengers)
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer,
“SOMERSET”
11,000 Tons. T. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 30th October
» >. ~ Melbourne ~ 4th November
» ~ Adelaide ~ 9th ~
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining saloon on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES — Saloon.
DURBAN £2O 4
CAPETOWN £22 10s. |
LONDON & f
LIVERPOOL £45 I
Plus
10%
Third Class.
£lO £ll
£lO 10s. £lllls.
£l2
£l2 12s.
£l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
To be followed by other similar
twin-screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED,
7 Macquarie Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 12.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 19.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, October 26.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
Other W.A. ports.)
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, October 26.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, October 12.
KONOOWARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, October 15.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 19.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 850
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
The
UNDERWOOD
“Ail-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BUCK £.lO <a £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
"TP®
RODS
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE&c.
, The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON. 64 llumkk Siiusai, SYDNEY.


0
d
j
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
• • •
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS’ SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH, AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of Influenza and Bronchitis, and for
ten years was suffering- with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had medical attendance, and tried various
medicines recommended, but without success until, on my daughter’s recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, with the result that it completely cured me, and I am perfectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL, 116 Shields Street, Fleming on, Melbourne.
DRY HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hacking cough on my chest that used
to trouble me terribly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I tried different sorts of medicine,
which took no effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure in informing you, relieved me at
once. It has completely cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your medicine for a thorough and
immediate cure.—l remain, yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS, Modewarre, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. I tried every cough remedy I Could get, but not one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one
bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been
wonderful.—Yours, etc., J. BATSON, Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. _ Dear Sir, —It is with pleasure I can say that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma
since. I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL, Smeaton, Victoria.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which
please find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced
to have a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose, and improved immediately. I like to always
have some on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to
make use of what I have written. This is not the first time it has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK, “ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE.
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF-EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this statement
by publishing it for the benefit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE, Reedy Creek, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form, it completely cured me, and now in the winter months, if I at. all
contract a cold on the chest, it gives me instant relief. I have also proved its efficacy with members of my family,
whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir, you are
deserving of the best thanks of the community for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable medicine.—l
remain, gratefully yours, W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in quickly
curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medicine for
chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received. —I am,
Dear Sir, yours faithfully,
D. BEATTY, Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Last winter, my youngest son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest,
had a dry, distressing, hacking cough, which troubled the poor little fellow very badly at night-time. I tried many
so-called panaceas without any appreciable effect. But, after using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
I am pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely
disappeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending your magical medicine to my friends. Believe me to
be, yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES, “Lilliesea,” Union Street, Windsor, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVB HIS BED. A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several
occasions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard
of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my
bed, but I commenced taking it at once and gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots of medicine you
sent have effected a complete cure, for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR, Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
SUFFOCATING DRY COUGH FOR TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sjr,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most distressing, suffocating', dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’prescriptions, and patent medicines having been tried; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the fiftl
dose of vour Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, sir, yours most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT, Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ SUFFERER
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now Ido not feel safe to be without it.—l remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY, Bethanga, Victoria.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS! The great success, of BEAUNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE —Small Size, 2s. fid.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G-. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning' of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No . 5 f First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney .
*
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“ Aural ” writes :
When Tate took charge of the Victorian Education
Department he touched it up with a vengeance. Result
—a body' of teachers eager to carry out the new ideas,
but with no time to do so. In fact, they have hardly'
time to be alive. Among their other duties they'
have to raise funds to supply half the cost of asphalting
portions of school reserves, fencing the ground, building
shelter sheds, improving teachers’ residences, and pro-
viding science apparatus. Swimming and cookery
classes, cadet corps, cardboard modelling, sloyd work,
etc., are ali being pushed vigorously ahead. Besides
these there are gardening, concerts, patriotic observances,
arbor days, religious instruction, and school exhibi-
tions. The concerts, exhibitions, arbor day's, and Empire
day rot require an endless amount of preparation. The
school is everlastingly preparing for something 1 , at the
expense, of true education. The teacher pays his own
exes at the various shivoos. He attends a summer school
during the holidays, and drawing classes on Saturdays.
He must supervise the children during dinner recess and
at religious instruction, and he may be required to live
in the neighborhood of the school. The Victorian peda-
gogue must be a theatrical manager, an athlete, a soldier,
a doctor, a musician, an artist, a.t auctioneer, and an
inspector of nuisances all in one. For, besides teaching
swimming, drill, music, painting and drawing, he is re-
quired to examine children who are mentally and physi-
cally' deficient, to report outbreaks of disease in the
neighborhood, to sell to the highest bidder any Depart-
mental property' nob in use, and to manage school enter-
tainments. Lastly', he is often a postmaster, an electoral
registrar, a registrar of births and deaths, and a J. P.
And the salary is mostly' £l6O a year.
“ Maori Mac’s ” tale of sin :
.
Maoriland is occasionally startled by the appearance of
bubonic plague in one of its seaports, but the outbreak
never runs into two figures—in fact, Auckland holds the
, ... . . . , . ,
record with two simultaneous cases. Which reminds me
of Maoriland’s great smallpox scare. The patient was a
half-caste cohentingenter, and the Dominion was shaken
to its foundations when the medicine men diagnosed his
case as smallpox. The sufferer—his sufferings were not
acute—was hurried from the troopship to a secluded spot
near Wellington Heads, accompanied by a doctor, a
nurse, two large artillerymen, much case whisky, and
miscellaneous attendants. The Government had an idea
that case whisky was the specific for smallpox, and the
supply was plentiful. Meanwhile Maoriland hungered
for news of its patient, and clamored for details, dia-
grams, photographs. Press men hired steam
launches, and viewed the invalid promenading on the
beach with his nurse —the doctor and the soldiers were
probably away unpacking the whisky—and columns of
“ guff ” resulted. Then some of the expedition began to
see snakes and visions, and had to be relieved. The press
was sympathetic. Later one large artilleryman deve-
loped incipient insubordination, or something, and was
sent to depot. There were quite a number of candidates
for his job, and the papers spoke admiringly of the
country’s soldiers. At the end of three months public
interest in smallpox died away, and the Health Depart-
ment discharged a reluctant patient, and drove him
away from the case whisky at the point of the bayonet.
It also had the house where he had sojourned burnt
down. Then it transpired that the half-caste did not
have smallpox, but quite another disease, and the Health
Department hastily but firmly changed the subject.


s „ .
■7
\
w
, f
£
THE ®-©CTAVE
PSAMO PLAYER
The Greatest of ail Piano Players
The CLAVIOLA, with its magnificent Artists’ Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME.
THE ARTISTS’ MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow—not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit of
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the pedal while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim s interpretations of Liszt, or G'areno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer s reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY 01 HER REASONS why this marvellous Instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
Po not Fail to Call and Hear It, or Send for our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
ME LB OURNE
ALLAN & C? P
R.OR
276- & COLLINS ST
SYDNEY
PAL
NG&C
Lj
D
O
G
E
O
R
G
S
I
Sill
%]
/
*s* oA *s
Co
Perfect Watch satisfaction will be yours if you buy your Watch from
us. our stock embraces a wide selection of the most valuable makes at
prices from 10/6 to £lOO. Our policy of constantly striving to give the
oest possible value enables us, after an uninterrupted Watch-selling
career of 35 years, to offer, not only the best Watches, but the lowest
prices consistent with the best quality. Investigation will convince
you. Write for free Catalogue, or order one of the five dependable
low-priced Men’s Watches described nere, and judge us by its per-
formance. All orders delivered Free and safe by Post.
Popular . .
Designs -
IN FINE JEWELLERY.
We show here a few designs
which have gained the approval
of Sydney women. Each piece
is as perfect as skilled hands
can make it, and the prices are
in keeping with the designs—
popular.
. Ask for our Catalogue ;
.it is sent Free.
No. Fl74l.—Real New Zealand Greenstone and
9-ct. Gold Brooch, £l/1/-.
No. F4tlo4.—Elegant 15-ct.. Gold Brooch, Set with
Obo Diamond and Two Rubies, £3/10/-.
No. E 8898.—
9-ct. Gold, Pearl
and Amethyst
Pendant, 12/6.
The Popular NELLIE STEWART BANGLES. The perfection
of make, Invisible Joint and Catch, size as illustrated.
9-ct. Gold, £3/3/-. 15-ct. Gold, £5.
Larger Size „ £4. „ £7.
Smaller „ „ £2/10/-. „ £3/7/6.
9-ct. Gold and
Pearl Pendant,
' £l/5/-.
No. F 1631.— 9-ct. Gold Brooch, Set Bose
Diamond and Rubies, £l/2/6.
I
SUSP
No. F1628. —9-cfc. Gold Brooch, Set Rose Diamond
' and Rubies, £l/2/6.
ct. Gold Tur
quoise Set
Heart, 13/6.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
No. E 9 <380.—9-ct. Gold, =6l/17/6. 15-ct. Gold, £3/15/-
Size Larger „ £2/5/-. . ~ £4/10/-
„ Smaller „ £l/7/6. „ £2/15/-
m
No. E 9955.—9-
ct. Gold Heart
Pendant, 8/6.
—>® 3 —ss —a —9 —a - g —a —5-
No. 81. 16-ct Gold Bar Brooch. Engraved
Ends, 16/0.
No. 30.—15-ct. Bars and Opal and Pearl
Set Fly Brooch, £2/10/-.
ĵ


0
t?ZL
There is nothing that Clears, Purifies
and Protects the Skin like
Zam-Buk Soap.
■ rSi-qS—C- 1 - "■■■■■■■ ■■
Pimples on the face, in addition to being distasteful and a dis-
figurement to the appearance, are very often the cause of serious blood
poison and skin disease, due to the broken eruptions becoming con-
taminated by septic impurities and disease germs, which are uncon-
sciously conveyed to the affected parts from the accumulations of
impure matter which settle on the hands and in the finger nails, thus
the act of scratching releases these microbes, and serious disease results.
Mr. A. W. Sawer, a well-known resident of Lincoln-street, Ooor-
paroo, Queensland, who suffered from pimples on the face, and contracted
blood poisoning by reason of tearing them with the nails, writes :
“ I have just recently taken to your Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap,
and find it a splendid soap for shaving, and also a curative for pimples
on the face, as previous to my using it I was troubled with these pests,
and at one time contracted blood-poisoning through scratching these
pimples, but I am glad to have found a cure for this complaint by
using Zam-Buk Soap. I find it a pleasant soap for all toilet purposes,
and henceforth will use no other.”
Zam-Buk Soap is meeting with popular favor everywhere owing to
its great purifying, soothing, strengthening and sanitating influence on
the skin and scalp. Tts virtues are unsurpassed as a true skin tonic.
How to Treat Scalp Troubles.
Zam-Buk Soap is especially useful in the scalp diseases of young children. Crop short
the hair, dress freely with the well-known Zam-Buk balm night and morning, apply it well
to the scalp, afterwards rinse and lather with Zam-Buk Soap. This treatment regularly
persevered in will combat the worse case of scalp disease.
It will arrest mattering, allay the horrible irritation, and by degrees heal the sores up and
leave the scalp sweet, wholesome, and clean. The rich, creamy lather from Zam-Buk Soap
has also a stimulating effect on the hair follicles, apd the hair once devastated by disease is
naturally restored to its old glossiness. ZAM-BUK SOAP is obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores, or direct from the Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W A
<2
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The official call,” says a Johannesburg paper,
“is becoming a painful performance. This morning
(5/7/’O7) the total brokerage on the sales recorded on
High ’Change amounted to £1 ss. 6d.” That gives a hint
as to the state of business in S’Africa. The cheap-labor
Chow seems to have “ saved ” the Transvaal in just the
same disastrous way as he has “ saved ” the Northern
Territory.
-W ■*
Victoria, with its big butter and fruit business,
badly wants the promised Forestry Department to plant
a few million trees which will turn into boxes. At the
fruit-town of Harcourt a factory is as busy as it can be
knocking together cases of pine from the pinus insignis.
For butter, Maoriland white pine is used, but a suitable
timber is cottonwood. Lately 65,000 cottonwood trees
have been planted at Stony Creek and Ballarat. When
that number has been multiplied by 100 there will be
some flourishing box factories in Victoria.
* * • * m
At Dunedin (M.L.) an alleged manuscript of
Burn’s “ Aye Waukin ” was put up to auction. The
local Scot distrusted its genuineness, however, and clung
doggedly to his bawbee. One Sandilands, a Southron,
bid half-a-crown, and got the MS. He promptly sold it
for 10 guineas, to go to England, and the Ideal Scot fell to
regretful brooding. And now from England comes the
news that the MS. has fetched 70 guineas, and the
Dunedinite, were he not speechless with grief and shame,
would utter the Gaelic equivalent for a worse word than
“ blanky ” quite often.
* • * *
“ Agricola ” : The man who offers a gold watch
and a magnificent solid silver enamelled gold jam spoon,
set in diamonds, as a reward for selling four boxes of pills
atone bob each, gets so enthusiastic over the virtues of
his cure-all, that he splits his infinitives, and fractures
the rules of syntax with great violence. Here are a few
gems culled from the last batch of puffs that came in my
direction. (1) “It is neeessary to carefully follow the
directions on the box.” 2) “It is impossible to fully
realise the sufferings endured by ailing women.” (3)
“ We are ready to immediately forward you samples of
our sovereign remedies.” (4 —and the fourth example is
a boshter) “It is pur desire to, if you sell four boxes of
our pills, and forward us the addresses of six of your
friends, send you one of our valuable prizes.” The fol-
lowing example is worthy of note :—“ Everyone who for-
wards a post-card with their name and address, will have
four sample boxes sent, which he will be able to easily
sell among his friends, and gain one of our special
prizes.”
“ Almand ”: lam troubled with a bad dream.
It came through my foolishness in wondering how many
flies (bloated blow) a large black spider could import in a
given time. I cut the wings from the first half-dozen ;
but it made things too easy for the black glutton, so the
next 10 went into the web lively. At intervals during
the day I chucked a few more in. Next day I made a big
effort, heaving about 20 at the web. Most of them stuck.
Three hours afterwards all had disappeared into the
parlor (or whatever else that uncanny slaughter-house
was called). Early next morning I investigated. No
flies, no web, no spider. I am wondering what happened.
And the thing haunts my dreams. A Fat Man acts as
spider, and I feed him with my brains, and I can’t see
what becomes of them.
* * *
The latest victims of the Japanese trade mark
piracy are the Anglo-American combine known as Coats
and Co. Cotton-reels bearing the name of the firm, or one
of its subsidiary companies, “guaranteed 200yd5.,” are
flooding the Chinese market. The 200yds. generally pan
out for just as much as it takes to cover the wood of
which the reel is composed, and there is some stuffing
underneath the thread. In consequence, the products
of Coats and Co. are being looked at sideways by the
Chinese “consumer.” But it is all the same to the
fraudulent Jap. While the Coats name is any good he
will sell his sham reel on the strength of it, and make a
big profit. When the Coats name, because of the Jap
fraud, is no longer of any value to man or beast, the
Jappy person will have a clear market in which to sell
his own reel.
* * * *■
“A.F.8.”: Re “F.C.’s” narrow escape (B.
19/9/’O7) from falling into some more of the great natural
resources of this country in the shape of a kaolin mine at
Ringwood (Vic.). At Bulla (a hamlet with a dog, a house,
and a pub), 20 miles from Melbourne, there is to be found
in unlimited quantities what experts have declared to be
the finest kaolin obtainable anywhere. Years ago a
pottery was started, and turned out excellent work ; but,
like many other Australian industries, it pined for the
want of Protection. And now all that is to be seen are the
bluestone foundations of what was once a hive of in-
dustry. And instead of a number of workmen’s homes,
Bulla can just manage to keep the wolf from its dog’s
door.
* * * *
“San Remo” : As the result of 15 years’ ex-
perience in selling hats, I want a fixed duty per dozen
hats, in addition to an ad valorem impost. That
duty is wanted, for one thing, to kill the shoddy wool hats
(mostly Italian-made) with which Australia is now being
flooded. I have recently handled a youth’s wool felt, in-
voiced f.o.b. London, 9s. 6d. per dozen. Australia re-
quires to hit this shoddy with a duty that resembles a
good Australian axe. This season nearly all the whole-
sale houses have opened up large quantities of Italian
samples of these goods, and I doubt whether the present
ad valorem duty will be enough to keep the Italian
invasion back. These cheap wool hats look all right and
are made in the best shapes, but are most unsatisfactory
to all concerned. But the great god of shoddy seems to
have gripped the Australian public badly, and" cheapness
—cheapness is the cry.
* * • ♦
“Sr”: I want to say things—many things—
about the miserable wage that architectural draftsmen
receive. A draftsman, as a rule, does the whole of
the drawings and specifications for a building, supervises
its construction, adjusts accounts, etc., and, practically,
he is the architect. The boss supplies the ink and paper,
the T square and boards, and gives an instruction now
and again, and the draftsman does the bulk of the graft
on his “ pat.” Yet his wage (in Melbourne), so far as my
knowledge goes, does not average more than two quid a
week. Must be incompetent or second-rate men, you
say ? Not much. Some of the cleverest designers are
working in offices for less than £2 a week. Why don’t
they ask for more, or, alternatively, get another job at a
better salary ? Generally because there are only a small
number of architects, and they all have their established
staffs of draftsmen, and it is almost impossible to get
into an established office except as a temporary hand.
So the underpaid draftsman accepts the £2, and grumbles
up his sleeve to his shoulder. Of course, there are good
offices where good wages are paid, but, take it all in all,
the architectural draftsman is an underpaid skilltd
laborer, almost as badly off as the importers’ clerk, with
this saving grace—he’s not so bad a crawler.
“Te Babarantiko” writes about trading in the
islands:—
I believe there is an idea in Australia that the South
Sea island trader has a long stocking and doesn’t take
many years to fill it. It is a mistake ; he makes a very
poor living as a rule.
His business is to buy copra, etc., from the natives, and
to pass it on to the four or five outside “ trading ” firms,
Australian, Chinese (Sydney), or German. They form a
close corporation, and against them the individual trader
is powerless. While copra was selling at £2O, the island
trader could get only about £B, and that was paid in
trade goods at prices like this (I am speak-
ing now particularly of the Gilbert Group):—
Twist tobacco (worth about 9d. out of bond in Sydney),
Is. Bd. per lb. ; 301 b. tin biscuits, 12s. ; 501 b. tin flour,
12s. ; safety matches, 4s. 6d. per gross; white calico
(Sydney retail price, say, 3d.), 6d. per yard. Most of the
goods are of inferior quality. A German firm charges £1
per 501 b. tin of beet sugar ; a Chow firm sells C.S.R. 281 b.
tins of sugar for 9s. The tins are all right, but 31b. of
sugar has been taken out of every tin, leaving only 251 b.
On the two-tin case a clumsy “ 5 ” is painted over the
“8.” Whether the C.S.R. does it to oblige the Chows,
or whether the 31b. are taken out on the Chow premises,
only they can tell. It is done somewhere, there is no
gainsaying that. Landing goods, etc., is somewhat diffi-
cult on some of the islands, so the reduction in weight is,
perhaps, done to enable the trader to handle his baggage
an ore easily.
It is scarcely too much to say that the outsiders who
get the copra in exchange for this “ trade ” often squeeze
it out of the island trader at a cost to themselves of under
£4 ; yet for Government-tax copra they pay up to £l7 in
hard cash.
On many of the Gilbert and other islands the trader is
really no better than a pedlar, and a mean pedlar at
that. He pushes along the lagoon in a boat with a few
goods, and along the road on foot, from village to village,
with a small bundle of tobacco, matches and fishhooks
on his back. On some islands, a native won't come to him
to buy even a couple of sticks of tobacco ; he must go from
house to house to ask the native to buy. The Kanakas
actually fix the prices of copra and goods, and the poor
pedlar must submit, for between the natives and the
trading firms, he can’t help himself —he must scrape
copra together for the firms, to get a meagre living.
There are islands where traders dare not visit each
other for fear of the natives. If the natives see them
on friendly terms they think the traders are arranging to
keep up prices, in which case the Kanakas will taboo
them. And so they are barred even a sociable yarn.
Were he to eat meat every day, or to live very moder-
ately (as the poorer people in Australia live), his monthly
food-bill would amount to about £6. But he breakfasts
and dines as he goes on what the natives offer him—a
sip of “toddy” (palm sap) here, a bit of cocoanut and
unappetising fish there, some powdered pandanus fruit
(“ sawdust ”) somewhere else, and so he manages to exist.
It isn’t the life that the men who write verses about
the South Seas picture; but it is the life that is lived. I
know ; I have lived it—and I don’t live far away from
it now.
* * * *
What a greedy mouth the Suez Canal has ! For
the past few years its receipts have averaged over
£4,000,000 annually, while the expenses have averaged
little more than £1,600,000, leaving close on £2,500,000 a
year for dividends. The present charge on all shipping
is 7f francs, or a little over 65., a ton. In spite of an
agreement made in 1883 between the Canal co. and the
British shipowners, that half of all profits over 18 per
cent, and the whole of all profits over 25 per cent, should
go to reduce dues until they fell to 5’09 francs per ton,
the existing dividend is 141 francs on a 500-franc share,
or 28 - 2 per cent. The British Government holds 176,000
of the 400,000 ordinary shares, and the total dividend
drawn by Britain is over £1,000,000 a year. At the
Imperial Conference Deakin and Ward asked the
British Government to apply part of this dividend
to reducing the Canal charges to British shipping,
but the English Freetraders saw in even this pro-
posal the “ pernicious poison ” of Protection. Quoth
the chairman at the last meeting :—“ Personally, I believe
that the Panama Canal will not affect the traffic of the
Suez Canal. . . The company has by treaty a monopoly
of canal exploitation in the Isthmus of Suez, and conse-
quently companies desirous of embarking on rival enter-
prises would have to go through the Jordan Valley, where
they would enoounter almost insuperable difficulties.”
When Deakin (through the Governor-General) made repre-
sentations to Great Britain regarding the blood-sucking
ot commerce by this vampire mouth between two oceans,
Great Britain replied that it couldn’t do anything except
“at the cost to a great extent of pecuniary loss to his
Majesty’s Government.” And his Majesty’s Government
wasn’t taking any “ pecuniary loss.”
» * * *
“T.”: Of all the soul-destroying trades ever in-
vented by the devil, commend me to wall-paper selling.
The stock generally consists of a thousand or so diiferent
designs, and the salesman is supposed to carry them all
in his head. And the customers ! There’s the lady who
wants every roll in the shop taken down and spread be-
fore her eyes, and then says she will go and tell her hus-
band what you have. And the party that comes in at
half-past ten and lolls on the comfortable seats provided
until half-past four, with a seemingly adamant stomach,
while the salesman explains and argues and pulls down
and points out beauties until he is nearly fainting with
hunger. And then there’s the couple that comes in
to pick papers for three rooms. They pick the
first one all right, and go on to the second.
By the time they have chosen that, they are
dissatisfied with the first. Then they cannot find any-
thing to suit the third room except what they have picked
for the second. Then they try to look at papers for all three
rooms at once. Then they decide to put the first paper
in the third room, and the second into the first room,
and get so tangled that they do not know where they
are, and appeal to the bewildered salesman to sort them
out. And finally they say they will not decide until they
see what is in the shop down the street. And as they
sweep out of the showroom the salesman says * !!!
and makes other strange remarks. And then there is the
person who is after remnants, and wants a blue and
yellow stripe with a large green poppy and some puce
leaves, and a little touch of gold to brighten it.
* * * *
“ Silvertail” : Can anybody tell me why some
tobacco is put up in the form of 5J plugs to the pound ?
The tobacco I refer to is a brand greatly used in the back
country and manufactured by the Trust—not that the
manufacturer derives any benefit from the s£-plug
custom. I should imagine it was started under pressure
from some unscrupulous retailers. Nobody wants to. be
bothered cutting a plug in halves when selling a pound
of tobacco, and the only apparent reason for this most
inconvenient practice is that it opens up a Iftifcht
possibility of selling 5 plugs as a pound—the number to
which biishmen are accustomed. This means that the
small caddy of 101 b. is stretchable to 111 b. a large
extra profit. If there is any satisfactory explanation of
the weird custom with the fraction in it, I shall be glad
to learn what it is, but it strikes me as being akin to the
old dodge of weighing in the lead with the tea. I would
suggest that each plug should be plainly marked with a
printed tag “5£ plugs to the lb.” This could be attached
as easily as the one with the name of the brand, and
would prevent any deception. Does the Commerce Act
touch this sort of thing ?
*** ■ •
“J.G.,” from a very small Victorian town:
Went into the post-office the other day to post a couple
of Bullktins to San Francisco. Asked the postmaster
what the postage would be. He put on his best official
look, considered the address, and said, “ Where’s that ? ”
I replied, “In the United States.” Then he said, “ The
United States is in the United Kingdom, ain’t it?” And
he seemed to be surprised when I told him that the U.S.
was a foreign country. Then he took down a big Postal
Guide to find out the postage rates on newspapers sent to
foreign countries, and after looking for an hour
or two, he said he couldn’t find the place. Mean-
time, about a dozen other people had come in
for their mails, and were kept waiting whilst
the P.M. was fixing up my bit of .business.. Presently
some of the citizens got tired of waiting, and got rope-
able, and began to use boiling language. The P.M. told
me to wait whilst he served out the mails. Before he
left me he passed over the guide, and told me to “ ’ave a
look,” and see if I could find out the postal rates on news-
papers. After I had found out that I had to payijd.,
he said “ Orlright,” and as he was getting the stamps he
added, “I am sorry you read that awful pernicious
socialistic paper.” I v< plied that I was sorry he was
in a good socialistic billet, and had kept me waiting so
long through not knowing his duties, and we parted with
mutual discomfort. .
THE EATEN LION IS SOON FORGOTTEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have come to the conclusion that London is fond of
us, and lionises us, for what it can get out of us.— Tom Bent.
That London’s very fond of us
Good Thomas Bent has lately found,
And never fails to make a fuss
Of politicians large and round,
Who go across in splendid style
To pose as lions for a while.
Though lions fed on martyrs pale'
In former times, hear Thomas vow
We have to tell another tale.
The lion ’bis gets eaten now ;
And cute financiers think it play,
Devouring lions day by day.
This is a lesson to the ’roo,
The fondness of the Motherland
Is that of some fat matron who
Is fed on broth, and fed by hand
By loansome ’roo who cheers, poor dupe,
The while his tail is in the soup 1
VIC.
S.S.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
S he LEADING |CAN'T'
HOUSE -«• Ibeat
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHINQ AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
' from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
111111111 l
6/0
OUR
Special
Snap.
4/0
2/0 I
j
fS
f^
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“KEY BRAND.
91
M 34 —Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1-2-3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
6d. 6d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/1 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/10 per box of 50.
M4o—Mustad’s Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted—
Nos. 10 to 1 1£ 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
4d. 4d. sd. od. 6d. 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/2 1/4 per box of 50
M44—Mustad’s Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, XX Strong-
Nos. 10 to 1 1£ l/O 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
6d. 6d. 6d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/1 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/10 per box of 50
Angler’s Guido and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to G*t Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Oomic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
183 d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ĵ
HOME CYCLOPEDIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pr* Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all I»egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pay,3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
j
is the face cream for the Aus-
tralian woman who values a
good complexion.
It will remove r>H the dirt and dust tha
soap and watt r cannot get at from the pores
of the skin, and will keep it soft, smooth and
clear through the Australian summer, so
complexion destroying.
Oatine is a pure cream made from healing
oats and contains no dangerous mineral salts
or animal fats, which hot weather can cause
to go bad.
Oatine will not grow hair. Men should
always use it after shaving.
Oatine costs 1/9 a jar at all chemists, or
in larger sizes, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained atall chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
ĵ
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner ef-Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [7
YSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
and wickedly true.”*
“De-
NEW Club Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.. U. S. A.
now: c.
NEW CLUB
RTRIDGES
j
-
rrlV.Vrt
‘‘On
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
m compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below—- /
Manufactured I y BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co.,
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by:
G. E. CRANE & SONS Ltd.,
Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS & Co.,
Brisbane.
r-a
& '•
Sj»e
»w
ri("!
£ rr f l!
rff
’•/teg'"
it£
Ufie BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PAOKET OF TEN, 10d.
Britisl)=Hustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price POST FREE, £1 per year,
a. i wu* j n a< jvance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kinirsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David Braham & C-
-94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS SUITINGS
for SUMMER.
Periodical Shipments reach os right through
the Season.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Samples and
Self-Measure Charts.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO*,
TAILORS,
—94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,—


A Test Experiment
showing how Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
Digest What You Eat.
This jar
contains an
ORDINARY
DINNER,
consisting of
SOUP, FISH,
CUTLETS
and
GREEN
PEAS,
ROAST
GOOSE
and VEGE-
TABLES,
PLUM
PUDDING,
JELLY,
CHEESE,
NUTS,
COFFEE.
-V-W* 1
K 4
i l , ii i, 'lifi
Ik Mi\ : r
o
. li.:
IS,
This jar
contains
an ordinary
dinner
completely
digested
by
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive
Tabules.
If your dinner is completely digested as shown above, you can plainly see that
indigestion is impossible, and that your food will be in such a condition that it can be
readily absorbed and turned into rich, red blood. .. . .
Also it is well to remember that when food is properly digested, it is impossible for the
bowels to become constipated. . . .
These TABULES are sold everywhere at 2s. Gd. for a tin containing 80 labules. Buy
a tin eat a good square meal, and then take a Fabule, and note the result. You will forget
all about it if you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance, and your food
will be DIGESTED, just as it used to be when your stomach was well and strong. Further-
more, your stomach will soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as
thousands and thousands of other stomachs have been, by the sole and exclusive use of
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Widow O’Grady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IyrORA O’GRADY, of Warragaroo,
-I Was a pleasant and plump little lady.
Buxom and fair, she was just thirty-two,
And the widow of Michael O’Grady.
Down by the creek, where the sad willows wave,
For the last trumpet call Michael waited,
And oft were the flowers that grew on his grave
By his widow’s salt tears irrigated.
Nora was doleful, but Nora was fair,
And the men folk all thought it a pity
That the vampire of Grief, and the ghoul of
Despair,
Should wax fat on a mortal so pretty.
Suitors came wooing, but Nora was cold—
There was never an icicle colder ;
But, thirty-two summers is not very old,
So the suitors grew bolder and bolder.
Jimp y the stockman and Frank from the mill
Used to bring her some fruit every Sunday ;
Young Mr. Watson, who owned the Red Hill,
Game to pay his respects every Monday.
Half-a-score others came three times a week,
But they had no effect on the lady ;
Mostly they found she was down at the creek
Dropping tears on the grave of O’Grady.
Scones baked by Nora were fit for a Queen,
Her fritters fair feed for a fairy ;
Fat were her kine in her paddocks of green,
But the pride of her heart was her dairy.
Never was dairy so clean and so sweet,
And there never was dairymaid neater.
Two queries the people were wont to repeat—
Whether she or her cream were the sweeter ?
Once, about midday, a sturdy young scamp
Put his face in the door of the dairy.
“God bless your milk, ma’am,” he said, “ I’m on
tnramp,
And I feel that I’ve seen me good fairy.
Ah 1 the fine hair you have —softer than silk !
Is it you or a queen I’m addressin’ ?
God bless your cows. For a dhrink of your milk
I’ll call down on your dairy a, blessin’.
“ Ah, ! the fine dhrink 1 ” said the rogue, with a
sigh.
“ ’Tis a dhrink for the gods, so I’m thinkin’.
But how can I tell, when I look at your eye,
If it’s necthar or milk I’ve been dhrinkin’ ?
God keep O’Grady, and on the last day
May he meet his reward whin they find him !
Poor man ! It was hard to be taken away, -
Lavin’ such a sweet crayther behind him.”
Nora felt sad, when he bade her good day,
With his manner, half earnest, half joking.
He had a most wheedling and comforting way,
And his careless “Good day !” was provoking.
Mournful she sighed for some spot cool and damp;
So she sought for a nook cool and shady,
Down by the creek. And lo ! There was the
scamp ;
He ivas clearing the weeds from O'Grady.
Pity, they say, is related to Love.
And fair Nora, though nigh broken-hearted,
Accepted the delicate tribute above
The remains of her darling departed.
Down by the willows she wandered each day
In a state that was sweet and enthralling.
Vain were her tears. The scamp kissed them away
As he said, “ To prevint them from falling.”
Nora was constant, but Nora was weak ;
She had no one to counsel or guide her.
And up in the dairy, or down by the creek,
Young Brady, the scamp, was beside her.
Jonquils and daffodils grew as of yore
Over Michael’s secluded location ;
But none of them looked quite so fresh as before,.
For they hadn’t so much irrigation.
Brady removed the white cap from her head,
And the widow proved very forgiving.
“ Yon’ve taken,” said she, “all the weeds from
the dead,
And so, why should they bide on the living?”
Friends praised the flowers in her bridal bouquet
On the day she became Mrs. Brady ;
She said, and she smiled, as she threw them
away,
“ They’re the last from the grave of O’Grady.
N.s.w.
THOS E. SPENCEK.
Bunny.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MANY years ago a Richmond FSver
(N. S.W.) farmer purchased a pair of
rabbits from somewhere, and had them
brought home with as much care as a shepherd
would bestow on a prize pup. Being on the farm
at the tinle, I shared the family pride in the
acquisition. The farmer built an elaborate hutch
for them near his back door—where he could
smell them easily—and fed them on thistles,
lettuce, and cabbage leaves. It was his first
meeting with bunny since he left England ; and
while watching his pets feeding he would talk
about rabbits and poaching and gamekeepers and
the like. He would also expatiate on the excel-
lence of rabbit pie and other rabbit dishes till my
mouth used to water when I looked at those-
bunnies. But they were too precious to kill.
People rode miles to see them, and when the first
young ones appeared whole families trooped over
on Sundays to look at them. Neighbors bought
the young ones at five shillings a pair, and I
had to deliver the purchases, carrying them,
from three to ten miles in a bag. They increased
rapidly, and we had to enlarge the domicile.
That meant additional cleaning and washing out
for me. I was only a nipper at that time, and
too much cleaning and scrubbing didn’t agree-
with me. My opinions about rabbits began to
change a lot. at this stage. They are the dirtiest
things I ever saw in a cage, and smell even
worse than foxes. We killed them in the end,
and made firewood of the bunny-house. Our
neighbors’ enthusiasm died even more quickly, so
very soon the last of the precious pets on the river
had found its way to the pot. None got away.
Years afterwards I. met bunny under new con-
ditions. I was camped at Tyson’s Hut, on the
Darling Downs, with a mate of a few days’
acquaintance. We were out of meat, and our
horses were too done-up to go on. About
sundown we saw bunny trooping out of
the scrub at the back of the hut in thou-
sands, and spreading himself frolicsomely over
the prairie, and we reckoned we were in
luck. We went out with sticks and stones,
and we pelted and chased the animals through
the long grass for an hour, by which time we
were pretty tired, and likewise considerably aston-
ished. Much of the conceit was knocked out of
us also, for we had imagined we could run. But
they were like greyhounds in miniature —long,
, thin beggars that could throw somersaults over
the tall tussocks. We also somersaulted over
many of the tussocks, but we mostly hit the
ground with our heads. I said those quadrupeds
were hares ;he was sure they were rabbits. I
think they were both. My mate mistook a
couple of them in the distance for dingoes. He
had a dog, but we could run clean away from that
dog ourselves. Still we thought he could catch
one if we drove a mob over him. We were tear-
ing and yelling through the grass, trying to do
this, when I made a flying shot at a buck, missed
him, and knocked the tip of my mate’s nose off.
Hunting was suspended at once while we had a
fight. He was a hostile sort of person. For
three minutes it was a willing go—all
to ourselves in the long grass. Then
a fire started under our feet, and we
left off by mutual consent to put it out. He had
dropped a box of matches in the tussle, and one
of us had trodden on it, and thus exploded the
contents. As soon as the fire was out he walked
over to the hut, packed up his effects, and went
down to the scrub. He also shifted his horses so
that they wouldn’t associate with mine. I spent
the rest of the evening sitting on the door-step,
and watched the rabbits out of one eye.
Later again I came to know bunny intimately,
and to hate him as one hates a plague. This was
in the neighborhood of the Bulloo flood-water.
The runs swarmed with rabbits, and each station
waged war against them with a poison cart. I
drove one of these carts for a fortnight during one
slack summer. I would camp at one waterhole
for a few days and poison the neighborhood, then
shift to another hole or tank. It is a disagree-
able, unhealthy job—especially making the baits.
This work occupied all the forenoon. The phos-
phorus sticks are dissolved in hot water, and the
pollard is mixed up with it and kneaded on a bag
or a sheet of tin. It is burning hot, sparks of fire
fly from it, and it sm kes and crackles like a little
volcano while you’re working it. The fumes are
simply venomous. The dough is run through a
sort of sausage machine, two little revolving
knives cutting it into segments as it comes out.
The poison-cart is usually the oldest rattle-trap
on the station. Mine was fitted with an iron
scraper, which made a small furrow along the
ground, and it had a tin funnel or shoot passing
through the bottom of the cart, so as to drop the
baits in the furrow. The poisoner holds the
reins in one hand, and feeds this contrivance
with the other. He drives along the flats, drop-
ping baits all the way, and throws handfuls
broadcast over the warrens. I found that it took
from half an hour to three hours to lay a batch of
baits, according to the weather. On a hot,
muggy afternoon I fed the warrens as you’d feed
fowls with corn, and when it was cool and plea-
sant I drove round and viewed the country. I
had been given a month’s supply of the abomina-
tion, but through an oversight it became ex-
hausted in two weeks. The fihosphorus was
kept in a tin of water, and this had to be attended
to every day, as the water evaporated quickly. I
forgot it one morning, and there was a conflagra-
tion. I was glad.
I was next sent to an excavated tank to poison
v. ith arsenic water. The water had to be boiled
in a bucket, and the arsenic stirred in while the
water was still over the fire. While doing this I
must have inhaled the fumes. It made me pretty
sick, and for a couple of hours I couldn’t stand. I
ignored the recipe after that, and mixed up
bunny’s medicine in my own way. I put the
arsenic in the water first, well boiled it, then raked
the fire away from the bucket with a long stick.
I can guarantee nothing drank that water and
lived.
Wire netting was run round the tank, having a
V-shaped indentation at each side. In each of
these V’s a little hole was puddled and partly
filled with water, with about a gallon of the poison
mixture added. The puddled holes were further
protected by a strip of netting, staked four inches
off the ground, so as to keep out some stud rams
that were running in the paddock. I was par-
ticularly cautioned to look out for these rams. I
looked out, and found three of them dead the
first morning. They had leaned over in the night,
pressed the wire down, and drunk the patent
mixture. I dragged them into a washaway, and
broke down half a ton of bank on them —to pre-
vent an unpleasant stench arising. Subsequently
the storekeeper spent two days looking for them,
and I often heard him remark that “it was a
strange thing where those rams could have got to.”
In four nights I poisoned 10,000 rabbits at that
tank, besides dotting the environment with de-
ceased crows and eaglehawks; I also stiffened about
20 kangaroos and three dingoes. I got a pound
each for the dingo scalps.
Finally, after a long interval, I wandered into
the warrens on a Paroo squattage.
“ There’s a job here—if you care to take it,”
said Bullswool, screwing up his eyes as he looked
out into the fierce sunlight. “ It’s night work—
watching a tank that’s netted-infor trapping rabbits.
The netting has to be opened to let the sheep in for
water at sundown, and again first thing in the
(Continued on next page.)


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
“Every Picture
tells a Story.
The Way to be Well is to
Keep the Kidneys Well.
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And little wonder.
A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much
stronger constitution than is given to most women —or men either for the
matter of that. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And
they let their needs he known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for
help. The cry of the sick kidneys.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys; they are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s
Pills cure every ill of the kidneys and bladder, from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s disease. Bead the following testimony:—
SYDNEY WOMEN CURED,
The
Genuine
DOAN'S
effected
these
Lasting
Cures —
“A Word
to the
Wise is
Enough.”
LEICHHARDT*
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says:—“l can strongly recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for curing
pains in the small of the back, A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it was difficult
to move about at all. I blame sitting too close at
work for causing the trouble. The pills effected a
permanent cure, for there is no sign of the ail-
ment now.”
Mrs. Lawson m kes a second statement four
years later: —“The above is quite true, and time
has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
not only cure, but cure permanently. There
would be less suffering in the world if people only
knew the value of this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Commonwealth Street,
Sydney, says“ I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for aches and pains, in the limbs, which I
fancied were caused by kidney trouble. The pains
had troubled me for years, defying all treatment.
I found it very difficult to get up and down stairs,
and fits of giddiness which often came over
me made it more distressing. Sometimes I
would be laid up. Soon after I started using
Doan’s Pills relief came, and when I had taken
six boxes the aches and pains and giddiness had
disappeared.”
Three years later, when asked about her cure,
Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I am still quite well;
none of the distressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
HUNTER STREET*
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter Street, Sydney, says :
“For three years I suffered with kidney de-
rangement. The worst symptom was a constant
backache, which got worse whenever I stooped.
I tried many remedies for this complaint, but got
no ease. I am glad to say that I got a cure at
last. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.
They are splendid pills, and have made a great
difference in my health.”
Eight years later, Mrs. Mullins says:—“The
above statement is true, every word, and
I can now add the important fact that my
cure has lasted. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills deserve praise, and I will always recom-
mend them.”
Get
Doan's
Backache
Kidney Pills.
Price 2/9
a box
(6 boxes 15/3)
Foster-
McClellan Co,,
76 Pitt Street,
Sydney*
morning. The rabbits in the enclosure, you see,
have to be killed at daylight, and then the netting
drawn aside for the sheep. The tank’s getting
boggy, so there’ll be a bit of pulling out to do if
they come in big mobs. You’ll be paid according
to results—a bob for every hundred rabbits you
kill.”
“ Are the rabbits very plentiful ?” I gasped.
“ The country’s simply swarmin’ with them,”
he said. “ There’s good money in it.”
“ All right,” I acquiesced. “ Let’s have some
rations, and I’ll have a cut at it.”
I wanted a few shillings badly, and even if it
took me a week to trap a pound’s worth I would
be satisfied. The week’s spell would be as re-
freshing as the quid, for there would be very
little to do through the day.
Equipped with tomahawk and a stout rope, and
loaded with swag and tucker, I set off for the Six-
mile Tank. There was no trouble in finding it ;
an excavated tank can be seen a long way off in
clear country. It was on a flat, half-a-mile off a
dry creek. A clump of trees stood under the bank
at one end, and here I opened my swag and
gathered wood for the night. It was yet early—
and hot. The heat of day lasts long into the
night on these western plains. Nothing was
showing, save crows and hawks and the perennial
flies that came pregnant with disease from putri-
fying carcases. Bones lay everywhere—bones,
pelts and dead rabbits. Others, apparently, had
been after bunny’s scalp at a bob a hundred.
Why didn’t they &tick to the contract and make a
pile ?
I took my billy-can and climbed the bank to get
some water for tea. A lot of crows flew out and
a couple of gohannas scrambled up the batters.
What didn’t fly out or scramble up distressed me.
It was, a ring of bogged sheep—about 90; and
they looked up at me expectantly, pleadingly, and
one or two bleated. They knew ; many of them
had been man-hauled from a bog before.
There was no help for it; if I was to earn my
few bob I must pull them out. It was dirty, dis-
agreeable work, and I finished at sundown,
covered with mud and slush, and drenched with
perspiration. I got nothing for the work ; I did
it for the privilege of trapping bunny.
I fixed up the fence, and filled my billy. The
water was brown, but when you looked into it you
could see millions of greenish insects, and it had
quite a penetrating odor. When I climbed the
bank again I found I had been premature in my
preparations. Out of a cloud of dust to eastward
trailed a long line of sheep. The leaders came
running across the flat with tumultuous cries, and
I hastened to undo my work again. Then I
looked at the mud, and sighed, after which I
went back to the trees to have tea. I had earned
that much, anyway.
It seemed that all the denizens of the wilder-
ness c ame to that tank in the next hour. Galahs,
and other birds concentrated there in
vast flocks ; marsupials bounded towards it in
long strings, and emus and plain turkeys came
stalking across the plain; while the long lace lizards,
and even snakes, wriggled towards it. When
I remembered that this was the nightly rendezvous
of all living things, I did not feel comfortable in
my camp. I gathered more wood while there was
yet light, and made up a good blaze, though I
was more in want of a cool shower than a fire.
But some light was necessary.
It was growing dark when the last of the sheep
began to make out again. I climbed the embank-
ment once more, to make the netting secure for
rabbits. Special arrangements had been provided
for bunny in the shape of netted tubes. These
allowed him to enter freely, but it was almost
impossible for him to get out again.
There was a splash in the water, and a ring of
white wool showed in the dim light round the water.
There were a hundred sheep bogged this time. I
pulled them out in the starlight, and they knocked
half my precious fence down in their blundering
rushes when I let them go. I had done a lot of
hard graft by the time things were straightened
up, and there wasn’t the price of a smoke in sight
yet. I scraped the loose mud off my clothes at
the fire, killed a snake near my “ nap,” and lay
down.
I had been told that sheep wouldn’t trouble me
much in the night; but I must be particularly
alive about daylight. I soon discovered that there
were several unspecified brutes that kept no regu-
lar hours, and caused quite enough trouble in
themselves. Kangaroos and wallabies came
thumping along at frequent ■ intervals ; in fact,
their heavy “ whop-whop ” was a familiar sound
through the night. Now and again there would
be a clatter at the tank, and more “ whop-whops ”
than usual, and I would go down to find my fence
wrecked, sometimes with ,a macropod fast in it,
and trying desperately to get away with the whole
concern ; whilst the few rabbits that had been
imprisoned in the enclosure lost no time in getting
over the embankment. I repaired that fence
about 20 times during the night, and estimated my
loss in rabbits consequent upon breakages at little
short of 2000. Twenty whole shillings ? It was
hard to see all that money running back to the
burrows through the blundering and interference
of some raging marsupial. 'ln the small hours the
dingoes came trotting round, and they occa-
sionally treated me to a soulful duet from the top
of the bank. I ran at them,, yelling, and whirling
a firestick, for I was certain that no rabbits would
venture into my trap whilst dogs were prowling
in the vicinity.
I was worn out at last. It seemed to me that
I would make so little money in a very long time
that it didn’t matter. So I went to sleep, and
dreamed that I was annihilating bunny with such
velocity that four men were sent down to cart
away the dead in drays. I was roused up in the
.gray dawn by a violent commotion in the tree
tops. Branches were being pulled down, and
broken off, and dropped promiscuously around,
while directly over me reared a monster like a
grey mountain, and a peculiar munching noise
came from its topmost point, which was some-
where up in the atmosphere. I was lying under
it, between its front and hind legs, and I stared
and puzzled for some seconds before I made out
that it was a camel. A jingling of bells and hor-
rible grunting noises told me that more of it
were circling the tank. Lord help my fence ! I
crawled slowly and cautiously from under the
towering pile of beast, and, jumping up with an
ear-splitting whoop, I flung the billy can at
it. Then I ran after the other brutes, yelled
“ Hooshta ! ” and pelted them with stones and
clods till they trotted away down the creek. Soon
afterwards I heard several Afghans running after
them, and talking to one another in excited tones.
They had camped late on the other side of the
timber. They brought the brutes back, and I
dispersed them again with more clods. Five ex-
cited Afghans jabbered at me simultaneously in
their own tongue. Then one said, in broken
English :
‘ ‘ Whaffor you drive away camel ? ”
“To h— with you and your (foreign) camels ! ”
said I.
“Camel wanta watah,” he persisted. “You
leta my camel drink.”
“ Clear out o’ this ! ” I cried, shaking my fist
loftily from the embankment, “ or I’ll let daylight
through your smoked carcase. ”
They consulted, talked loudly and angrily, and
made menacing gestures in my direction. Pre-
sently two went in pursuit of the retreating
animals, whilst the other three came determinedly
towards me. I hurried down the bank, got my
tomahawk, and then as determinedly went to
meet them. They hesitated a moment, and as I
approached, looking as fierce as I knew how, and
gripping the tomahawk menacingly, they turned
and ran to waylay the offending dromedaries.
It was now broad daylight, and thin clouds of
dust began to sweep across the flat—the herald of
a blinding, suffocating day. I looked to my
tank. A horse and two sheep were bogged in it,
and about 150 rabbits—worth eighteenpence to
me—were inside the enclosure. The fence was
bent down in a couple of places, and even as I
approached rabbits were jumping out. Then
came the tumultuous bleating of sheep from the
creek. The thirsty flocks were coming back. I
hurriedly fixed up the killing pen, and, armed
with a long stick, made a desperate attempt to
yard my flock of bunnies. Some went in, a lot
jumped into the water, the majority broke back.
Round and round the tank I chased them, slash-
ing and swiping wildly at them whenever I got
within reach. Finally I got a hundred in the
pen, where I left them shut up while I renewed
the chase after the others. In a few minutes half
of them were swimming in the water, and I
ran from side to side to meet them as they
came out. I killed about forty. Then the
sheep poured over the banks in a compact
mass, and I made all haste to draw the
•netting back at the ends to let them in.
■Whilst thus engaged I heard a crash and a
■rush, and turned to find my pen demolished,
the sheep sweeping into the' mud and water, and
rabbits scampering off in all directions. I left off
right there, and went to camp to boil my billy. I
was much distressed.
Soon after breakfast Mr. Bullswool came down
to count the rabbits. I followed him to the. top
of the bank, where he pulled up and swore to
himself for five minutes. There must have been
200 sheep bogged round that tank.
“Why didn’t you pull them out?” he de-
manded.
“I’ve pulled them out all night,” I said. “ It’s
your shift now.” And I left him to it. He owed
me 5d., but the cheque wasn’t worth the walk to
the station to collect. He still owes it.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Serenader.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UPON the cliffs at Manly
One day I walked alone,
And I was ’ware of a strange man there,
Who sat upon a stone.
His eyes were bl»e and faded,
And stared far out to sea,
While he played on an accordeon
A mournful melody.
The wind blew through his whiskers,
And ever as he played,
With a voice severe he sang a drear
And dismal serenade.
“ And is your love a mermaiden,
Whose home is in the sea ? ”
I said to him. He turned his dim
And wistful eyes on me.
“My love is not a mermaiden,”
He softly made reply,
“ She’s a being fair who breathes the air
Beneath a distant sky.
“ She dwells in Valparaiso,
Upon the Chilian shore ; •
A line from here, drawn straight and clear,
Would bring you to her door.
“I know not what her name is—
For names Love little cares—
But I know that she is dear to me,
Whatever name she.bears.
“Love is the true Marconi,
And daily I and she, ,
In a fashion fond, do correspond, , ,
Across the waste of sea. - ' ,
I ' ;i r;i. !
“And sometimes in the morning—
So clear, though faint and far,
Across the sea there comes to me
The sound of her guitar.
“And sometimes in the evening,
When days are warm and long,
At her casement she sits pensively,
And sings a Spanish song.
“ And that is why to Manly
I come, day after day.
And bring some beer, and sit me here,
And softly sing and play.”
I left that lone musician
A-sitting on his stone
He was the best and faithfullest
Of lovers I have known.
CREEVE ROE.


u Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
fm
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then''tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer's Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A. >
FREE
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at Gd. per packet. When you
have sold the oards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Sliver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give jmu full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we cotild not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
ĵ
F
Silver - Mounted
Leather Albert
3/6
j
A great many gentlemen prefer to
wear an Albert like this for their
watch, rather than the regular style
of chain.
They are quite inexpensive, and we
can supply one made of genuine
English Pig Skin, similar to the illus-
tration, silver-mounted for 3/6; or if
in 9-ct. gold, 13/6; of nickel silver,
1/9
Other Alberts of all descriptions
will be found fully illustrated in the
big “ A. & C.” Catalogue, and we will
gladly send you a copy on request.
We pay the postage on anything
purchased here, and give you the
right to return the article if on receipt
pf the parcel you are of opinion it is
not exactly as represented.
Angus and Coote,
“ The Store Where Quality Counts,”
GEORGE STREET. Corner Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
THE BALLET GIRL
j
ĵ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Xoveltier
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0. , SYDNEY .
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE).
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Cheeks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA ,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing' Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND— 2/9, & 4/6.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured ol all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving for the
epeedv cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-povter and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS. £l,OOO.
No Money Wanted.
j
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give avray Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watqhes and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds.
All you have to do is to s«nd us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of oitr Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, scud us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select frotti our grand list.
It" you—the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our oiler is withdrawn
Florists’ Semi Supply Go. 52
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Jf you J{crve
IJ
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary into
reading an apparently interesting story which proves to be a prelude
to an advertisement. The startling story and the thrilling testimonial
0 do not add to the merit of the article advertised. If you are troubled with
g B a d pigestion, impure Blood\ Xanguor,
§ Jnacfive « Cher, Sick
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered Stomach imperfectly
doing its work, you need not experiment with the many medicines so
p plausibly set before you; take
| Beecham s Pills
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by thousands of sufferers to be
unequalled for dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver. It is not
necessary to bring BEECH AM'S PILLS before your notice surreptitiously,
as they are openly recommended by those who have found that
BEECH AM'S PILLS will do all that is claimed for them —hence
they have the Largest Sale of any patent Medicine.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Ull ( 56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
Why I Wish to Tell
YOUR FORTUNE FREE.
A YOUNG LADY in Sydney once wrote asking’
me to reveal her fortune by Astrology.
Among other questions, she asked me to tell
the color of her eyes and what color her house was
painted.
I mention this to show the mistaken ideas which
many people hold regarding Astrology.
It was to show what my system of Astrology
really means, and to prove my power to aid and
assist humanity, that I began many years ago the
sending of Trial H
copes to all pers
interested enough i
their future to send m
Is. stamps or poi
note to defray cost
postage, etc.
Dear Reader, I
also the privilege o
convincing you of my
ability to look into
yohr future, to guide
your steps in the righ
path, to lead you (as “
have lead many, mar
others) to success :
business, love, and :
the attainment of any
praiseworthy object.
Life is not all luck
as many would have
you believe. Thosi
who crowd to the fron
are those who under
stand themselves anc
the i r possibilitl
thoroughly. Nogue
work, no waiting to
See what may turn up.
When a prominent
financier has been
known to daily consult
an Astrologer before
entering upon specula,
tion, is it not high
time for you to learn
your fortunate periods,
time for you to look
into this science and
see what fate has in
store for you ?.
Did you ever hear of
a divorce where two
people were married in
harmony with their
Astrological i n d i c a-
tions ?
Did you ever stop to
think that some of
your rivals, who are
perhaps outstripping
you in the race for money, love or fame, are push-
ing forward in the clear light of Astrological know-
ledge, whilst you are groping blindly in the dark ?
Whjr not turn to me for advice, and be yourself
the successful leader ?
Your entire statement of past and present is ab-
solutely true, lucky days, journeys, that treacherous
friend all correctly named. It is wonderful how you
can describe everything and answer my questions
without the slightest error. I am well pleased with
reading, and am only sorry I did not have it years
ago, for I know I would have been spared much
trouble.
MARY A. HOUCARD.
I HAVE hundreds of letters from grateful patrons,
letters which I hold sacredly confidential,
letters telling- me of financial advancement, of
success in love and marriage; also many sad
letters regretting that my advice had not bees
asked years ago.
Pleased patrons have sent friends to me, hare
asked my advice for their children and children’s
children.
My system of Astrology will answer questions
v of vital interest
to every human
being; will name
your fortunate
days and years,
will tell you of the
likelihood of lega-
cies. Will show
you who to marry.
This trial reading,
which I offer you
for Is., will mystify
you by its correct-
ness.
My system of
Astrology is differ-
ent from that of
any Astrologer
living. To the
Astrology of Bibli-
cal days I have
added the results
of my own study
and observation,
until I am able to
foretell events
which absolutely
come to pass.
Patrons write
me, after the lapse
of years, announc-
ing the fulfil-
ment of every pre-
diction.
You will be so
convinced by what
I tell you by my
wonderful powers
to read your future
like an open book
that you will write
me when in doubt
or in trouble;
when you want
advice about
speculation, busi-
ness, marriage,
travel, and the
future. You will
also be glad to
refer your friends
to me, and in that way repay me for the trial
Horoscope which I will send you.
Write me to-day lest you forget.
to-day your full name and address, date of birth,
sex, and if married or single, with 1/-, postal note or stamps,
for return postage, and this Horoscope will be mailed
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO
366 Bourke Street,
lei
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free Get* from “The
Bulletin” Office
'VXv=
NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in al! Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR* MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., \Ltd., and
May __
from all Booksellers, Price 7s
, “ v “* «*“ nmo is, 6d., or if you app]v to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Paees
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting-, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books ad rertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published
FRPF A 50-Page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate
* rrr».„ a verv falr ,dea of what tbe Great Medical Book is like will he sent POST FREE
Also MIND (HER MATTER” and “BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is Gd (stamps). |®“7Vofe Address F P
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing-.
“ Elm ley House,”
151 EUzabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Players of Cricket,
NOTE !
WHITE CANVAS BOOTS, White
Soles, 7/6 pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, White
Soles (a Special Shoe for Matting
Wioket), 6/- pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, Black
Soles, First Quality, 5/- pair.
WHITE, BROWN, or BLACK
CANVAS SHOES, Champion
Brand, 3/3 pair.
See Display in Window.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues Posted Free on request.
II
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
-
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by,compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
:_. Wt & J B LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS” Whisky.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNiVES
are the
BEST.
ĵ
j
ASTHMA CURE
BRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by ail Chemists.
A PURE
SPIRIT.
A
Reinvigorating
Cordial.
9
The World knows
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
As
« The Beverage
That Benefits.”
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
-
Low Price. High Efficiency. Every Pomp Guaranteed.
FOR ..:
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
m
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service.
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
S.Ww Agents: BEVAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melbourne; SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
MARSHALL'S.
a. L. SCaVTTON & CO..
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchant*
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Oredge Engines and f
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
THE CARD CONCENTRATOR “ MAKES GOOD ”
j
- \
V
• ~f i flHWfirr r"' rr
if
. *
'.t': . _ —■‘i
. €
v :
P
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., manufacturers, 26 3 George Street, Sydney ; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
