

■W-A.Pt’3
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
h
£%. <GK sz, 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ "and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW ANI> second-hand plants always available.
POOLEY PLATFORM WEIGHING MACHINE.
HOBART,
-
Hadley s Orient fjote
pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowicl & Sow, Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., *7 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
POOLEY’S PATENT WEIGHING APPARATUS purpose!
AUTOMATIC GRAIN SCALES, WEIGHING MACHINES for Farmers, Squatters, Millers,
Storekeepers, Butchers, Warehouses, Mines, &c. jier-Send for Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues.
iff
Take
back
it
have
must
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
LINOLITE
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current.
Sole Agents fop. Adstealia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Building's, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
qM ,
tL
u
hj
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
YDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
hj
hj
THE WORLD’S BEST
Oil. ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITIGN.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
sr-
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engines to
E. COULSON,
» 7
116 a’Becketi St., Melbourne.
mm.'
>
As supplied to the VP. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
Wunderlich
all GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
T*
2
Regd.
Trade Mark.
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glass ware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supples, &c., & G .
(Wholesale and Retail).
§
6
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
jjL
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.— N0. 1408.]
[Thursday, February 7, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BLINDFOLDED.
A Novel by EARLE ASHLEY WALCOTT,
Ulus, by A. B. Stephen* } Cloth 3a 6d, or
4s postpaid.
“For a narrative of adventure fit to make one sit stark staring awake
f 7" S "" r /* e ' , f ° r “ ta,e of tantalizing and labyrinthine mystery, read
* Blindfolded. "—Cleveland Plain Dealer
“ Teeming with excitement and suspense. "—Philadelphia Record.
GEORGE ROBERTBON Sc CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CABTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
rtbutu
SOLO BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, aneftfim
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
rth
A— The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe, .
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “ EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. Or
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, «
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnorma
fermentation of food, £4
THE RED PAGE
POETRY AND SELF-RESPECT
PENSIONS for Australian poets ! In
the Commonwealth poets have re-
cently grown aggressively self-
conscious, and at intervals, instead of
minding their own business—which is
to write poetry—they break out into
a clamorous demand for State-assistance
for the production of epics. In a recent
issue (January 3rd) a contributor to this
page, Arthur A. D. Bayldon, passionately
pleaded for pensions for “Australian poets
of proven merit to enable them to prosecute
their art.” Let us examine this grandiose
claim.
Bayldon observes that “ there is not the
slightest incentive to a poet in Australia to
write verse. . . . There is no market for
poetry.” These statements are apparently
made in perfect seriousness by the author
of the Marlow sonnet—conceived, surely,
with no intention of making it the basis for
a pension-claim ! For Bayldon’s argument
is vitiated by the radical falseness of his
premises. In his article he looks on son-
netteering as a business, and would like to
see it a paying business ; he regards Aus-
tralia as an outcast among nations because
her poets find it difficult to make poetry a
financially sound investment; he regrets the
absence of literary patrons, and requests the
State to be Maecenas to its Horaces. Other-
wise poetry will die out, and the continent
linger on as a drought-stricken back-blocks
of prose.
But Bayldon has left one item out of his
account; he has forgotten himself, he has
overlooked the poet. A poet writes because
he must, because it is his particular way of
enjoying himself. Bismarck, looking back
oyer his crowded life, recalled as his hap-
piest day the day on which he shot his first
hare. Other pleasures, physical and spiri-
tual, may recall themselves to us as our
greatest moments of happiness ; but to those
dowered with the creative mind the swift-
flooding conception of a great picture or a
poem—the moment when the Idea miracul-
ously germinates—is probably the richest
experience life allows to the race. The
power of creation lifts the mortal to the
planes whereon gods walk, and Bayldon,
fortunate creator of the Marlow sonnet,
expects to receive an exact cash equivalent
for his splendid irresistible surging moment
of creative joy! Having been suddenly
swung up to the heights, Bayldon, on his
return to earth, deliberately reckons up
the price of his moment of ecstasy
and confidently sends in his little
bill to the State. It is true that
the revelation of a poet’s vision dowers his
less fortunate fellows with a reflected sunset
glow ; and, grateful, these may attempt to
repay the donor of that pleasure with grosser
gifts; but does the poet write for them—
or for himself ?
&
The factory-hand is paid for long hours
of uninteresting and degrading work; but
he does not clamor for remuneration for
his pint of beer, his best girl’s kiss, his
bathe in the surf. Bayldon demands for his
brother-poets cash recompense for their
moments of sheer ecstasy ; he would make
his muse a prostitute, and request payment
for her divine favors. The Australian poet
is paid, once for all, by the fortunate fact
that he is a poet. And he is some-
times paid more : to his ecstasy are
occasionally added a few shillings. Poetry
is not a business, but a joy; and the
creative act can neither be chained down by
the most uncongenial surroundings nor
smothered by the absence of encouragement.
A poet would write lyrics in Hell. The
chances of publishing poems in Hades woulc
doubtless be slight, and there is little likeli-
hood of Lucifer patronising the muse after
the shameful way Dante, Corelli, and Milton
have treated him ; yet, whenever they were
let off the stove, perspiring poets would be
found haunting the doors of editors, proudly
burdened with their little asbestos rondeaux
to Winter. Though in Hell some earthly
conditions would happily be reversed—there
would be more editors and publishers than
poets—yet this would be balanced by an
overwhelming preponderance of critics.
No ; Australian poets, like other poets,
must recognise that poetry is merely a
side-line. Their main business, as else-
where in history and geography, is to get
a living. A live poet can at least go on
producing poems : a dead poet is not even
that questionable amount of use to the
world. No poet ever made a comfortable
living by poems alone ; and the great poets
were either fortunate enough to possess
living incomes of their own, or wise enough
to recognise early in life that poetry didn’t
in the meantime pay. Homer probably
earned a respectable living as a shop-keeper
and wrote verse after early-closing hours ;
Horace was a soldier and a civil servant;
Sappho made her living at another trade ;
Tennyson, Shelley, Byron, had incomes of
their own ; Shakespeare was first an actor
and afterwards an Elizabethian J. C. Wil-
liamson ; Poe was a sergeant-major ;
Mathew Arnold had a nice, comfort-
able Government billet; Blake engraved ;
Burns ploughed ; Domett was a Pre-
mier ; Roderic Quinn, Whitney and Jessie
Mackay delight in journalism ; and there is
a poet in Maoriland who is most of his time
an official assignee and the rest of his time a
presider at inquests.
J*
In Australia “ there is no market for
poetry, ” cries Bayldon despairingly. This is
but a quarter-truth ; another quarter is that
there is no market for poetry—anywhere;
the third quarter is that there never has
been a market for poetry—any time ; and the
fourth, that there is a better market for poetry
in Australia than in England. There may
have been a time when poetry was desired of
the people more than bread ; but history
does not record the city nor the date. At
the present day, poets in Australia are better
off than ever before in the world. It is on re-
cord that poets here have actually succeeded
in making a living—a pitiably poor living—
by the sale of poetry alone ; and this is a
phenomenon that England in all her history
has never been able to show. In England,
as the writer found by actual experiment,
publishers unanimously refuse to touch
verse, except at the author’s risk. Which
means that every volume of new verse now
published in England, with the exception of
Swinburne’s, Alfred Austin’s, and William
Watson’s works, is paid for by the poet
himself. And it is well known that in
Australia poets have found publishers to
produce their works either on the half-profits
or the royalty system. Finally, the sale of
Paterson s poems establishes a record for the
world. The editions of poetry published in
Australia, excluding pamphlets, are usually
at least one thousand copies ; in England any-
thing over an edition of 200 copies is regarded
with temerity, and the editions of works by
Watson, Phillips, and Davidson are, to Aus-
tralian eyes, absurdly small. Australians
when having nothing better to do, reat
verse ; Englishmen invariably have some
thing better to do. Poetry may be a drug
on the Australian market; in London, it is
druggier. And it is probably this unac-
countable predeliction on the part of the
Commonwealth for the buying of poetry that
has misled our poets into the belief that
verse-making ought to pay.
J*
Having thus disposed of Poetry, we may
turn to Self-Respect. Bayldon’s article has,
so far, with the exception of the answer
published herewith, not aroused one protest
from the other poets. We would thus be
almost compelled to assume that Australian
poets acquiesce in this preposterous demand
for State-aid, were it not that we have the
comforting suspicion that they are too busy
writing poetry to bother about refuting this
charge of lack of self-respect. Surely it is as
fine a thing to earn a living by hard work as
by writing villanelles. On the slopes of
Parnassus in Greece there are many little
farms well-tilled; now and then a hardy
mountaineer may climb the snow-capped
summit that is loftier than Kosciusco; but
he may without loss of dignity thankfully
return to the less exhilarating business of
tilling his little farm upon the lower slopes.
He is doing as useful a work for his
State in keeping his farm as in
scaling that inhospitable height. There
is no shame in earning a living, in
fitting oneself into the scheme of life;
and it is a matter for the consideration
of our poets whether there is more self-
respect in welcoming the muse when she
deigns to come down from the heights than
in keeping her about the premises and living
upon her earnings. And there may be,
even, more poetical profit. The critic may
see in the work of poets who daily drive
their Pegasus in harness the jaded effect of
that unending toil. Pegasus is not a cart-
horse to pull every day its dreary load. Let
the horse go out to grass while you put
another hack that has not wings into the
shafts ; you may find that Pegasus will ap-
preciate the change.
Pension poverty, if you like, and lift the
poet from his uncongenial surroundings ; but
lift him not because he is a poet, but because
he is a fellow-man. And if he has the pride
to refuse State or private aid while he earns
a living wage at his trade, let us not dissuade
him from his determination to be a man.
His dignity will not suffer—nor his Muse.
«•
The Useful Birds of Southern Australia, by
Hah. F.L.S. (T. C. Lothian, Melb. ;
rfs. bd.) is a well-written and illustrated work
that should be in the hands of every nature lover.
Useful birds the author defines as those of value
to the fruit-grower, the agriculturist and the
pastoralist.
THE KEPT POET
This vehement advocacy of Australian litera-
ture, by obviously interested persons, will never
do our literature any good. Waiting (some of us
seem to be panting) for the advent of that writer,
being Australian made, who by the might or
magic of his work commands universal attention,
we have in our excitement analysed every stray
bit of floating feather and found it a complete and
delightful swan. Stop perspiring about it; the
poet must come all right. But no artificial pro-
vision, tender-hearted critics, Government subsi-
dies, will bring him an hour sooner.
The Government subsidy idea is the essence of
pernicious superficiality. Scholarships in litera-
ture are not at all satisfactory, that is, scholar-
ships for the encouragement of the production
(not the study) of literature. This art demands
proportionately less technique and more impulse
and imagination than any art in the list; shows
the faintest trace of failing inspiration, the un-
willing, forced brain, as never music or painting
could show them. The same objection holds
against “kept” poets as holds against profes-
sional footballers. Recognised professionalism in
football would only mean so many more pub.-
loafers, and it is no hard judgment to predict that
the same thing happens when we subsidise our
poets
We have a fine yellow canary in our kitchen,
who sings like an angel whenever the sun comes,
and yet he has heaps of time for respectable
married life, to feed the missus and help her build
nests, and attend to the ugly little devils of
children. Because he can delight us with his warble
he does not come round with the hat and ask the
family to excuse his domestic and civil responsi-
bilities. Then, why should the human singer do
so ? If the poet cannot make a living at verse, let
him accept his fate and look for another job. The
forces which go to make success or failure of
literature are altogether too subtle, strong and
incomprehensible for mere human minds to com-
bat or caress.
If the poet, harassed by the necessary drud-
gery of a commercial life, feels good thing after
good thing go out of his heart unspoken into the
void; feels the divine impulse and inclination he
knows himself to possess go fizzling out vain and
useless from the cells of a Drain fagged with foetid
air and figures and account books ; let him accept
his fate like a man, write as much and as well,
under bad circumstances, as he may; remember
that Nature makes a hundred thousand poets, and
only makes one to beam at himself in print and
know the joy of a long cheque ; let him take, I
say, his gruel like a man; look after his wife or
his mother properly, not grizzle at a fate which
denies him a life of watery, lazy aestheticism;
let him go on without tears ; love the mountains
and the flowers, and have an occasional peep at
the . wide ocean; hold his head up and walk
straight and strong, and he will know a better
poem than man has ever written.
Oh, the patronised poet would surely feel the
obligation to his patrons ! He would dedicate
books to: ‘‘Lord De Elzevir, in loving remem-
brance of his ham sandwiches and nice warm
tea.” He would be forced to write : An Ode to a
Load of Firewood thrown over My Fence by a
Kind Stranger.” Probably put a footnote: “As
the Poet has a one-fire-stove (the present of
the adored Baron Wooley) he would be glad if
the next load of wood was sawn to twelve, and
not twenty-four-inch lengths. The sight of
twenty-four-inch firewood, meaning so much vul-
gar manual work, has somewhat interrupted the
flow of this* Ode. The next kind person giving
firewood will please observe this note, and not
mar the literature of his country by annoying the
inspiration of her poets.” That is what lam
expecting.
Knowing something of most departments of
bookmaking and of bookselling, I find that there
is in Australia a small, consistent, and solid
public for good work, and a genuine little stream
of encouragement. It is small, but large as can
be expected, when we consider the miserable
population of the Commonwealth. Population
will solve all problems that trouble printer, poet,
publisher,, bookseller, critic and journalist; so
stop the silly talk of subsidies and get married,
and thus assist a movement which the greatest
man cannot aid by direct means. But the day
is still far off when one will be able to keep a wife
and ten children by publishing a book of sonnets
every five years.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
ECHOES
Australia reveals more than one poet who does
a little thing well, and who keeps doggedly on
doing that little thing nearly as well. It seems
as if such a poet loses prematurely the capacity to
receive fresh impressions ; he may travel far and
experience much, but he brings back nothing but
the echo of his limited self. A great poet builds
up his soul by incessant explorations into life;
from each experience he brings back something of
value, and reaching out eternally, eternally recep-
tive, he goes on, making of each dead work the
stepping-stone to higher things. But the depress-
ing truth about some of our poets is that they
have found themselves so easily, so early. There
is nothing left for them to do but to keep on
doing the little thing they can do well.
Will H. Ogilvie has a charming style, an en-
gaging' candor, a pleasant freshness, a careless
lyric outpouring, a delight in simple things and
simple themes ; and beneath all these runs that
spontaneous optimism which is youth. All these
qualities were found in Ogilvie’s early volumes,
Fair Girls and Grey Horses and Hearts of Gold ;
and in his latest little booklet, Rainbows and
Witches (Elkin Mathews, Is.), all these familiar
qualities reappear. But rather as an echo than as
another verse of the song. Many of the poems,
including the title-piece, in this little book are
reprinted from his earlier works. Of the new
poems there are some that are about as well done
as his earlier work ; but of the forty little poems,
it is the reprinted pieces, such as “Bowmont
Water,” or “A Dreamer of Dreams,” that give
us the best of Ogilvie’s ingenuous and candid
charm.
A word must be added for “J.N.M.,” whose
introduction betrays his ignorance of the exist-
ence of poets outside England. “The strenuous
open life,” he says, “be it never so close to
nature, is practically speechless. . . . But here,
at last, comes one who has escaped the curse.”
It is only a very ignorant and very insular critic
who could by his at last wipe out all the Austra-
lian literature that appeared before the publica-
tion of Rainbows and Witches.
4
A. G. Plate has compiled for the Norddeutscher
Lloyd Shipping Company a compact and well-
written guide-book of Australasia, published by
Edward Stanford, London, and printed in
Bremen. The book is attractively illustrated,
though in at least one of the maps various textual
errors are apparent.
“ The only person that makes an approach to
accurate knowledge of public taste is the brewer.”
—Adam Lor inter.
VERSES BY WILL. H. OGILVIE.
OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL.
£ re y building rears its massive crown,
oilent and splendid ; all the lights are low.
And passing underneath I seem to know
lhat through the long white ward moves up at;
down
With soft, firm foot and scarcely-whispering gown.
Some nurse, as gentle as the winds that blow—
The hushed night winds that wander to and fr«
With words of comfort for the weary town.
Outside the lighted windows of the ward,
Beyond the peaceful silence and God’s sleep,
Torn by a bitter conscience’ keen-set sword,
btabbed by an age-old sorrow driven deep,
How many wounded through the darkness steal—
Hearts that no herb nor any hand can heal ?
APRIL.
Beneath the green fir branches where doves si:
wing to wing
A maid comes up the pathway across the woods
of Spring ;
Her face is lit with sunshine, her eyes are soft
with showers,
Her heart is filled with music and both her hands
with flowers.
Her tresses touch the beeches, her feet dance in
the dew,
And fair about her shoulders the white cloud*
fleck the blue;
Primroses are her fortune and daffodils her care;
Her hand is slipped in Summer’s ere half the
world’s aware.
The last snow fades before her, and looking in her
eyes,
Spelled by their witching magic the last rude
storm-wind dies,
And on the cradle branches down all the wood-
lands deep.
Like a child tired of playing, drops suddenly to
sleep.
She stands within our garden at breaking of the
day,
One hand holds dying snowdrops, and one holds
budding May;
She stands within our garden at falling of the
night,
One foot on silver dewdrops and one on hoar fros*
white.
A month before her coming the thrush to song
has thrilled,
A month behind her passing the nestling swallow;
build ;
And this is happy April, fair maid of sun and
showers,
With her heart filled with music and both be:
hands with flowers !
(From Rainbows and Witches.—Elkin Mathew t.
■ ♦
John Fy vie gossips interestingly on the fortunes
of The Comedy Queens of the Georgian Era (Con-
stable, Lond.; 12s. Gd. ). Most of the ladies
whose stories are told were no better than they
could help being in an age when actresses
were still under the imputation of being rogues
and vagabonds, and “ were considered very
fit and proper persons to become the mistresses
of peers ana other fine gentlemen—and whenever
they would not readily come to terms it was
thought quite excusable if amorous noblemen
kidnapped them for the purpose.” The adven-
tures of some of these favorites of the public were
often surprising enough.
It was hot in Australia the first Christm:
Day,”
remarks Rev. Herbert Edwards with profou:
insight in An Australian Christmas Carol .
Legend —he is not sure which —sold by the anther
in person. Other things more surprising ha:
pened on that occasion.
“Two hostile tribes were at war over rights c:
water.”
(By the way, this is verse):
“When a butcher-bird started a song of grea:
joy*
Singing gladly of peace, and never to employ
Their weapons in war, but to use them to kill
game,
And trust to the quiet arts of peace to bring them
fame. ...
Then came a sound that meant much water shock
be given
By our God, and with loud noise a rock was rive:
While a great stream gushed forth and flood-:
the vale . . .
The birds and animals found pleasure withe:
alloy
For the Shepherd’s Companion to the black
Cockatoo,
The Emu, the Wallaby, and the grey Kangaroo.
* So thus,’ gifted writers of fabled story say,
‘Ended in peace Australia’s first Christm::
Day.’”
The Rev. Herbert Edwards is evidently capa'ok
of compiling an Australian Bible with localise:
miracles and a blackfellow Moses.
One “cultured” Melbourne parson is doing
much to help Australian literature by condemning
“the irreverent tendency” of various specific
Australian books. Next thing he’ll be claiming
commission on the increased sale of those book;


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
A/so KANGAROO, WALLARY,
OPOSSUM, dc.
Consign to :
MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
6 he LEADING
HOUSE
rth
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
4/0
6/0
OUR
Special
2/0
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“ KEY BRAND.”
M34—Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong
Nos 1-9-3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 o'O 7,0 8/0 9/0 10,0
Self 6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. 10!. lid. 1/1 1/3 1/6 per box of 50.
M 40 —Mustad’s Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirb y Bent Hoc ks. Flatte-
d 10 to 1 H 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0
3d. 4d. 4d. sd. sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd.
M 4 Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, XX Strong-
Nos. 10 to 1 u 1/0 ’ 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 90
sd. sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/4
10/0
1/- per box of 50
10/0
1/3 per box of 50
Angler s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
ITTLE SNAP ....
Deals in MACHINERY.
LASSETTER’S DAISY CLIPPER PLOUGH
With Wrought Iron Frog, Iron
Handles, and Extra Steel Share
Weight, with Price with
Cut extra share extra
and spanner. share.
7 inch 701bs. £3 3s.
9 inch 981bs. £3 10s.
10 inch llOlbs. £4 7s 6d
rtbutu
Knife Coulters and Clips, complete, 5s each extra.
Land Wheels and Clips, complete, 5s extra.
Disc Coulters and Clips,
complete, £1 extra.
“lew Deal” Two Furrow Gang Plough
WROUGHT FOOT.
XY 308
Cut 20 inches. Approximate Weight, 4891b5, Price £ll.
Disc Coulters, 20s extra.
Subsoil Attachment, £2.
Knife Coulter, 5s each extra.
Seat Attachment, £2 10s.
THE CELEBRATED
“Fairy” Disc Churn.
a m i
LASSETTER St CQ
SYDNEY
XY 309.
Received First Award at the 1893 Exhibition
of the Royal Agricultural Society of London.
BUTTER fIADE IN FIVE MINUTES.
The superiority this Churn claims to have over others is—lt makes
the butter in Five Minutes. Having an open top all gases escape
freely. It renders the grain perfect. The butter can be brined in
the Churn, and does not require handling.
Made in Sizes —
2 Quarts, without Driers, £2 Driers, extra, 10s.
4 ~ ~ £2 ss. ~ ~ 11s.
8 „ „ £2 10s. „ „ 15s.
12 „ „ £3 10s. „ „ 19s. 6d
ALSO FROfl 15 QUARTS UPWARDS
FOR FACTORY USE.
rtbutu
CHEAPS IDE,:


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
LISHEP . IB * 9 - I For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO T.TITVm ° n Security of Freehold or Leasehold
rixsehold and c p City or Suburban Properties, or on
Of Government Debenture* Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
trallan States or New ieaTknS b ,°^l r^ sury 81,,s of any of 4he Aua '
n „_ " " , d . AT lowest current rates of interest.
up to 20 per the * condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
n P ° Per Cent - 0f the loan dunn ? an y year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Short, Esq. ; JaliiM Burns 6 ” 9 /* m * h ® Hon< J - T - Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
q. , James Burns. Esq The Hon R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Esq.
BEAD omoE. 87 PIS SSTtdneV r: "■ Te “- F - LA - FP - i - p - s s -
: , ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c„ and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
glv]nf? concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our blew Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
listefl^ThklTlh eXt f e ~ xpense or vv ° rk > the valuable premiums as
lu, ted. This js the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
E/ectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
rtbutu
ALL CYCLISTS.
FREE TO
Biowlp wilh in d tSf J’- Ul Country *«enes; n describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
nnrt 4 test ,m P r °vements ; it shows yon the difference between high-class work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it. *
WITU THF FRFF ART Rfinif yon will receivo the 10084 liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
.** * *** ' *•“ I HUt HU | uUUIV ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
a cycle ' direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years,
SS C hidl^?a? e n rl ed free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we can sell
are s{ss tnfe? ton J d £ ect fro ? t . he factor y a * leß3 than manufacturers* prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before vour nur-
Bition Can ma^ G lar f B PJpfits easily-all are fully explained in our latent propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
AHEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
New Zealand Lean & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xitel.
STDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
_ Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
iDINNEFORDSI
(magnesia,
MAGNESIA
it
i EDWARDS’ *
HARLENE
H
SIZE 4-6
r ARDs
m
fOB
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
The Finest Pressing. ■
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/”i 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 § 96, High Holborn, London, w.c.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DSFY compbtxtxokt.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewenr. SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CoTurtT
PflCQpno-fira PnnlreH f.n SlTffi A MStT-f TP- OWUPIRQ Tar/-,arm 5
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTP a nTnno
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING #RO®
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. Specially Constructed
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce Ar- for oonve yance of
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, *
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
9,400
10,500
6,230
6,770
Steamer. ' <*.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE "
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin
THORPE GRANGE '■ A win Screw)
HAVERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw!
SOUTHERN CROSS 6W>
Tons.
6,770
9,300
10.500
6,380
11.500
11,500
7,420
wvwiiu XIIUU oiouuucu AUAlytlitSll U L/UISIDP • t . ,
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET SVTWpv O Llght
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow we „ „
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown n , a le Cuyo, Buenos
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London. E.C. Durban, South Africa.
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
Marts.
PLASMON
The Pood for Old and Young,
(Also Plasmoo Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, Sic.)
Yfi)
For Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt * on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature's Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
fttparod only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, KNQ„
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere .
rtbutu
Absolutely CUT 6
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
}
| INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Carter's
ITTLE
m
PILLS
•», TOUGH
„ LIVER
Be Sure they are
.Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s


For coughs and colds.
U A friend in need is a friend in-
deed.” Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is j ust
such a friend. Never be without it.
It will prove a good friend when you
havo a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
Aliens
'Ghernf Sectoral
for an irritable throat or weak lungs,
you will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to the relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and,
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J- C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.i
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
//p/ryvr*
□
X
DOES NOT
BHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
rtbutu
His Majesty The
King’ and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
41 Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
IRISH
1C&
MOSS
©
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough,
T roublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON'T BUY IMITATIONS.
ONE of the first things a man should ask
himself about shaving soap is, what will
be its effect on my face? Will it leave it in a
soft and healthful condition or sore and irri-
tated? The unique quality of
Williams
Shaving
Stick
is that it always has a soothing, re
freshing and antiseptic
effect on the skin and
keeps the face in the
pink of condition.
rtbutu
“The
only kind
that
won’t
smart or t
dry on
the face.”
I
a
Shaving Stick, 2d.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers
all over the world, or mailed to any address on le-
ceiDt of price in stamps. Williams Shaving Sticks,
• Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is. ; Williams Amer-
ican Shaving Tablets, 6d. (Trial size) of Wllliams
The J. B. Williams Company ,
,™n cf t nnrlnn w C • 4 Rue Chauveaux Lagarde, Paris;
lil G Clarence lt.; Sydney, New South Wales. Head office and
factories, Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
JL
§
rtbutu
Unrivalled for the Complexion. *
cold Medal. Parte Exhibition, 1900. F. muf * « 0H ».
Grand Prix, St. heale. 190*. “ '
01 .11 Chemist, end Perfumers. Be sure you gel WOLFF 3.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melkcurne and Sydney.
THE fIRRQRDEOH for Country Residents.
HEINDORFF BROS.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Org
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. 1 rice *1
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
in Stop,
7s ea ;
<
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Passion Flower.
The sea strove ever
To win the love
Of the white Snow-Maiden
Who watched above.
Fair was she
As the moon, when, pale
With love, she lists
To the nightingale,
Singing, silver-throated,
His serenade,
Till the winds with wonder
And awe are stayed.
And the whole of her heart,
This Maid of the Snow
Was given away
To her love below.
But, alas ! in vain
Had she given her heart,
For the wizard Winter
Kept them apart.
Many a charm
And many a spell
He chanted loudly
His power to swell,
Till he wove around her
A magic chain
That she might never
Her lover gain,
But sleep for aye,
Like the maid of story
In her palace prisoned
So high and hoary.
Long she slept,
Till the kindly fairy
Of Spring came by
In her chariot airy.
She waved her wand,
And the wizard shrank
Back to his castle,
Dim and dank.
Down the mountain side,
At last set free,
The Snow Maid fled
To her love, the Sea.
And the child that was born
Of that happy hour
The mortals know
As the Passion-Flower.
Well, what’s the envoi ?
Just this—the wind
Dropped a seed in my heart,
And the soil proved kind.
The sunshine shot
From a girl’s dark eyes
Made the seedling thrive
And the blossom rise.
A girl’s warm kiss
Brought the flower to fruit —
And lo ! It is bliss
From calyx to root!
Is it sweet or sour ?
’Tis yet to try ;
We shall pluck it together—
She and I.
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.
The Girl Next Door.
Deep in a cushioned chair I sit, o’ Sunday after-
noons,
Out on the grass among the bees, warm in the
summer sun,
While in the gums, across the sweet suburban
silence, croons
A feathered choir from early morn until the
day is done.
But one fat thorn is in my flesh, as languidly I
101 l
At ease beneath the rustling boughs; there’s
one thing worries me—
Through all these languorous hours while I’m com-
muning with my soul
The girl next door’s piano-pounding—hymns !
—eternally !
I sprawl upon my back and watch the gay and
shifting skies;
I lounge and drowse, out here —and bless that
damsel for a pest,
Who, loud and long, so dreadfully in plaintive
pleading cries.
As though to rouse the slumbering saints who
from their labors rest.
Above the throbbing murmur of the cicada and
dove
“ Power an’ Glory !”—frenzied praise—is con-
stantly a-roar;
She slaughters, bold and brutally, the good old
tunes I love,
And flings the ruins down the street— that pious
maid next door.
Here, on the scented clover-patch, I yawn and
sigh and dream ;
I think sweet thoughts of Mirabel, whom I shall
see to-night!
n( j—Eh? What? Where? And what the
devil is that sobbing scream ?
Oh, just “Amen ! not someone being mur-
dered, out of sight.
VIC.
FRAML HENTY.


THE “BRUNSWICK”
rtbutu
Household
ICE MACHINE
COLD STORAGE FOR PERISHABLE
ARTICLES OF FOOD.
\A/HAT a lot of food goes bad during- the hot weather
in Australia ! All this could be prevented by
having a BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE. Especially to
Squattejs and Farmers out way back, too far to get ice,
to these the “ lirunswick ” is a necessity ; they could
en jo.V all the luxury of ICE—all that refrigeration
means—even better than they do in the city. And all
required to drive this little machine is a | H.P. Oil
Engine, which we can supply. The smallest sized
Brunswick” gives refrigeration equal to the melting
power of 200 lbs. of ice right along-.
Write or call ; we will supply full particulars and
Illustrated Catalogues on application, post free.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,e A^ents > 7
St 9 Market St., Sydney.
A SUMMER BOON. Don’t forget
FRANT JOSEF” LAGER
Has the larges t ale and is superior to all others.
RISK’S WHISKY
Is simply
Perfection.
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Will Andrade - BOOKS.
rtbutu
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
tratkd Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easv, Is.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Nigiit, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d-
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 100 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRIN.GES, TAILS, TOILET
•KityuiSllES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combiners made up
T) , ° BD f RS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSINC ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR
rtbutu
SB
HOTEL
METROPOLE
•^SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JOHNBECCS.
S?EC!M UDIItUR
Scotch whisky
23
m
m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
?>
ft
■
y
Miss KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth’s Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.'
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your hie is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop home
etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food
Amongst liquid foods, CABBUIiY’S COCOA occupies the chief place •
Realise it is BTJB/E. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.”— Health.
Insist on getting CADBURY’S. M „
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty The King.
BOVRIL
The flavour, essence, nutriment and all that’s good in prime
ox-beef is concentrated in Bovril.
A little Bovril added to soups and made dishes renders them
more appetising and nutritious.
1
rnnmi
JfMS
y/.\f i oo.
s>" .*
6» 9 \\ 'Bag
o" 0 “W E ' , dv o “ a o
i&s* u iBs2 Jr B e}
Estab'
Sold bv
1750.
Jewellers
* f /
s
ROTHEtHAMS
m.
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
71 Certificate Given With Each Watch.
if
Q
Jiff*
!£1
jar
WONDER
LAND
CITY.
CPACE will not permit of us giving as large a view of Wonderland City as we would like to. The place has been rightly named, and no visitor to Sydney
should miss seeing it. The principal architect for Wonderland is Mr. Chas. W. St. Julien, and under his instructions the whole of the iron roofs and over H
miles of iron fencing, which surround the grounds, were painted with GREEN FLEXITE PAINT. In order to withstand the footwear of
the millions of feet tramping, tramping, tramping, through the place, the floors of the Verandahs and Refreshment Rooms were covered with RUBEROID
FLOORCLOTH, while a most picturesque effect has been given to the Grand Stand by covering it with RUBEROID RED ROOFING.
Wholesale Agents : E. RICH (El CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28. -No. 1408.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1907.
Phioe 6d
Melbourne, Sunday.—At a dinner to
Colonel Williams, In Ballarat, the \
Minister for Defence expressed the ,V
opinion that Australian citizen soldiers 3
would never learn thoroughly what dis- 1
clpllne was until they had taken part /
in war. The great difficulty in military
. matters was discipline,
x
A peculiar find of gold has, It Is said, been made by a
resident of* Linton. A goose was killed, and on being
opened, rough specks of gold were found, the lot being
about three-quarters of a penny-
weight, valued at 38.. Evidently
the gold had been picked up
whilst the goose was feeding on
the roads. '
Our artist here depicts a veteran who
has been thoroughly “disciplined.”
Practical discipline is all right, but
there’s such a thing as over-doing it.
A well known firm of London pub-
lishers has brought out a series of pic-
tures to “Advertise Australia,” one of
which shows a squad of convicts drawn
up on the sloping shores of Sydney
Cove, and being addressed by an official
regarding their future career. The
series has been withdrawn.
Intending Emigrant: “Look ’ere,Nance,
If they makes long speeches to their
immygrants when the’ arrives let’s
go som’eres else.”
It Is safe to predict that the geese of Linton are going to have a
pretty warm time of it in the future.
I/// lilt/ m
An interesting opinion on the point
was given by a legal authority, who
maintains that an action for trespass
would He against the user of an aero-
plane who passed or paused at a low
elevation over another man’s land. It
is, he points out, a well-known princi-
ple of law that a freeholder owns the
■oil and all beneath it and ail above it.
London, Saturday
afternoon.—A second
interim report has
been issued by the
Royal Commission on
Tuberculosis, which
declares that, as a
result of elaborate
experiments, cow’s
milk, containing
bovine tubercle
bacilli, has
been found
to be clearly
the cause of
fatal tuber*
culosis in
man.
This will cause the Fatman
to adopt new styles of
landscape gardening.
Hence the man at the pump winks audibly.
( THE INSANITARY COURT BIBLE.
■> His Honor: “You must kiss the Book, sir I”
? Witness: «Yes, your Honor, but permit me to
I disinfect It first.”
~7tff Po// r/CAL C/AME
ACft / ~7i//!A 17/
/7/ay /%/'S /art/ ■
//£r/r da/;/ Sac£ a
dac/ /SaasS // yy //ft /
“JOTTINGS BY HOP.
ALL OVER THE SHOP.”
(Old poem.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia /or the A ustrnliuns.”
P- inted and Published by William Maoleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North.
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will r ire fully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any ’picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Qotch, Ludyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson & Co., 38 liiebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ S/recial Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
rtbutu
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1907.
THE “RESTRICTION OF BORROWING”
Labor gathered itself together in Sydney last
week to go over its political platform, and nail
up any planks that were loose, and nail on any
planks that seemed wanting. And when the pro-
posed fighting platform was laid before the meet-
ing this plank was found attached to it casually,
by a very short nail:
Restriction of Public Borrowing.
That was all—absolutely all. The fighting plat-
form of Labor is supposed to represent the
great ideals and burning aspirations of the
party, but national solvency, it would seem, isn’t
a burning aspiration. It is considered decent
and habitual, and, in a manner of speaking*
the square thing to make some mention of
finance in a political programme, so this
item was tacked on perfunctorily at the
tail end of a section. But so little did assembled
Labor seem to care about the matter that
it didn’t take the trouble to mention
whether it believed in restricting borrow-
ing to £500,000 a year or £5,000,000. The
proposition ranked with the good resolution of
the lady who was going to be moral occasionally,
or the reformation of the person who decided only
to drink at meals, and who used to reckon a
biscuit a meal and drink a whole bottle of whisky
along with it. True there is, or it used to be under-
stood that there was, the remnant of another
financial plank in the N.S.W. Labor party’s
moral timber-yard, the substance thereof being
that the party disapproved of borrowing, except
for works which would pay full interest on their
cost and something over towards sinking fund.
But that plank was burnt or lost long ago. It
was still-born, to employ a confused metaphor,
and it also died young, and at the best it was as
great a hypocrisy as Carruthers’ “Reform ” and
George Reid’s “Yes-no.” The party never made
the slightest attempt to live up to this alleged
confession of its faith, and at least one member
openly mocked at his own ostensible principle.
Therefore, it appears that Labor is making a
fresh start, and the new start is j ust as perfunctory
and unreal as the old start —which never started
after all.
There are three parties in N.S.W. Assembly
these days, and on the borrowing question they
are divided into the Carruthers party, which is
a sham ; the Labor party, which is a fraud ; and
the remnant of the Waddell-Owe’Sullivan
party, which is, presumably, the same old profli-
gate. Yet all these parties talk vaguely about
restriction of borrowing, and about economy in the
spilling round of loan funds. The country has so
far advanced that it doesn’t openly glory now in
its awful mass of liabilities, nor does it profess to
regard its I O U as a source of national greatness.
Except, perhaps, in prodigal Westralia there is
no State of the Commonwealth to-day where a
man has a chance of office unless he at least says
something vague and comforting about the
restriction of borrowing, and makes a general
remark or two about “economy.” The Labor
party wants office, as does every political
body which is worth its board and lodging;
but whereas in most other matters it aims at
being—on paper at least—clearly and definitely
in the van of the progressive movement, in this
matter it is content to tag on to its programme an
old vague hyprocrisy, borrowed from the old
party hacks of Toryism. It still half-believes,
apparently, that it is good to be in debt; that it
is good to have two sharply-defined classes in the
community—the class which is born to receive
interest and the class which is born to pay it;
and that the monopoly of compound interest isn’t
injurious, though the monopoly of land is. It
has had the courage to strike out new tracks for
itself in other directions—to throw clods at the
foolish old fetiches and to pour derision on the
dreary old superstitions—but in this one matter
it is as hide-bound as Bruce Smith, and as deeply
imbedded in the ancient rut as the oldest Upper
House in the land. And yet there are no lack of
signs that the country is prepared to see a
particularly large clod thrown at the borrowing
superstition, and the loan fetich, and the
lOU Joss. The mere fact that every politician
now recognises that it is advisable to say some-
thing about the restriction of borrowing if he
hopes to crawl into office, shows that there is a move-
ment that way. And the movement suggests that
possibly the politician who went the Whole Hog,
and declared flatly for the abolition of all borrow-
ing, the setting aside out of revenue of £1,000,000
or £1,500,000 a year for new public works, and
the establishment of a sinking fund, however
small, for the reduction of old debts —that such a
man wouldn’t need to crawl into office. He
might go there triumphantly, walking upright on
his two feet, as a great man should do, with a
brass trumpet blowing in front of him and a buge
mob applauding behind.
• • • *
The charges constantly levelled against the
Labor party are that it has no tariff policy, that
it has no definite financial policy, and that it is
too exclusively a pick-and-shovel faction, picking
and shovelling persistently at ideas which will
benefit exclusively the horny-handed class. These
charges constitute the whole armory of Toryism,
and Toryism reiterates them with a dull persist-
ence which is dreadful to listen to. Under these
conditions, the best thing Labor can do is to get
a financial policy—a great and striking one—and
here is such a policy ready to its hand. It is new,
and fresh, and untried. No one can say for cer-
tain that, if Labor took up the complete gospel
of anti-borrowing and threw its whole soul into
the fight, it would not sweep the polls at this
year’s elections. The people are tired of small
men and old platitudes. They like new ideas,
and big ideas ; and the tentative pottering of the
little men—the men who are straws showing how
the wind blows—with half-hearted promises about
the “ restriction ” of borrowing suggests that even
the undersized men begin to think that the time
has arrived for this particular big idea, only the
habit of the old superstition is still too strong for
them. The Labor party is the one above all
others which should seize this opportunity.
It represents mainly the crowd which only
pays interest, for its constituents, as a rule, don’t
hold great masses of public securities—they are
born in the chains of debt, to be slaves, so long as
the loan system lasts, to the State bondholders.
The Labor party also wants to get away from the
aspersion that it is wholly a pick-and-shovel
organisation ; and even the maddest Tory could
hardly persuade the public that national solvency
was a mere hod-carrying gospel or a purely bottle-oh
policy. It needs to wipe out the recollection of
its disastrous connection with Owe’Sullivan—
the awful Owe’Sullivan who was the prize fool
and bungler and incapable of the State’s political
history; and there is no better way to do that
than to take its feet definitely out of the trough of
Owe’Sullivan finance. It wants to advertise
itself as a party which isn’t a joke in a
financial sense, which can be trusted with
the public cash, and which wfill run the
Treasury on sane and responsible principles;
the Tory press has represented it so long as a
giddy and ox-like concern, whose budget would
have vine-leaves in its hair, that this is a really
urgent matter. And the N.S.W. debt and the
Cornstalk profligacy are so widely known that
there is no easier way of working up a name for
financial soundness and reliability than by being
the one party which is against the old debt and
the old profligacy root and branch.
• * * •
Just now there is a boom in N.S.W., and this
is the time above all others when the way of
financial reform is comparatively easy. If the
State can’t swear off loans now it is difficult to
imagine any time when it will be able to swear
off. Between legitimate revenue, land “revenue,”
and the proceeds of “ restricted borrowing ” the
Cornstalk Treasury is overflowing. The State
Labor party desires to add a little more to the
overflow by the proceeds of a graduated land-tax.
If it succeeded in passing an Act which declared
the flotation of any loans whatever, except
renewal loans, illegal; and which made the pay-
ment of at least £1,000,000 a year into a fund for
new public works and at least £200,000 a year into
a genuine sinking fund—one that would accumu-
late at compound interest for the reduction of the
old public debt—a fixed charge on the revenue,
the party might get its graduated land-tax. It
would at least have a far better chance to get it
than it would have under any other conditions,
for the money would then be really wanted. As
things stand there is a greater likelihood of the
income-tax and the old land-tax being abolished
than of a new land-tax being imposed. If the
State is to go on with a process of even
“restricted” borrowing, and is to make no
serious effort to reduce its old debt, then neither
the income-tax nor the land-tax are required at
present, and they are both likely to go, to the great
benefit of the rich landlord and the great capital-
ist. And if the Labor party desires to see these
imposts wiped out, then its best course is to
continue being the same old helpless applicant for
loans, “restricted ” or plain, that it is now.
* * * *
Just now the Carruthers Ministry is a mori-
bund institution. It has had its chance, and has
thrown its opportunity away. It is dying on its
feet, not through any great sins it has committed,
but through being small and mean and common
and ordinary. It has always been petty and
stunt >d, and has had to stand on an envelope to
look over the top of twopence. Its brightest idea
has been to try to divert attention from its small-
ness and ordinariness by silly ravings about
imaginary wrongs done to the Ma State, and its
second brightest idea has been to talk vaguely
about “economy.” The only thing which keeps
it standing up, though it is practically dead, is
the fact that the Opposition, since its best men
went into Australian politics, is just about as
ordinary as the Government. It is a striking
example of this fact that on the loan question
the Labor party should tag along at Car-
ruthers’ heels, and borrow his platitude,
and be his repetition and his ditto. The
State politics of N.S.W. are, just now, a
drowsy lingering of old men, or men who were
never really young, and a weary pawing over of
old catchwords and old ideas. There are good
and great ideas on the Labor platform, but they
have been there so long without the party putting
up any strenuous fight for them, that just now
they arouse little enthusiasm. Labor wants to
do something to stir up the old, dry bones and to
show that it is alive. It wants to paste a big,
new advertisement on a conspicuous place, for the
old ones have been up so long that the public has
ceased to read them with much interest. If it
hasn’t sense enough to believe entirely in a whole-
souled anti-borrowing policy, it might at least try
to believe in it for the sake of getting a new war-
cry, and getting out of the aged and grand-
fatherly rut, and making a ripple on the deadly-
dull surface of State politics. That dullness has
been very deadly of late years.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Privy Council’s Joke.
When the British Privy Council, a few weeks
ago, girded up the loins of its senile debility and
gave its decision on the question whether Federal
officials were, or were not, liable to pay State
income-tax, it left as much wreckage behind it as
an elephant might if it passed hurriedly’ through
a drawing-room. The income-tax question was
nothing, or next to nothing, in itself, and whether
it was decided this way or that mattered very
little. It could have been resolved either way
without serious damage, provided the Privy
Council had been content merely to give a deci-
sion, and leave things at that. But the ancient
and debilitated body started to give reasons and
to lay down elaborate principles, and it broke
about £IO,OOO worth of property on mere side
issues for every 2d. worth of genuine conclusion
that it arrived at. One of the things it swept
down with its tail while trying to turn clumsily
in a narrow space was memorable. As a mere
side issue—as a mere trifle done in passing—
it arrived at the opinion that the Australian
Parliament isn’t bound by the limits of the Con-
stitution —that though the Constitution explains
how far it can go, yet it can go any amount
further if it feels so inclined —that it
can annex the State powers, the State
lands, and the State railways and every-
thing else belonging to the States if it has a
tendency that way—that, provided it gets the
royal assent to its Bills, it can burst forth like a
Roman Emperor and do anything it darned well
pleases. The Privy Council didn’t put this forth
as the most important part of its decision that
day when it went crazy and ran amok ; it was laid
down casually, as a side issue of no importance—
laid down as casually as if it had been sixpence
discount. The Australian Constitution was just
one among a number of cherished idols which the
beast flicked down with its tail as a matter of no
importance. The position is this : In the Aus-
tralian Federation power is divided between
the Federal authority and the State author-
ity. But the division would do the States
very little good without some such power
as the High Court to arbitrate between them. If
the Australian Parliament succeeded in securing
the passage of a law which the Constitution gives
it no power to pass—say a law for the compulsory
seizure of the State lands or railways—the High
Court would declare it unconstitutional, and null
and void, and thereafter it would be waste paper.
If the High Court had no such power, there would
be no limit to the law-making powers of the Aus-
tralian Parliament; its laws might far exceed its
powers and be quite unconstitutional, but, as
there would be no authority to declare them un-
constitutional, it wouldn’t matter how unconsti-
tutional they were. And the Privy Council
dropped a small decision by the wayside to the
effect that the British system doesn’t recognise
that any court or tribunal has the power to declare
any law unconstitutional, or to annul it for being
unconstitutional. That, of course, is good enough
in England. England has no written Constitu-
tion, and a law can’t be contrary to what
doesn’t exist; it has no division of power
between an Imperial Parliament and subordi-
nate State Parliaments ; and it requires no
tribunal to decide if the Parliament has exceeded
its powers, for the Parliament at London has
all power—it can’t exceed its limitations, for
it has no limitations. So the Privy Council,
being older and more incapable that day than
usual, decided that because this is the system in
England it must, of course, be the system in
Australia, where the circumstances are wholly
different, and unofficially it blew out the candle
of State Rights with one sudden puff. The
Bulletin is firmly convinced that it would be
better for Australia if the State Parliaments were
abolished, and everything handed over to the
Commonwealth, which could then devise a system
of local government to fill in the details of
administration. If that were done Australia
could do without a written Constitution just as
England does, and would need no legal tribunal
to decide whether a law was constitutional or
not, for every law would be constitutional.
But we have to deal with things as they are, and
the incredibly incompetent Privy Council, in
some of its aged and frisky moods, doesn’t take
the least trouble to understand how things are.
Of course, no one is likely to pay any attention to
the Privy Council’s folly and incapacity in this
matter, but Australia should break off all con-
nection with a judicial body which is capable of
such folly, before it does something really fatal. It
is interesting to remember that it is the Tory-
State Rights-Anti-Australian crowd which has
persistently endeavored to retain the Privy Coun-
cil as a final court of appeal in Australian cases.
That crowd doesn’t seem to realise even yet what
its fetich has said about it.
The Craze for Imported Men.
The S.M. Herald suddenly discovered, the other
day, that there is a “tramway problem” in
Svdney. Providence only knows what the pro-
blem is, for the Herald doesn’t explain, but it
seems that there is a problem. This was how the
discovery came ab’'» , t. The Carruthers Govern-
ment appointed J j. INSON, from England, as
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner, to displace
Olivkb, the Australian, who didn’t approve of
free special trains to carry the morning papers.
(Johnson has been assistant engineer on a line
which spends 64 per cent, of its earnings in
expenses as against Oliver's 54J per cent., and
which pays 4 per cent, on its preference and U
per cent, on its ordinary stock, as against Oliver’s
latest profit of £4 Bs. 6d. per cent, all round
in N.S W.) The S.M. Herald cordially approved
of Johnson, whom it had probably never heard
of till then—he is an imported man, and that is
sufficient. Then it was reported that the same
fool Government was going to import a tram-
way “expert” to “report” on the Sydney tram-
ways, now managed by Kneeshaw, who had the
bad taste to take Oliver’s side in the recent dis-
turbance and the bad judgment to be a locally,
trained man, and the Herald held forth thus
Something like special genius seems to be required to
cope with our tramway traffic, and the indications at first
pointed to something like a solution of the problem in
the appointment of Mr. Badger, of Brisbane, whose
American experience adapted to Australian conditions
would have been specially valuable. As the Government
recognises the difficulty, and proposes to obtain an expert
to advise with the new Commissioners for six months, we
may hope and believe that something thoroughly satis-
factory will evolve. The new’ Commissioners are not
likely to make trouble in this respect. It is entirely to
their interest to have the tramway problem discussed and
attacked by someone with special qualifications and
experience ; and the public will certainly look on with
sympathy w’hilst the officials most concerned put their
heads together.
From this sort of thing one might reasonably
imagine that Sydney was still in the old horse
tram state of development, instead of having
about the most up-to-date service in the world.
Of course, if the city were rebuilt, with wide,
straight streets, the tram service might be greatly
simplified, but how it is to be made much better
in a place that is little more than a derangement
of alleys it is difficult to see. Anyhow, the
Herald suddenly discovered that there was a
problem which was quite beyond Kneeshaw,
the local man who had the misfortune to be the
friend of Oliver, and that this “problem ” could
only be solved by the employment of a complete
stranger from England. And just when the
Herald had cordially approved of the proposal to
import an “expert”—any old “expert,” so long
as he was imported—the new Railway Commis-
sioner, Johnson, gave his opinion that it was a
silly idea, and the proposal was dropped. So the
Herald, being still sure that there is a tramway
problem that can only be disentangled by
importing some one, has to fall back on the theory
that Johnson, whom it probably doesn’t know
from a crow, is such an immense genius that he
will fix everything single-handed. And still it
doesn’t say what the problem is—it only wants
to import somebody.
+
The Troubles of Hyppolyte, Demetrius
and Co.
The Sonoma shindy, which grew up and raged
and terminated last week in Sydney harbor, was
decorated with something that looked like im-
mensely hard swearing on the part of certain
officers, and it was a pity that, in the general
haste and flurry, the matter wasn’t further inves-
tigated. There were two distinct problems on
board the Sonoma. One was a group of Hawaiian
firemen, who had been shipped at Honolulu.
Against these, there seems to have been no objec-
tion made ; they were the only men obtainable at
the port, and the union rules allow for such cases.
But at Sydney the Sonoma, apparently out of
wilful malice and cussedness aforethought, shipped
a non-union fireman when unionists were avail-
able. In the subsequent row, the Kanakas
joined as cheerfully as the rest. Nevertheless,
the officers worked up a certain amount of
sympathy by swearing resolutely that the trouble
and the strike arose, not out of the objection which
the unionists had to the needless and superfluous
non-unionist shipped at Sydney, but out of their
sudden and violent objection to the necessary and
unavoidable Kanakas, and their impossible de-
mand that the brown men should be left behind ha
a country where the law doesn’t allow brown men
to be left behind promiscuously. The Kanakas
themselves were on strike —presumably, accord-
ing to the hard swear of their officers, because of
their objection to themselves ; and they are now
in gaol, according to the same hard, official swear,
for declaring that they wouldn’t return to work
on the vessel until they were sacked and sent
right off the vessel. There ought to be the basis
and foundation of a good, solid charge of perjury
in the Sonoma case somewhere, unless things are
very different from what they seem. Apart, how-
ever, from the hard swearing and the 28 days’
gaol which fell on the unlucky mariners, there
were pleasing features about the case. As an evi-
dence of the solidity and wide diffusion of union
principles, it was something above the average.
In defence of the principle of preference to
unionists a motley crowd gathered up its bag
and came ashore unanimously— John O’Neill
from the U.S. A., and Michael M ‘Guinness from
Ireland, and Hyppolyte Mosquerra from Spain ;
also Navarro from Chili, Castro from Peru,
Martin Cortez from Mexico, the unpronounce-
able Demetrius Nublutamos from Greece; like-
wise men from Norway, Russia, Italy, Scotland,
Canada, and the globe generally—men with names
like Gustav Hogan and Antonio Gonzales and
Olaf Jonsen, and all manner of other combina-
tions. At one time it used to be said that
society was divided in layers horizontally. The
top layer was united in all countries by contempt
for the layers beneath, and there was far more
kinship between the armor-plated knight of Eng-
land and the similar crate of hardware in France or
Spain than between anyone of them and the serfs
of his own land. Later, the globe threatened to
divide perpendicularly; not that caste distinctions
were less conspicuous, but that racial distinctions
and hatred grew more marked. Now trades-
unionism asserts itself as a bond of international
brotherhood, and society again promises to
divide itself horizontally, which is distinctly the
best thing that society can do under existing con-
tions. As a counter-balance to all the unfortu-
nate circumstances which keep the white races of
the earth apart, there is a great deal to be said for
the bond of trades-unionism which could make
59 men from a dozen different countries —includ-
ing Demetrius Nublutamos and Hyppolyte
Mosquerra —abjure the luxuries of the forecastle
and cheerfully go to gaol in a strange land in defence
of a principle" The law gave them 28 days. Perhaps
the law thought it couldn't do much less on the
technical aspect of the case, but it is in the power
of the State Government to remit the balance of
the 28 days, and to provide the defendants witha-
bed and a square meal till they can be otherwise
disposed of. And, if the State Government did
that, it would not only be doing a fair thing, but
it would also help to divert attention from its
land complications, and its borrowing proclivities,
and its other sins, to say nothing of the fact that
it would save wear and tear of its gaol. It is a
regrettable thing that N.S.W. should lend its
gaol—built out of loan money—for the encourage-
ment of anti-trades-union principles. It is also


regrettable that Sydney should have provided
a non-union crew to take the place of the
strikers, though there is satisfaction m the
knowledge that the local unionists stood rigidly
aloof, and heeded not the voice of the siren
that invited them to come and heave coals
in the stoke-hole, vice Demetrius and Hyppoltte
and their brethren in misfortune. As a side
issue, it is probable that these sturdy toilers
won’t have all the misfortune to their own
account. When the Sonoma reaches California
with its non-union crew there may be an angry
union on the other side to reckon with, and it
will probably take up the cause of Hyppoltte and
Demetrius in dead earnest.
The Wife-Beater and the “ Age.”
Melbourne Age, when it has nothing better to
do, generally fills in a spare column by demanding
the flogging of wife-beaters. It points out, quite
correctly, that wife-spanking is horribly common
in Melbourne. It also points out, and nothing
could be more correct, that the present methods
haven’t put down wife-flagellation. And then,
instead of the natural suggestion that something
might be done by flogging the local J.P., it
foolishly demands the flogging of the wife-beater.
Of course it is quite fair to say that, if the present
law is inadequate, some new method should be
tried, but, unfortunately, owing to the dreadful
incapacity of J.’sP. and similar cattle, the present
law hasn’t been tried yet, so no one can say
whether it is inadequate or not. If there is a law
which allows of six months hard labor, and yet the
typical J.P., being either a fool or a coward or a
person who sympathises with brutality, persis-
tently assesses the crime at 20s. or so, there is no
evidence that the law which authorises six
months hard labor is a failure. Common sense
would certainly suggest that it should be amended
in the direction of making the gaols huge work-
shops in which the prisoners would toil at re-
munerative occupations; and that the earnings of
married prisoners, especially those who are in
gaol for ill-usage of their wives or children, should
go to provide for the support of these dependents.
This would remove the only possible objection to
the imprisonment of the wife-beater —the objec-
tion that while he is under lock and key his
family may starve, though as that kind of man
generally lets his family shift for itself at all
times, even this objection isn’t so large as it seems.
But, having removed even the semblance of an
objection, the next essential seems to be either the
flogging of the J.P. to make him administer the
law, or the placing of the matter in the hands of
Stipendiary Magistrates'. Then a minimum
punishment might be fixed for the wife-beater’s
first offence, with an increase for each subsequent
offence, and if that didn’t extinguish the trouble
the terms of servitude in the State workshop
might be increased all round. And if the Stipen-
diary, in his sympathy with brutality, tried to
evade the law by always finding the wife-beater
not guilty in the face of the clearest evidence —
well, the Stipendiary should be sacked with-
out a character. It" is foolish to bleat about
the inadequacy of the present law seeing that no
one has tried the present law. For that matter,
if the Age got the gory statute that it occasion-
ally clamors for, it would be a very dis-
appointed paper, since in all probability that law
wouldn’t be tried either. There would be the
same old Bench, and the same old incapacity, and
the same old 20s.
Perth’s Little Bit of Anti-Sosh.
Though Perth (W. A.) did, by a narrow majority,
defeat the Anti-Sosh candidate for the Heps, m
December, Fremantle returned the Anti-Sosher,
and for the Senate even Perth put the three
Anti-Soshers at the head of the poll. Appar-
ently, therefore, Perth and the district there-
abouts are, on the whole, satisfied that Private
Enterprise is the correct card. Under those cir-
cumstances, Perth is, no doubt, glad that it has a
Private Enterprise gas co., and rejoices that it
doesn’t have to get its light through socialistic
mains. The co. used to be very small potatoes,
but eight years or so back it started • P ’
and the shareholders put up another £16,668.
In about three years and a half, besides
drawing 10 per cent, on their old shares, they
got that money back in dividends, and a bit ove
They drew 30 per cent, a year for a while on the
money that they had put up and back , the
for the last three years the <dividends onthese
shares have been kept in the office till the lot
amounts to £50,000 ; and now 20 per cent on the
£50,000 is expected. And, at the price charge
for lighting in Perth, 20 per cent, can very easily
be paid. So this happened: —
(1) Private Enterprise put up £16,666. , d
(2) The public paid that amount back in three and
ha (3) > The S 'public paid Private Enterprise 30 per cent,
per annum on the money it (the public) had paid baek
(4) As the Perth public seemed an extra-sized asi ,
Private Enterprise decided that the P“ a year) on
willingly pay more than 30 per cent. ( = £2500 a J ear) on
money it had repaid ; so Private Enterprise p
what‘the public paid up for three years and now it u
going to make the public pay 20 per cent, on the total
(=£lo,ooo a year) indefinitely. .
If the public had put £16,666 of rates into the
concern in the first place, and had made the
same charges for lighting as the co. has done, it
would in three years and a half have been able t
write its share of the works down to nothing, ana
to hand back the £16,666 to the city to spend on
something else, and it would then have been able
to spend £lO,OOO a year on more works, and it it
chose to knock off adding £lO,OOO a year to the
works it could now reduce the gas and electric
lighting bills by £lO,OOO a year. Under 1 nvate
Enterprise it paid back m three and a halt years
the cost of the new works, yet Private Enterprise
still owns them ; in the past three years it has
paid for about £30,000 of new works, and Private
Enterprise owns them too ; and as Private Enter-
prise is going to charge 20 per cent, for the use ol
the money that the public provided, Heaven only
knows what it won’t own in the end. Apparently,
however, Perth likes paying Private Enterprise
20 per cent, on its own money. Anyway, when a
party arrives which says things like that are
folly, and asks the public why it doesn t save this
annual £lO,OOO and other tens of thousands (for
much the same dodge has been worked before),
Perth says something about breaking up the
’appy ’ome, and votes that party down.
♦
While Deakin is Away.
It is proposed that, whilst the Prime Minister
and others are absent in England at the Imperial
and Navigation Conferences, the Australian Par-
liament should be prorogued. That will deprive
the post of Acting-Prime Minister of a good deal
of its importance. Nevertheless, it won’t be a
job that can safely be trusted to the first man who
comes along, and if it is left in the hands of
John Forrest there is a possibility of that emi-
nently retrograde person doing serious damage.
The ppsition now is that Deakin holds office,
that his direct following is in a minority, and
that he has a mandate to enact High Protection.
He is practically assured of the support of the
Labor party whilst carrying out that mandate —
in fact, on the question of High Protection,
which is the one question on which he went to
the country, he can count on somewhere about 50
votes in the Peps. After the tariff question is
settled it is clear that some re-arrangement will
be necessary. The obvious wish of the voters is
that that re-arrangement should take the form of
a Liberal-Labor alliance which will combine the
progressive forces of the Parliament. It is
sound and honest policy for the Deakin Cabinet
to strive to that end. But the clumsy and
backward John Forrest certainly will not. His
antagonism to the Labor party is as clearly ex-
pressed, and probably a good deal more sincere,
than Reid’s. A Liberal-Labor alliance would
necessarily omit John from its Cabinet. His-
ideal is to drag Deakin and his followers towards
the Reid side and form a Conservative coalition
Government. Consciously or unconsciously he
would, as Acting-Prime Minister, work towards
that end ; and the power he would have to further
it would be considerable. Prime Minister Deakin
might return to find all possibilities of a future
alliance with the Labor party shattered, and also
the chance of an effective tariff revision spoilt. If
he did not, it would only be because BiGJOHN,.
regarded as a witch stirring up the cauldron of
mischief on a blasted heath, lacked the necessary
diplomacy and overset the pot. Assuredly For-
rest should not be left as Acting-Prime Minister,
He possesses pretty. nearly every possible dis-
qualification for the job.
+
The Building Trade Award.
The decision of Justice Cussen, acting as
arbitrator in the Melbourne Building Trades dis-
pute—that 48 hours shall constitutes week’s work
and that wages shall be increased by 6s. a week
for bricklayers and their laborers and by 4s. a
week for carpenters and plasterers—settles the
trouble for six months from January 11th ; but it
is unfortunately a long way from closing the
argument finally. Briefly, Mr. Cussen, viewing
the matter not from a political or economical,
standpoint, but purely in its local and restricted
aspect, decided that he “could not see his way to-
reduce the hours to 44, and he felt that acompromise
of 46 would be satisfactory toneitheremployers nor
employees ” ; also, he feared that any reduction,,
after allowing for the lost time usual in the trade,,
would so reduce the earnings of the lower-paid,
workmen that they could not earn a decent sub-
sistence. TJ’urthcr, he thought that the longer
day, frequently further extended by lost time in
going to and from work, was made up for by the'
discontinuitv of employment. As regards this-
particular dispute it was an eminently sensible'
decision, but—it lasts only for six months; tho
strike leaders already talk of “ moving again at
the end of that term”; and it doesn t in.
any way touch the merits of the bigger question of
the reduction of hours in other trades. I hat is nc
fault of Mr. Cossen’s— he was not there to take a
broad view of the working hours question as.
applied to all trades. He found, from the unani-
mous statements put before him, that, allowing
for holidays, lost time, and periods of unemploy-
ment the working hours of bricklayers and.
laborers, even during the present busy time,
averaged 38 per week throughout the year; car-
penters and plasterers about 41! That there is.
much lost time—more than m many other
trades —is perfectly true. That is a strong reason
for raising the wages, which Mr. Cussen did,
but none whatever for reducing the working hours.
To have reduced the nominal hours to 44 might,
have diminished the average actual working hours-
to less than 36 per week, which, as the arbitrator
said “would be a most serious thing to do.
Finally, Mr. Cussen suggested the prompt insti-
tution of a Wages Board, not only to fax the;
working hours and wages after the expiration of
the term of his award, but to regulate the questions,
of apprentices, fares, payment for time lost and
for travelling time, etc. But, even if such a Board
were constituted, and all the matters in dispute'
more or less permanently settled, only the fringe
of the “ hours” question is touched. ° presently
trades-butchers, bakers, Li!
hTnnah put Tthere 11 would arise a similar ciamor
from the toilers in those m^triesthe remldT'o“
would be a highly prc,tectnmoreven a prohibit
tariff. That is a most desirable thing, ana it wou
largely increase employment in many, if not ,
trades—but it would not necessarily tend to shorten
hours Onthecontrary, it ought to makesucna vast
increase in the amount of work to be done that,
even with a great increase in the number oi
workers it would be necessary for them to work
T— ft*
gtSf.; 3 h » e otb y ß “"s SffiS 'to re-
place at least £30,000,000 of imports Or rather,
that is how things would be if the popuiatio
didn’t increase, but when it got enough new pro-
ducers to make those £30,000,000 worth of goods,
it would also have got a great increase m the
number of consumers, and the demand wouia
grow larger daily. Then the country has some
hundreds of millions of foreign debt to pay off,
and that also represents work-much highly-paid
and strenuous work. Lastly, alma,
eates is an aggressive Power whose arsenals are
working, not 44 hours a week, but night and day,
and, unless the Australian arsenals hurry a good
deal, the time may yet come in Austraha when
there will be no Labor party, no Parliament, no
48 hours, no Trades Hall—only an alien brown
tvranny. There is so much work to be done, and
so many arrears to that Australia can t
afford a 44 hours’ week. It waiits to hubtle
high wages—and postpone the eating of the lotus.
The Navigation Conference.
Thebe is so much robust common sense in the
Labor-political movement m Australia asa whole,
that it would be rather censorious to reflect too
severely on the little bit of class prejudice and
ignorance, responsible for the outcry agams
the Labor share of the delegation to the British
Navigation Conference. “The men chosen are
not practical seamen ” is the complaint. As we
argue that to discuss city street improvement only
a competent layer of tar-pavements is fitted. J. O.
Watson, one of the delegates against whom there
was outcry, is not a “practical seaman ; but
it is probable that he knows more about the
questions to be discussed than any practical
seaman ” in Australia ; and that, given a week s
coachin • in technicalities, he would represent the
seamen’, i case in a conference better than all the
“ practical seamen ” of Australia rolled into one.
Knowledge of technical detail in such matters is,
of course, valuable ; also it is very easily acquired.
4,nv barrister or journalist worth his salt will
acquire in a month sufficient knowledge about sea-
manship, electricity, engineering, metallurgy, or
theology to put clearly a case dealing with
the intricacies of any one of those branches of
knowledge ; and will, moreover, in able and clear
treatment of the case, “lose sight of experts
who know all the technicalities but lack skill ot
advocacy. Now, Watson is pre-eminently a man ot
“professional instinct,” of clear, cool judgment,
and of skill in advocating or opposing a cause.
As a representative of the seamen s case he would
be worth a thousand “ practical seamen who
have not his mental gifts. Unfortunately,
whether influenced by this clamor or not, WAT-
SON finally decided not to go to the Conference.
In Hughes’ case the hostile criticisms are, if that
is possible, a little more absurd, for Hughes is
not only a skilful advocate and a clear thinker,
but he has given special study to seafaring
matters, and is actually the author of a
proposed Navigation Bill, which is a marvel of
careful draughtsmanship. The hostile Tory
criticisms in regard to the choice of these two
men The Bulletin can understand. -their
appointment would mean a cold time for the
Stinking Fish liars whose speciality is to repre-
sent Australia as being in the grip of political
Thugs known as Labor-Socialists. Britain would
get a close view of two sample Thugs, and, after
considering them, would probably decide that the
aristocracy of Stinking Fish was a very coarse
and boorish thing by comparison. But the carp-
ing of the Labor party is incomprehensible ; or,
rather, it is comprehensible only on the assump-
tion that the Labor movement m Australia, in
spite of its vigorous mental development, is still a
little affected by stupidity.
Perth’s Slops.
Pebth (W.A.), although built on one of the
finest sites in Australia, is a vile-smelling hole.
For nearly three-quarters of a century (it was
founded in 1829) successive families of Uropers
threw their slops and kitchen refuse out of their
great, aggregate back-door leaving the sand and
hot sun to perform the work of scavenging.
(Result is that central blocks in the heart of the
city with gaudy, stuccoed fronts, are built on
soil which retains the smells of three generations.
Recently the Health Committee of the City
'Council was inspired with the idea that things
were not what they ought to be, and members of
that body explored a couple of blocks contagious
to the Town Hall (contiguous wouldn t express
it) and right in the heart of the city. This is
what they saw, as described by the reporter of
Perth Mokning Herald, who accompanied the
Cr With in whistling distance of the Town Hall there
exists a state of affairs which would be a reflection on
any city, and the wonder is that the whole area has not
been swept away either with disease or Are long- since.
Within the blocks inspected there is not a single right-of-
way which goes from street to street, and the narrow
lanes, ending in a cul-de-sac, are unpaved, dirty, blocked
up with cases, and permit of hardly any access, while
the rear of the business establishments is, in many cases,
■filthy Food was found, in some instances, to be in
•course of preparation within a foot of privies, an dm
small, airless, tin structures reeking with dirt. The
siffit and the sensation were both sickening. Apart
from the question of health, there is the possibility of
Are and it is safe to say that, if once a fire started in
those back premises, the whole block would be in grave
peril So crowded are the narrow gangways that the
firemen could not possibly get to work, and in almost
every yard there are piles of cases, straw, and other in-
flammable material. Stables abound, and in not one
instance were the regulations with regard to the flooring
of stables adhered to.
Of course, the tired old Health Committee ex-
pressed itself astounded at this state of affairs, but
what has its staff of sanitary and other in-
spectors been doing for the last score of years, for
instance ? And it is curious that the Health
Committee should live all its life amid such
horrors, and never become aware of them till it
went out to officially inspect its own back yard,
•so to speak.
Same Old Chow.
The same old Chow that we know so veil in Aus-
tralia, with his opium joint, and his ft.n-tan, and
his cook-shops, and his sweating wage-A, has in-
vaded Liverpool (England), and seems to have
| taken root there. He has been discovered early,
however, and an attempt is being made to root
him out before he spreads too extensively, But
the same old alderman that we know so well here-
abouts rehearses the same o|!d platitudes about
Chinese industry and frugality and sets up the
same old theory that ceaseless, ill-directed toil for
low wages, and the capacity to sleep ten m a room
and live on 2d. a day are the true sources of
national greatness. The alderman mostly owns
the tumble-down shebangs in which the Ghow
makes his sty, and the alderman mostly gets a big
rent for them, for eight Chows m one house pay-
ing 3s. a week each come to a lot more than one
white man living decently and paying 10s. a
week. Recently, the Liverpool papers wrote up
Liverpool’s little Chinatown in all its squalor and
vice, and the description reads like the story ot
Little Bourke-street, told by an astonished
stranger to whom Little Bourke-street was a new
shock and a horrid revelation. The article caused
an outcry, and Liverpool City Council appointed
a commission to investigate the subject, lms
was not done without a fight, and quite naturally
the pro-Chow men were aldermen and big pro-
perty-holders. Here is a condensed report
Mr. Jambs Sexton related some of his cxperiencea
durino- visits to the local Chinatown, and assured h s
eollea«-ues that cases of gross immorality and irreparable
injury" to white girls could be placed before the Commis-
sion/ Sailors were taken into Chinatown by touts , he
had seen both gambling and opium smoking going on in
the Chinese dens. More than that, little gwls—m some
cases school-girls—had been induced to £° de
Chinamen’s houses. Cock-fighting was practised larg y
in Chinatown, and that was not the worst. ■
Mr. Austin Harford testified to the existence of opium
dens Were they, he asked, to wait until public opinion
assumed a form which they might not be able to control ?
Alderman Menlove declared that when quite recentlj
he paid a visit to a number of the k pt
by Chinese, he found them all clean. A little gamming
W Akternfan"Maxwell explained that there was no law
against opium smoking. No crimes due to the use of the
drug had come to the knowledge of the pohce. There
Wa. good deal of gambling, but the police treated the
Chinese naming houses in precisely the same way as
similar places belonging to English People. In regard t
allegations of decoying young girls, lie was positiveij
appalled at the statements he had heard made,
what had been said, he could not understand where t
mothers and fathers and other relations of the girls were
fnr no complaints had been received by the police. To
describe the articles which had appeared in some news-
papers as cross exaggerations was employing a tame
phrase There was not that rampant crime and
debauchery going on in so-called Chinatown of Liverpool
which imagined. Personally he saw no reason for
such a commission as was now proposed.
Always there is on the side of the Chow the rich
man who isn’t driven by necessity to live within
smell of his Asiatic “ brudder ” ; and the sweater,
who admires a race with so vast a capacity for
doing without the ordinary adjuncts of civilisa-
tion • and the property-owner with dens like
Dickens’ Bleeding Heart Yard to let and with a
great love for a race which likes such places and
fs fairly regular with its rent. It is a good thing
for Australia and South Africa that the Mongol
has begun to batter personally at Britain sown gate,
and it is to be hoped that the Japand the Hindu will
do likewise in thousands—very many thousands.
Hithertoithas been difficult to ex P lal . n *°? UL^^
we dislike the Asiatic; now the Asiatic, being
a fool in his generation, is doing the ex-
planation himself But Bull, when the trouble
comes into Ins own back yard, is much less
patient than the Australian was. He has only
begun to have a Chinatown, yet already he is so
mad that the other day he blocked a horde of
heathen at an English port, just in the same off-
handed way that makes the Argus boil over like
a pot of wrath when the event happens at Cook-
town. One good sniff of the Chinaman appears
to have satisfied Pa Lull.
Burnt Grass.
imtbeen on an extended tour through Western
Queenslind-the land of big floods and likewise tag
drnii'hts Started from Charleville on the warrego,
crossed over on to the Langlo, thence to the Larcoo an
Thompson, a distance of 300 miles or so. This route
contains some of the finest pastoral country m all
tralia—great open, rolling downs and plains that nave
vegetation that would give a Hunter River lucerne
paddock a mile start, and make it look a fool.
v Millions of acres are covered with Mitchell, blinders,
and other grasses ; and the State from end to end was,
until recently a glorious panorama of waving green. The
warm sunny days had the effect of transforming the
color into bright vellow, resembling, especially in Mitchell
grass country, nothing so much as a great wheat field.
g Yet this is the same land that has been decimated by
drought ; S where millions of live stock representing the
of the State, have died miserably from
starvation and fch&t but & short time , .
Obviously, the lessons to be learnt from the last great
disaster are contained in the application °*
date methods and the conservation o£ ” atu ™}
whereby the effects of a dry season would be minimised.
Nobody suggests for a moment that enough stuff could
be stored to feed all stock through a succession of bad
years but by following a systematic course, most
stations could stack sufficient to save everything in the
breeding-hue This would make a recovery fa,rly easy
n/ lt naralvsing deadly thing it has been in the
nast Take a season hke the present, for example, when
?nexhaustible quantities of the finest of bush hay coul
be cut bv binders and stacked at a minimum of
cost Hundreds of thousands of tons could thus
be saved which will now be consumed by fire
or eventually rot. But what is the situation .
The same ok/air of indifference, and, seemingly, a re-
solve on the part of all hands to trust to luck There is
enough for the present—or the next 12 months for t i
matter and —well, damn the future. There was a time,
though, when even the shindycates and financial mag-
nates who control these western runs talked about con-
servation. That was in their moments of remorse, when
the curse of drought held the country like a vice, and
everything: was either dead, or dying. . ~
Since then, however, the seasons have been tolerably
good and wool and stock have been selling at boom
price's, with the result that the woolly ° n p Meashe
so continuously drunk on the proceeds that the'deashe
had and the things he was going to do have q u ' te Reaped
his memory. Then, when the next drought happens
along, as it is bound to do sooner or later—probably
sooner-the backbone of the country will call loudly to
the Government for help, so that it may shift its stock at
holiday-excursion rates, not to mention a o
rent and a few other items. And, incidentally, ltewill
pass remarks about the evil effects of Socialistic legisla-
tion, and talk about gathering up its capital and clearing
out to Chowannesburg or somewhere else, where good,
reliable, cheap niggers live, and where the seasons are
m Mea*nwffilef^ev.'en as I write, there are tremendous
blazes all around, sweeping over great areas of country,
and destroying tens of thousands of tons of grass that
would, in a dry season, be a veritable gold-mine.
More Improvement Lease.
Judging by a healthy row raised by the Barraba
(N.S.W.) Gazette, the fact that Nicholas
Willis now spends most of his spare time being
acquitted hasn’t in any way checked the im-
provement lease” industry. The man who is
now running it is said to be Lands Minister
Ashton. According to the Barraba paper,
Ashton’s Department recently resolved to
“throw open” a splendid area of land, described
as being richly grassed and abundantly watered.
When the news leaked out in the obscurity of the
Government Gazette, a number of small settlers
made urgent demand that the area should be
cut up and disposed of as conditional purchases.
Who’ll Wear the Beaten Colors?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who’ll wear the beaten colors—and cheer the
beaten men ?
Who’ll wear the beaten colors, till our time comes
again ?
Where sullen crowds are densest, and fickle as
the sea,
Who’ll wear the beaten colors, and wear them
home with me ?
Who’ll wear the beaten colors, with hands and
pockets clean ?
I wore the beaten colors since I was seventeen.
I wore them up, and wore them down, Outback
and ’cross the sea—
Who’ll wear the beaten colors, and wear them
home with me ?
We wore them back from Ladysmith to where the
peace was signed,
And wore them through the London streets where
Jingoes howled behind ;
We wore them to the Queen’s Hall while England
yelled “ Pro-Boers ! ”
And set them over victory while London banged
the doors.
We wore them from Port Arthur round till all
sunk in the sea —
(Who’ll wear the white man’s colors, and wear
them home with me?)
I’ve worn them through with rich men, with work
slaves and alone —
Who’ll wear the beaten colors, and wear them on
his own ?
There’s one would look with startled eyes and
shrink while I caressed,
Came I not with the colors of the conquered on
my breast.
And twenty thousand Bushmen would stand with
hands behind,
And scorn in all their faces for the coward of his
kind.
Who’ll wear the beaten colors and raise the voice
they drowned ?
It maybe when we march again they’ll hear some
other sound ;
Who'll pin the beaten colors on and drive the
beaten pen ?
It may be other steel and ink when we march out
again.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


The Tyree Spray is now being used by
the—
Harbour Trust, Sydney
Health Dept., Sydney
David Jones, Sydney
John Sands, Sydney
Sanitary Dept., Town Hall
Sargents
Water and Sewerage Board
Dept, of Public Works
Buzacott & McParlane
Prince Alfred Hospital
J. Keep and Sons
Dept, of Public Health
Abattoirs
Govt. Railways
J. Inglis & Sons
A. G. Gillies
Resch’s Brewery
Australia Hotel, Ltd.
Sydney Preparatory School
Municipal Council
Robbie, Supt. of Parks
A. Hordern & Sons
FreshuFood and Ice Co., Ltd.
Bulletin Office.
J. Sands.
Horton & Co.
Holdsworth & M'Pherson.
Waters & Co.
Government Architect Dept.
Daily Telegraph.
And about 1000 other firms.
Chamberlain’s Tablets, which are perfectly
harmle >s, gently stimulate the liver and bowels
to exp al poisonous matter, cleanse the system, and
absol itely cure constipation and sick headache.
Sole everywhere at Is. 6d.*
™ Grosvenor Hotel,
CHURCH HILL. '
ONE of the leading Hotels in Sydney. Every Home
Comfort. Highest Position ; Cool and Airy. A
Favorite Abode for Squatters and Professional People.
Tariff—l Os* per Day; £3 3s. Weekly.
Concessions to Families and Permanent Guests.
C. N. M. CHATEAU, Lessee.
AS*
%
•E
TRADE
MARK
1001
*°osand
NEW CONFECTION
k. SAVE THE WRAPPERS.
On January 17 they received a reply to the effect
that the matter had been “ referred” to the
district surveyor at Tamworth. On January 21
they were staggered with the news that the
desirable bit of soil had been leased for 16 years
on cheap “improvement lease” terms to
one Spencer, described as of Ironbarks station
(15,000 sheep), also of Birrery station, likewise
of Coolah station. This deed was done at
lam worth, where the N.S.W. Government, in
its ravening desire to settle lots of people on the
land, makes a pretence of trying to repurchase
the 1 eel River estate. Of course, Lands Minister
Ashton may say, in defence, that by this latest
transaction he has settled Squatter Spencer on
the land, but that looks hardly like sufficient ex-
planation. The area that the row is about lies in
the well-watered Eastern District of N.S.W.—not
in the West or the Centre ; and two railways
meander not so very far away. Altogether our
reptile contemporary at Barraba seems to do well
to be angry. Improvement leases smell badly
these times, and require a great deal of watching.
+
The death of John See, ex-Premier of N.S.W.,
has deprived the State of a politician who was
considerably above the average—but who made
his name at a time when the average was not very
o'Rn, so that to be above it was only a moderate
achievement. See was the architect of his own
fortunes, and he built them high, and put a
tower on them. He was a fine business man, and
was much liked by all who knew him. Also he had
a square jaw and a strong personality, and if he
had taken the trouble to have any very definite
political opinions he would have fought hard
for them, and become a notable figure in
public life. But John See, though he had boiler-
metal convictions about produce and shipping,
didn’t trouble to have any very definite political
views beyond being a pretty steady Pro-
tectionist. He didn’t take the interest in
the game that he thought he did. There-
fore he fell a prey to Owe’Sullivan, and
when Owe’Sullivan wanted to make frantic
and deranged borrowing the central policy of the
See Cabinet, the Premier didn’t take the trouble
to be of a contrary opinion. That was John
See’s ill-luck. Just before he died, he was
looking more above the average than usual as a
State politician, because the State average has
been sinking of late, and, had he lived, he might
have found office again, supposing he wanted it.
And if he had got office again, without Owe’Sul-
livan this time, he might have made, even at the
eleventh hour, a name of some size in politics.
Sydney Labor Council has been investigating the
alleged shortage of labor for sewer construction,
and the result of the inquiry causes wonder that
men can be found to take the deadly work on at
all. Sydney and suburbs are built chiefly on
sandstone, through which the sewers are either
tunnelled or trenched. The dust raised by the
mining operations attacks the workmen’s lungs.
According to the late Dr. J. J. Power, out of 200
rock-choppers treated for “sewer disease” not
one recovered, and the medico reckoned that no
man should be allowed to follow the game for
more than six months without taking a six-
months’ holiday. A leading contractor calculates
that 60 or 70 per cent, of his best hands go under
early, and estimates the working life of the rock-
chopper at about four years. After that time it
is odds on that the chopper is in the grip of a
slow, suffocating illness that almost always ends in
death. This is the sort of gamble for which the
Water and Sewerage Board refused to pay Sydney
Labor Council’s suggested 9s. per eight hours for
trenching, and 9s. per six hours for tunnelling.
The same Board is now surprised that men are
not falling over their own feet in their haste to
secure a job which carries its coffin under its arm,
so to speak.
».
Chief Justice John Madden, of Victoria, dis-
cussed Australian affairs with a body of London
commercial and financial persons, and found them
convinced that there was a strong desire on the
part of the Commonwealth to break off from the
Empire, and set up on its own. John gave the
distinguished gentlemen his word of honor that
Australia did not contemplate the rash act,
whereupon he was told that, “ if Australia would
give some assurance which would make it mani-
fest that it was loyal arid true, ” English public
interest would be “immensely stimulated.”
How’s that ? Is this our return for the red fool
fury with which Australia responded to the
demand for assistance in getting the Boer down
and dragging his whiskers ? Only the other day,
our States vied with each other in sending ship-
load after ship-load of strenuous natives to “save
the Empire,” to “uphold the prestige of Old
England,” to “buttress the throne,” and such
like. And what kudos was to come to us for our
“ splendid devotion ” in these farm-blazing days !
Yet now, Australia is suspected of a desire to
burst the Empire, and is requested to give bail—
not leg-bail—for its good conduct.
Irvine, the Iceberg, the powerful, speechless
man who saved Victoria in its hour of peril, and
has now come out, like Samson with the flinders
of his torn-up lion in his hand, to save the whole
Commonwealth, is forgetting his rdle. Irvine
should never talk. His business is to look pale
and resolute, and let the papers tell what he is
thinking about. But he has started blowing off
eloquence, and this is the sort of thing he has to
say
But I would appeal to you, interested as you all
are in the future of this country, whether the time has
not come when we ought to endeavor to forget party
differences and party claims, and try to remember the
grand purposes and the national duties which a few
years ago made the people of these States enter into a
Federal union with a light heart. (Cheers.)
That is the sort of platitude that glows like a
bike-lamp in the gloom. If Irvine would only
ring a bell before he wheels his weighty remark
round a corner, the resemblance would be perfect.
“Hassan”: Allow me to make a slight correc-
tion in the par (31/l/’O7), re the 653 girls who
worked for the sweater at £0 os. Od. per week. I
don’t mean to question the facts; it is the con-
elusion that seems a little hasty. It is hardly
proof that, because no indignant letters on the
subject appeared in the dailies, no such letters
were written. Can The Bulletin imagine any
of these papers offending an advertiser ? I used
to hold to that simple faith once. I don’t now.
The more I see of our daily press, the less I like
it. It is ruled absolutely by its advertising
columns. Will an article—or a letter—hit a
sweater, an abortionist, a quack, or a fraudulent
“agency”? Well, I’d as soon think of meeting
an importer in Heaven as that article—or letter
—in any of our “great dailies.” An advertiser
recently put up a barbed-wire fence upon a public
reserve. He made a garbage-tip of the enclosure.
There were many letters written; there was
none published. The truth will out —out into the
W.P.B. These papers invariably foster the
tradesman, because he advertises, at the expense
of the public, which doesn’t. They are care-
ful not to publish the names of those houses
whose employees get the plague, for the trade of
an advertiser is naturally of more importance
than the health of the community. The importer
of rubbish—especially of rubbish—advertises a
great deal more than the manufacturer ; that is
why our daily pressis, almost to a newspaper, Tree-
trade. Late N. S. W. Railway Commissioner Oliver
gave his opinion against the Socialistic carriage
of the Anti-Sosh rags. He did not advertise.
He is now out of a billet. If he had advertised a
patent medicine in the intervals of Railway Com-
missioning, well— quien sabe ? I could multiply
instances of this species of “graft.” The truth
is that Australia is ill-served by its daily press,
in spite of Mr. Sam Cook’s recent eulogy of the
same in London. There is room, I am certain,
for an honest daily paper. The very novelty of
the thing would ensure success.
♦
Some of the wild and woolly assertions of the
Rev. Woodfull, of Melbourne, have at last
called forth official contradiction. It was alleged
that the idiots at Kew Asylum had the “ God
Bless Our Home ” texts taken from their walls as
a result of “Romish influence,” and Dr.
McFarlank, the medical officer of the asylum,
was said to be a weak-kneed Protestant; and one
of the Woodfull brigade was cheered for
describing him as “worse than a Catholic.”
Further, Woodfull himself averred at one Pro-
testant electors’ meeting that ‘ ‘ the same old in-
fluence” had been at work in the asylum to
prevent the Protestant clergymen doing their
work, while two R.C. priests, paid £l4 a year
each, were given free access at all times.
This at last aroused the Vic. Inspector-General
of Asylums (Dr. Jones), and he has written a
report to T. Bent, in which document he flatly
contradicts the “gross misstatements” of Wood-
full. To start with, Jones denies point blank
that any Protestant parson had ever been refused
facilities for visiting the idiots. There are not
two R.C. priests, but one, visiting the asylums.
He is paid £l4 a year certainly, but the
Church of England parson is paid £4O,
the Presbyterian £l6, and the Wesleyan £l6.
Unless Woodfull can refute these official state-
ments he is left in the position of a mean, un-
christian slanderer, and a disgrace to the church
he infests. But, somehow, an insectarian parspn
can survive an exposure which would just about
ruin a bookmaker or a Dago in the banana trade.
In a recent speech in Melbourne, Fairbairn,
M.H.R., referred in sepulchral tones to “the
failure of municipal Socialism in England,” and,
after quoting figures for 10 minutes, clinched his
argument by showing that the money invested by
British municipalities in Socialistic works returned
a profit, after paying interest and providing sink-
ing fund, of only 6s. 3d. per cent. The good Tory
audience said an awestruck “Oo !’’—Fairbairn
had proved his case. Anything that returned
only 6s. 3d. per cent, must necessarily be rotten.
But, apart from the fact that a public concern
which returns 6s. 3d. per cent, per annum over
and above interest and sinking fund contributions
is often really returning from 5 to 7 per cent.,
and is certainly returning 6s. 3d. per cent,
more than it need do—apart from all that,
Fairbairn brayed just the rubbish that might
have been expected, when that kind of man
brays to that sort of audience. If tramways, and
gas. and electricity, and municipal baths are bad,
because they return only interest and sinking
fund, and 6s. 3d. per cent, besides, the making
of roads must be infinitely more reprehensible,
seeing that no municipality anywhere in the
world has ever yet paid a dividend out of its
profits from such sources. The average munici-
pality which is able to pay the interest on the
money it borrows by taxing the ratepayers, re-
gards itself as doing very well ; and, in Vic.,
where Fairbairn comes from, it generally de-
clines to do even that, and runs its so-called Anti-
Socialistic enterprises on money cadged out of
the general taxes of the State. The Vic. country
shire which can pay interest on the money it has
borrowed without being a recipient of State
charity, has yet to be discovered. If Fairbairn
wishes to be logical, he should start to-morrow
advocating that the Melbourne City Council
should no longer pave Collins-streeib because
there is no profit in it.
“ Philo ” writes :—
Re your footnote to my par. on the planting: of a colony
of Jews in Australia. My information that the Jewish
agriculturists are successful in Bussia was obtained
from an article, entitled “The Eussian Minister for
Agriculture on the Jews,” published some 3 r ears ago.
Also the same information was given me by a Eussian
doctor in a recent press interview. The principal Jewish
settlements are in Smargone, Ekaterinslav, Babronsk,
Pultava, Bessarabia, Berazien, and Eadoskovets. If you
happen to pass any of these places on* the way to the
office, you might drop in and inquire for yourself.
The Servians, who are a job lot, want a
British prince for their King, and during the past
year Dr. Mijatovitch, ex-Servian Minister to
Britain, says he was requested to lay the case
before the Duke of Connaught and endeavor
to obtain his consent to the acceptance of the
Servian Crown by his only son, Prince Arthur,
who was 24 the other day. But a Servian King
carries his life in his hand, and has to go across
the river into Austria to sleep if he wants to
feel safe, and the easy-going Connaughts are not
taking any.
From Thomas Clodd :—
Capital values in 95 local districts of Maoriland were
computed by Government valuators to have increased by
£20,000,000 in 1906. The basis of valuation appears to be
the largest sum that any hysterical land-boomer has
given for any section in a district. The valuator, who is
generally a retired timber merchant or grocer, searches
the register, finds the highest-priced sections, and bumps
the whole countryside up to the hysterical figure. And
the COW goes on making frantic efforts to justify the
valuer and to keep the mortgagee from making a record
trip from London to see what’s happened to the interest.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Home, Sweet Home.”
Hbr Majesty's “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal. “ Revenge."
Tivoli Rickards’ Go.
Palace Theatre “ The Kelly Gang.”
Bondi “ Wonderland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Masonic Hall The Kelly Gang Biograph.
St. Kilda Esplanade. .. “ Dreamland.”
♦
“Home, Sweet Home,” staged by Harry
Rickards’ “English Drama Co.” at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday, aims at being melodrama of
the “ Silver King” and “Hoodman Blind” type.
It is called “domestic drama,” and boasts that its
hands are clean of blood-stains. (The hero pretty
nearly strangles the villain once, but he re-
members the reputation of the play, and stops
short of manslaughter.) There are some good
reasons why “ Home, Sweet Home ” should be a
fair success. The story is conventional and appeals
to all those virtues and good qualities we like to
think we have. There is no attempt at wit or
humor—when the time is due for a loud laugh,
the village gaffer comes on in a state of drink,
flourishing an over-ripe fish. And, in the later
acts, there is a pathetic child interest which
brings out the handkerchiefs of the feminine
section of the congregation, and makes it snuffle
audibly. A play which can cause a flutter of
hearts and handkerchiefs is on the road to success.
But “Home, Sweet Home” rubs in the pathetic
business a shade too much. There is no earthly
reason why the chee-ild, in addition to its attack of
heart-break and starvation, should wander out
into the cold, wet, windy night to look for
muvver. That’s rather like getting tears on false
pretences.
* • * •
“ Home, Sweet Home ” is done by a good
stock company, in which there are no particular
stars, but a good, steady level of capacity. In
the first act the co. shows its greatest ten-
dency to weakness. That act wants a light
touch, and generally doesn’t get it, except from
Miss Pearl Keats, as Sybil Pay, the music-hall
artist who has danced on two capable legs into
the British Beerage. But in later and more
. emotional acts the principals, Miss Lilian Hallows
and Sidney Howard, prove themselves capable
artists. Baby Watson—a mite who plays the
chee-ild most naturally, except when she is brought
in from the driving rain nearly dead, but plump
and rosy, her “ nighty ” dry and her hair
neatly done up in sausage curls—scores most
of the applause of the piece, and will,
doubtless, be its mainstay in popular favor!
But very good work is done by Harry Diver (who
has three different parts, and plays them all most
effectively), Horace Pollock, whose sketch of a
chappie is excellent, and Harold West, who, as a
fisher lad, shows real dramatic force. The villain
(George R. Montford) doesn’t get out of the
ruck of conventional melodramatic villainy. The
scenery by Alfred Clint is a bright feature of the
piece, and the mounting generally is good.
** * *
“Revenge” is rolling along so well at
Sydney Royal that there is no talk as yet of a
change of bill; and Bland Holt will continue for
some time to keep the Holy Roman Empire
of Austria in order with his company of British
bluejackets. It is just as well that it isn’t the
German Empire that “Revenge” deals with, or
there would have been international complica-
tions long ago. But the Austrian Kaiser seems
to be an affable and philosophic old gentleman
who entertains no grudge against Bland Holt.
** * *
The newest thing at Sydney Tivoli is
Eanny Powers’ imitation of herself. There is
one advantage about the performance, anyway—
Fanny Powers was almost sure to have been
there when Fanny Powers was doing the things
she says she did when she was young. Still,
without rehearsing, there are lots of people who
can give very good imitations of what they were
before they were born, and when they were
merely their own ancestors in a previous in-
carnation. But it doesn’t often pay them as
well as it pays Fanny Powers. Take William
M'Millan, for instance, the high priest of Con-
servatism in York-street, Sydney. M'Millan’s
firm, M‘Arthur and Co., bought‘the Australian
rights to the vacuum cleaner—a revolutionary
idea for doing without brooms. But W. M‘Millan,
in his political capacity, has been so busy telling
Sydney that the old brooms are best, that
when he had to tell the same public, in his
commercial capacity, that the times have
got ahead even of new brooms, the public
wouldn’t believe him ; anyway, his chair-
man in London, explaining why ordinary
shares couldn’t have a dividend, had to
explain that the Australian public had “proved
more conservative than w r e had expected.” Some-
how or other this doesn’t seem to have much
connection with the Tivoli ; but Chanti has been
sick, and Rhoda Dendron’s feet are the same feet
that she danced the bare-footed dance with last
week, and the rest of the bill has been good
enough to be left unaltered; and a paragraph had
to be written. So W. M'Millan is, so to speak,
added to the Tivoli bill for this week only, and
The Bulletin hopes he and manager Rickards
won’t quarrel about the salary.
** * *
On Saturday, at the Palace, Sydney pulled
its forelock to Pinero’s “The Squire,” staged by
the Public Service Dramatic Society in aid
of Itself. Miss Chapman, who has done
so well in other and very different roles, didn’t
fit the Squire. It creased on her. But probably
that was Pinero’s fault. The lady hadn’t been
measured for it, and it Was a slop reach-me-down
Squire. Mr. Victor had no show in a small
person part. The amateurs had prepared
“Billy’s Little Love Affair”—a jolly, fizzy
comedy—but when all was ready they failed to
secure permission to present it. This weighed
on their young hearts, and they had each to in-
hale a bagful of oxygen before they got up fresh
spirits to stage the present piece. They had
played it previously, and wanted to perpetrate
something new.
The fresh attraction at Wonderland City
next Saturday will be a glorious creature made of
tire and dew, and named Madame Flaro This
lady’s speciality is “A Slide for Life.” She
slides 500 dizzy feet on a wire enveloped in
flames. While she is sliding for life’s sake -or
slide s sake the feelings of the onlookers are so
wrought upon that every knob of the collective
spine of the multitude makes protest against the
too much thrill. Madame Flaro’s presenters say
so, and they ought to know.
*# * *
The Kelly Gang Biograph will flicker— or
rather, the management says, it won’t flicker—at
Sydney Palace on Saturday, under the manage
ment of J. and N. Tait. This expensive and
elaborate show did well in Melbourne for many
weeks ; and might have lasted much longer if it
hadn’t been cut off by the cleaning operations at the
Athenaeum Hall. Also it set out to do a six nights’
season at Adelaide, thinking that represented
about as much hanged bushranger as the city
could stand, and to its own astonishment it raged
there for a full month. Therefore, it may be con-
fidently expected to bushrange in Sydney for a
fairly long season.
* * *
The three Bs.—Black, Buckmann and
Beattie —will swarm over Orange, Forbes, Dubbo,
and perhaps Bathurst, Bourke and Mudgee early
next month and gather great wealth. Rosina
Buckmann is the lively soprano; Bessie Beattie
the light pianiste ; and Black is Andrew of that
hue. There is yet a fourth member of the com-
bination, but she isn’t a Bee; she’s a Kussmann—
Miss Rebe Kussmann, who plays the ’cello. She’s
a tropical-looking girl of sixteen or so, with eyes
of midnight and a billow and torrent of black hair.
** * *
The Willoughby-Ward Comedy Co. is
putting in the current week at Newcastle, where
last Saturday a crowded house roared at “The
Man from Mexico.” The Newcastle season ends
after next Saturday, and the co. goes on to Mel-
bourne, playing at Goulburn (Monday) and
Wagga (Tuesday) on the way. The opening piece
in Melbourne will be “ The New Clown.”
** * *
The end of “ Parsifal” is coming, and at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, they are beginning to
talk about the next things. A week hence will
see the conclusion of the present parable. Next
there will be a few resurrections, with Tittell
Brune, of course, in the front row ; and pretty
soon after that the hard-working little woman will
take a trip to Europe. If she goes that way she
may meet Andrew Mack bringing his falsetto and
his blarney back to Australia ; for “ The Road to
Kenmore ’ wasn’t half long enough when Mack
last tramped it in these parts.
** * *
The apparition of Bert Bailey in female
apparel, together with many other weird things
which befall London when it Sleeps, will happen
no more after Friday night. Melbourne Royal
has a new Australian drama concealed about the
premises, and its first public appearance is fixed
for Saturday. Bailey aforesaid and Edmund
Duggan, also of the Anderson co., are the joint
authors of the joy in store. Under the plain de-
scriptive title of “The Squatter’s Daughter, or
The Land of the Wattle” their work will face the
music. An “absolute Australian setting” i$
promised. Gems of Australian history are said
to be dotted about the narrative, and the native
water required for Waterfall Gully has been laid
on regardless of expense. “The Squatter’s
Daughter” can hardly fail to excel a number
of imported dramas in literary merit, and the
facts that it is racy of the soil, and was born in
the theatre of its operations, should commend it
to public patronage.
** * *
This is the sixth week of “Mother
Goose” at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne). The
panto, continues to run to eight performances
a week, and two of the most popular items are
still in a state of suspended animation, so to
speak. The charm of the swinging chorus is in
mid-air. A topical duet by Harry Shine and
Phydora derives all its success from the location
of the comedians who chortle their lay against a
background of rolling clouds what time they pro-
fess to be driving a motor through space. The
ground plan of the panto, is less extensive than
at first, and the curtain now falls at about five
minutes before the time when a fully gratified
audience used to begin to look at its watch.
** * *
Be the Melbourne house of .Rickards,
nothing quite new transpired last Saturday,
except the announcement that Larry Lewis and
Miss Violet Stockelle would be leaving shortly.
There have been others whose departure was a
matter for deeper regret. “An entire change of
programme,” by King and Benson, is new in
some respects ; also Charles Fletcher has intro-
duced an “impersonation” of Charles War-
ner as Coupeau into his series of character
actings. It is no disparagement of the
American quick-change artist to remark that
he doesn’t offer one striking suggestion of
Charles Warner in his performance of Coupeau,
nor is there any reason why he should want to
think he does. The admirable Charlenes are
scoring an undiminished roar of applause with
their xylophone and juggle “turn,” and the First
Part stands where it did. For the sake of variety
the two parts of the Rickards programme might
as well change places every other week. One gets
tired of seeing the same part always in front.
** * #
The Kelly Gang Biograph, having been
driven from the Athenaeum Hall by an armed
force of painters and whitewashers, is now in
business at the Masonic Hall. The depicted
bushrangers are taking longer to reach their
downfall than when they were rushed along on
the smaller premises. They have added to their
lawless career the sticking-up of the bank at
Jerilderie, and this extra crime is advertised as a
special attraction.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
rtbutu
96 Queen-street,
Me Dea?lts e , r -yim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials
as a Tonic to invigorate the whole human system
and weakening effects of Influenza I have found F \ ™ ®
PHERINE invaluable to set me up good and strong. I w rite the> above
to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any monetary consideration
whflfpvpr and confirm tllG Oil Ofttll*
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest
Medicines on earth. p ro{< p. W . STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu-Jitsu Instructor to the Police
of N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland.
Declared before me, LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
THE MOST FAMOUS TONIC,
Fisher’s Phospherine
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
Sole Manufacturers—
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Dreamland ” by the sea is offering man-
kind a fresh inducement to eat, drink and be
imerry, in the form of a shilling circular ticket,
■which admits dreamers to all the side-shows, and
■also entitles them to procure a cup of tea and a
:scone for threepence. Meanwhile, the manage-
ment at Princes Court rejoices in its recent
•engagement of Miss Lenore White, the “ Cali-
iornia Venus.” What with Professor Lamb
•diving in a tank and Miss White posing in flesh-
colored tights, there is plenty of opportunity for
the study of human nature at Princes Court. The
lady’s “Living Pictures” are displayed in a
“ nice ” way. and her riskiest poses are the most
purely artistic. The last of the series—“ Autumn
Leaves” —is a charming thing, nevertheless it
may be expected to bring an excited protest from
Judkins.
** * *
The Princess’s Theatre, closed for months
past, will be open again on Saturday, the 16th,
when the Willoughby-Ward co. appears in “ The
New Clown,” for the first time in Melbourne.
** * *
Adelaide Royal is about to reopen after
its summer sleep with “The Fatal Wedding.”
Meanwhile, Bill Marion Edwards holds recep-
tions at the Tivoli, and the pious city is greatly
interested in Bilarion.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Snell ” : It is easier to deceive a crowd than it is to
deceive one man, and a theatrical audience is more easily
deceived than any other crowd. But there is a limit in
all things, and it strikes me a performer at Melbourne
Opera House has jumped the limit. He comes out with
a boy, a chair, a sheet, and two pairs of bones. He seats
the bov in a chair, tucks him up in the sheet as a barber
tucks up his customers, and then informs the audience that
he is going to give a marvellous imitation of a hair-cut
and shave with his bones. After this he plays the bones
all round the boy’s head for five minutes or so. It is
simply a commonplace display of bone rattling, and
never even remotely resembles a hair-cut. Yet the
audience applauds when the bone-shaker is through, and
says: “ Very smart ! ” and “Awfully clever ! ” I wonder
if it would be worth my while to go on the vaudeville
stage with two bricks in'a kerosene tin and call myself
an imitation of an earthquake?
Some small incongruities in “Parsifal”: The large
hair-pads worn by the dancing witches in Klingsor’s
“ Crypt of the Skull ” ; the modern jewelled hair-combs
worn in the flowing locks of a few of the super Grail
maidens; and the golden sheen of Parsifal’s repaired
tooth, when he first appeals in his white tunic, with his
bow and arrow, and the stuffed but sacred swan.
Most of the vaudeville artists mentioned by one
“Nivals” in a “ Poverty Point” par., last week, as Aus-
tralians who pass here for English have written to this
office to say they are really English, and there seems no
good or sufficient reason to doubt their statements,
especially as a certain amount of corroboration has
arrived from other sources. Under the circumstance*
“Nivals” will please consider himself dropped as an un-
reliable correspondent, and cast out after the manner of
the Gadarene swine.
Herold Bassett told the Adelaide Insolvency Court that
the cost of Madame Arral’s most expensive dress was
£750, “ but that was several years ago.” The statement
certainly sounds like a piece of ancient history.
Arthur Guest writes: Your correspondent, “Nivals,”
rubs Mr. Rickards the wrong way with the allegation
that he bills Australian artists as English, instancing my
niece. Nellie Kilburn, as an example, and declaring her
to be “ a Sydney girl.” Now, Nellie would have no cause
to be ashamed of owning this jewel of a city as her natal
place, but the truth is she was born at No. 2 Soar-street,
Leicester, England (on November 9, 1886), and has only
been in Australia the few months necessary to her
engagements on the Rickards tour.
Maoriland is suffering from an invasion of Fijians.
Besides those already on show in Christchurch, another
troupe has made a descent on Dunedin. They are a
godly lot and hold frequent religious services in a tent.
At one of these a youthful brown devotee excited much
admiration by the steadfast manner in which be kept his
eyes fixed on his Bible, until an elderly worshipper dis-
covered that he had a collection of photographs between
the leaves. A brief but willing tussle ensued, and the
transgressor was deprived of The Word, but not of a good
many other words of the cuss kind characteristic of the
transgressor.
Flora Batson, known as the Black Patti, died last
December at her home in Philadelphia (U.S.A.).
Rickards, talking, the other day, to his Melbourne
manager (Fred Aydon), remarked that the Opera House
programme was more than All Right. Whereupon
Aydon, who is pessimistic and ever mindful of the law of
averages, gazed gloomily at the boss and asked, But
how about when we get down to normal? Rickards,
dreaming of “ star turns ” in store, made the reassuring
reply, “ There isn’t going to be any more * normal.’ ”
Died recently, Charles Hamilton Aide, English drama-
tist and novelist of Greek parentage, aged 76. About the
only one of his plays which made much impression on
Australia was the farcical comedy, “ Dr. Bill,” adapted
from the French, and here popularised by Myra Kemble.
Aidb’s adaptation of “ Die Fliedermaus ” is known to the
gentle amateur, and competition reciters frequently work
their wicked will on his verses.
Besides the Tait’s biograph version of the Kelly Gang,
Melbourne had “Bohemian” Cole’s Kelly Gang play at
the Hippodrome, Kelly Gang mementoes at the Wax-
works and Aquarium, and half-a-dozen different Kelly
Gang books starred in shop windows. Who says the
Gang isn’t one of our magnificent natural resources, like-
wise a permanent and reproductive work?
“ Snell” : A characteristic little story of actors’ vanity
comes to me from a bush correspondent. We will call it
the Transcontinental Dramatic Co., and it was playing
“ The Silver King ” in disguise, to avoid the law made
and provided for the preservation of acting rights. The
Wilfred Denver was Beaumont Bennington, a magnifi-
cent fellow, if taken at his own estimation, with a strut
calculated to overawe any average audience, and a style
of elocution inherited from the old wool-pulling, toe-
dragging school of act-ors. His recitation of Denver s
dream shook the Shire Hall at Dingbat to its uncertain
foundations, and Beaumont Bennington stood bare-
headed and panting, enjoying the tumult. When it had
subsided, Beaumont took one step forward, struck his
chest, and thundered : “ Applaud ! By God, I should
think y’ou would applaud 1 They never get anything as
good as that in Melbourne.”
J. 0. Williamson has corralled an unusually striking
damsel for his panto, chorus—a beauty whq has never
previously trodden professional boards. This charmer’s
tresses are red —as red as ink. Red they are—but 0, the
redness of that red ! On the stage, she is always an end
girl for prominence, since her hair is the “ only genuine
Titian in Melbourne.” She has a complexion of peaches
and cream ; ruddy, sun-kissed peaches and the very T best
Bacchus Marsh cream. Everybody who is a mere man
turns and stares as she goes down the Block ; and those
whose manners are better thrill right through, and go
round to meet her the other way. J. C. W. “dis-
covered” this Titianesque damsel just as she was con-
sidering the question of going into a nunnery or becoming
a “ nuss,” or doing something equally' tame and noble for
a livelihood. And her name, it is Elsie Flaming—no,
Fleming.
“ S.” : Re par iij f Passing Shows.” The suburban
shows are not all “passing.” One man has been
running vaudeville companies in the suburbs for the
past 18 years. This y'ear, in addition to the variety,
he is running a bellowdramatic co., playing “Uncle
Tom’s Habitation,” and similar masterpieces. vaude-
ville business is generally introduced into the gore and
lightning drama in the suburbs, the programme announc-
ing that, during act 15, Miss Girlie Fitztitter will sing
that beautiful and pathetic ballad, “ The Day the Light-
ning Struck Our Mother’s Grave,” or Little Eva will
snumble, “Father’s Gone ; It Doesn’t Matter.” Several
of the foremost Australian variety' artists served their
apprenticeship with the “passing” suburban show.
Munsey’s Magazine states that, in the Land of
the Timber Nutmeg, legal authority has ruled that
so-called '“stage money” is a breach of the statutes
against counterfeit currency, and that unimpeachable
shekels have to be used in stage representations. How
about the bags of gold the hero throws at the villain with
the intimation : “ Here is your money, twice told ! Now
go !”
THE LATE JOHN SEE, EX-PREMIER
OF N.S.W.
Photo, by the Crown Studios, Sydney.
“ Hamer " : A popular error is to treat the child-drama
craze as a modern development, whereas it is only a re-
surrection. A good many years ago nearly every drama
contained a che-ild, and some of them talked consider-
ably. I can’t say how long ago it was, but the posters of
some of these plays still survive and do duty with the
touring show, and the hero wears long Dundreary hair
on his face, and the women wear bustles and flounces,
and inadequate parasols; and the common or garden
males are decked out in tight waists and baggy trousers,
caught with straps at the ankle. There seems to be a
sort of cycle in the popularity of plays—for instance, the
run of musical farce that seems to have passed the
height of its vogue is, in a measure, a resurrection of
the musical burlesques that were a rage before the last
run of child-dramas. Each craze kills itself because the
unimaginative theatrical manager rushes the new idea
when it is middle-aged, and in his heavy, wooden way
overdoes it. Then the imaginative theatrical man starts
a new craze. The child-play was killed—and will be slain
again—by the precocious infant, who often continues as
a precocious infant long after childhood has died of old
age. It is pitiable to think of the number of good mum-
mers —actresses mostly—who have been spoilt by being
starred in their infancy. The child mummer is mostly
a little beast; she often starts as a singularly clever
infant who might become anything, but she mostly
becomes a beast.
“A. 8.”: A visit to the Melb. theatres convinces me
that the worst victims of the importing craze extant are
J. C. Williamson and Harry Rickards. Williamson has
put up a pantomime that is superb as far as the Austra-
lian part of it goes, and beneath contempt in its imported
section. The choruses and ballets, and the girls who
compose them are all of local production, and first-class ;
the book which the principals have to rely upon has come
from Drury Lane, and looks as if it had been turned out
in a State school competition for hoys under 12. Florence
Young, Celia Ghiloni, Ernest Fitts, Mabelle Morgan,
and Prissy Preston are Australian and excellent.
Harry Shine, the best pantomime old -woman
that ever happened, has been so long here that
the management apparently forgot he was ever imported,
so he has to do nothing in a subsidiary part, while
Phydora perspires trying to obtain effects not one-tenth
as good as those Shine used to get without turning a hair.
The comic Scotchman, also imported, is about up to the
level of the Temperance Hall. The largely boomed
animal impersonators fall far short of Hassan, while Miss
Olive Morrell might be supplanted with advantage
by any one of twenty of the charming Australian
girls at the hack. Rickards is even a worse offender.
For years he has been bringing down the »v«rage of his
show by importing alleged comedians, who should restrict
their talents to the suburban smoke night and the picmc-
van. I have no fault to find with his importation of good
turns. Australia —in fact, any one country ls not large
enough to carry specialists who must have the whole
world to work on. What I object to is the importation
of mediocrities, who hold the stage to the exclusion of
infinitely better local artists. Of all the singing comedians
Rickards has shown for the past five years, I red
Bluett, the Prahran (Vic.) man, easily holds first place.
Among the women the contrast is even more marked.
Violet Stockelle, singing in Sydney, and Annie Laurie, m
Melbourne, are fair examples of the imported soubrettes.
They are given star turns in the second part, while really
clever girls like Olive Robinson and Olive Lenton and
Brightie Smith, w'ho are worth a whole galaxy of the
others, are put off with a song apiece in the first part.
Further, the importation does not cease with the indivi-
dual. The jokes are imported too, and Australian audi-
ences have to suffer while some alleged funny man calls a
train an “ out in the rain,” or makes subtle references to
Endell-street, E.O. Even in Williamson’s shows this
form of offence occasionally occurs. During the run of
the “ Country Girl,” George Lauri, who hasn’t been in
London for 15 years, was excruciatingly funny (to the
man who had just left London) by cryptic remarks about
Salmon and Gluckstein —a firm of tobacco-sellers of whom
not one person in every thousand in Australia has ever
heard.
Miss Eugene Duggan, the heroine of hundreds of melo-
dramas, goes to England in April with her husband, Bill
Anderson. She intends to appear in London in “Camille
and “ East Lynne ” (can London stand any more “ East
Lynne?), and then she is going to forsake melodrama
and return to Australia with high-class comedies, and a
new company, of which she will be the head. One or two
Shakspearian things will be included in the repertoire.
“Hamer”: With the wisdom of much experience an
old actor of my acquaintance carries, provisions for
emergencies in a battered tin trunk. It is fitted up with
a billy, cups and saucers, tea, sugar, condensed milk, and
other necessaries. The old mummer is full of anxieties
when travelling for the safety of his crockery ; and his
language to porters who are careless with it is a lesson in
vigorous British speech. The only time I remember
when the provision might have been useful was an occa-
sion when the company’s luggage was impounded by a
relentless creditor, who refused to allow any access to
the trunk. All the refreshment the old mummer got out
of it was the joy of cursing a bailiff who, in consequence
of his eagerness to secure the relic, clung to the com-
missariat as the company’s most valuable asset.. He
nursed a dream that it contained the leading lady’s dia-
monds, or the lost will, or the missing title deeds, or
something.
An English paper gives a column to
the allegedly mirthful proceedings at
the wedding of Marie Lloyd and Alec.
Hurley, music - hall artists. Two
“knockabout comedians ” assisted.
At the Registrar’s office, it is alleged,
great mirth was caused by one knock-
about wiping the perspiration from
the bridegroom’s face with a white
hanky, and when the other knock-
about dusted the bridegroom’s hoots
with a red-and-blue hanky the assem-
bly nearly burst with merriment. As
soon as the ceremony started the two
knockabouts did a war dance, which
broke the company right up. One
joke was so brilliant that it had to be
recorded in full. When the ceremony
was over the madder knockabout of
the pair said, “ Gemini! Talk about a
Soap Trust; why, it is all Sunlight
here.” This was so funny that the
listeners had to sit down to recover.
The paper says that “the scenes of
merriment and hilarity have possibly
never been equalled.”
“Snell”: Herold Basset, manager
for Madame Arral, in presenting his
tangled financial affairs to the official
receiver, seems to have made special
mention of a certain sum expended on
cakes and ale for the press. This sort
of emphasis presents the Australian
pressman as an empty wretch, with
one bloodshot eye on the whisky and
the other famished orb on the lunch.
A pressman can give and take a drink
with any other member of the com-
munity without risk of figuring as a
sponger, but when he goes out to
whisky with a theatrical party of any
kind, there is usually some insinua-
tion floating round that he is a miser-
able starveling, whose good offices can
be secured with a nobbier of spirit and
a dry biscuit. Yet the pressman often
returns the “ shout” —in fact, some of
the times when obloquy falls on him,
it is he who is taking the manager out
to irrigate—-not the other wiy about.
It strikes me that it is about up to
pressmen, as a body, to resolutely
decline to mix whisky with business in
theatrical dealings, however good the
intention—or the whisky.
An ingenious Frenchman has just invented an appa-
ratus which enables one to look through, or, to be more
precise, to look over the matinee hat or any other
obstacle that may be in the l'ine of sight. The invention,
which is termed “ The Giant’s Eye,” consists of a hollow
stick, to which opera glasses are fitted in such a manner
that the image is reflected from them into a set of lenses
or mirrors, and so to the eye-piece at the lower end of the
cane. The inventor does not say what those sitting be-
hind the cane will think of it.
“D.”: I met him at a “Waiters’ Club,” off Leicester
Square, London. He was a “heavy,” with a sepul-
chral voice and a tragic delivery, addicted to
whisky, and eloquent about his “art.” He threat-
ened to blow over to Australia some day. His
one artistic principle was “to grip the audience,”
and his one concern was “ How would it go f
He described his latest success at a Surrey music-hall.
The great situation was a fight with real pokers. He and
the villain grasped the weapons, banged them often on
the table to let the audience know they were real, and
chased each other round the stage. At the great drama-
tic moment the hero substituted a property poker to
which was attached a bladder filled with “ rose pink,
and banged it with a dull thud on the villain’s head,
bending the poker. This always brought a shriek from
the women, and, the bladder of “rose pink’ bursting,
the villain was covered with gore which, as the artist ex-
pressed it, “startled the imagination of the audience.
One night the villain got hold of the property poker, and
the hero had to hit him with the real one, and knocked
some of his teeth out. It was the villain’s fault, as he
was drunk, but it “ went well.”
“ Bill ” writes :
A large amount of dust is being raised, just now, in
Europe and America, concerning the future of the iron
supply In America the Steel Trust has got ho dof
nearly all the available iron ore, and is rooting huge
auantities of it out by machinery ; and the rooting pro-
ceeds so vigorously that the bottom of the hole is begin-
ning to come in sight in some places. To keep their fur-
naces going, great shiploads of pig iron are being imported
from Britain. In Europe, at the same time, all the old
scrap-heaps are being raked over for iron. On both con-
tinents the price of steel has been steadily rising, but
the demand is everywhere more clamorous than ever.
So now pessimists and Cassandras begin to say that an
iron famine is in sight. It was this fact which led to the
commencement of the shipping of iron ore from South
Australia a few weeks ago ; whereupon the Tory foreign-
trade press got on the fence, and crowed bitterly about
“ another natural industry.” I now invite Deakin and
Watson to fix their best eye carefully oil this matter, and
see if there is not something for Australia in it. Last
session the Iron Bounties Bill was muddled up because of
the obstinacy of the Labor party. Since then events, as
outlined above, have moved apace. It is now fairly
apparent that iron will, if it is properly handled, do as
much for Australia as gold, silver, and copper have done.
We have abundant supplies of the richest ore ; any amount
of coal. All that is needed is sufficient Protection to let
a few smelting works get a fair start. Judging from the
outlook of ?he iron trade in the old world, the time
cannot be far distant when Australia, if it goes to work
in the right way, will be exporting iron and steel. As a
beginning, however, we wantiron and steel for ourselves,
made in our own mills, and want them very badly ; espe-
cially if Deakin, as he hints, is going to build a few war-
ships locally.
TO A SOUBRETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time to kiss and say good-bye,
Summer’s fled and winter’s here,
And my funds are running dry,
And bills clamor ev’rywhere.
Kiss me, sweetheart, with a smile,
We were happy for a while.
Flowers and plays and cigarettes,
’Twasn’t much that I could give ;
Books and pictures, gloves and bets
(Darling, gamblers never thrive !),
But I can no longer shout —
Sweetheart, you have cleaned me out!
There, don’t cry ; you’ve been a pal
Straighter far than many find,
And some day, maybe, we shall
Meet again if Fate be kind ;
And, if not —well, Life will be
Bl ighter for your memory.
Sometimes, sweetheart, when I’m gone,
Promise you will think of me,
Fighting the great world alone,
Far away beyond the sea.
Meantime, kiss me once or twice —
You may even do it thrice.
Time to kiss and say good-bye.
Sweetheart, bless you for your tears !
For the tender sympathy
That has charmed away my cares.
Shining paths we yet may tread —
When my creditors are dead.
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES M'ORAE.
PO YOU BELIEVE
IN AUSTRALIA?
THE BULLETIN has, for years past, been
urged by its readers and friends to found an
Australian Monthly, which would do for
Australian Art and Letters what The BULLETIN,
with its political and financial mission, could
not undertake. The invitation, flattering as it
was, had to be refused. The Bulletin
Newspaper Co. was determined to wait until there
seemed a prospect of success for a publication which
would appeal for support not merely on the
ground that it was “ Australian,” but because it
was as good as, or better than, any imported
production at the same price.
But with Federal Union, and the return of
good seasons, Australian prosperity grew. The
time seemed to have come when sufficient support
could be looked for, from subscribers and adver-
tisers, to maintain a first-class publication. Towards
the end of 1906 it was decided to publish THE
Lone Hand, a monthly newspaper'devoted to Art,
Letters, Music, and the Drama—to the graces of
life. The preliminary work of organisation, and
the setting-up of machinery for this new enter-
prise has been pushed forward with all possible
speed, and The Lone Hand will be first pub-
lished in March, 1907.
The first number of The Lone Hand will, it
is confidently expected, be the worst, and each new
issue will be marked by an improvement. At the
same time that first number, it is just as
confidently hoped, will be the best num-
ber—for an Australian reader —ever sold in the
Commonwealth. All the notable artists and
writers of the Commonwealth have been engaged
as contributors. Australians of talent exiled
abroad are stretching out their hands from Europe,
Asia, and America to help the new venture ; and
accession of strength is being obtained from
foreigners to keep Australia in touch with the
literary and artistic life of the great world beyond.
The Lone Hand will strive to show the
bright side of Australia. And it will strive
to do it worthily. It represents the confi-
dence which a newspaper, universally acknow-
ledged as typical of Australia, feels that Aus-
tralians are now adult enough to have their own
literary and artistic organ. Is that confidence
justified? The Bulletin asks its readers to
vote “Yes” by deciding NOW to support The
Lone Hand.
By sending in 12s. direct to The Lone Hand
office, 214 George-street, you will have The
Lone Hand delivered free for one year (where
possible delivery to be effected through the
nearest news-agent).
If you are in business you can decide to help
The Lone Hand (and your business) by advertising
in its columns. (The advertising support already
pledged eclipses anything before known in Aus-
tralia.) If so communicate directly with the
office.
If you are a writer or an artist you can assist
by sending in contributions, which, if acceptable,
will be paid for generously.
TTHE LONE HAND.
214 George-street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


Deafness, Dead noises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention from your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statements
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes : “ Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared:”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Have a Care
for Your Eyes.
The Great Poet Milton asks:
Why was this sight
To such a tender hall of the eye confined
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy
Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &c.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian
National Remedy,
ROSE'S CELEBRATED E7E LOTION,
This Preparation has been the salva-
tion of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated
Eye Lotion is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally a postal note
for 1/9 to the Proprietors, will bring you
a bottle by return post.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
Chemists and Druggists,
531 George Street, Sydney.
n
ilflffrirmTiniHirtl
A NOVELTY AT LAST!
The
TICKA
Watch PocKet
CAMERA, -c?
FILM TAKES
25 PICTURES
12/6
POST FREE.
TUC It TIPVA >* resembles, in size and shape, an
I TIC I It/IVn ordinary Watch. It is made of
Nickel. It produces clean photos. Simple to work, can be
carried in vest pocket always ready for a snap. Fitted with
a Rapid Lens, Time and Instantaneous Shutter. Price
12/6, post free.
Spool of Films for 25 exposures, 1/3. Instruction Book Free.
We stock CAMERAS, LENSES and GENERAL PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES from
the Best of the World’s Manufacturers.
fpg—lf you require anything: Photographic drop us a line for particulars.
HARRINGTON # CO., Ltd.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SOCIETY
In the end Yic. railway boss Tait had to
knuckle under in his attempt to run a little
judicial system of his own and to decide which
offenders against railway bye-laws should be
punished and which should be allowed to com-
promise privately. P.M. Smallman had previously
intimated that it was his job to administer the
law after it had been set in motion, and not Tait’s,
and had remarked that he would issue a warrant
for the railway officer’s arrest if he failed to
materialise as prosecutor when the much-adjourned
case against a Hawthorn youth came on again.
When it did come on again railway-inspector
Borsum duly attended and was properly apolo-
getic. So the incident ended without a large
policeman having to drop Tait in the box, and
tell him to take the weed out of his mouth
and explain what he meant by it—it ended, in
effect, by Tait saying that he didn’t know Police
Magistrate Smallman was loaded.
BREAKING IT GENTLY.
WIFIE: “ I'm, going to give you a surprise, George. I want some money."
HUBBY : “ That don’t surprise me a bit.”
WIFIE : “ But it will when I tell you how much I want."
Melbourne people have an amazing confi-
dence in their remarkable bobby force. During
the tremendous rainfall that flooded the southern
suburbs the other day a St. Kilda hotel got into
trouble; the water accumulated in such quantities
on the roof that it burst portion of the establish-
ment, and fell into some bedrooms with a loud
concussion. Then arose instantly a loud outcry to
the effect that the establishment had been struck
by a thunderbolt, whereupon three persons rushed
into the storm, and battled their way to the
nearest police station, and informed the constable
in charge. In another street a policeman was
brought hot-foot to the scene of an outrage, to find
that a tree had been struck by lightning. When
the dripping officer had finished his objurgations,
an excited citizen informed him that he thought
it advisable that a policeman should be on the
spot in case it happened again.
The recent outbreak of plague in Sidney
did not produce anything like the blue "terror
that followed the initial visitation ut the time the
Boer war was in full blast. People have got
accustomed to it. and, after all, it is only the
unknown that is really terrible. The premises
from which people had been taken to die were
disinfected and re-opened for business, and imme-
diately people began to drift back. Truly, trade
did not boom ; but it was there, and, as the daily
papers love to say, “ there were signs of the
restoration of confidence.” A drapery firm which
had sent its little squad to the plague hospital,
announced a midsummer sale. Women, appar-
ently, figured it out that the bulk of their sex
would be too scared of the disease to attend, and
things would, in consequence, be absolutely
given away. The result was something like a
rush. Had that firm boldly advertised, “OUR
PLAGUE SALE NOW ON,” it would probably
have sold everything in its shop. Not even the
spectacle of women dying at the counter with
their bargains in their hands would keep one
type of female away from a cheap sale.
There seems to be a general idea that the
premises in which the plague broke out were
dirty. This is not so. The inspectors reported
that they were mostly clean. But they had rats.
Where the rodents congregate there will plague
come sooner or later, for it is a rat disease that is
never quite stamped out. In the recent outbreak
plague rats were discovered in Campbell-street, in
the Chinese slums, and in that great central block
of buildings which spreads from the G.P.O.
to King-street, and is bounded on the sides by
George and Pitt streets. When the professional
rat-catchers got to work the rats left and spread
to other portions of the city, and the consequence
is that infected vermin are invading new quarters.
It seems that rats live in communities, and, under
ordinary circumstances, those who belonged to
the infected block would not haunt the blocks
adjoining. The rat from the Post Office block
would be a stranger in a strange land round
Hunter-street, and in danger of his life. But
when the rat-catchers set to work a huge migra-
tion took place, and armies of rats went to find
new homes. Which means that to harry the
creatures in one portion of the city is a huge mis-
take. War should be made on them right round
the infected area—and, for the matter of that,
throughout the whole city, and then those which
escaped would probably make for open country.
When the plague first appeared in the Sydney
G.P.O. block, it was hushed up. Employees of
some firms were forbidden, under penalty of the
sack, to breathe a word of it. Most of them
acquiesced, but some of the cuter ones suggested
that, as they were risking their lives to keep the
business going, double wages would be a fair
thing. They were paid, on condition that they
kept the increase as dark as a blot of ink. In
another case, an employer decided to stay on the
premises just to show the hands there was nothing
to be afraid of. She invented a close-fitting silk
garment, which was only open at the wrists and
neck, and at a large orifice through which the
lady could be inserted. When she got in, this
large opening was hermetically sealed by having
a piece of silk glued over it. This distressful
arrangement was endured two whole days, and
then the lady said she’d sooner have the plague.
A very small portion of the anchor of the
Sirius, Capt. Phillip’s first fleeter, was uncovered
in Macquarie-place, Sydney, on Anniversary
Day. The relic is mounted upon a white marble
base, which is already an eyesore, being badly
stained with rust from the old relic. About two-
penn’orth of bright green or blue paint would
have prevented this, but perhaps the money ran
short.
THE MEAT MARKET.
GENTLEMAN FROM THE NORTH (reflectively): “Fine killer, that.”
Seems quite the proper thing now for
Gent. One who likes trust estates and giddy com-
pany to make a hobby of something deadly, or
pretend to. In Sydney one of the tribe died
lately at the end of a revolver; then, while
creditors and insurance offices were hunting
around, it was explained that the thing was no
doubt quite accidental —revolvers were his hobby
and he was always fooling with them. Later
another Sydney Gent. One died and threw a whole
lot of people into a flutter (and they haven’t done
fluttering yet, unfortunately). In this case it was
explained, by way of preparing for possibilities,
that Gent. One’s hobby was studying the varying
effect of all sorts of poisons. No Gent. One has
yet spread the rumor that he dotes on jumping
down wells, or is addicted to hanging himself as a
pastime ; but, all the same, it looks as though the
time were coming when, in addition to the other
things they want to know, life-insurance offices
will require lawyers to make affidavits regarding
their hobbies before they cover them with policies.
Larkin, the Bluenose skipper of the
Melville Island, who made himself and his ship
notorious during his sojourn in Australian waters,
had a fearfully bad voyage to Ireland. His tub
was forty days in the wilderness between Queens-
cliff and Port Pirie and his crew fasted much, for
he had not provisioned for such a long run. Then
he ran ashore in Spencer’s Gulf and had trouble
with the crew and the underwriters and the
harbor authorities. At last, laden with wheat,
he got away for Queenstown, and, after meeting
every storm that was hanging round between here
and the North Atlantic, he finally struck the
father of all gales when ten days from Ireland.
Pretty nearly everything in the way of masts,
sails and rigging went overboard, and it was a wet
ruin that crawled into Queenstown with a dis-
heartened crew and a swearing, angry, Bluenose
commander. The Melville Island was regarded
as a ship with a “ hoodoo ” on it before it quitted
Port Phillip. Its reputation was so bad that it
was with difficulty a scratch crew was got together
at £7 a month for the voyage to Ireland. It was
probably its Bluenose curse which got Sam
Gillott—who strained the law so badly on behalf
of the dreadful skipper— out of the Bent Govern-
ment, and the same curse will yet come home to
roost on the chest of Police Magistrate Panton
who helped Gillott in the matter. As for the ship
itself, it will probably go down next voyage unless
the blight can be lifted in some way—and it looks
as if a steam crane couldn’t lift a blight of that
size.
A herd of clamorous Hindoos wanted to
burn the body of Something Singh, who recently
died in Ballarat hospital, but though one or two
persons had been burnt alive by accident in
Ballarat no dead body had been incinerated in
those parts before. There was no precedent; also
no crematorium. The Cemetery Trust declined to
allow the husk of a heathen to be put on a bonfire
within its enclosure, and the Board of Health was
cold and reticent and unapproachable. Mean-
while Something Singh wasn’t becoming any less
dead every minute. The countrymen of the
corpse went in a drove to harangue the mayor,
and he gave them permission to do the com-
bustibile deed on the common, provided it was
accomplished before sunset; otherwise Something
Singh must be buried. Then the windows of
Heaven opened and let down rain by the pailful,
making the lighting of a fire apparently impos-
sible. But the Indians saw it through. They
bought two tons of firewood and very many kegs
of cheap butter. Singh, in a deal coffin, was
placed on an altar of firewood, thickly smeared
with butter. More buttered fuel was built up
round and over it. Dry shavings and butter were
lit, and butter was thrown furiously into the
flames, and the fiery chariot of Something
Singh blazed 20ft. high. The last of the butter
was then hurled into the conflagration, and the
mourners put dust on their turbans, and went
about; softly like ghosts in the twilight. After
dark the pyre fell in, and the dusty remnant
tumbled untidily into an inferno of white-hot
coals. Towards midnight some teeth were col-
lected from the ashes, to be sent as mementos
to deceased’s relatives in India, and the obsequies
of Something Singh were ended.
A WARDROBE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 said “ The dark deed matters nought,
And this green gown becomes her well ;
For phrase and rhyme oft hide the thought.
As pearls are hid ’twixt shell and shell.
“ My Lady Lyric, go your way,
Dance daintily around the globe,
Nor mind what carping critics say,
Nor whence you got your shining robe.”
I have a wardrobe, quaintly hung
With brave brocade and gleaming silk,
Plumed hats and collars richly strung,
With gems outgiving fire and milk.
No thief may raid its rare contents,
No years decay, nor moth devour ;
It is not lavender that scents
The air, nor is it any flower.
Full fifty poets, day and night,
In mirth and pain, and dark despair,
Sat weaving for the world’s delight
The wondrous fabrics shining there.
“ My peasant maid shall seem a queen,”
I said, “if she be rich-arraved
And in another’s cloak of green
I dressed the shoulders of my maid.
N.S.W.
RODRRIC QUINN.
CASTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They recognise—the folk who live
Within the house that shelters me—
That Caste’s a living fact, and give
It reverence obediently.
So, when about the house I move,
An honored path for me is cleared ;
Their pots they lift from off the stove
That first my meal may be prepared.
The downstairs front —the next to me
In rank—she, even, gives me way :
I occupy the balcony,
And therefore am no common clay !
N.S.W.
HAMER.


A BAG for SHORT TRIPS
mm
THIS is an ideal bag that will appeal to
those men who go for short trips. It
carries comfortably sufficient garments
for a few days’ holiday —is light in weight
—wonderfully durable —handsome to look
at—made of best leather and mountings,
and is in all respects a splendid bag.
It is like our illustration —has lock and
key, and clips and straps.
Inches 12 14 16 18 20
Prices 12/6 14/6 16/6 18/6 21/-
Carriage 1/0 extra; Inter-State 2/-
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
flen’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
309-311 George-st., Sydney.
Sydney body-depositors are having quite
an exciting argument ovet the Sunday bier. A
rule of the Undertakers’ Ass. forbids Sunday in-
terment, penalty £lO per burial. One co. was
fined £3O, in the manager’s absence, by the Ass.
for three Sunday plants. The co. then withdrew
from the Ass. and openly advertised Sunday bier.
The Ass. challenged its right to withdraw, pending
the settlement of a dispute before the Arbitration
Court. So the firm now charges the usual fees for
Sunday burial, plus extra fees for Sunday work,
together with the £lO fine, which makes it a
positive luxury to perish on Saturday and be put
in God’s acre on the day of rest.
*•* . *
An Auckland (M.L.) wife, rising 16 and
possessing a baby, lately sued a husband three
years older for maintenance. She stated that she
hadn’t been in the habit of eating more than once
a day because it wasn’t there. Further, she said that
the infant hadn’t imbibed anything but a biscuit
for some time. Also that she had in the dim past
occupied a position of trust in a restaurant at ss.
a week. M.L. rather whoops that everybody can
be overfed in that country for the asking, and the
Government issues pamphlets to girls warning
them that it’s a wrong thing to own empty cradles.
This girl had a husband and a baby but no cradle.
. * * •
A storm that swept over Melbourne one
recent afternoon was responsible for several
things. In patches an inch of rain fell in 40
minutes, and some of the streets around St.
Kilda, Kew and S. Yarra soon ran knee deep.
The flat roof of one seaside hotel, which has with-
stood the weight of dozens of dancers and pro-
menaders, collapsed under the burden of the
pent-up waters, and half-drowned a party talk-
ing politics in the room below. At Kew
cemetery a wall, which had been rebuilt a
while ago, with buttresses and ramparts and
things, was swept down the slope. But the
worst disaster happened to a young Kew
damsel who happened to be alone at home.
Frightened by the fierce lightning and resounding
thunder-claps, she made to a friend’s house, carry-
ing the family'jewellery with her for safety. But
as she ran the wind tore the box from her hands
and tossed it into a howling, raging drain. There
it danced gaily for a little time, while it flew
along at the rate of knots per hour. Then the
box burst and turned somersaults, and £lOO worth
of goods and effects fled underground on its way
to the wild, brown Yarra.
* * * •
From a London paper, December 15 :
Sun rises, 8.1. Sets, 3.49.
Sunset at 10 minutes to four. What a city of
gloom ’• „
On the Victorian railways the station-
masters daily “hand the staff” to the drivers of
engines. Sometimes they do it as the train is
moving out; sometimes a train, not stopping at
the station, just slows up a trifle while the s.-m.
tears along the platform to pass the staff over.
Now and again the station-master goes under the
train. A signalman did it last week, at Greens-
borough. He was “jostled from behind, and,
stumbling, fell forward on the line.” Minus one
leg, he died in the hospital three hours later. If
railwaymen did those tricks at a show, they
would get large salaries, like the man who loops
the loop. On the Vie. railways you take little
risks of the sort for thirty bob a week or there-
abouts.
Thus the “Itinerary of Travel” recently
issued by the M.L. Government: —
TE ANAU—MILFORD TRACK.
Suggested Dress and Equipment for Travellers.
MEN.
Medium-weight clothing ; knickers ; stockings (two
pairs) ; boots (strong) ; slippers ; short oilskin to cover
body only ; two shirts (Crimean); two each singlets
and under-pants ; one pair pyjamas ; usual etceteras ;
easy-fitting gloves and sandfly netting ; one square yard
of American cloth for wrapping garments, or a Ruc-sac ;
hat suitable for hot weather or rain.
WOMEN.
Plain tweed frock, short ; change of stockings ; strong
boots (low heels) ; slippers ; easy-fitting gloves ; blue
veiling.
It is up to woman to go on strike till that insult
is retracted and apologised for. The Department
recommends the male tourist to carry a complete
outfit of clean clothes; and, seemingly, assumes
that a woman will wear the same underclothing
and petticoat all the way, and sleep without a
night-dress. It doesn’t even care whether she gets
wet or not —at least, it never tells her to carry an
oilskin.
» • * •
Cooktown blown down, Kernpsey burned,
Eden shaken by an earthquake ! The luck of
Australia’s quiet little towns seems to be out j ust
now.
• * * •
Barton’s concurrence with his colleagues’
judgments, while sound asleep, as depicted by
Hop., is not the sort of concurrence Australia ex-
tents to D.C.L. Whisky. That is more than a
concur—it is an eager welcome. If Justice
Barton had a proper daily allowance of D.C.L.
only, he would never think it worth while to doze
on the Bench. His mind would be wideawake all
the time. No country sleeps on its chances which
judiciously assimilates the whisky of the wise.*
When Bruce Smith’s colored friend gets
fairlv going he is a credit to his patron, Mr. B.
Smith. For instance, at White Cliffs (N.S.W.)
Sadeelc, a Hindu, is said to have cheerfully ad-
mitted to a policeman that he killed May Jewson.
The miserable woman was hacked about by Smith’s
friend and died from 26 wounds. Smith’s other
friend, Charley Ah Yew, says he heard screams
and saw Sadeek dragging his wounded victim into
the house to finish her, but the object of Smith’s
admiration, Ah Yew, seems to have felt that it
was no business of his. Another object that fills
B. Smith with pride and satisfaction —its name
was Cheong Long—said it saw Sadeek drag the
prostrate woman into the house by the legs while
she cried for assistance, but this friend of Smith’s
also appears to have let the matter rest at that.
Altogether Smith is welcome to his friends. This
paper, at least, wouldn’t deprive him of them on
any account.
* * • *
A 69-year-old bride told her tale of joy
and sadness at South Melbourne police-court
last week. She wanted a warrant for wife deser-
tion against her husband, “ a strong,|healthy man
of over seventy.” She led him to the altar five
months ago, but after revelling in her affections
for a few weeks he broke loose and left her to
dream of what had been. Then he came back to
her, a sick and penitent bridegroom. She
nursed him until he was restored to vigor. Her
tender solicitude had no moral influence on him.
As soon as he grew strong and healthy again _he
toddled away from home instead of devoting him-
self to domestic happiness. There is pathos in
the picture of an eager old girl preparing beef tea
and strong ox tail soup for the nourishment of an
antique husband who intends to flee from her
embrace as soon as his rheumatism will permit.
• * • •
“ Kati-Kati ” :
Have not seen noted the distressful waste of hereditary
mechanical capability, caused hy the absence of factories
and workshops, and the dependence upon “ natural in-
dustries ” alone. Many country children will never make
good farmers. Descendants of artificers or manufac-
turers, their whole ambition is to make or mould. Their
hands’ache for the tool of the mechanic or designer.
Kept in the country by the absence of local industries
except farming, they can milk a cow (so can a calf), and
put in and harvest a patch of oats, but they can only take
a stomach interest in the toil, instead of being filled with
that artistic love of their work that characterises the
born farmer, poet, painter, or artisan. As farmers, they
are doing work that can be as well done by the old
failures or the young incompetents. As mechanics, they
would be following the call of their blood, employing
their best faculties, and, incidentally, helping to make a
self-dependent nation. The “ natural industry ”of even
a new country may include the utilisation of inherited
skill and passion for making from the raw material the
thousands of contrivances civilisation requires.
• • * •
Melbourne’s Bible-in-Sfcate-schools crowd
is keen enough in many ways, but it exhibited
shocking tactics in its recent deputation to
Premier Bent to ask for another referendum on
its tired subject. In the first place, it turned up
at the Government offices, and, crowding out
the only available room, demanded that there
should be an adjournment to the Town Hall.
Premier Bent weakly complied, and they all
trooped down Collins-street. The Hall, by some
strange influence, was lent without charge for the
purpose. But what was a very big crowd in a little
room was a very small one in the Town Hall, and
when the deputation was all there it looked
as insignificant in the middle of a wide space of
nothingness as a two-up school in the corner of a
40-acre paddock. A second mistake in tactics was
to make the affair a Yellow Pup demonstration.
Sensible management would have left Snowball,
the woolly-headed microbe who bosses the L.0.L.,
carefully out. But not only did he have a big
say, but nearly every one of the dozen speakers
was labelled “Protestant” something or other,
and the greater part of the remarks consisted
of weeps about “Rome.” Bent refused the request
for an Executive referendum, because at such a
referendum there was no law to prevent fraud, and
instanced, as a beautiful satire on the influence of
Scriptural education, how, when the last referen-
dum was taken, he had seen a supporter of the
Bible-in-State schools vote for it no fewer than
three times. The sense of honesty associated
with the party may be gauged by the fact that
the meeting cheered wildly when Bent related
this tale of pious crookedness. Finally Bent pro-
mised to bring in a Bill to authorise a referendum
in 1908, and the meeting retired, satisfied to beat
the drum of the coming hierarchy all over
Victoria. This time the story of Scriptural
education decreasing crime was left out.
At one time the aged lie used to be
trotted out on all occasions, until the fact reached
the ears of the public that the crime-rate of
Victoria had decreased to half what it was in the
days when Scripture was compulsory, and is now
much lower than that of any State or country
where there is complete religious education.
» « * •
Chamberlain’s Tablets are indispensable to
all medicine chests. They aid digestion, promote
the appetite, stimulate the liver, keep the bowels
open, and restore all the internal organs to a
natural healthy condition.*
OIV THE TRAM.
DRIVER: “ One fare, lydy?”
ELDERLY DAMSEL (simpering): “ What an agreeable man, to be sure! I wonder which of us
he means ?”
According to Dr. Pomare, Maonland
Native Health Officer, the Pakeha is eating up
the Maori pretty fast these latter days. The
doctor calculates that within 30 years the full
blooded Maori will have disappeared, as the
old stock is dying off rapidly, and even now
the majority of the younger generation have
European blood mixed with that of therangatiras.
The Maori is a grossly over-estimated person;
still, of all the colored races this writer has come
in contact with, he seems about the most decent.
At present the white population of the Islands is
882,462, while the Maoris number 47,731. If the
whites absorb the browns, though they would
thereby acquire an unfortunate streak of laziness,
still it would not be a fatal admixture. And it
must be remembered that the white population is
increasing fast, so the Thrown lazy strealc would,
become less and less perceptible. Between 1885
and 1905 the Pakeha census went from 575,000 to
882,400. The Maori population, on the other
hand, has increased only by about 6000, and the
47,000 browns of to-day aren’t nearly so brown as
the 41,000 browns of 15 or 20 years ago. In fact,
the aggregate brownness has probably diminished.
According to Dr. R. W. Branthwaite,
Chief Inspector under the Inebriate Acts (Eng.),
one of the most prominent contributory causes of
insanity in alcoholic patients is the frequent and
abrupt stoppage of liquor during imprison-
ment. He reckons that more than 62
per cent, of persons imprisoned for
drunkenness are insane or defective,
and he ridicules the idea of the
law trying to cure mental disease
by a 6s. fine or seven days’ gaol.
This stresses again tfyat the
only sane way of dealing with
the drunkard is to treat him
like any other diseased per-
son—by scientific methods in
a drink hospital.
A latter-day Mother Shipton has taken
her light from under a bushel. She is a pretty
servant girl—Anna Pask —and hails from the
United States. She sees visions, hears voices,
sees fiery words written on the sky, and prophe-
sies after this style : “The Lord showed me places
where the earth will crumble and sink. Cities
will fall into the Great Lakes. Blood will flow
like rivers, in the most cruel war ever known.
All nations will be represented, and will tight
with cannon, guns, knives and pitchforks, lheie
will be a volcanic eruption at ban Bernardino.
There will be explosions in mines, cyclones in the
East, North, South and West. Hayti, Jamaica,
and Iceland will sink into the sea and disappear.
Terrible hailstorms will destroy life and property.
The hail will range from the size of goose eggs to
cannon balls.” Also, Anna has seen hell, the
lake of brimstone, and the bottomless pit. .xlen
is black, and the black comes off on you. She
sees people in the brimstone lake, their eyes
bulging out from fear, trying to crawl out of it,
but sliding further in and wriggling round from
the heat after they are in. On top of all these
things Anna throws the millennium casually oil
her chest. She is a comprehensive girl, and
dashes large convulsions about as if they were
beans.
Dr. Reid, of Melbourne Board of Health,
says the “houses” in which Chinese gardeners
live near Melbourne are “ monuments of in-
sanitation and municipal complaisance, and
little or no attempt is made to secure a reason-
able standard of sanitation at the gardens. ’
This comes on top of several recent cases in which
Chows were fined for vending diseased tomatoes,
apples unfit for use, and other abominations.
Effective, civilised sanitation evidently can’t
co-exist with the Chinaman. If Ah Dirt always
vended his own produce, clean white persons
could avoid him, but, unfortunately, some white
hawkers buv unsound produce from the Chinese
for retail vending. Chinese vegetables, ; like
Chinese furniture, should be branded the bigger
the brand the better, so as to make the Chinese
herb practically impossible of consumption. In
fact, this paper would like to see the brand three
times the size of the vegetable.
* * * *
At a M.L. school there was given for
translation the sentence “Adulescens in amicis
injucanda est.” This was rendered a-s “Adultery
even among friends is unpleasant.” Which is
quite true.
BEYOND A JOKE.
“ Yes. But I say, this is all very fine. I-I-I
left my wife here.”
Since the practical abolition of Sunday
trading the Drinking Bee has become an institu-
tion in a multitude of Victorian towns. The Beer
Society meets in an empty house, or a shed, or a
paddock, or in the bush, with its various demi-
johns of blue ruin, and guzzles steadily through
the long drowsy Sabbath afternoon till the liquor
is done. Then it crawls home six times as sodden
as in the old Sunday trading days, for in its alarm
lest there shouldn’t be enough liquor the Drinking
Bee usually lays in three times too much ; and on
Monday —orning it has to get someone to shove
its enlarged head through the doorway before it
can get out to its work.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment iunder the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
NOT SO BAD AS
HE HAD IMAGINED.
TTE stood upon the
J- J- tramway line,
And love shone in his e’e —
The love begot of drinking
wine,
For girls and gaiety.
The tram came roaring
round a bend :
It smote him in the
back,
Then caught him
by his lower
end
And flung him off
the track.
“ HoV on,” he muttered to the tram.
“ You really —’pon me life! —
That awful temper (hie)... O DAMN,
I THOUGHT YOU WAS MY WIFE ! ! ”
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
THEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am old,
And see in the deeps of the drowsing fire
The years swing back to their pristine gold
And the freshness of first Desire —
Will the whimpering gnome of a missed intent
Weep at my ear in the vapored gloom,
Of a chance and a choice that the gods had sent,
Till I call in a husky whisper, lost
In the void of the voiceless room :
“ I have wended thro’ joyanee and deep duress
To a lotus-flowering laziness;
Was there ever a kiss that I might have missed,
Was there ever a mistress I might have kissed —
That I ever missed,
That I never kissed,
I have reckoned, nor rued the cost;
And of the thorns there is left this one —
Is there aught I have missed that I might have done ?
Yet I am young,
And feel the electric lust of life;
My days are a song as yet unsung,
It will ring to the tabor and the fife.
My soul’s a-brim with the wine of God.
There are ills and hours to spite and spend,
There are stars unseen ; there are tracks untrod.
When the loitering blood runs thinly down
(God wot) I shall say at the end :
“ I have wended thro’ joyanee and deep duress
To a lotus-flowering laziness ;
There is never a hazard I might have thrown,
There is never a sweet that I might have known—
That I have not thrown,
That I have not known—
I have lived, though the sands run slack ! ”
Thus shall the idyll of first Desire
Be dreamed anew in the red-barred fire.
VIC.
JAS J. ALLAS.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
N'onoison * Sons English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The tale of our lost opportunity in the matter
of iron and machinery is to be found in the import
figures for 1906. Here are the statistics :
1905. 1906. Increase.
Bar, rod, slabs, girders, etc. £585,021 £805,065 £220,044
Galvanised plate and sheet 902,492 1,112,557 210,065
Pig and scrap .. 142,472 202,242 69,770
Machines (except agricul-
tural) ~ .. ~ 1,735,859 2,024,140 288,281
Total £3,365,844 £4,144,004 £778,160
heaving aside the question of how much of the £3,365,844
worth of raw iron and iron machinery Australia ought
to have been producing for itself in 1905, it appears
that in the gflteat prosperity of 1906 Australia’s demand
for these things jumped by £778,160, And out of that
£778,160 Australian manufacturers and producers got
practically nothing. Of the £489,879 worth of bar, rod,
girder, slab, galvanised, plate, pig and scrap— the expan-
sion for one pear only — Australia, which could have got
iron-Works going at anytime since the establishment of
the Commonwealth, produced nothing at all,
* * * *
It is a poor Australian State Treasurer that
Can t make a halo for himself out of the present pros-
perity of the Commonwealth. It is easiest of all in N.S.
Wales, That State professed to have a Preetrade tariff
lvhen Federation arrived, and the new Customs duties
were therefore all extra revenue. For three years, how-
ever, the natural results of that didn’t show up, owing to
the big drought. Now that they can’t help showing up,
Treasurer Oarruthers cackles that it is his egg. The
difference between the revenue for the past seven months
il? e fi rs t seven months of 1904-5 is a small matter of
£1,477,832. During 1904-5, Waddell was deposed by
Oarruthers on the grounds of incompetence. In
that year, the deficit to Jan. 31 was £620,928 ; this
year the surplus to January 31st is £427,541. In other
words, the difference between the seven months begun
by the incompetent Waddell and the seven months of the
Reforming Oarruthers is £1,048,469. But Oarruthers’
revenue, as mentioned just now, has been £1,477,832
better than Waddell’s was; and as Oarruthers hasn’t
made the revenue, his achievement, after all, looks
mighty small—with £1,477,832 more revenue than there
Was in 1904-5, he only manages to make the accounts
look £1,048,469 better. And he still borrows. This year,
so far, £788,803 has been spent out of loans; in the
1904-5 period, begun by Waddell, whom Oarruthers got
sacked for extravagance and other sins, the total was
£900,796. In other words, with £1,477,832 more revenue,
Oarruthers has only reduced the borrowing madness to
the extent of £111,993. And Sydney Telegraph, which
called for Waddell’s scalp, says the £788,803 is “ very mode-
rate ! A Treasurer who borrowed a cent under such cir-
cumstances ought to be tossed out at the end of the
sharpest-pronged fork available; the only Treasurer
who wouldn’t deserve tossing-out is the one who would
lay hold of such a rush of revenue to wipe out some of
the old debt.
Coming to details, this is the month’s record,
omitting S. Australia, which is too tired to furnish
monthly figure*:—
State Revenues for January.
1906. 1907.
N.S. Wales .. £1,057,218 £1,093,133 Inc. £35,915
Victoria .. 758,261 854,799 Inc. 96,538
Queensland .. 254,252 355,595 Inc. 101,343
Westralia .. 330,066 290,111 Dec. 39,955
Tasmania .. 78,232 105,877 Inc. 27,645
And for the financial year as far as it has got
State Revenues for Financial Year so Far.
1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S. Wales (7 m05.)..£6,774,693 £7,657,003 Inc. £882,310
Victoria (7 mos.)., 4,275,464 4,610,354 Inc. 334,890
Queensland (7m05.).. 2,163,395 2,415,730 Inc. 252,335
S. Australia (6 mos.).. 1,181,273 1,313,487 Inc. 132,214
Westralia (7 mos.).. 1,986,999 1,924,602 Dec. 62 397
Tasmania (7 mos.).. 532,569 557,526 Inc. 24,957
So far as Westralia is concerned, this looks sick enough,
y’et the yarn which the local Treasurer spun around the
figures was a nice, cheerful red. It even induced Mel-
bourne Argus to give it a heading—“ Deficit reduced.”
Only the Treasurer knows how the deficit was reduced.
For the seven months the expenditure has exceeded the
revenue by £8430 ; and it takes some time for a deficit
to disappear that way. Evidently somebody’s idea is that
a deficit is a sort of boil, and that if it grows fast enough
it will burst, and that consequently growth is, after all,
only the road to reduction.
Expenditure figures are, as usual, scarce :
Expenditure for Financial Year So Far.
1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S. Wales .. £6,722,301 £7,229,462 Inc. £507,161
Queensland .. 2,026,765 2,141,364 Inc. 114,599
Westralia .. 1,964,502 1,933,029 Dec. 31,473
Queensland, two years ago, had £72,149 available to pay
current half-year’s interest ; 12 months ago it had
£136,630 ; now it has £274,366. The Northern State will
take some careful handling. Denham is going out of the
Ministry, and Kidston wifi have to battle through on his
own. But that isn’t the worst trouble. Queensland is
unsettled, like the hard-drinker who has been off it for
some time and is suddenly confronted with a long beer
on a dry day. There are all the old signs of the old
disastrous idea of finding a short-cut to great wealth by
pawning something, and it isn’t a good sign that Philp’s
name is once more thought a good one to print on a pro-
spectus. Of the Victorian expenditure there isn’t a
whisper ; but, reckoning that it runs about the same as
it did last year, then Bent has a three-quarter million
surplus ahead ; and that, no doubt, means another half-
million off Victoria’s debt.
» * * *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency 00., Ltd., from 1896, when £79,099 was written
off capital to extinguish a deficit, and the fixed interest
charges were reduced
Full Interest Paid on a/c.
on Ist and 2nd Interest
Gross Debentures on 3rd
Profits. Paid. Debentures. Deficit.
1897.. £130,777 £132,993 £ 2 216
1898.. 96,063 100,580 *6* 733
1899 ~ 108,705 100,595 £1,377 _
1900.. 167,582 100,580 15,016
1901 ~ 100,859 100,594 265 51 986
1902.. 100,195 101,659 536 51 986
1903.. 101,050 100,658 392 > ’
Suspense a/c. (£51,213) added to Reserves) f 103 > 199
1904.. 122,775 100,657 16,901 |
Written off, £4459 f 103,957
1905.. 121,952 100,658 16,901 |
Written off, £3548 f 104,802
1906.. 177,104 100,965 17,160)
Dividend, 5 p.c. = £6423 / 157,358
This great co., which owned numerous Maoriland and Aus-
tralian squattages and financed many more, had, a few
years ago, to write £1,042,142 off its share capital, besides
£1,448,325 off its debenture capital, after paying 15 per
cent, dividend for many years. The recovery probably
isn’t as rapid as the disaster was, but it is swift all the
same ; and the 3rd debentures (4£ per cent.), which were
worth only £23 (per £100) in 1903, are now up to some-
thing like £B5, though they are non-cumulative and
come in after the others have had their hundred-thou-
sand bite. The total of the three classes is
Total Held
Amount. by Co.
Ist Debentures (4 per cent.) ..£2,350,000 £387 554
2nd Debentures (4 percent.).. 540,768 29’380
3rd Debentures (4J per cent.) .. 405,576 22,’035
Compared with the previous year the co. has reduced its
own holding of 2nd and 3rd debentures, and kept steady
on the Ist issue, which means that it has cut off some
of its risks in this direction as it has in others.
The co.’s capital has been reduced to £135,222. Of this
capital £lO,OOO is represented by 20,000 shares, fully
paid, issued about two years ago to get rid of certain
certificates, carrying impossible conditions, which were
handed out to the old stock-holders. There are 40,000
other 10s. shares ; the rest of the paid capital is repre-
sented by 211,114 £9 shares paid to 10s. Yet, in spite of
this shuddersome liability of £8 10s., the shares have
been traded in lately at above par. No doubt the stock
in some of these concerns, whose ordinary capital was
written down from millions to thousands (or there-
abouts), is an alluring gamble ; the shocking misfortune
is that the men whose capital was written down 12 or 13
years ago, and who had to grind calls out of themselves
afterwards in a good many cases, won’t be the persons
who will get the benefit of the gaudy dividends on the
reduced capital, even if the gaudy dividends should
arrive.
Apart from the debenture debt, but including
accrued interest, the co. owes the public £646,235 : hut
of this £317,433 is lent by the New Zealand Land
Association ; and the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency
. O- is itself the owner of that concern. So the £317,433
is a loan to itself, and the net debt to the public, anart
from debentures, is £328,802, mostly on current account,
f S /»£«> Land Association, it stands as an asset
lor £552,658, the amount of the association’s capital. On
Its own account it showed a profit of £19,886 last year.
Ijut when the certificates with the impossible con-
aitions before alluded to were abolished, one of
the terms was that this co. should repurchase
them at 2s. each in exchange for certain shares. This
panned out at a book loss of £69,247 to the Association.
Ju a b but £28,313 of this had been wiped out by
profits on land-sales ; last year’s £19,886 goes to the
reduction of the same deficit, reducing it to £8427.
leS i' n Maori land and Australia ” still stand at
cbiAOjdiz in the Association’s books* If, written down as
they have been, these pan out as well as the properties
realised during’ the last three years have done, the N*Z.
Land Association (most of the rest of whose assets are
cash) will add something- substantial to the profits of the
V?°* if, on realisation, these landed assets of
the .N.Z. Association have given this profit, it is reason-
able to suppose that the N.Z* Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co.’s own “Advances, £1,029,886,” and “Proper-
ties and stock, £202,807,” are also much improved items—
improved probably to beyond their present book value.
But whether the improved values are going to last is
another matter. While they do last, however, such a
co. as this has a fine chance to winnow its securities.
■* * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank (Melbourne):—
Dividends on Added Nominal
Preference to Re- Re-
Profits. Shares. serves. serves.
Dec., 1900.. £1640 Nil £1640 £11,541
June, 1901 .. 1222 Nil 1222 12,763
Taken from
■ Reserves.
Dec., 1901.. 1634 lp.c. =£2793 1159 11,604
June, 1902.. 1522 1„ „ 2793 1271 10 333
Dec., 1902.. 1959 1„ „ 2793 834 9 499
June, 1903.. 2199 1 „ „ 2793 594 8 905
Dec., 1903.. 2606 1„ „ 2793 187 B^7lB
Added to
T Reserves.
June, 1904 .. 2866 1 „ „ 2793 73 8 791
Dec., 1904.. 2957 1„ „ 2793 164 8 955
Capital reduced from £909,979 to £198,935 ;
£BlO7 written off reserves . 848
June, 1905.. 3395 4„ „ 3352 43 891
Dec., 1905.. 3636 4„ „ 3352 284 1 175
June, 1906.. 4369 5„ „ 4190 178 1,354
Dec., 1906.. 4816 5,, ~ 4190 626 1,980
Besides the business shown above, there has been the
following in connection with the sale of written-down
securities :
Total Profit on Special
Sales. Sales. Reserve.
June, 1905 .. £13,994 .. £794 .. £794
Dec., 1905 .. 20,193 .. 1340 .. 2,134
June, 1906 .. 33,218 .. 1366 .. 3,500
Dec., 1906 .. 52,343 .. 9989 .. 13*489
When in 1905 the pref. shares were written down from
£2 10s. to £1 10s., the deferred pref. shares from £2 10s.
to 55., and the ordinary shares from £5 to Is., it was
arranged that the surplus from property sales should go to
a special reserve for the benefit of the deferred and ordi-
nary shares. At the end of the half-year after the
writing-down, there was £316,857 worth of properties.
Since then, in 18 months, sales amounting to £105,754
have been made ; but, as a few other properties appar-
ently have fallen into possession, £232,996 worth of land
and bricks and mortar still remain on hand. If they could
be realised at the same rate as the lot already sold
they would add about £23,000 to the surplus. But
while the realisation has been less disastrous than had
been provided for, the new business that the co. badly
wants comes its way but slowly. Twelve months ago
the deposits were £361,874, and the advances £106,967 ;
the deposits have now shrunk to £358,347, but the
advances (thanks to the sales of securities) have risen to
£145,063. As for the safety of deposits, this can be said :
the liquid assets total about £38,000 (it is no use giving
the exact figures—some of the assets, such as deposit
receipts, are in at cost price). The liabilities to the public
are £358,717 ; this leaves £320,717 represented by non-
liquid assets; and against that there are £232,996 of
old assets so written down that they are giving a substan-
tial surplus ; £117,370 of balances owing ; £145,063 of new
advances ; and other items down at about £3s,ooo—total
£530,429. Though the cash position is not at all strong,
the surplus of other assets is so large that depositors
have no room for uneasiness. Presuming the written-
down assets to be worth 20s. in the £, then there are
about £298,000 of other assets to meet £BB,OOO of liabili-
ties. The capital is now £200,002 ;on that and ordinary
reserves combined, the profit for the half-year was at the
rate of £4 15s. Id. per cent, per annum.
* « * *
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., from the start of the
present co.:—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1900 .. £4,701 7p.c. =£4200 £5Ol £5Ol
Dec., 1900 .. 5,089 7 „ „ 4200 889 1 390
June, 1901 .. 5,377 7 „ „ 4200 1177 2’567
Dec., 1901 .. 5,268 7 „ „ 4200 1068 3’635
June, 1902 .. 5,742 7 „ „ 4260 1542 5 177
Dec., 1902 .. 8,040 8 „ ~ 5453 2587 7*764
June, 1903 .. 7,464 8 ~ ~ 5600 1864 9*628
Dec., 1903 .. 8,702 8 ~ ~ 5600 3102 12 730
June, 1904 .. 10,339 10 „ „ 7000 3339 16,069
Dec., 1904 .. 11,449 10 „ „ 7000 4499 20,568
June, 1905 .. 11,104 10 ~ ~ 7000 4104 24 672
Dec., 1905 .. 12,986 10 ~ „ 7000 5986 30*658
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 10 658
June, 1906 .. 12,999 11J „ „ 9000 3999 14*657
Dec., 1906 .. 13,076 10 „ „ 8000 5076 19,733
As pointed out six months ago, there is some doubt
about the figures for June, 1906. A bonus of 3s. per
share, or in all £21,000, was announced payable out of
reserves ; but, instead of paying out cash, 20,000 new £1
shares were issued. What became of the odd £lOOO
wasn’t explained. Anyhow, the reserves were £14,657 as
at the end of that half-year, after paying dividend ; so
that if the odd £lOOO wasn’t distributed, the profit was
£lOOO less than shown| for that half-year. This co. for
obvious reasons is so busy avoiding the danger of being
explicit that these difficulties are bound to occur. Of
the present reserves £lO,OOO are for special repairs and
new steamers and £9OOO insurance reserve. Under
ordinary circumstances both these reserves would be
open to some suspicion—the one would be a sot-off
against depreciation ; the other would be a cover of risks
which haven't expired. But in the case of the Sydney
Perries-it is perfectly clear that large sums are written
off profits to provide for depreciation. Take first a
comparison :
June, Dec., June, Dec.,
1900. 1901. 1906. 1906.
Capital.. ..£120,000 £120,000 £160,000 £160,000
Creditors .. 2,156 14,117 2,450 11 978
Ships .. .. 37,324 52,356 53,308 60*687
Land, &c. .. 81,024 83,931 109,425 120,350
Liquid assets .. 8,510 5,665 22,374 18 674
The assets have increased from £126,868 in 1900 to
£199,711 in 1906; debts have increased £9822, making
the net increase £63,031, of which oniy £20,000 was
Erovided by shareholders. This is in 6£ years. But in
ecember, 1901, ships were valued at £52,356, and in
1906 at £60,687, or only £8331 more. Yet for that £8331
increase in book value the Koree, Kummulla, Kulgoa, and
Kareela, the Dna, and the new vessels not yet arrived (the
Kai-Kai and Kookooburra), have been provided. In other
words, the undisclosed profits plus £8331 have been suf-
ficient to pay for these seven vessels, probably worth as
much as the original fleet put together. Certainly,
meantime there has been depreciation ; but that is
partly set off by the payment of current repairs out of
revenue.
• • • • •
Of course, this sort of thing can’t go on; so,
though money is only worth 3£ per cent, or so, a new
issue of 40,000 shares is to be made to present shareholders
at par ; and then, with 10s. per share called up, £9OOO
altogether will be required to pay a half-yearly dividend
at 10 per cent, per annum. As the £20,000 to be called up
will probably be used to pay off all debts, the balance going
into Government securities, the whole earning (say) £3OO a
half-year, this new watering will make it £7OO per half-
year easier for the co. For this co.’s trouble hasn’t been
to make profits, but to keep them from being too appa-
rent ; and the new process simplifies this to the extent of
£7OO in six months. The new issue is selling at 48s. In
other words, if shareholders like to capitalise their
newest stroke of luck, the new issue is equal to a bonus
of 38s. per share. Which the public pays—a penny at a
time. At the rate of 48s. per share, the 10 per cent. div.
will only bring in £2 Is. Bd. per cent, so long as only 10s.
is called up. Even when the 20s. is called up, the return
will he only 3J per cent. Evidently the investor reckons
that Sydney Ferries hasn’t exhausted its possibilities in
the way of “ water” yet.
* * * •
Port Jackson Co-operative Steamship Co.
(Sjdney), which ferries down to Manly, where the mixed
bathing is :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1903 6 p.c. = £750 £5625 £1,087
Dec., 1903 £3,996 8 „ „ 1000 2800 £196 1,283
June, 1904 7,973 8 ~ „ 1000 5268 1705 2,988
Dec., 1904 6,407 8 „ „ 1000 1068 4339 7,327
June, 1905 11,038 10 ~ „ 1250 8664 1124 8,451
Dec., 1905 7,966 10 „ „ 1250 6716 15,167
June, 1906 8,075 10 „ ~ 1250 6825 21,992
Dec., 1906 8,609 10 „ „ 1250 7359 29,351
But the reserves are mostly a provision for plant renewal
and depreciation (£21,000); there is, in fact, no ordinary
reserve at all, apart from £2551 of undivided profit.
Formerly, instead of inflating the balance-sheet with it,
the allowance for wear and tear was written off; now that
provision appears as a reserve. It doesn’t matter much
which is done so long as it is perfectly understood
that the reserves may be represented on the other side
by old age and rust and decay. Whether the amount
put to reserve is too much or too little to properly repre-
sent this old age, rust, and decay, isn’t a matter that a
balance-sheet can settle off-hand. Steamers six months
ago had a book value of £62,667, and they have the same
now, so that, anyhow, current repairs and renewals have
been paid out of revenue, and that makes both reserve
and the statement of profit look better than they would
if some of the reserves were already only represented by
patches, or if some of the patches had been added to capital
account. Twelve months ago the liabilities (including
terminable debentures, since paid off) exceeded the
liquid assets by £27,670 ; that deficit has now been re-
duced to £8238, an improvement on this basis of
£19,432 in 12 months. From this it is clear that
either there have been sales of steamers, land, or
other non-liquid assets, or these things have been
written down out of profits ; latter appears to have been
done in the earlier half of the year. No doubt the co.
takes very large risks, and wear and tear must be very
considerable, seeing the number of times the ferries have
to bump wharves in six months ; also, if anything serious
happened, there might be heavy claims, not to mention
a sudden slump in the business. Meantime the co. is
making sweet profits, and it is pretty clear that it could
make them look a good deal sweeter if it wanted to.
So far as the market is concerned, wonderful
things have happened in connection with “Ft. Jacksons.”
When there was competition, shares got down to a few
pence. In January, 1897, there were sellers at ss. Of
£3 6s. paid up on the £5 shares, £2 Is. was written off,
and the 20,000 shares now stand as paid to £1 55., so they
are liable for £1 14s. Present quotation is £4 2s. ; and as
that gives a return of only 3 per cent., the market is
evidently looking out for that £1 I4s. to be called up, or
paid up out of profits, so that it can draw 10 per cent, on
the whole £2 19s. Even if the £ll4s. is called up and 10
per cent, is paid all round, the present price will only
give the buyer a 5 per cent, return—it is too minute a
fraction over 5 per cent, to count. On a small scale in-
vestors are looking to see the history of Sydney Ferries
over again. And the public—well, the public just pays,
and now and again votes for Anti-Socialism.
* * • *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co. :
Written To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. off. serves. Deficit.
1896.. £7,209 8} p.c. =£6,562 £647 £11414
1897 .. 10,016 10 ~ „ 7,500 £1250 1266 lo’l4B
1898 .. 11,531 10 „ „ 7,500 1250 2781 7,367
1899.. 11,614 10 „ „ 8,438 1250 1926 5 441
1900.. 16,498 10 11,250 1000 4248 1 193
1901 .. 10,058 10 ~ ~ 11,250 2 385
1902.. 13,140 10 „ ~ 11,250 1890 ’495
, Reserves.
1903 .. 13,499 10 „ „ 11,250 2249 1 754
1904.. 13,889 10 ~.,, 11,250 2639 4!393
1905 .. 13,260 10 ~ ~ 11,250 2010 6 403
1906 .. 14,187 10 „,, 11,250 2937 9,340
This co. began with a deficit of £15,000, having a paper
asset—" Parliamentary rights and concessions ” —of that
size. It is, no doubt, perfectly true that the rights
owned by a co. which can make something over 10 per
cent, out of them are worth a good deal ; but a
balance-sheet isn’t the place to show them, any
more than it is to show the boss’s good health, which
may be worth a pot of money to a business. The deficit
with which this co. started has been wiped off, however,
and a reserve is creeping up. But, seeing that all fixed
assets are still in at cost, it is not the best sort of reserve.
If the plant, &c., have depreciated more than £9340j
then the co. hasn’t any reserves at all, but a deficit.
Meantime, though, current renewals, if any, are pre-
sumably being paid for out of revenue ; the renewal
reserve is no doubt for future renewals. If it isn’t, it is
even less of a reserve than it looks to be. Extensions of
plant are absorbing the undivided profit. In 1901 the
surplus of liquid assets over liabilities was £12,137; in
1905, £7871 ; in 1906, £6677—before payment of the July-
December dividend in each case. If this movement con-
tinues, there may be a call for more capital by and bye :
there are 150,000 issued £1 shares, of which 75,000 are
paid to only 10s. No doubt the money, if it could return
the present 10 per cent., would be rushed at the co. Still
the business is extending very slowly—anyhow,
gross revenue is extending very slowly (it was £12,429
in the latter half of 1903 and £12,976 in the
past half-year)—and the undivided profit may see
the co. through some years yet. On the other
hand, when profits are put aside to renew worn-out
plant, there are serious objections to using it all up in
providing extensions of plant. Anything over 10 per
cent, the co. has to divide with the city council; possibly
it is making concessions to clients, and thus restricting
its revenue. But it really isn’t so very prosperous that
it can afford to make many concessions. Last year’s lay-
by for plant renewal and writing down leasehold amounts
to only 2£ per cent., and there is no wide margin about
that.
* • * •
Sydney Hydraulic and General Engineering Co.
pays an interim dividend of sixpence (=lO per cent, per
annum) and calls up another ss. per share, which is the
roundabout way of increasing future dividends without
putting the rate over 10 per cent.
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
u «(. Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Gontrib. off. serves
May, £7,669 j “gj f £1361 «,«
Nov., 1902 12,000 j f 210. „, m
May, 1903 ,0,111 {fP- «P-[ 174 e
N.v„ 1903 11,813 j“P£ 2 |P-f 1,53 19,153
May, 1904 10,450 »£s;} 207, 17,526
N.v„ 1904 14,190 »» 19,626
£5OOO share premium added to reserves . 24 §26
May, 1905 14,894 2797 25!,73
Nov., 1905 17,247
May, 1.06 16,918 j ®-P£ 3370 27,977
Nov., 1906 21,036 {SjK 22 *» 33,133
This co. pays the same amount per snare on paid (205.)
and partly-paid shares. Of the former there are 75 000 ■
of the latter 50,000, now paid to 18s. The present divi-
dend (25.) on those 50,000 shares is counterbalanced by a
call of 25., which will make all shares fully paid. These
contributing shares were issued in 1898, and 6s. Bd. was
paid upon them. Except in one half-year they carried a
dividend of 30 per cent, per annum until May, 1903, when
the dividend was put up to 60 per cent. (2s. per share).
They were still 6s. Bd. paid; and of the 2s. per share
div. then declared Is. 4d. was called up. That
made them Bs. paid at November, 1903 ; now, within
three years, they have been paid up to 20s. out of
profits. That original 6s. Bd. has been an investment that
doesn’t happen many times in one lifetime. Shareholders
got their capital back in about 3£ years ; then for 18 months
they had interest at the rate of 30 per cent, per annum ;
now in three years they have got a bonus equal to 200
per cent, on their original 6s. Sd. (the 6s. Bd. which they
got back in 3J years); and finally, on the whole boiling,
including the 6s. Bd. which was paid back to them and
the 13s. 4d. which somebody else paid for them, they
expect to draw 20 per cent., and for some time at least
they, no doubt, will do it. This 20 per cent, will amount
to £lO,OOO a year ; in other words, the Perth public is
going to pay £lO,OOO a year for the use of £16,666 put up
in 1898, and paid back with interest inside five years.
They call this Private Enterprise. Some violent people
call it Public Robbery. Seeing that the public must have
light and can’t get it elsewhere, such profits are neither
fair nor decent.
The Perth Gas Co. has £36,643 in gas plant and
machinery, and £66,565 in electric ditto. Cutting up the
freeholds, &c., proportionately between the two depart-
ments, the electric light department, after writing
off 5 £ per cent, per annum for depreciation, shows
a profit of about 28 per cent. ; the gas depart-
ment, after making a shade less allowance for wear
and tear, shows 15 per cent, per annum profit. On
the mean of the capital and reserves in the business, the
past year’s net profits were over 22 per cent. Westralians
complain of the high cost of living ; they urge that, in
consequence, men won’t bring their families from the
eastern States, and very large sums of money therefore
leave the West. Well, no wonder, if 28 per cent, is
thought a fair profit to make in supplying a public neces-
sity’ like lighting. The Perth worm must turn some
time ; then the people who will suffer most are the
Easterners who have lately been buying up these shares
at prices based on 20 per cent, dividends.
* * * *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light Co.
Writ-
Div. and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1902 .. £2566 6p.c.=£1521 £lOO £945 £8,597
£2500 Reserves added to Capital ~ .. 6,097
Dec., 1902.. 3200 6p.c. = 1597 350 1244 7,341
£1713 share premiums used to reduce debenture debt
June, 1903.. 2852 6p.c.= 16 r 4 203 995 8,336
Dec., 1903 .. 3329 6 „ 1664 600 1075 9,411
June, 1904.. 3110 6 „ 1654 100 1356 10,767
Dec., 1904 .. 3342 7 „ 1929 100 1313 12,080
June, 1905 .. 3011 7 ~ 1929 3 1079 13,159
Dec., 1905 .. 3327 7 ~ 1929 433 965 14,124
June, 1906.. 3016 7 ~ 1929 4 1083 15,207
Dec., 1906 .. 3438 7 ~ 1929 1509 16,716
The amounts shown above as written off since 1903 have
come from the reserve for renewal of retorts ; anything
written off the rest of the plant has been charged direct
to working account, and is therefore hidden. If
the directors have made provision for wear and
tear, and consequent necessary renewal of plant
in the future, the profits are as stated. If the
wear and tear has been heavier than the amount taken
out of revenue to cover it, then the profit isn’t as big as
it is said to be ; and in that case some of the reserves are
fictitious. One has to take a lot on trust with a gas co.,
which has so much of its assets buried in the ground.
This, however, can be said : if this co. is writing off
enough to cover wear and tear—if, in other words, its pro-
fits are really net—then, for a gas co., it is making-an
unusually fine lay-by 7, and there are large- possibilities in
the way of increased dividend ahead. But there are
some doubts about it; anyway, in six months to Decem-
ber, 1903, with £77,352 in plant, land and building's, the
sales were £7488 ; now with sales amounting to £7461 the
value of plant, &c., is set at £80,175. If the plant had
been written down at all severely in the past three years,
and then enough had been added to it to bring the
written-down value up to £80,175, the revenue should
have risen more than £23. It looks as though the state-
ments of profits and reserves must be accepted with
caution, and allowances made. Yet, making these allow-
ances, the position remains good. After paying 7 per
cent, the excess of liabilities (including debentures) over
liquid assets has been reduced in three years from £13,846
to £B6ll, and that is on top of the additions to fixed
assets mentioned just now.
« * * *
London Financial Times has been publishing
one of the few sane series of articles that have appeared
lately about Australian mines. Its expert values the
B.H. Proprietary, on present reserves, at £4 3s. sd. per
share with lead at £l3 7s. Bd., £5 9s. 2d. with lead at
£l6 7s. Bd., and £6 15s. with lead at £l9 7s. Bd. That
is to say, roughly, at £4,030,000, £5,270,000, and
£6,480,000. Last half-year for which accounts have been
issued the profit was at the rate of £1 os. 2d. per ton of
ore. (This included the profit from zinc.) The last esti-
mate of ore was 3,200,000 tons ; that was made over 12
months ago. Be liberal, and allow that for every ton of
ore extracted since then three tons have been developed ;
the quantity available would in that case be about
4,500,000 tons now. That would make the mine worth,
say, £4,538,000 (£4l4s. 6d. per share) with lead at £l6 ss. 6d.
and silver at 2s. BJd., the averages for the half-year to May,
1906. The Times makes the value much higher than
that; and it is not easy to see how the high estimate is
arrived at. People figuring out the value of the mine
from the B.H. Prop, reports, often fall in over one little
table of statistics there. These figures show average net
prices obtained for metals ; in the half-year referred to
just now, the average net price obtained for lead was
£l4 18s. But this doesn’t mean that the B.H. Prop, can
make £1 os. 2d. per ton of ore with lead at £l4 18s. ; as a
matter of fact, as mentioned, the average price of lead
that half-year was about £l6 ss. 6d. The other quota-
tion is net —the market price, less freight, insurance, &c.
The Sulphide Corporation’s troubles at the
Broken Hill Central are not buried yet. The huge mill,
of which one section is being got into working order, is
bound to prove unmanageable at first, especially as it
is built on an entirely new design. For compactness
the Central new mill would be hard to beat, but com-
pactness in a mill is sometimes gained at the expense of
utility. Ball mills were ordered for the new plant, but
such successful results were obtained in the emergency
mill with grinding pans that the latter were installed,
and the ball mills still remain packed.
* * » *
If there is anything in the theory of an eastern
vein along the Broken Hill line of lode, there is good hope
for the Junction yet. And in any case, now that the
lower levels are being opened up, the official theory that
there was no more ore in the mine is being blown away.
Ore now being broken in the small stope below the 775 ft.
level will compare with anything being sent to any
Broken Hill mill. This body will probably have to be
followed up eastward and northward, when, if diamond
drills don’t lie, it will connect with the ore body now
being worked in the big stope at the 775 ft., and continue
on to Browne sha t. There is a western body, or what
appears to be one, also exposed below the 775 ft., the
hauling winze to the ninth level having gone through it
at the plat; and it is probable that this will be picked up
at the 1000 ft. level, when development is carried that far.


The sale of Kin? shaft, some distance south of Browne’s,
to the British Co. is still hanging fire. If it doesn t come
off development work will be carried out between
Browne’s and King’s, which is at present virgin country.
* * *
•* In spite of semi-official reports, the bottom has
been practically knocked out of the importance attached
to"the 600 ft. lode find at B.H. Block 14. Very soon after
thetlode was cut in the south drive, crosscutting was
started to get the width, and it didn’t take long to finish
that iob. * After announcing a width of 18ft., the cross-
cut seems to have been stopped, or else it went on with-
out'getting’any further, for over a week later the ascer-
tained width of the lode was still 18ft. That is actually
smaller than it was found to be in the drill-hole 19ft.
above the level. It may get better as it goes down, but
at present, on these figures, it is getting worse.
The Broken Hill Prop, has won the third round
in the fight with the Potter zinc-process people, Victorian
Justice A’Beckett holding the Potter process invalid for
want of utility ; hence the co.’s process (the Delprat, or
salt-cake) is no infringement. So ic seems the big co. has
the law • but Potter has the sympathy of most mining
men The inner history of the affair would make in-
terestin'" reading. Cuemist Potter was a martyr to
rheumatism, and, while he was lying-up, lemons had a
large say in his treatment. The chemist’s nnnd ran on
lemons and acids, and he worked out in bed an acid
treatment for complex metals. He certainly hadn’t per-
fected it when he applied for patent rights ; with more
metallurgical knowledge the big co. applied for a patent,
apparently avoiding the defects in Potter’s.
Broken Hill Water Co., which now has less
than 14 year 3 to live, has notified the mining cos. that
for the future they must pay the full tariff of ss. per
1000 gallons. This will mean ordinarily about £7500 a
vear extra to the B.H. Prop, alone ; hitherto the big cos.
have been supplied on a sliding scale. For 10 years the
Water 00. has been threatened with opposition ; now the
nines, co-operating with the municipality, have formed
a Trust and put through a Bill. The co., knowing that
the evil day can be put off no further, therefore rushes
in to make profits while it can. Its action is the best
guarantee of the additional supply that Broken Hill has
wanted for security’s sake. The co., whose half-yearly
accounts should be out in a week or so, is not to be inter-
fered with by the Trust as regards the town supply ; so
its cake isn’t by any means all dough.
* * * •
Budgery people have now quite satisfied them-
selves that the strike of their lode is from 10 to 20 degrees
east of north, in which case, if the lode lasts that far,
and continues in an unaltered course, No. 1 South Bud-
gery will get it. The “if” in the case is so large and
solid that people interested in No. 1 S. Budgery are
advised not to buy more than two motor-cars on the
strength of their claim’s position.^
Old Gulgong (N.S.W.) is trying to draw up its
hind legs, preparatory to a kick. The mischief is that
old hands there, who have stuck to their “ beans,” made
the latter out of alluvial, and look coldly on reefing.
Lately O. E. Hilton, moving spirit in the Salvation Hill
show, erected a 10-head battery, which, however, has
had to be hungup for repairs after a splashing start.
The Hill is an irregular mass of stone, out of which much
that averages 6dwt. can be broken ; and there should be
money in it. Hilton has stuck to it grimly, and put cash
and labor into it. The Bed Hill, right in the town, is
also showing new signs of life, and Gulgong may be on
the eve of a revival. There is an idea that there is plenty
of alluvial under the town, if it were worth while to root
up Gulgong to get at it. It should be worth while. A
new town, and, to a great extent, a fresh population, are
all that Gulgong needs.
* * V #
Boulder No. 1, Kalgoorlie, is not the duffer it
was made out to be. Tributors working at the 200 ft.
level have just treated 100 tons of ore worth 41dwt., and
the ore in the face of the drive is said to be of the same
value for a width of 6ft. For years this mine was re-
garded as a wild cat, and its battery was used as a public
crusher till it got a bad name. The mine has been in the
hands of tributors off and on for a long while, but only
short shoots and patches of pay ore have been discovered.
Present tributors reckon theirs is an entirely new dis-
covery, but this remains to be proved.
* *-**-*
North End, Kalgoorlie, although at one time a
hopeful proposition, is now in Queer-street. Through
spending thousands of pounds on the surface instead of
below, and by bad management in other ways, the co.’s
resources have been sapped, and some creditors are
talking angrily. It is a bad blow to the north end of the
Kalgoorlie belt.
* » • •
East Murchison (W.A.), which contains many
large low-grade lodes and reefs, pegged out and aban-
doned • in the early days, looks like coming again.
“Boulder” Hamilton has taken an option on the St.
George, at Mt. Magnet, while Nat. Harper, of the Golden
Pole, has secured an option on a show at Stake Well for
£3OOO. Meekathara is another place that is forging
ahead, after having been kept back for years owing to
a shortage of water. During this year it is probable that
a good deal more will be heard of the Murchison.
* * * *
Burbank’s Birthday Gift (W.A.), long con-
demned as a duffer, continues to give its tributors some
surprising returns. Lately, 643 tons yielded 4620 z.
When John Morgan left the mine he declared that it still
had payable ore, but his successor could not get a pay-
able crushing. Subsequently tributors, without doing
any development, won from IOOOoz. to 1200 oz. monthly.
This recalls the condemnation of the Anaconda copper
mine at Murrin Murrin, from which present holders are
clearing about £lOOO a week profit. John Morgan, by
the way, having made a success of South Kalgurli, is
shortly to take charge of the Oroya-Brown Hill, vice
Mitchell, transferred to Melbourne.
• * * •
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), may cut the reef
at 340 ft. any day, as the shaft is down, and only a few
feet of crosscutting has to be done.; The 10-head mill
bought from the Norseman is expected to be running by
the beginning of March. Consulting engineer Henderson
is enthusiastic. He says the reef at 150 ft. and 230 ft. is a
fine, solid body of quartz, and one of the best he has seen
anywhere. If the next level is as good he has, he thinks,
one of the soundest mining propositions in the State.
He estimates 30,000 tons of 60s. ore, more or less, in sight,
and another level would add 20,000 tons to it.
Henderson may be too sanguine as to the value of the
ore, though the results from the crushing he got out, plus
tailings, confirmed his estimate; but, anyhow, there
should be a big margin of profit, though this will not be
seen till a rockbreaker and self-feeders are installed.
* * * *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), wants
£lO,OOO spent on it before it is in shape. The mill is
antiquated, and is in the wrong place. A new 20-head
mill is to be installed near the Central shaft, from which
all hauling will be done. Some time must elapse
before everything is read} 7 , and several calls will _ be
needed. The mine may come again, but it looks as if it
had seen its best days.
* * * *
Whitford’s Reward (W.A.) has a working
option on the Callion, seven miles from Davyhurst.
This property was originally pegged in 1892 by Speak-
man, before Bavley’s Reward was discovered. It was
sold to an English co. with a nominal capital of £195,000,
and a working capital of £30,000. A 20-head mill was
erected, but, from scarcity of water, it only ran at in-
tervals, and, for occult reasons, half the mill occasionally
crushed for the public. There is a huge quartz reef on
the property running nearly north and south, and under-
laying east one in ten. This has bpen proved for a dis-
tance of 760 ft., of which 80ft. are barren, The gold shoot
pitches south, and is in lenses 80ft. to 100 ft. long. The old
co. crushed nearly 5000 tons, but could not make ends meet
under then existing conditions. A good deal of stone,
said to be worth Bdwt., is left standing in the stopes.
The tailings were sold to Rankin, who is said to have
recovered 6dwt. per ton; but a lot of them came from
vqry rich crushings done for prospectors. A new 12 x 4J
shaft, timbered on the bird-cage system, was sunk 45ft.
and timbered 40ft. in the first fortnight, so it should be
down 200 ft., the desired depth, in a couple of months.
Some of the faces in the mine carry rich patches. For
instance, at 130 ft., where the drive is 4ft. wide, leaving
sft. on the footw&l, dish prospects went _soz. per ton.
If economically handled, the mine should, judging from
reports and assays issued by Harry Collins (late of the
Waihi) and H. Fey (of the Ophir), give Whitford’s Reward
shareholders a better run for their money than the old
leases would ever have done. The worst of the reef is
that, like all quartz reefs, it is very patchy.
Light of Israel, Davyhurst (W.A.), has been
floated ; shares were mainly applied for by the vendors.
The original shaft sunk on the property struck the lode
at 27ft., and continued in it for 12ft From the look
things this is an elbow in the Great Ophir lode, which
appears to turn round and trend north instead of east-
and-west, as on the Ophir. Everything taken from the
drive, which is 40ft. by 15ft. by Bft., was put through the
State mill, and returned just under lOdwt., without tail-
ings. A new prospecting shaft is being sunk to the
north, and is expected to cut the reef at 100 ft. Should
the reef there prove as big and as payable as in the pros-
pecting shaft, shareholders should have a good time.
Sandstone Development Co., Black Range
(W.A.), is now in full swing. Out of 250,000 ss. shares
120,500 paids and 87,600 cons., paid up to 25., have been
issued, and 41,900 are in reserve. Two mam shafts are
being sunk, one on the west blocks, to cut the underlay
of the Oroya-Black Range at from 500 ft. to 600 ft.; and the
other on the north blocks to cut the continuation of the
reef at 250 ft. Some months must elapse before anything
definite is known ; but as the Oroya-Black Range shares
(200,000) are at 265., the Sandstone looks a good specula-
tion.
«.*■*•
Poseidon (Vic.) got a shock the other day when
J. H. Rodgers, J. O. Smith, and G. Stephenson turned
out with three slugs weighing 675£0z., 5020 z., and 861 oz.
The production of the nuggets showed how the old digger
spirit lives. One Strahan, of Waanyarra, had a try to get
the claim on the ground that the by-laws had not been
complied with. But he abandoned his plea, whereupon
out were dumped these three beauties. This party has
won, out of a bit of ground 40ft. square, and within 2ft.
of the surface, not only these three nuggets, but the
Federal (387£0z.) and a lot of finer gold.
* * * *
Berringa presents some of the best records of
cheap working in Victorian mining since the days of
Fosterville. Yet it is hard to pick out the best mine in
that way. Williams’ Fancy last half-year did not show
up as well as usual because of alterations to plant.
Birthday Tunnel now stands out as the best district
bread-winner. On a capital of £12,500 co. has opened up
its mine, crushed 118,626 tons, obtained £141,000 worth
of gold, and paid £44,000 in divs. The stone has
averaged a shade below 245. per ton, of which
practically 7s. 6d. has been profit. This is in-
clusive of all capital expenditure incurred since
calls were stopped, and that was long ago. Recent
stoping has been on stone worth a fraction above 20s.
Mining, milling and haulage last half-year ate u . Us. 6d.
per ton, inclusive of 3s. 3d. for development. Actual
figures, cited for the benefit of those who like to see how
low costs can be brought Mining and filling, 4s. 3d.;
crushing’, 2s. Oid. j haulage. Is. ; development,
3s. 3d. Even this record is not so good as the previous
half-year’s; work was then done for Is. a ton less. Go.
pays regular sixpenny dividends, and is sinking a No. 2
shaft to open up a block of ground extending 1500 ft.
south of its main shaft. There is not much cash in hand
for this work, as the co., at the end of its half-year, only
had £l2OO in reserve and a cash balance of £2119, out of
which £lOOO had to be deducted for the dividend. Oo.’s
plant and stock and mine stand in the statement of
assets at only £5500, so that item need not trouble those
who fight for an allowance for depreciation.
* • * •
Bewick, Moreing, and Co. are going to divide
their Victorian deep leads management. D. P. Mitchell, 1
who was in Melbourne during the Hertzig regime, re-
turns to take charge of a separate office, to be established
somewhere on the course of the leads. Mitchell has
always been the leader of forlorn hopes for the firm,
and it looked as if he had got his Waterloo —with an
accent on the “ water”—when he had to leave Melbourne
to engineer the Oroya-Brown Hill. After 18 months, how-
ever, he is recalled, perhaps in the belief that distance
has given him the proper: perspective of the deep lead
shows. W. J. Loring remains boss cocky in Australia,
so the cigar-chewing capacity of the establishment in
Melbourne will be maintained at its old level. It may be
added that Hoover, the other 8.-M. boss, affects, the
briar-wood, thus heightening his resemblance in some
ways to the late ’Enery ’Awkins.
* * • *
Hampden-Cloncurry Co., in Melbourne, has
authorised the directors to send another 60,000 shares to
market; this will bring up the total issue to 300,000.
Originally 150,000 shares were issued, of which the
old Hampden Go. got 100,000. Then 15,000 shares and
some cash were paid for the Duchess mine. Next, the
odd 35,000 shares were placed at £l, making 200,000 out.
Gash in hand was brought up to £60,000 by this deal.
Now, without any schedule of proposed works being sub-
mitted, the issue of this other 100,000 is authorised.
Chairman Baillieu admitted that he didn’t quite know
what they wanted the money for, but it was available, so
they might just as well have it, on general principles.
One or two shareholders wanted to know' if they would
get the chance to apply for the new shares pro rata.
The wink of Chairman Baillieu could be heard across the
Straits as he explained that he thought it would be
better “ to go to the world’s markets,” and the meeting
left it at that. Some people, however, are beginning to
get a bit suspicious about this “ world’s market ” gag,
and they are starting to ask how many of these big deals
really have been on London account. Many a fool-Austra-
lian is willing to make a sale to a foreigner at a price he
wouldn’t look at if an Australian offered it; so the offers
are always made now “ on behalf of an influential English
syndicate.” “ Those shares won’t bump against ours on
the Australian market, anyway,” say the fool-Australians
as they agree to the sale. Now the suspicion is arising
that later on the Australian may find out that he has
been too sure about that.
* * * *
What Tony Weller would call a serious sittiva-
tion has arisen in the affairs of the Celestial Copper and
Options Co., recently floated in Melbourne. It holds a
lease named the Horseshoe, of which it is reported that
it is four miles from Cloncurry, adjoins the Daisy (w'hich
has turned out 30 per cent, ore), has an outcrop 30ft. to
40ft. wide composed of gossan and quartz, carries fair-
grade ore, and is a mile from the site of the smelters.
The co. got an option over this for £lOO ; and it has to
pay £250 more to the vendors, and a quarter interest in
any co. floated should the option be exercised. It may
be remarked that, for a start, there is nothing very
special in the fact that the lease is next door to a claim
that has turned out a bit of 30 per cent. ore. Dozens
of blocks at Chillagoe did better than that, and
the writer once sat next to Deeming in a tram. The bald
question is—Has the Horseshoe itself ever produced 30
per cent, ore, or, indeed, any ore that is payable ? No
doubt the committee of shareholders appointed to confer
with the directors has asked that question before now,
and it is just about certain it hasn't got a satisfactory
reply. That being so, the course of the combined Board
and committee is clear. They will recommend (or ought
to) that the lease be most carefully prospected, that trial
samples be taken and bulk results got, that (if there be
flotation) the vendors* shares be locked up until the
worth of the claim is demonstrated, and that every
attempt be made to discourage speculation in the shares.
* * * *
“ Mainshaft ” : Bulletin of January 10. which
called the Celestial Copper and, Options, N.L., a cheeky
float, isn’t severe enough on the impudent concern. The
syndicate faces life with £9OO cash, and on that amount
it is proposed to “ develop the mine.” And that mine is
at Duck Creek, which has the smallest and most silicious
propositions on the Cloncurry field. Generally, “ develop-
ments ” have proved Ift. of good ore and 3ft. or so of
copper-stained quartz; but the little people who ow n
such shows call the whole 4ft. “ payable ore. t.
Elliott is right, and Hampden is right, and the Duchess
is right, and half a dozen other properties on the field
look like being right; but the small investor who goes
in for stuff of the Celestial kind is almost certain to
fall in. # m *
The Daisy, referred to last week as floated at
Charters Towers, is a small thing and can’t stand being
boomed. The Towers doesn’t seem to get a good hand
in copper ; this latest show is reported to have the usual
few inches of very rich ore and the several feet of copper-
stained quartz. The Daisy is not a very sharp-clawed
wild-cat; it is an excellent little property for a party of
working miners, but it can’t live up to company standard.
• * *
From the Sydney papers last Saturday : “ The
manager of the Dead Finish (Q.) wires that anewsphce
of tin has been struck in the shaft, worth 50 per cent,
tin, the balance of the lode being worth 10 per cent
Size of this lode isn’t mentioned. Yet
matter of some importance. Is it a 6in. lode . Or is the
width left vague on purpose? Last news
Finish was that the lode ran from Bin. to 2ft. in the
various workings ; and a streak of that «ze needs to be
rich But this alleged 50 per cent. —is it tin or oxide r
Dalziel’s oxide once panned out at less than
tin ; so this vagueness in reporting North
Queensland has its objections. Also, no doubt, for some
people it has its virtues.
C H. Spurgeon was the great Baptist, and that
may' have suggested “water" to the promoters of the
Mt. Spurgeon Alluvial Tin Mining Co., which is being
pushed off in Brisbane, mainly on the strength of the
names of directors Philp, Willcocks, and Isles, and
vague report by geologist Jack. Anyway, the Promoters
adopt a vicious system. There are 60,000 shares 30,0
to the public, 30,000 paid to the promoters. Of ±,7500 to
be raised tapart from calls) the promoters .grab £6OOO,
and the balance has to pay brokerage and flotation exes.
Seeing that the property consists of old deserted tin
workings (vide Jack’s report), on which only a few
fossickers have been at work iately, the promoters
grab of cash is something deplorable. Out of the 30,000
paid shares, however, 50 will be given as a bonus
for every 100 contributing shares allotted. In other
words, assuming that the paid shares are worth 55.,
then the contributing shares will cost only 2s. 6d. eacn,
though they will go out as having had ss. in cash paidon
them. “Watering” is bad enough at any time, but
when a co. starts off with “ watering, and sends out
15,000 wholly unnecessary gambling counters, it is time
to look out. The market that calls for that sort of thing
is in an unhealthy state.
Another straw in connection with this Mt.
Spurgeon prospectus shows the way the tide runs,
is estimated that at the present price of tin oxiae
£250,000 worth has been won from these workings.
How ingenuous—“ at the present price of tin . tne
actual value of the stuff won from Mt. Spurgeon has been
little more than half the figures quoted ; but by cheer-
fullv disregarding the fact that tin sold for an average of
£59 per ton in 1896, and by estimating the whole lot that
has been won from 1887 downwards at the present boom
value of £195 or thereabouts, the glittering quarter-
million bait is arrived at.
« * • *
After tottering for two years. Brilliant Block,
Charters Towers, has fallen into the hands of tributors.
The mine has been slipping from bad to worse, and would
have been turned up before this but for the assistance
derived from treating public stone. Tributors don t like
the Block mill, but still it gets much custom ; and no
doubt it has also done very well out of the purchase of
residues, for which competition isn t keen. It s the pro-
fit from such transactions that has kept the mine going
so long. Odd tribute parties who are financially strong
enough buy their own sands, and usually make a profit on
the re-sale, but otherwise the mill gets them cheap. It
is one of the woes of the Towers’ tributor.
* * * *
Prospecting has practically ceased in the old
workings at the Brilliant Central, Charters Towers;
operations are almost confined to beating out the pillars
and what little is left in the slopes. The stone, under
present conditions, is kept cleaner than it was in the
wild and woolly rushing days ; and this may be why it is
15s. per ton richer than the average of the stone taken
from the same locality twelve months ago. It looked for
a time as if the co. had got a new lease of life, when it
discovered 4ft. of mineral stone in some maiden ground.
The reef worked by Kelly’s, and handed down to them
through the Phoebe, dips into the Central’s lease some-
where-if it lives that distance. As Kelly’s crushings
give good returns, anything discovered in the Centralis
liable to be called Kelly’s reef, as was this recently-
discovered patch of 4ft. of mineral stone. But now they
remove the label suddenly on account of the disappear-
mcp of the reef in the end of the level, and the public is
told that K lly’s reef is still to be found. Which is
highly probable. , * *
\ Charters Towers show with some claim to
consideration is Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn, the old Day Dawn
Freehold Consolidated with a fresh coat of paint.
Hitherto the co. has been hampered by streets and
unreasonable demands. In the early days a few
dividends were paid, and all the stone available
rio-ht up to the streets was beaten out. A settle-
ment has been arrived at with Mills’ concerning the
streets and Pfeiffer’s starts again to practically develop a
new mine Progress is slow, as there is a considerable
amount of dead work ahead, and a rushing policy would
be more than most of the backers could stand up to.
« * '* •
Carrington United (N.Q.), after the juggling,
is now doing nicely. Reports from the mine show that
the straight shaft in being deepened cut a 15in. copper-
bearing lode. All over the mine the stopes show up to
3ft of ore ; the quality is good, especially around the
No' 4 levels, the deepest in the mine. A winze is going
down from these levels as a sort of pilot, but the quality,
beyond being copper-bearing, is never mentioned until it
is onened up by a crosscut from the straight shaft. A
fortnight’s run with the battery saw 287 tons put
through for £909. The co. collected £1052 for concen-
trates; a quantity of which has been stacked owing to
wet weather preventing cartage.
Woodlark Island Proprietary, the mostly
Svdney-owned Papuan venture, after sinking its shaft
170 odd feet, proposes to cut off part of its tail of paid-
ud shares and reconstruct on the basis of 50,000 con-
tributing shares of ss. each. No doubt the co., with its
three influential directors, its managers and secretary,
and its 50,000 paids, has had bad luck —it is always bad
luck when the poor beast stumbles in the middle of the
stream The burden was, however, too heavy, so it had
to come off with a splash. Labor costs from 16s. Bd. to
£1 per shift on Woodlark, so sinkinga three-compartment
shaft is an expensive job, and the directors don’t seem
too sure whether it will cost £5 or £lO a foot.
* • * *
Sic Transit! can be applied to another of the
once-famous Tasmanian tin group. Mutual Hills, Briseis
Extended and Weldbrook are all lame. Transit has,
however reached the stage at which the man with the
crape band comes in to measure up the dear departed.
Final proceedings were lively. “ Tread on the tail of me
coat” was plainly written on the face of all and sundry,
and Turner and Northey knew from the jump that it was
to be a game of stoush. They took things very well till
that awkward little word “gulled;’ was let drop.
Then there was as much commotion as when Ma
catches Pa with the nurse on his knee instead of the
babv Northey and Turner said that, not only were
they carrying their own little share infants, but they had
taken outside foundlings into the cot. So the word
“ gulled” was wiped out, and “ rottenest show ’’ pasted
up Very few cavilled much at that, so it is with the
epitaph “ Rottenest Show ” that the Transit passes out.
But really the prospectus ought also to be pasted on the
tombstone. And some may paste alongside it those
Bulletin warnings that were given, with what possibly
seemed deadly iteration, concerning the ultimate and
inevitable fate of the shoal of Tassy tin shows which set
the fashionjin the year 1905. # #
Newchum : (1) Timber prospectus can’t be
taken seriously. It doesn’t mention directors or bankers;
and the money is to be sent to the acting secretary, who
is also the vendor. (2) No good as an investment for a
non-resident.... Sadie: At present prices don t advise
anv base-metal mine as an investment : there may be
money in some of them for a gamble.
• * * *
After climbing over a considerable technical
difficulty, the Australian Co-operative Wholesale Society
has at last got * itself registered in Melbourne. It com-
bines the Civil Service, Bendigo, Ballarat, Wernbee
Farmers’ and half-a-dozen smaller country co-operative
societies, and will start with an annual turnover of about
£250 000. Similar retail bodies in other States are being
negotiated with, and will probably join in. Main objects
are to purchase wholesale for the smaller constituent
societies and to generally finance them. All trafficking
in liquor is barred. One wise proviso is that not less than
a quarter of each, society’s dividend on purchases must
be devoted to increasing the capital till it amounts to £1
per member. * »
The Secretary of the United States Treasury
reckons it will take 5,000,0000 z. silver a year to supply
the requirements of subsidiary coinage. At present, this
American coinage of silver is between £20,000,000 and
£30,000,000 (coining value). The silver requirements of
India, Russia, and France are uneven and erratic ; hut
the weakest feature about silver is that, being to a large
extent a by-product of copper, lead and gold production,
its output is not sufficiently controlled by a fall in the priced
It is quite possible that the output of silver would increase
in spite of a falling market, as it did before. On the other
hand, the market for silver is expanding, and there’s a
lot to be said for the optimistic view.
• * * *
Mutooroo comes to life again in this copper
boom. Situated in the far north-east of S. Australia,
within about 20 miles of Cockburn railway station, it
gave profits 15 years ago, but the bodies were too
irregular to be tackled by a weak 00. which wasn’t pre-
pared to keep a large surplus of cash to tide it over
the poor patches Now a Melbourne co. has it in hand,
and the usual “ large English eo.”—the usual vague, in-
definite co. with the cloudy suggestion of vast wealth in
the background—has taken the block on the west. It is
one of the most alluring, disappointing districts in Aus-
tralia. Over some thousands of square miles you can nearly
everywhere get just enough metaj to ruin you.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skdl and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerial ways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in Steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, catting
“ hitehes ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only lblbs.
and has only one working part—the hammer which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men w-ith
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, ana in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of tne
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the bhaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* L C J
,* * *
The Financial Standard (London), wrote in
its issue of 11th September, 1906, regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited No-
twithstanding the utmost conservatism observed by the
directors, continual progress is being achieved and tne
latest report shows that the trading for the past year is
no exception to past records.”*
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.
** * * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.
* * * *
“Geo E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.
* m
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgans Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
■K * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
The strength, lightness, durability and low cos®
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.
. * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field fot
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * « *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsby’’Patent Safety Oil
Enirine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Ermine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.* , * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke) Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.* # * * *
The Reavell Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
eood points is already finding* considerable favor in Au
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
anv other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * •
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 37).
Letter received by a Victorian country
editor from the local Anti-Sosh candidate :
Sir, i want you to stop sending my papir at once. You
prommist me you would support my canditure, and you
turns round and runs the other bloke, i don’t reckon 1
got fare treetment and i won’t stand it.


HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything- that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Poet Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hesch/s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A bad taste in the mouth reminds you that
your stomach is in a bad condition. It should
also remind you that nothing is so good for a dis-
ordered stomach as Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They build up the system, not tear it down like
the ordinary bill
*uu oiumary pm.
Agricola ” : Be “ Pingin ” (B. 17/l/’O7)
and his porcupine at breakfast. His account
causes derision among those who .know the
prickly beastie on his native heath. The porky
is a timid animal, and, when roughly picked up,
carried some distance, and plumped on an ant-
bed by a total stranger, he would be filled with
an intense desire to see the last of everyone.
.Likewise would the fright remove his appetite
beyond the temptation even of the toothsome ant.
Ihough for years I have carefully watched every
porky that has crossed my trail, I have never yet
succeeded in catching one at an ant-supper,
li? Prooshan,” I am waiting to meet a
bushman who can stand a cross-examination on
the subject. I have shepherded porky on to ant-
beds, and have also placed him there, but he
appeared as much annoyed by the ants as I was,
and shook his hind legs forcibly to persuade the
insects to dismount. Yet I have often watched
him feeding on the tiny black shot-beetles which
lurk among the fallen leaves. In any case, if
P° r kys appetite were of the dimensions claimed
by 1 ingin,” there are not enough ants in this
country to supply every porky with half a feed.
Another thing that makes me doubt his ant-eat-
lng habit is that about here the porkies are found
thickest where there are no ant-beds at all.
•** * ♦
Jimmie Pannikin ” : I do not wish to
start a shanghai (or Out-back coach) competition;
but I do want to tell you a true story. I was
taking my first shanghai tripOut-back-o’-Beyond-
Bourke. Mulga Mat (cousin to Gidyea George)
was shaking up the ramshackle trap, in order to
strike Lake Eliza in good time. We met a camel-
train carrying wool into Bourke. The mokes
bore the snaky, sinister aspect of the camels and
the awful odor of unwashed Afghans well, till the
team was ahnost past us ; then, without warning,
the off-side mare bolted madly, and the near-side
one followed suit. Mulga Mat steered them over
claypans, across the lignum flat, towards a lovely
ridge of red sand. My nerves gave way, so I
burst out laughing. “ What th’ heaven are y’u
laugliin nat ? ” asked Mulga Mat. “Well,” I said,
x <11(1 n t think these old moke-mares could bolt.
Anyhow, one might as well die laughing as cry-
ing. Anyhow,, also again, you are a splendid
ariver. I can trust your skill and pluck.” “Me
slall s U.iv. an me pluck’s not too bad. I ain’t
afraid o th orses. I can hold ’em and steer’em
ornght—but wot’s worryin’ me is whether th’
blighted shanghai ’ll hold together, till I pull
these cows up. You see, it’s th’ rickettiest old
shanghai in all the back country. It’s bin broke
“vnT 8 ■ up : an ’ m< ? nded in all sorts o’ ways,
with fencin’ wire, string, putty, paint, spit, bits
o bikes, sealin wax, leather, grocery string, rope,
bags, and lots o’ curses and nails. If we hit a
stump or any think solid, it’ll smash up into
smith Before he could say “smithereens”
there came an awful crash. Now, after the lapse
of two years, I’m afraid to scratch myself, because
1 get splinters m my fingers when I do.
* * * «
“Sailor” : Be “Edyson” (B. 17/l/’O7).
The Ballarat butcher’s involuntary roll on the
backs of the yarded bullocks reminds me, A mob
of uncivilised Queenslanders was squeezed pretty
tight in the ring at Wangaratta. A daredevil
named Kobmson agreed, in consideration of
drinks for the crowd, to cross the yard on the
backs of the seething beef. He got across all
right, much to the indignation of the bullocks.
‘ * * *
“The Prooshan ” : About the wildest and
woolliest worry we witness in this world is the
dog-fight. No matter whether
it arises among a group of mail-
seekers at a post-office window,
on a pub. verandah, or at a
funeral, it is bound to command
instant attention. It is a furious
and stirring thing, that is cal-
culated to stop all discussion for
at least a minute. Human nature
looks on indifferently at the
scrap if it doesn’t own a tail in
the fight, or if it lacks coin to
bet with- If the owner of one
of the dogs is there, and is an
o 1 d mahogany - eomplexioned
woman with a heavy gamp, there
will be a three-cornered fight,
provided her dog is getting the
worst of the mill. There will be
heavy banging of the gamp on
the top dog, which will be
alluded to as “You big, horrid,
wretch of a thing ” or “ cur ”
or “ fightin’ brute.” In the
scrimmage the lady will be bitten
on the leg by her own dog, and
the brolly will be torn from her
by the top dog. Eventually two
men will collar the dogs by the
tails (if they have tails), and
strive to part them in vain.
Foam and ear fragments will
continue to float round, and the
canines will cling to the fight
like Bruce Smith to his Chinese
brother, till, in the end, some
one will throw a bucket of water
on the dogs’ heads, and they will
flee from women and brollies and
the deluge, to have it out round
the street corner.
“Groper”: “The Stoker” (B. 20/12/’O6)
omits from his description of the Westralian
Gropers one particular member of that pro-
gressive band. This is the one who pitches his
tent on a block of land 30 miles from anybody •
S° Se unions are dogs ; who lives <£ wit*
possums and kangaroos lie can slay , whose
ambition is nil; politics nil; who from time to
time shifts his tent 100yds. or so to get away from
flies and sundries, and to secure a fresh view •
a ? d w . ho cur . ses vehemently that “the dashed
place is getting overcrowded ” if anyone settles
within 20 miles of him.
* * • *
<< nr » . Tf “ T ,
. Gaber .It Lot (B. 17/1/07) hasn t
lulled all the prickly pear by this time, let me say
that brushing aside the pear business in so airy a
fasklon ls j? st what if giving the curse so many
yards star ' t '. sandalwood certainly will burn
from root to branch when green, but where it and
the pear grow together, there isn’t enough san-
dalwood to burn off half the pear, even accepting
“Lot’s” estimate of ton for ton, which isn’t
within cooee of being correct. Minister Bell mav
getting a few settlers from the South to sample
_. e P ear lands between Warra and the railway
line, but if they base their calculations on what
was done on the Hunter, where the prickly beast
struggled for existence, they’ll be sorry they
started to wrestle with the Queensland curse,
* * * *
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The great
v P artl ? alar nl< ? l 'it of Hunyadi Janos is that it
w . ltkout dlsc f “fort; in other words, it effects
, refo * m revolution. This is because it is the
best aud safest uatural aperient.*
THE HEATHEN IN, die.
NEW MISSIONARY: “ By-the-hye, was there any obituary notice upon the death of my predecessor"
CONVERTED CANNIBAL CHIEF: “ Oh, yes. It ran, I think (mind you, I quote purely from
memory), ‘ Digested in the hope of a blessed immortality) ”
“E. J.” : “ Janor ” (B. 17/l/’O7) is doubt-
ful of the power of mimicry in lyre-birds. Over
20 years in the Northern River (N.S.W.) brushes
had brought me in contact with lyre-birds
often, but only once in such a way as to com-
pletely demonstrate their ability to mimic the
calls of other birds. Walking with a mate along
a scrub track on the Tweed River slope of the
Macpherson Range, we heard a mixed concert of
local birds close to the track. Cannot vouch for
the exact ones now, but am certain of king parrot,
tallywong (black magpie), satinbird, and the long
trill of the banana bird. As the natural cries of
the lyre-bird here are simply a descending-scale
series of six or seven not unmusical squawks, com-
mencing on a high note, and finishing with a
longer “wow,” we decided to investigate. Creep-
ing cautiously through dense lawyer-vines, we
came in view of a gentleman lyre-bird—tail erect,
greatly excited, dancing back and forth, and so
busy shouting imitations of different birds that
he failed to hear our approach. We got to within
syds., behind a log, and for a few moments had a
good view of his accomplishments in dancing and
varied vocal “turns.” He was undoubtedly a
great artist, and when he did “sense”, our
presence, his exit was marvellous. Have found
lyre-birds’ nests only twice. One on a ledge of
rock overhanging a deep, dark gorge at the head
of a mountain creek, the other up among the
earth and roots of a huge wind-fallen tree. In
each nest was one egg. The eggs are of a dull
bluish color, splashed with darker markings.
* * * *
“Lindy Lou” : Here am I reaching
vigorously for the scalp so recklessly dangled by
“Janor” (B. 17/l/’O7) in connection with lyre-
birds and their mimicry. I have never seen the
noise coming out of the mouth of the lyre-bird ;
neither have I seen the stink coming from a
motor-car, but I am willing to certify to the
former as strongly as the latter certifies for itself.
There is such a thing as proof by exhausting
every means of disproof. Let me apply this to
the lyre-bird. Some months ago, in a patch of
scrub, averaging 7ft. high, at the bottom of a
gully, I head the raucous yell of a black cockatoo,
followed instantly by a bad imitation of the
answer of his distant mate. Now, a black
cockatoo haunts the hill-tops and the tall trees,
and shuns, as far as possible, the gullies and the
scrub. Moreover, if suddenly startled from the
scrub, he would rise up with much clamor, and
depart by the air-line for safety. I sent my three
dogs into the scrub, and presently was rewarded
by the sight of a male lyre-bird leaving at
high pressure, with his glorious tail in perilous
proximity to the nose of the old cattle-slut. He
found refuge in a tree, and there I left him, but
nary a black cockatoo came in sight. The only
other feathers I roused out were attached to a
pair of tom-tits, and “ Janor” will hardly accuse
them of making the row I heard. lam prepared
to oath my hardest, having intimate knowledge
of its customs, that no black cockatoo was in the
scrub, and, therefore, 1 remain satisfied that the
lyre-bird was guilty of voice-foigery and should
be arrested and held to bail.
Jan : “Janor” (B. 17/l/’O7) has evi-
dently mistaken his lyre-bird. In his “anxiety
to hear the feathered gramophone ” he must have
spent his off-days following up the willie-wagtail.
The lyre was probably busy imitating the kooka-
burra at the moment, and “Janor” took him for
a nigger minstrel. As he says, “plenty of men
have lived all their lives in the hills,” and never
heard or seen a lyre. Quite so ; but the lyre does
not come and perch on the nearest wire-fence and
go through his performance. Any good bushman
will convince “Janor ”on this point. If he will
go where the birds are, in springtime (probably
“Janor” would have to be carried in a bag, as
otherwise he would get lost), he will see the male
fowl on his dancing bed, turning gracefully round,
with tail extended fan-shape, and one, two, some-
times three hens dancing round him, while he
“ show's off,” mimicking every other bird or sound
in the bush. As the lyre is rapidly becoming
extinct, I want “ Janor’s” or any other vilifier’s
scalp before the last one goes.
* « * *
“ L.E.” : Many cookies in the Wimmera
(Vic.) have great difficulty in getting hands, even
at the munificent salary of £1 a week and keep.
The following is one young chap’s experience
“I was ploughin’ for Jones. Started at day-
break, fed the horses, and had to get my own
breakfast. Turnin’ over the soil gives you a
ravenous appetite. At 12 they gave me a feed to
keep me goin’. When I knocked off at night
there was no tucker ready. They’d got the graft
out of me, and I had to wait till they’d finished
their graft, which was often ,as late as nine.
Twelve to nine’s a long stretch when you’re
ploughin’. Next winter I went to Brown’s,
fallowin’. I was kennelled up in a hut with a
skillion roof, 10 by 12, used as a barn. A 400-
gallon tank was the fireplace, the w'aterhole
being the flue. I was smoked out every
time I tried to boil the billy. Often I had
to run outside to get a breath. Smoke
never hangs low, and I used to crawl beneath
it to the fireplace on hands and knees to see if the
billy was boilin’. It was all cold tack, but I made a
gridiron out of a piece of wire, and put the cold
mutton on it to get a hot meal. I couldn’t sleep.
The ewes and lambs were bleatin’ all night.
’Possums and wild cats made a hell of a row on
the roof. Some of the ’possums got through the
cracks and chewed the wheat that was in thehut.
They made a noise like somebody scratchin’ a
board ; it gave you the miseries. What with the
smoke, the wheat, horse-feed, tucker, man, cats
an’ ’possums, cold tack, winter, and hard graft all
mixed up, I had a lively time. Oockyin’ is a
mug’s game. I’d rather hump my swag and
trust to luck than work for a cocky now. Some
of ’em are all right, I know, but they’re hard to
find. Do you know what Smith told me when I
asked him where I could sleep? ‘There’s the
fowl-house, an’ there’s the stripper,’ he says,
1 you can have your pick.’ I’m satisfied.”
* * * *
“I.” : The crow is not in it with the hog
for sheer cruelty. Have known hogs to follow
up and devour both lambs and mothers in the
lambing paddocks, and they will often attack
babies and other helpless humans. And the
awful hog eats its prey alive, as often as not, like
an American Oil Trust.
THE UNDOING OF GINGER JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There came to shear at Wilga shed
Two flash young men from town,
Who carried sundry packs of cards,
And played their games in all the yards
To take the shearers down.
For Ginger Jones and Mick O’Toole
Had lived upon the game,
And it is sad, but likewise true,
The3 r played not fair, but “ all they knew,”
And got there just the same.
They gambled through the livelong night,
And shuffled, stacked and cut,
And fleeced the unsuspecting souls
In chequered shirts and greasy moles,
Within the shearers’ hut.
One peaceful Sabbath afternoon
The shearers chanced to roam
To Doolan’s shanty at the bend,
A festive hour or two to spend,
And left our friends at home.
Then fortune sent them one Ah Gow,
The mildest of all cooks,
Who came with childlike face, and bland,
And tea and “ brownie” in his hand—
The pigeon to the rooks.
Gow eyed the money on the board ;
He gazed, and gazed, until—
‘‘ You playem plenty Nap,” said he ;
“ P’laps, Mister Jones, you teachee me ?”
Quoth Jones : “ By oripes, I will.”
Then Ginger grinned at Mick O’Toole,
And cocked an eye at Gow ;
And with his most engaging air
Remarked: “You blingem money here;
I plenty teaehem now.”
A goodly roll of greasy notes
The childlike heathen brought,
With beck, a,nd nod, and wreathed smile,
And courtesies devoid of guile ;
By Jones the game was taught.
The heathen was at first allowed
A winner’s joy to feel;
But when there rose a goodly pool
Young Ginger winked at Mick O’Toole,
And took the cards to deal.
He dealt four hearts to simple Gow,
The ace, king-, queen and jack ;
Of clubs he likewise dealt the ace,
To him of calm, angelic face,
Right deftly- from the pack.
Now Ginger was, as you may guess,
A youth of many parts,
And, being out that day for pelf,
Impartially he dealt himself
Five other little hearts.
Ah Gow reviewed his cards in glee;
With one emphatic slap
He struck his fist upon the board,
And said, while gazing- on the hoard,
“ Me go ’em plenty Nap.”
THE JUDDY'S TOPHET.
Then Ginger Jones arose and said,
<( With confidence profound—
Me allee sainee bettem you
thr ° Ugh "
And Mick arose with greed v eyes,
A mighty swear he swore", '
And cried: “ And me, too, Mister Gow ;
1 ”" ’
'
The bland Celestial took the bets
Prom both the thievish cubs;
And, placing one hand on the “oof,”
He turned his eyes unto the roof,
And led—the ace of clubs !
rp, , ...
A pmpTe g hueb y ec a rme atmosphere
The erstwhile gentle “Mister Gow”
Was termed “ a blanky yellow cow ”
Who “ travelled on the game.”
So it feU out they both fed in,
a i V p t T c ,h a ? ce .i!' f erv ed them right;
They tell it still at Wilga\she(J )i< U<l ~
With evident delight.
. T . w
HORACE CHARLES HALLORAN.


RINGS.
Ladies’ Rings, Engagement Rings, Dress Rings
and every description of Gem Rings. We make
up on the premises.
Why do we trouble to do this ?
Because we save our customers 25 per cent, of
middlemen’s profit and 27J per cent, of
Federal duty.
We buy the gems unset in quantities, and at
the lowest price.
We have old-world ring makers who do the
finest of fine work.
Our prices are London prices only.
Exquisite Golden
Sapphire and Blue
Sapphire, with Small
Olivines, 18et. Setting,
£8 88. All Diamonds,
£5O.
Finest quality Dia-
monds, £65.
Marquise King, Dia-
monds and Kubicß,
£l5.
aw
Ohoice Diamond,
£35.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“ John Moran ” writes from Ravenswood
(Q.): —
“TheProoshan,” in the “Aboriginal” column(10/l/’07),
gives an account of a settler’s child who was nearly
swallowed by a carpet snake.
“ The Prooshan ” is just (libellous expression cut out),
or else the settler who pitched him the yarn is (action-
able language eradicated). The carpet snake never
slimes anything over before swallowing it, neither does
any other Australian snake. The first thing the carpet
snake does is to seize its victim, throw a couple of coils
around it so quickly that you can hardly see how it is
done, and in less than half-a-minute a baby, rat, or
wallaby would be dead—killed by the terrible pressure
executed by the carpet. , .
The snake then uncoils and finds the head of its victim,
and starts to swallow it by opening its mouth to its
fullest extent and just shoving it over the head. The
snake’s jaws are in two separate pieces joined by a hinge
of muscle, so that one jaw can be moved half an inch or
more forward or sideways without moving the other.
Thus vou can imagine what a cavity it is when fully ex-
tended. The teeth, sharp as needles, point backwards.
When the snake gets a grip and starts to swallow, it
shoves one jaw forward, lets the teeth hook-on, pulls it
back, and shoves the other jaw forward, and so gets its prey
down hand over hand. All the time it is swallowing
it keeps making a kink in its neck, and then straighten-
ing out, so as to help the food along into the abyss.
But there is no sliming a thing over first. I have watched
snakes feeding hundreds of times, arid I know.
I have heard that “ sliming ” yarn until lam tired. I
have had respectable God-fearing people, whose word
could be taken on most subjects, tell me the same “ slim-
ing ” tale quite seriously, and I have come to the con-
clusion that people are not responsible when they start
talking about snakes. They don’t know they are (in-
sulting language omitted); they seem to be quite carried
away. ,
The first was a snake, and everyone seems to glide
quite naturally towards in the presence of a snake,
or when the subject crops up. Your “ Abo.” correspon-
dents are about the greatest pack of unhung when
they get on a snake yarn, and I have several times been
on the point of flying bo the ink-bottle and telling them
so but I feel they are not to blame—the old influence is
at work. I have no desire to offend “ The Prooshan
either. He may be a good husband and father, and vote
Labor’every time, and his word may be good on any
other subject; but he allows himself to drift when he gets
going about snakes, and he wants to be brought up with
a round turn, or he may gradually fall away from grace.
It is the way evil influences work. “ He that contemneth
small things shall fall by little and little.”
WANTED A CASK.
FINNEGAN : “ Hev a beer wid me, Hogan?”
Hogan: “ Shure, an ’ don't ye know Oi’ve signed
the pledge, Finnegan? ”
FINNEGAN : “Mahn, a shmall beer won't hurt yez .”
H OGAN: “ Divil take it, Finnegan, an ’ do ye
think Oi’d break me pledge fer one small
beer? ”
“W.8.H.” : I beg to take up the waddy
of disputation on behalf of “Crossnibs,” who was
accused by “Nymsie” (B. 17/l/’O7) of being a
perverter of the gospel. Crows have gall, and it
is for this product that the Chow pays 3d. a body
(when he cannot beat the small boy down lower).
Chinkie doctors make some cure-all or other from
the vile stuff. The balance of the long-deceased
crow is eaten by John.
6 * * *
“ Quan ” : In addition to the warning
screech mentioned by “The Prooshan” (B.
3/l/’O7), which is one harsh call, the sentinel
cockatoo has a double call, which he uses to
intimate to his maize-eating mates that either the
fastest eater or the one with the smallest appetite
ought to come and relieve him while he has a
snack. And he never calls in vain.
* * • *
Mr. A. Adams, Havelock, Marlborough,
N.Z., says:—“l consider that Chamberlain’s
Tab'.:.'.: are an A 1 remedy, and the most efficient
procurable for all disorders of the stomach, liver,
and bowels. I have used them for some time,
deriving the greatest benefit; and have every con-
fidence in recommending them to all in need of
such a medicine.”*
WITH BEER LEAVES IN THEIR HAIR.
It is quite impossible to think of gay Bacchanalians frisking round a cask of hop beer, and twining leaves of
Mr. Judkins’ typewritten speeches in their hair instead of vine leaves.— Akgus.
No! It won’t work.
“Quan”: The beautiful Boat Harbor
reserve, near Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), for the
retention of which “X.Y.” (B. *24/1/07) entered
such an earnest plea, is not the only area on the
Tweed that the soulless, sordid, money-grabbing
Cow-man is reaching out after. A. reserve of
nearly 60 acres at Terranora, which is one of the
few remaining beauty spots of the lweed, and
one of the delights of the river trip from Mur-
willumbah to Tweed Heads, is to be revoked and
thrown open so that the Cow-vandal may contami-
nate the air with abominable smells arising from
the altar of the Cow-Joss.
“ Tracker ” : Missed anything round your
way lately? You have? Well, bet your life
there’s an Americano somewhere
close; set a trap for him, but mind
you make it secure, or he’ll bone the
trap too ! A ’Murltan has come to
live in our street, and, before I go
further, can anyone lay me on to a
real pugnacious, man-shifting bull-dog
(non-vegetarian); also an energetic,
sudden death, double-barrelled ele-
phant gun ? Noticed, other morning,
said ’Murkan’s door was minus a,
knocker. Following night I landed
home rather late, stepped briskly on
the verandah, and proceeded to give
the knocker several firm knocks —note
the word proceeded ! Now, I was
not under the influence of crawfish or
’coota, yet that door-banger was ab-
sent, and had evidently gone for a
walk. Its absence was unaccount-
able ! Couldn’t have been dissatisfied
with its job, I thought, or it would
have “struck”! Next morn, being
naturally of keen perception, I noticed
the door belonging to Uncle Sam’s
nephew had been mproved with a
knocker. Yes, that blank confounded
son of a U.S.A. (unwashed soap
agent) had sneaked my knocker. On
my demanding an explanation he
said he had only borrowed it for the
night, as they had expected friends.
Report sent in to a Western
Dirtrict (Vic.) Council by its inspector
of nuisances :
I found the karkas of a dead horse, on the mane road.
I haven’t found the owner yet. When Ido I’ll have him
buried.
* * * *
Stuart Field has been giving the Adelaide
papers an account of his droving trip with nine
men and 10,900 sheep from Ann Downs to Ade-
laide, 1350 miles. He delivered the sheep, only
400 short, at Wilmington (S.A.), on November
23rd, having started on May 31st. The chief feat
of the journey was building a bridge over the
Cooper, 140yds. across, with deep water and a
strong current. It was made with tripods weigh-
ing up to three-quarters of a ton, then longi-
tudinals topped with rushes and scrub, over that
hessian a yard wide, covered with earth. “ ihe
whole of the work, which, I believe, is the biggest
thing of its kind ever done in Australia, was com-
plete in 14 days, and saved two months’ delay.
It cost £43.” In two days 22,000 sheep crossed
this bridge.
* * * *
“ Mooch-about” : Years ago, when shear-
ing cheques were as large as the proverbial
blanket, writer knew several knights of the
blades who, after “cut-out,” used to travel to
Japan to melt their cheques there. A good run
would keep them in luxury in that land till the
next shearing. Out at Buckiniguy (Cobb and Co. s
station on the Marra, N.S.W.), once met an
English chap and fast shearer who, if at all lucky,
used to go “home” to Fogland every year to
spend three or four months with his mother and
sisters.
* * *
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
Sea Lake, the terminus of one of the
Mallee lines (Vic.), is a typical child of the now
conquered scrub. About twelve months ago it
got a fair start. Now it has two hotels, both new,
half-a-dozen shops with the paint barely dry on
them, two solicitors, a doctor, and a bank, the
one street is knee-deep in dust, and bullock teams
plough through it with the wheat—the eternal
wheat—all dav long. The district averages about
three bags to the acre when it escapes the frequent
droughts of those parts, and the total yield is
estimated at a million bushels or thereabouts—
which isn’t so bad for Sheol. But it is still
doubtful if the country will stand farming tor
many years on end.
* * * *
“E.H.H.”: If the goanna isn’t right off,
I beg to state that he is a better mover on land
than water. I recently dislodged a big one from
a small tree adjacent to a 2ft. deep lagoon, .tie
made for the water like a Postle, but was not a
Healy when once in, his trudgeon stroke being
very faulty, and his crawl a farce. I easily got
his fat for my harness.
* * * *
“Anchor” : Wentworth (N.S.W.) is the
deadest, dreariest, most forlorn and best for-
gotten hole in Australia. Struck it the other
day on business bent. Such a place ! .Deserted,
dull, depopulated, decayed and dying fast; ready
to dissipate on the least provocation, or without
any. Shops to let on every hand, and houses
hungering with vacant eye for paint and repair.
Dead—very, very dead, and not even a dismal
ghost on hand to decently inter it. One night I
spent in this land of mosquito-buzz and booze,
and then I fled for home. Quoth the raven:
“Nevermore !”
“By Gum ” : Your correspondents have
been rather too hard on the cocky whose devotion
is Cow. During a holiday which I spent m the
midland district (Victoria), I met a farmer who
owns a large acreage of grass land and a fair num-
ber of cows. I asked him why he didn t stock
sheep instead. He admitted that the sheep
might be more profitable, but asked _ me, m the
name of Cow, what his children would have to do
should he give up the noble animal. He evi-
dently thought that the wayside pub. or the 10-
mile-away dance-room would ensnare them. J ud-
kins’ rival in that district is Cow. This same
family, returning from a Christmas Eve visit to
the township at 3.30 a.m., took half-an-hour s
rest, and then settled down to milk its joss.
* * * *
Old Denny Daly was the last of the bul-
lockies in the Maniototo. He was a long lank
slab of a man, with a skin like a sheep s pelt after
it has been hanging two years on a wire fence.
He carted coals. One day, dray, bullocks, coals
and all set sail down the Taien River. Denny
talked to. the river till language failed, then he
slung the whip into the yellow water. 1 here,
y OU ; take the lot, he said, and aftei
that he went bullocking no more.
THE LOST SWEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once on a time, by Beelzebub inspired,
And undeterred by conscientious cautions
(The day was hot and I was vexed and tired),
I swore a swear of marvellous proportions.
Each syllable the stamp of genius bore,
They came so round, and full, and even-flowing,
That, as the bullocks caught the lusty roar,
It started ev’ry horny skulker lowing.
Commencing with a fair and noble swing,
It swelled and rose like flooded waters rushing,
As swiftly as a swallow on the wing,
And smoothly as a garden fountain gushing ;
And tributary swearlets, branching out,
So helped to give the malison cohesion.
Ah ' then could I at fellow-swearers flout,
And cast on their poor efforts my derision.
Though often I have striven to rehearse
That scene which set my youthful genius kindling,
’Tis useless, for the mem’ry of that curse
With passing years is gradually dwindling.
’Tis something seems to chain my willing tongue,
And hold my lingual efforts in constriction,
For I can ne’er recall the words that strung
Themselves into that noble malediction.
B.A.
DEXTER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Query : A silly falsehood. The Bulletin pays
that gentleman nothing as a retaining fee, and doesn’t
retain him in any capacity.... A.L. : Proverbs re-written
into poor verse not worth printing. Gilbert versified
proverbs in “Patience,” but then he was Gilbert, and
knew how.. ..W.H.P.: You write your matter carelessly
with a bad pen on blotting-paper, and naturally it gets
to the W.P.B Kadok: (1) Can’t pass thati;
show your admiration for “Kodak” by shout-
m° him a drink, not by running away with his
pen-name. (2) Verse fair, but theme worn 0ut.....
G W.W.: We’ve no room for an American Letter. ....
C LI P ’ The title “ Aboriginalities ” was the invention
of ?he "former editor of Till Bulletin. The column itseH
was always the work of many writers, in the bush ana
elsewhere.... Jarrah : A mildly-wicked yarn, illustrative
of the Fall of Bloke—-can’t make out for certain whether
the hero is manor bloke. Rejected partly because tbe
fall isn’t definite enough....B. : Garden of Ml'Soul
ml her slender Fancy it must be a long, thin strip oi
"arden LE.M.: “Wanganui” knocked out in one
round.". Bern : “Cricket” very obscure mirth. B. .
Tile about how M’Pherson’s son ruined O Reilly s
daughter declined Kowhai: Very little in “ River ”
storv In fact there’s nothing in it. It s a void and an
“I deserted blank.... Sam Holt: Sorry, but must
decline co furnish address. Even against our
rule we couldn’t send it to you, as you don t furnisn j our
ownlddress . Camera: Not a hopeful item m the lot
Dale R. : just hymns, and very moderate hymns a
that Sockdolager: Well, its earnestness made us glad,
andi'tVbad execution made us sad, and nofh. g
v nn j. w • Yes Wra&ge had some sort oia lain
mXng ”'d^i'cJ|heis nowm India, lecturing... .Goolwa:
Verses^about Tommy are all Bent in the “.etre a„d spell-
ino- A M.W. : Not enough grit in your duststorm....
T H.0.D.": “Shattered by Success” « not so much
poetry as a plain statement of a rather old fact • • • J’Ctoi
Lynch : Sorry, but we have no i.iforiiiat.on ™ tbesub ;
the door in a way that indicated he was d—d wild, is an
old Mend Mai: Your sentiment is real Rood Aus-
....Bean Buck: “ The Miner isn t quite poetry,
or quite prose, or quite anything. ... •••
never saw a 1000-year-old live frog in a rocK, ana
s„&rKyi. 1 & *
as a spring. It may only use it for
From vour drawing—if the coin is of gold—it is a guinea
nfecT and certainly of some value as a curio as well as
Fntrinstcallv!". West: We don’t want an outbreak of
dialect humor Gum Boot: c ° c <f n lyre
wild curses at “ Janor” because of his attack oiiuieiyie
bird. We can’t print all the execrations, or theß.. Id
be one derisive yell from end to end -Sturr . Not wortn
while laboring at that small pomt° f ttaee iady
Burac : No one of the staff dares to ask t bat^ l l dy
is she the same who was a popular favorite 2C> years ago ,
p g 6. V of?he smaU school
Sab"ouF“TheM q ate of the Puritan,” whichinakesus
wonder if you habitually write that wa>, or if it is a huge
tottered on uneven legs to the waste-paper recep a
Four-Nine-One: For bathos you are a lecord... .J.KL .
If that is how you write when sober, please
next contribution when you ar those filthy
FAR- The only argument against shifting tnosenirny
send Sid Law and Bill Wilks to Parliament.. ..B. . You
evoivea , urn irI JL) iq en : You need a change of
chma e Tiy h Sa e" jf"sobriety., AV F.L. : Rather
toed oi forced “ drunk'” .jokes. Send along drunk
joke with a sparkle in it. as of whisky |Jd soda,
C!£#BS
There's so much competition between poems
about Twilight that possibly you’d have a better chance
trusively avoid Cerberus ; other wa. Bobbied by one o!
his mouths—think it was-the south mouth that got me
Stock-rider in Town,” the other two mouths being occu-
£ e f ’s'^toler 1 Certims XnVon triofets ...Jumbo":
Your B rMnarks upon “ her socks
tooad Se way PUr E O N".:"Thj wjrst poem we have struck
For seventeen days,.... V- : “ Sea Song "' jg Rngle.
“ Tn T.ove ” urettv in a mild way, but menective....
Parapluie : Sounds true-butif you ) take! of
well, you must put some literary clothes oni her, or she ll
™ t sunburnt Le Chat: This cat walked by itself into
the basket. ..Munda: No interest-and runaway wives
ought always to be interesting. It is because they wish
to°be interesting that they usually " "“Gin^r”
Wait till you have something original to say. Ginger
is iust diluted Family Herald Westland. Merely a
tawdry horror.... K.W. : All haunted house stories are
the same story. Yours is more so....Braemar. Jim
levy thinandslender.. ~K.K.: “The Raving” rather
weak and rhymes ineffective.
TO ARTISTIC (ANB INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M. Brown : Can’t see the point... .G.S.C. : That «>cky
ioke is coming to the office three times a day now
Alev N.Toone to Join the unfit.. 1 Botor: «'*”■>„»’-
Ss* “i: .»od.r.«n
tions missed "fire.... J. J.A.: The ancient frumpat the
uiano represents a rather used-up variety of humor....
Luke G.? Jap and rabbit sketch makes us feel depressed.
Les A. : Picture pretty good, but joke decidedly
beiow Plimsoll mark.


By
Letters
Patent
H r J Tf*d
clepnitg
him \>y Cos A !*'
[&>/ Trege«vr|
/ftr^l
A I
V^ 1
Vy
A°f r %.‘*>Ae only bUcc
D or n'>iioo<, which
reruns iy« <>{• |^ e Q Meftn
on A stVofs!." Ja*^)
"A 1 Solicitation
-
now 'WHer (Mf
i i+ DA'f or 154 j**
J^e*>e/o ienT AsyluKr» z'
'A p
0. r * »y ? 9
. s°Mnly\ JSq
/«Sk cm '
Ben+Ere ye Ve £
5e S^vin N -'Wr»be,K
yeV* m®n®y •
>r
A person c^n
V>y Socie'ty
rnuyt" "Pe
A^s^l'av
Ih
(^Hi's Way KMde*o
We ’h* v *
ewde
sKelct) sutl) A
one liere.
T % 0 .
H, >i
J "fete*
H* K e aJl'jVee Sh<> w S)^ G eclifse of-rfe }>,
Melbourne
Old s Oh
worK "$e Fed fylid^rnenT,
if" it" been in
’ 60 .' Prune
Kow conye on dearie, le/" u$
iF'offj..fiis v/i!l if^you
[ryuch T)effer !
r /
/T°Ry
h i
PA|aY
'' While ifie fenny 'frumjpe.f'tftiS of+cn
I]ov/ wa> $e Sound of* rffe AiAvteJiaiirr
K*nW uje.: a+ ~ an , a k „^
VICTORIAN VIEWS.


THE NEW PARLIAMENTARY SESSION.
GEOROE (hastening to the scene of his labors): “Now, this is most awkward. It I hold on to this Anti-Sosh animal I’ll never
get office, and if I let go I’ll lose the few supporters I have.”


KING ALFONSO’S TOOTH.
King Alfonso’s nurse has a unique memento of
her Royal charge. This is his first tooth which
has been set in a gold ring, bearing the inscrip-
tion “ My tooth to my nurse, Alfonso XIII.”
The presentation is in accordance with a custom
6^
which has been ob-
served in the Span-
ish Royal Family
for centuries. The
King has splendid
teeth and though
Court etiquette for-
bids that the toilet
preparations of the
Heads of the Royal Houses can be advertised,
everyone knows that they use the best prepara-
tions. Everyone knows that thebestpreparationfor
the teeth and mouth is Odol. The greatest mis-
take on earth is to suppose that children’s first
teeth should not be taken care of. The greater
the care the longer they last, and the longer they
last the better for the permanent teeth. Parents,
therefore, should insist on using Odol for their
children from the time they cut their first tooth,
for Odol by destroying germs prevents the diseases
of the mouth which young children are liable to
from this cause and ensures perfect health to their
teeth.
Odol isthefirst and only preparation for cleansing
the mouth and teeth
which exercises its
antiseptic power not
only during the few
moments of applica-
tion, but continu-
ously for hours after-
wards. Odol as has
been scientifically
fà
proved, penetrates the interstices of the teeth and
the mucous membrane of the mouth, to a certain
extent impregnating them and thus securing a
safeguard and preservative for the teeth such
as no other dentifrice can provide, not even
approximately.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
At latest advices the “ genial ” Dan
O’Connor was at Chicago and “doing well,” but
at what we are not told. He surely can’t have
gone into the beef industry.
Kingston is still very feeble, and the
coming session of the House of Representatives
will probably see little of him. He is almost as
shattered as his namesake in Jamaica.
The late William Whiteley’s custom of
presenting a gold watch to a shop girl on whom
he had sinful designs should suggest a suitable
text for the tombstone of the universal provider:
“Watch and prey.”
Premiers haven’t a habit of dying in office
iu N.S.W. Keeping in the Cabinet means keep-
ing out of the coffin. But Parkes, Robertson,
Jennings, Dibbs and See did not long survive their
retirement.
The death of John See leaves but three
ex-Premiers of New South Wales living, G. H.
Reid (the senior), Wm. John Lyne and Thomas
Waddell. It is on the cards that Carruthers will
soon make a fourth.
“ M.” : While lurking round S.A. Parlia-
ment House steps recently I heard a man,
who was an ostler before he struck it lucky
at early Broken Hill, refer to the “damned”
Labor party.
S.A. is agitating for a monument to John
Ridley, generally recognised as inventor of the
wheat-stripper. Farmers are to be asked to con-
tribute in bags of wheat, and the statue is to be
erected at the Roseworthy Agricultural College.
Miss Henrietta Hustler, one of the oldest
educationists in N.S.W., died last week in Kiama
Hospital, aged 88 years. She taught the grand-
mothers and many of the grandfathers of the race
that now makes butter in the land of the Blow-
hole,
Rev, Henry Gainford, Adelaide’s most
joyless parson, pastes in a scrap-book all the
paragraphs the frivolous press prints about him.
He is said to take the work to bed with him, and
often awakens the midnight echoes with shrill
Methodist laughter. The book of scraps is the
only light literature he indulges in.
Something specially appropriate in names
turned Up in a Melbourne court the other day—
Pledger, out of a pawnshop. But the cussedness
of the imp that is always interfering with appro-
priate things caused Mr. Pledger to turn up on
the wrong side of the court, over a small matter
connected with the cash.
Humphrey Healy has got into the Victorian
papers under the head of “ Remarkable Vitality.”
Humphrey nearly cut his arm off, and was seen
walking about the ranges at Mandurang, carrying
a swag. The police hunted him for 18 hours, and
then found him lying by his swag, still bleeding.
He said he was tired of life, and had tried to cut
his arm off because he couldn’t cadge some dyna-
mite. Dynamite, he said, was more sudden.
WE’LL DO IT.
The Prime Minister’s going away should not interfere
with the work, —Argus.
“ My dear son George will carry on the work,
won't you, my hoy? ”
The serious accident to Police Inspector-
General Garvin of N.S.W. brings Superintendent
A. B. Walker to the front as Acting-General.
Mr. Walker got his first lift from the position of
a full private trooper through shooting Thunder-
bolt, the bushranger, near Uralla, 37 years ago.
The encounter was a hand-to-hand one without
witnesses.
A Wellington (M.L.) newspaper thought-
fully informs its readers that a certain individual,
who has lived on a lonely lighthouse for 36 years,
is about to retire from the active pursuit of his
profession, preparatory to entering “private
life.” How much more private does he want to
be ?
Pumpkin Smith, who fell out of Australian
Parliament last elections, has the consolation of
being fairly warm, financially, nowadays. Of late,
mines have been good to Pumpkin, and the man
who started as a railway porter, and wasn’t very
much richer from what lie made out of politics, is
in comfortable circumstances.
E. J. Brady, the bard who looks like a .
buccaneer, has been seriously ill in Melbourne,
and has been hanging out at a private hospital
called “Bethesda.” “Bethesda” is a highly
respectable and rather religious refuge. Pious
invalids are attracted by the name, and find the
moral atmosphere quite up to expectations. Pro-
bably this was the first time a breezy poet, with a
reddish torpedo beard, has gone there to be
repaired. Brady is better now. “Bethesda” is
also better—at least, it doesn’t seem any worse.
About the toughest old “cop” in Australia
is Charles Sanderson, lately retired from the
position of superintendent at Bathurst. At the
age of 79 he is still going strong, after being in
the “force” for over 60 years. His first engage-
ment was as a boy at Scotland Yard, London,
when he had reached the ripe age of 10.
Monty Grover, the brilliant journalist of
Melbourne Argus, departs from the scene of
Federal strife, and casts behind him Judkins. He
goes to an elevation on the Sydney Morning
Herald. His departure will quench the last
glimmer of light left in that lumber-chamber
labelled “The Passing? Show,” and leave it a
stationary disgrace.
Dr. Laishley, lawyer, politician, orni-
thologist, educationist, wine and spirit expert,,
who died at Neutral Bay, Sydney, a few days ago,
did not attain anyone of the great ambitions to
which he aspired. Illhealth interfered much, but
he spread the gold of his talents over too wide a
surface, and the film was too light at any par-
ticular spot. He three times just missed a judge-
ship in Maoriland.
Retired from the Queensland Public Ser-
vice, on December 31, William Yaldwyn, who
was in turn squatter, member of Parliament, and
Police Magistrate. He claimed to have been the
youngest man ever appointed to the Bananaland
House of Fossils, having got there at the age of
32. He was subsequently appointed Police
Magistrate, and fined the local drunk for 30 years.
H. S. Izard, Gent. One, of Wairarapa
(M.L.), has been “sent up” for five years for the
usual shortage. His personal expenses for the
last three years of his dizzy career averaged £3OOO
a year, and, in addition, he “ blewed ” £16,000 of
the trust funds on slow horses and unreliable tips.
There wasn’t enough legitimate legal plunder in
the Wairarapa district to keep a brigand of
Izard’s tonnage going, so he fell back on the trust
funds as usual.
Maoriland Justice Cooper occupied a Bench
seat beside Judge Rogers for a couple of hours
while W. N. Willis impeached his detractors
in Sydney Central Criminal Court. His Honor
|was one time compositor in the office of
the Daily Southern Cross, but has been about
thirty years at the Bar, and a good while on the
Bench. Apparently, amid all these eventful
experiences, he never saw anyone exactly like
G. H. Reid before, and tried hard not to laugh at
his court manners.
Died suddenly, at Adelaide, on Jan. 27,
David Jelley, M. L.C. He was elected last Octo-
ber to the seat of the late H. W. Thompson—it
seems an unlucky seat, having killed two occu-
pants in half a year. The deceased was an iron-
moulder by trade, and was for one term president
of the Trades and Labor Council. His death, at
the early age of 34, deprives the Labor party of
a useful and Valuable supporter who seemed to
have in him some possibilities.
The Hon. Oscar Strauss, recently
appointed to the U.S, Cabinet, is the first
Jew to attain to that position. In England no
professing Jew has ever been in the Cabinet.
Benjamin Disraeli, although a Hebrew by birth,
and registered in the Spanish and Portuguese
synagogue at Bevis Marks, and a champion of the
Jewish cause all his life, did not profess the
religion, on account of a disagreement which his
father had with the synagogue officials before
little Benjamin was thought of.
“ Vic.” : Archdeacon Langley, from
N.S.W., having become Bishop of Bendigo, I
have been dryasdusting back to the first Vic-
torian Gaiters, Charles Perry. A little green
volume used to be knocking despised about book-
stalls in Melbourne. It was a collection of letters
written by Mrs.
Perry, from Mel-
bourne, in 1848 and
later years, to her
sister Amelia, in
London. Perry was
the youngest son of
a Blackwall ship-
builder, who was
mixed up with the
Greens and Money
Wigrams. He seems
to have been some-
thing of a robust
youth, for he was
for two years in the
Harrow cricket first
eleven. Further, he
was in the first
Cambridge eight-
oar team. But it is
astounding to find
him stating in a
fragment of auto-
biography that he
was virtually ex-
pelled from Harrow
for misconduct. At
the request of head-
master Butler,
Perry’s widowed
and weeping mother
took him away, and placed him with a pri-
vate tutor. After that his conduct is said to
have been even worse than at Harrow. Maybe
Perry, like Bunyan, and the familiar Salvo con-
vert, painted himself blacker than he was. He
left off his sins, whatever they were, and won
double first at Cambridge (classics and mathema-
tics). Came to Melbourne as Bishop, in 1848, per
ship Stag, accompanied by Macartney, after-
wards Dean, and Handheld, who became pastor
of St. Peter’s.
There are only four members of the S.A.
Ministry, but they are a varied lot. Price is a
Methodist, O’Loughlin a Catholic, Peake an
Anglican, and Kirkpatrick a Presbyterian. Price
is a Welshman, Peake an Englishman, Kirkpatrick
a Scotchman, and O’Loughlin an Irishman. Kirk-
patrick represents the city, Price sits for a sub-
urban district, O’Loughlin for the North, and
Peake for the South-East.
“ Ballaratite ” writes :
The barristerial career of the late Townsend Macdermott
was more eventful than most Bar careers. He was
greatly sought after by the old diggers and others at a
time when Victoria was far more lawless than it is now-
adays, and the fees he extorted were huge and memor-
able. But he gave value for them. When cattle-
duffing was rife *t Forest Creek, Macdermott appeared
in five cases out of six for the defence, and his
luck in getting his clients off was incredible. He often
didn’t even attempt to invent a plausible theory to
account for the defendant’s suspicious conduct; any
improbable old theory would do when Townsend Mac-
dermott had once fixed the jury with his eye and brought
his persuasive voice to bear. He was a contemporary of
Ireland and Aspinall, but even in such company he
always kept his end up. Macdermott’s last years were
largely spent in hotel bars—not drinking, but thinking.
Probably he was looking for the ghosts of the old roaring
days, when Ballarat was almost all bar ; anyhow, he sat
there with his terrier and looked on and dreamed.
Several fortunes passed through his hands, but nothing
ever stuck there long. His position as father of the Vic-
torian now passes to G. A. Smyth, formerly Crown
Prosecutor,
Squatter Sam M.‘Caughey, alleged to be
the world’s greatest sheep-owner, expects to
shear a million fleeces next season on his
14 stations. This year his turn-over was
200,000 short of that colossal number.
The area required to feed Samuel s
flocks is calculated
at 3,000,000 acres,
t w o-t hir d s of
which are in
N.S.W., and the
balance in Queens-
land. He has
done considerable
irrigation in the
Hay (N.S.W.)
district, where he
farms 3000 acres
of lucerne, the
largest area under
that crop on any
single holding in
the Common-
wealth,
One Federal
candidate, who
has an income
running into
thousands per an-
num, made a solid
enemy during the
electoral campaign.
He opened at a cer-
tain town, and tried
to please the people
thereabouts by saying
that it was the only
town in which he ever
got a fair report. This
aggravated the inky
brotherhood of the other
towns, and when the great
man went around, the re-
ports were bad, with one
exception. A certain little
newspaper proprietor, who
was his own reporter, gave an
absolutely fair account of the
meeting. This so moved the
candidate that he spent 2s. 6d. on
a cab to drive down and leave a four-
penny cigar for that pressman.
The S.M. Herald states that the retiring
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner, Mr. C. N.
Oliver (the third initial, representing “Jewel,”
has been omitted), now in his 59th year, is a
native of England. As a matter of fact, Mr.
Oliver’s father, Mr. Thomas J. Oliver, was in
Sydney in 1844, and in 1847 his occupation is
given as “ reporter, Sydney Morning Herald.”
The retiring Railway Commissioner was born at
Hobart in 1848. Possibly the Herald begins to
call him a native of England to clear itself of the
aspersion of having run him out of the service for
being an Australian.
Even while he was in politics, the late
John See had the fire filled with irons. Besides
his own produce business in Sussex-street—one Of
the trickiest businesses a man can handle —and his
large property-holdings, and his wife’s separate
property-holdings which he managed, he had his
finger in shipping (managing director of the North
Coast Co.), fire insurance, marine insurance, acci-
dent insurance, life insurance (chairman of the
Citizens’), drugs (chairman of Washington Soul’s),
and timber; and it was one of the worries of his
life sometimes that he hadn’t a seat on a good
bank board.
Millionaire Barr Smith, who published a
pamphlet in Adelaide, the other day, against a
Northern Territory land-grant railway, and inci-
dentally praised Premier Price and his Labor
party, is the most unostentatious philanthropist
in S. Australia. He worked with his coat off at
onetime, side by side with “Jack” Maslin, a
horny-handed Cornishman, with whom he ulti-
mately became a partner. Maslin, a year or two
ago, divided most of his big fortune among his
relations, retaining only a trifle of £50,000 for
himself. He reckoned £50,000 was ample for a
man who had no “lamin’ ” to speak of, and didn’t,
believe in dressing for dinner. Maslin never got
past calling his meals “tucker,” and the legend
goes that when Barr Smith began to allude to
them as “food” the two partners commenced to
drift apart.
“ O.”: Be the late aborigine, Harry Hewett,
killed in a brawl at Milang (S.A). I knew him
from my childhood, and I remember him once as
one of the smartest all-round athletes I ever saw.
He excelled as a boxer, swimmer, cricketer,
runner and footballer. His manners were once
those of a gentleman, and he was once—
not oftener—very religious. Then he went
the usual way of the aborigine. He lost
his athletic tendencies. He lost his religion. He
lost his manners. When I saw him a year ago,
Harry had grown fat and lazy, devoted to
“pinky,” beer, or anything drinkable, and was a
pronounced cadger. Every vestige of his old
civilised habits had gone, and he was a blot on the
landscape, and a voice crying for “tickpen” in
the wilderness.
“X,” from Melbourne :
As a son of the Kirk, I was brought up in absolute
adoration of that brave old missionary man, Dr. John G.
Paton, who is just dead at the age of 82 years. Even SO
years ago, though then his stout frame must have been
still vigorous, he looked old, old, old ; for his flowing
beard and magnificent head of hair were as white as
this paper I am writing on, but with a clean, silvery
lustre that was never lost, even on the death-bed. He
turned white in Tanna, after a year during which he
and his wife lived in constant terror of hostile black
Tommies (the aggregate Tommy Tanna blamed his
charms and exorcisms for the measles which destroyed
them and their children). At the end of that
year Paton’s wife and baby had gone under from malaria,
and Paton himself looked like the Perambulating
Hebrew. I used to gaze at this kind-eyed patriarch with
more wonder than Desdemona ever felt for Othello, for,
apart from his hairbreadth ’scapes, the old man’s simple
belief and his fervent missionary spirit, wrapped real
sacredness round him. He had a marvellous career. All
the most perilous missions in the New Hebrides Whre his,
and it was his faithful and heart-felt appeals which raised
the thousands of golden sovereigns which Presbyterians
from all over the world poured into the island f “ work.”
Throughout the dour Scotch kix-k you could always
conjure with his name. He toiled for thSse islands
—in and out of them —from 1858 to -'1892, and,
after 1892, v'ent round the world again pleading
for his beloved Cause. Before he ended hevaised £BO,OOO.
He never spent a penny that he could spare, for Tommy
Tanna wanted it all; and no man ever saw- him in a first-
class carriage, or rioting in the wealth Of broadcloth
which the epicurean parson loves. He„rp.tained up to the
last his'seat in the Presbyterian Assembly, as what they
call in their jargon an “ emeritus.” Lately the missionary
robe htid fallen a little off him, and he':became the queru-
lous, narrow old Scotchman who loiSks with horror upon
the joys of the world. His last speech was a quavering
complaint against allowing the .smfibbish young “Chris-
tian Union ” men to play billiards in their pharisaic clubs.
But then he was 84 years old. Good Bulletin, go on
pouring your vitriol on the trying-missionary, but save
a kind memory for the honest serVieeand sacrifice of old
Dr. Paton.
QUITE IM
POSSIBLE.
More than one prisoner has left the watch-house assert-
ing indignantly he will never set foot in it again.—
Daily Paper.
“ Ullo, Bill, wot are you doin' of outer the
watch' ouse ? ”
“ Wull, yer see, tell yer the truth , I 'ad to drop
'em. There was the low company , an' the
filth of the place, an' the wentilation was
dreadful.”
About one of Victoria’s quaint P.M.'s:—
Besides Panton and Keogh, who are both so old that
but little else could be expected of them, and Bead
Murphy, whose eccentricities are known all over Aus-
tralia, Victoria has another remarkable police magistrate.
He is the warden who serves out alleged law to the
miners at the Poseidon rush. The law is, of course, of
such a nature that the miners are compelled to spend
good yellow money in asking-the Supreme Court to take
Greene’s decisions out of tangle. Greene has various fads.
He never drives all the way to his destination. He walks
from half-way. He is usually late ; sometimes he doesn’t
arrive at all; but courts in Greene’s division open about
8 p.m. and close at midnight, or 1 a.m. Any old time
does Greene —except over one matter. When he has
held an inquest on a suicide, there is only one hour in the
24 that will do for the burial of the body. It must be
interred at midnight, and Greene sees that it is.
Greene is an Anti-Socialist, and resents the attempt of
the State to say how and where his children shall be
educated, and declines to send them to school. He has
been fined four times over this matter, but still prefers,
he says, to educate the kids himself by taking them
about in his buggy. Recently an examination by a State
school inspector showed the offspring to be woefully
ignorant. Then the Education Department’s lawyer
started examining Greene himself, and when Greene
proved utterly unable to say how much was seven-
eighths of 245., the court held that the home education
was insufficient, and fined Greene, P.M.


MANY MARVELS
AT
Anthony Horderns* Sale
♦ ♦ ♦
The upward tendency of prices of all kinds of Goods really enhances the vabe of the
BARGAINS OFFERED IN THE FOLLOWING LISTS. Whilst COTTON and WOOLLEN FABRICS
are on the rise ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS are in the proud position of bemg able: to dforditheAt-s
public an opportunity of purchasing the pick of the World’s commodities at LOWE
POSSIBLE FOR ANY OTHER FIRM TO QUOTE FOR THE SAME GOODS.
Usual price
Reduced to
Tip Top Teas -
Pine China Teas, in original 91b. boxes.
12s 6d 15s Od !
11s Od 13s Od
10s 6d
9s 6d
Pine China Teas, in original half-chests of
36 to 38 lb.
Usual price 25s Od 30s Od 35s Od 40s Od 45s Od
Reduced to 22s 6d 27s 6d 32s 6d 35s Od 40s Od
Books of Views .
■» Usual
Price.
20 doz. Picturesque New South Wales,
24 Views ... ... ... _ ... each
30 doz. San Francisco and Vicinity Before
and After the Fire ... each
12 doz. Plastographical Views of the World,
15 Views in each Book
Post Cards .
500 packets of 24 Pictorial Post Cards,
assorted ... ... ... ... pkt.
24 doz. World’s Galleries Series ... doz.
300 ~ English, Scotch, and Welsh Views,
in artistic colors, a big assortment doz.
50 doz. Actresses, artistic colors ... each
50 ~ Illustrated Songs doz.
20 doz. Giant Post Cards each
600 ~ Tinselled Post Cards, large variety
of London Views
12 Post Card Boxes, made of fancy
wood ... ... ... ... each
12 Postage Stamp Boxes each
Reduced
to
White Blankets .
5 pair, for Double Beds
75 „
54 „ for Extra Large Beds
33 ~ Twilled, all Wool ...
pair
14s 6d
16s 6d
16s 6d
29s 6d
12s 6d
14s 6d
14s 6d
25s 6d
15s 6d
15s 6d
19s 6d
19s 6d
Colored Blankets*
87 pair Superior Blue, for Double Beds, pair 18s 6d
56 „ ~ Scarlet 19s 6d
42 ~ ~ Blue, Extra Large ... 22s 9d
36 ~ ~ Silver Grey 22s 9d
Starrett's Precision Tools .
Every tool purporting to be the manufacture of I*. S.
Starrett & Co. is stamped and engraved thus : — Starrett, or
L. S. Starrett & Co. Tools not bearing such stamp are not
L. S. Starrett & Co.’s manufacture.
Usual Price Reduced to
38 3in. Adjustable Calliper Gauges, No. 125 4s
10 6in. ~ ~ » »
24 Toolmakers’ Surface Gauges ...
33 9in. Bevel Protractors
10 12in. „ „
16 4in. Double Squares ...
17 6in. ~ ~ 2 blades
12 6in. ~ ~ 1 blade
31 9in. ~ ~ 1 blade
5s
12s
9s 6d
10s
6s 6d
10s
7s 6d
12s
3s
3s 6d
10s
8s
8s
5s 6d
8s 6d
6s
9s
Lathes.
2 6ft. Star Lathes, Compound Pi.est ...
2 7ft. „ „ » -
..£4l
..£44
..£37 10s
~.£4O
For Farm and Garden.
10 doz. American Lightning Hay Knives
16 ABO Corn Shellers, without Fan ....
6 doz. Skelton’s 51b. Mattocks
4 „ „ 61b.
10 Finlay’s Patent Lawn Cleaners -- ,
Skelton’s L.H. Potato or SpadmgForks, 4prong 3s 9d
~ ~ sprong 4s 9d
2s 9d
£llBs
3s 6d
3s 6d
£4
... 2s 3d
...£ll2s 6d
... 3s
... 3s
... £2
... 3s
4s
The Majestic Bicycle -
Frame, 22 and 24in., finished black enamel, flush joints, three-
plate Crown, oil-retaining hubs, reversible or fixed handle
bars duck thumb brake, nickel-plated Westwood steel
rims’, Oceanic tyres, rat-trap pedals, complete with
inflator. wrench, oiler, and tool bag—
mnator, wre , THE SALE, £ 7 0 0
Or, with New Departure Coaster Hub, including free wheel and
back-pedalling brake^ UßlNG THE SALE) £8 10 0
White Japanese Bamboo
Blinds .
Best quality, complete with Cords
75 Size 3ft. wide x 6ft. deep each Is 4d
4ft.
sft.
7ft.
9ft.
10ft.
12ft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
2s 3d
2s 9d
3s 9d
4s 9d
5s 6d
6s 6d
Is Id
Is lid
2s 4d
3s 3d
4s
4s 6d
5s 6d
Green Chinese Bamboo Blinds.
Usual Eeduced
110 Size 3ft. wide x 6ft. deep
140 „ 4ft.
80 „ sft.
120 „ 7ft.
140 „ 9ft.
80 „ 10ft.
100 „ 12ft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
x Bft.
each
2,
3,
4,
5,
6,
.. 7,
Australian Packet No. 1,
Oceanic Packet No. 1,
„ 2,
Art Desk and Blackboard
Motor Car, Cycle, and Boat
Sundries .
- Accumulators.
Peto and Radford, 30 ampere, 4 volt ...
Bidental 10 ~ 4 ~ ...
„ 10 „ 4 „ ...
„ 20 „ 4 „ ...
„ 40 ~ 4 „ ...
V oltmeters.
6 Watch pattern, 0-6
18 „ „
12 Dashboard
24s
9s 6d
10s 6d
13s
25s 6d
6s 6d
7s 6d
11s
Switches.
36 E.1.C., 2-way Vulcanite
11 Yankee, slip key, 2-way
Coils.
36 Bassee Michel Non-Trembler
Sparking Plugs.
100 Porcelain Sparking Plugs
Magnetos.
4 Sims-Bosch High Tension £lO
Pumps.
6 Double-acting Motor Tyre Pumps
Vulcaniser.
The Harvey Frost Tyre Vulcauiser, com-
plete, with three Mandrels for Tyres
up to 120 m/m, and Steam Jacket and
Tube Expander £l3
Punnels.
36 Petrol Funnels, in braes, with gauze
4s 6d
5s
21s
Is
10s
20s
8s
9s
11s
21s
... 5s
... 6s
... 9s 9d
... 3s 9d
... 4s
... 18s 6d
9d
£9 15s
27s 6d ... 22s 6d
£l5
Is 6d ... Is. 3d
Good Guns and Gun Goods .
9 Scholefield’s S.B.M.L. Guns
12 Hollis’S.B.M.L. Guns
18 J. O. Mayne’s S.B.M.L. Guns
30 Scholefieid’s 5.8.8. L. Guns
9 „ D.8.8.L. „ , ,
8 ~ Pigeon Guns, both
31s
35s
23s
72s 6d
90s
29s
32s
21s
65s
80s
barrels Choke Bore
12 Hollis’ D.8.8.L. Guns
15 „
24
50
£7 17s 6d
97s 6d
£5 17s 6d
£6los
calibre, octagon
£7
£5
£6
90s
10s
octagon
octagon
octagon
octagon
57s 6d
57s 6d
57s 6d
57s 6d
57s 6d
Winchester Rifles, 32
barrel, half magazine
6 Winchester Rifles, 38 calibre,
barrel, half magazine
35 Winchester Rifles, 44 calibre,
barrel, half magazine
6 Winchester Rifles, 44 calibre,
barrel, full magazine
6 Winchester Rifles, 38 calibre,
barrel, full magazine •••
30 Winchester Take-down Repeating Rifles,
1906 model, to take 22 short cartridges
6 Winchester Carbines, half magazine,
38 calibre
16 Waterproof Gun Covers ... ... ...
12 Waterproof Canvas Rifle Covers, leather
capped and leather shoulder strap ...
36 Leg Mutton shape Gun Cases
12 Leather Leg Mutton shape Gun Cases ...
6 Brown Canvas Gun Cases
36 Powder and Shot Measures
72 sets Reloading Tools, 44 calibre
96 sets Reloading Tools, 38 calibre
18 sets Reloading Tools, 32 calibre
3 doz. Copper Powder Flasks ...
3 doz. Leather Shot Belts ... ...
8000 Winchester 44 calibre Primed Cases
8000 Winchester 38 calibre Primed Cases - - -
Amberite Cartridges, 12-gauge, 47 grams per 100 13s 6d
Amberite Cartridges, 12-gauge, 42 grams per 100 12s 6d
each
42s
55s
2s
4s
3s
14s
11s
Is
8s
8s
8s
6d
3d
6d
6d
9d
9d
9d
Is lOd
2s 3d
32s 6d
32s 6d
55s
55s
55s
55s
55s
40s
52s 6d
2s 3d
3s 9d
2s 6d
12s 6d
10s
10jd
8s
Is 6d
2s
30s
30s
12s 6d
11s 6d
Bedside Bargains .
750 Short Lengths of Wilton and Axminster Carpet,
ends strongly bound and finished—
° Usual Price
Size 72in. x 27in 15s
54in. x 27in lls 6d
Reduced to
... 10s 6d
... 7s 6d
A large quantity of sample lengths suitable for
Bedsides at GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
10s
10s
14s 3d
14s 3d
17s
8s 6d
8s 6d
12s
12s
15s
Kerosene Lamps .
For the Table.
8 Miller-Dresden Lamps, Nickel ... each
10 „ Empress „ >»
11 „ Banquet „ Brass
16 Juno ~ i> »> , •••
10 Tiny Juno Study Lamps, Nickel ... each
1 High-class Table Lamp, at each of follow-
U , sualpnoel l a?22s 6d, 23s 6d, 24s 6d 27s 6d, 30s 31s, 325, 35s
Reduced to, 17s 6d, 18s 6d, 19s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255, 265, 275, 30s.
Hall or Lobby Lamps.
Usual Price. Reduced to
9 Ruby Glass, Brass frame, No. 6613 each 19s ... His
1 „ „ „ 6784 ... 25s 6d ... 21s
Floor Lamps.
2 Miller Black Iron, 657 each 37s 6d
Suspension Lamps.
18 Juno, 2001 m., Nickel . ••• ea °h
6 Billiard Veritas, No. 10166, Brass
2 Chandeliers, 4-light, No. 576 A
8 „ 4 „ „ 532
Night Lamps,
30 Colored Glass, No. 3001 each
12 „ „ 10284
200 Ruby Glow Night Lamps
114 Brass Oriole, No, 3560
56 Colored Boudoir, No. 3938
15s
40s
21s
23s
0s lOd
Is lOd
2s 6d
2s 9d
3s 6d
27s 6d
13s 6d
30s
16s 6d
18s 6d
0s 8d
Is 6d
2s
2s
2s 9d
Volumes of Literature and
Annuals.
Strongly Bound in Cloth Gilt.
!0 Cassell’s Magazines, edited by Max Pem-
berton; half-yearly vol., June
to November, 1903 ... •••
57 copies Cassell’s New Penny Magazine,
vol. 7 ... -
23 ~ Cassell’s New Penny Magazine
vol. 8
«-* Century Magazine, vol. 36
5J vol, 35
Girls’.Realm, vol. for 1900
1901
Good Words, vol. 43 ... • ••*
Lady’s Realm, handsomely
bound, gilt edges; vol. 16,
dating from May to October,
1904 ; vol. • 17, dating from
November, 1904, to April,
1905 •••
2 Leisure Hour, vol. for 1900
7 ” The Quiver, vol. for 1904 ...
:0 ” Sandow’s Magazine of Physical
Culture and British Sport ...
2 ~ Windsor Magazines, vol. 17,
dating from December, 1902,
to May, 1903 ...
10 Bo Peep Annual for 1905, a treasure for
the little ones, original verses and
stories by popular authors, colored
plates and illustrations ...
ittle Folks Magazine, half-yearly vols
handsomely bound, gilt edges
14 vol. 59 (June, 1904)
62 ~ 60 (Christmas, 1904 ... •••
attles of the Nineteenth Century, described
by Archibald Forbes, G. A. Henty,
Major Arthur Griffiths, and other
writers, with colored frontispiece
and numerous other illustrations and
31 vol. 8 ?, 8 20 vol. 2, 18 vol. 3 7s 6d ... 3s lid
Popular American Novels.
25 Different Titles to Select from.
Handsome Cloth Bindings, well Illustrated,
Published at 3s 6d ; offered at 2s.
Library Edition of Popular Books.
14 Different Titles to Select from.
Published Price, 3s 6d; offered at Is 6d ; 3 for 4s 3d.
Colonial Library Edition.
130 Different Titles to Select from.
2s 6d Edition, Paper, offered at 6d.
3s 6d Edition, Cloth, offered at Is.
Anthony Hordern
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS &
New Palace Emporium,
... Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.


For A ,
* HOT DAY. *
(Peter F. Heering’s]
.CHERRY BRANDY,
... WITH ...
ICED WATER.
Says a Johannesburg paper :—
The state of trade for November, as given in the
“ Municipal Statistics,” makes unsatisfactory reading. It
is as follows :—Bakers, fair ; boilermakers, dull; book-
binders, bad ; bricklayers, deplorable ; carpenters, deplor-
able ; compositors, dull; coopers, dull ; engineers (mines),
dull; engineers (railway), dull; engine-drivers, dull; fire-
men, ; ironfounders, good ; lino, operators, good ;
machine-minders, bad ; miners, — ; painters, deplorable ;
plasterers, deplorable; plumbers, deplorable; stone-
masons, deplorable.
And that is the district which paid £6,146,432 in
miningdividendsduring 1906—only the wages went
to Chinese and the dividends to absentees. Also, it
is the place which we were told, in the good old
farm-blazing days, only wanted heaps of Chow
and the blessing of being under the British flag
to make it blossom like the rose.
BEAUTY CHATS, by Helena Rubinstein. The
Structure of Your Skin. —You know, of course, that
your skin is pitted with myriads of little pores. But do
you know that the function of these pores is both to
breathe in pure air and to be the passage way for the
escape of waste products of the body? If the pores are
clogged the skin is stifled. To ensure their activity they
must be cleansed and all impurities expelled. If not, a
“ bad complexion ” is certain, with a crop of wrinkles
and crowsfeet as its attendant. Now, Valaze first cleanses
the skin of all impurities, and then it sinks hungrily into
the pores and is absorbed by the skin cells, and gives
them nourishment. You’ll sometimes feel a tingling
sensation of the skin when you first use Yalaze—this is
when your skin has been very neglected and the cells are
starved. And how quickly Valaze does beautify the com-
plexion—how it braces up the tired skin, making it as
clear and radiant as a child’s—soft and caressing as vel-
vet, smooth as satin. Your chemist sells Valaze in 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jars. Get a jar and see how it will improve your
skin. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure cures the
most obstinate cases ; approved by medical authorities.
2s. 6d., posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, beautifully
cleansing and purifying, made from almonds and rare
herbs, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair-killer, for the
home removal of superfluous hair ; wc.i’t harm the most
delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe, 5s., postage
3d. If your chemist tries to press another Skin Food on
to you, write direct to me for Valaze, adding 6d. postage
extra. The Valaze Massase Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
DYMOCK'S CIRCULATING LIBRARY.—A. sub-
scription to the above library secures for you the best
reading published either in England or America, whether
it be fiction, history, travel, biography, science,
reminscence, etc. More than sufficient quantities of all
the popular new books are always available to meet
requirements immediately. LucasMalet’s “FarHorizon,”
Percy White’s “ Eight Cousins,” Ralph Connor’s “ Doctor
of Crow’s Nest,” are just now the most popular novels,
while the history making Hohenlohe Memoirs and Bram
Stoker’s chatty life of Henry Irving hold first place
amongst the more solid readers. Any of these and thous-
ands of others may be had by any subscriber immediately
upon request. Town subscriptions range from £1 Is. and
£2 2s. per annum, and country rates for parcels of eight
volumes, sent as often as desired, range from £2 I2s. 6d.
per annum; shorter periods and larger parcels at pro-
portionate rates. Catalogues and particulars posted to
any address upon application to Dymock’s Book Arcade,
428 George-street, Sydney.*
Quickest Cure Tor a Cold.— Nature provides
in the Black Currant Balsam a thoroughly efficient,
simple and palatable remedy for Coughs, Colds, In-
fluenza and Bronchitis. Equally good for children and
adults. Pleasant to the taste. Price Is. 6d. and
2s. 6d. per bottle. Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-
street. Sydney.*
“ Goutez cf Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE"
WHISKY
Are the Ideal Fabrics*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 5, 1907.
My Dear Arini. —
Ex-Premier See, who died last Friday, was very
proud of his children's fine physique. It was of one
of his three or four girls that the Duchess of York
said “ How beautiful!” as she looked at the Aus-
tralifinne from her perch on the dais at a Govern-
ment House ball. At the time of the Yorkal
descent on Sydney the late John See Was
in office, and visitor May seemed rather taken
by the burly knight. His eldest daughter is
Mrs. Sam Hordern, jun., and one son is engaged,
likewise one of the other two daughters.
Rumor was always crediting the late Mr. John
See with fresh matrimonial intensions. A per-
sistent report said that he was engaged to »
Maoriland girl, daughter of a high-placed (but now
dead) official. As the knight and the girl had
met but once or twice in their lives, the report
Used to amuse both. The latest rumor crystal-
lised a few months or so ago into fact. At the
time of his death Mr. See was engaged to a
Sydney lady, good-looking, and a clever musician.
President Roosevelt is getting so many hat-pin
pricks that presently he will be goaded into
stabbing back at the “ministering angel” sex.
His weapon might be a quote from “Macbeth”
tacked on to the end of his panegyrics about full
cradles : “Bring forth men children only.” Then
he might add “for women plague me.” After
Mrs. Storer and the worry of the Cardinal’s
Hat, another lady, Mrs. Lulu B. Grover,
makes her will in his favor and then com-
mits suicide. In a letter (left, no doubt,
skewered on to her pin-cushion—the regulation
place when mentioning your intended suicide or
elopement) Lulu B. explained to the coroner or
police officer who should discover her body :
“President Roosevelt will know where to find
everything, and will have my body cremated.”
She “ didn’t want the kittens disturbed until the
President came for them.” Also, her heart was
broken, and so she took her life by means of
chloroform.
In the face of the President’s protestations that
he has absolutely no recollection of Mrs. Lulu or
her kittens, and in view of the fact that a search
amongst her papers by attorneys gave no indica-
tion that she was ever acquainted with him, that
line in her last letter about “ the President know-
ing where to find everything,” was ingeniously,
femininely feline. No wonder “kittens” were
included in her bequest.
While on anecdotes about the Land of Almighty
Hysterics—here’s a funnier one. The proud
millionaire has told a friend of the per-
fect, labor-saving mechanism of his new many-
million dollar mansion. And then he said
“ But the best is yet to come. You see, I can sit right
here in my chair, when I come in from my bedroom in
the morning, and, if I do not feel inclined to leave the
room, my bath comes in to me, filled with salt water,
just as I like it. It comes in anytime I push this button.”
“ Push it now,” said the visitor.
The button was pushed, the doors swung silently back,
and the white, handsome bath swept majestically into
the room. But in it sat the horrified lady of the house.
Man-o’-war Maxwell, who has just married a
daughter of squatter Pat Osborne, is nicknamed
“The Brat,” because he’s always on the spot
when wanted. It doesn’t seem a very tangible
reason, but it serves.
Mrs. Norton, who was Mary Boucicault of
Melbourne, has been entertaining Prince Arthur
of Connaught at some (undecipherable) garrison
place where her husband is stationed. By items
such as this are we made proud.
Pretty little Venus of Valaze, Helena Ruben-
stein, is hovering about Sydney in a perfect
peach of a white;silk waist and poppy-red tie and
other fixings. She goes off next Saturday to
plant a Beauty Parlor in Wellington (M.L.).
Saturday week will be a red-lettered day for
Bondi. In the evening at “ Wonderland ” a loving
couple—real nice persons—will be married by a
quite swell parson on the top of Alice, the
elephant. The bridal party will come down in a
carriage and will be met at the gates and taken
aboard by Alice in a howdah. The bride will
wear Oriental dress. The ceremony will then be
proceeded with (unless Alice objects). After a
limelight photograph has been procured a confetti
battle will begin and rage with great glory.
“Mabel Holmes” gives her impressions of
London :—
This one did not find it “ the Gold Country ” or “ Fog-
land.” The grey grimness of so much that is English
appealed to me more than did the soft beauty of the
country ; perhaps because we have nothing approaching
to it here, where, on returning, one has a sense of living
in a new house without window blinds—everything
glaringly bright.
Before and after office hours—in ’busses, trains and
“ tube,” on bridges and footpaths—one meets them by
thousands, the grim iron-grey men of London. In the
House of Commons, in the pulpits of those few churches
where men still attend, in every Trust and amusement,
they are at the head of affairs ; shielded, like the iron-
clads, with a steel-plated reserve that seems at first im-
penetrable. The average Australian does riot pierce this
armor, any more than, as a rule, he finds patience to
wait until the barred doors of the grey houses are opened
to admit him to the luxurious home comforts within. He
is friendly but diffident, and his enthusiasm freezes at
the coldness of his reception. But at heart the average
Australian is a pessimist. “ What’s the use of bothering
about anything?” finds too much place in his thought and
speech.
London does not welcome pessimists. London’s great
men take infinite pains to give the stranger-beginner a
chance. I went without introductions. Editors, drama-
tists and others made appointments and kept them. I
had been warned—but my first interview ! In the study
there was an iron-grey atmosphere even before the
entrance of the man of iron-grey clothes, hair, clean-
shaven face, eyes and tones—steel-grey rather the latter.
His very £ Madam” stated plainly “ I do not recognise
you; show me your wares at once ; my time is money.”
My wares seemed to have become worthless. I was
ashamed to display them. All my instinct was, “ Why
did I come?” “ You are busy,” I faltered. “If’youwiil
let me come another day ?” “No; we will go through
with it now.” Command in the icy tone roused my inde-
pendence. We went through with it.
They gave me attention, instruction, enthusiastic
encouragement, those iron-grey London men. They
wondered, " An optimist at your age ! Then there is
nothing that you have not,” They cautioned me:
“ London will press upon you ; you will become grey, as
We are. If you succeed, the struggle will have cost you
the power to rejoice in achievement.”
But I shall go back as soon as bare existence is assured
to me, hack to the vast greyness that has clouded the
spirit of so many hopeful Australians, but which offers to
me only a foundation for form and color as / see them.
Back, to push my way amongst the striving millions, and,
by their pacing, to mark my own progress, wrested step
by step, in strenuous effort. Back to live —as one can
live only in London.
Good Lord !
Lady Northeote has sent five guineas to the
Vollmar testimonial fund. The Dutch ’cellist is
seriously ill, and at a meeting held last week,
with Judge Backhouse in the chair, £llO was sub-
scribed. Hazon, Lemmone, and Southwell are
engineering the fund.
Mr. Peter Murphy, a member of the Queens-
land Upper House, is on a visit, with his
daughters, to Sydney. The girls are not quite
fledged, but they warble and pound ivory, and do
other attractive trifles.
The Bank of N.S.W. Musical and Dramatic
Society will drop like the gentle Hebrew from
Heaven upon the place beneath —which is the
Palace Theatre. At least the Bankers’ mercy
will, and the cause will be the Royal North Shore
Hospital. (The institution would do just as well if
it wasn’t “Royal,”, and there's something in
going without a handle this hot weather, when
the less you have on the better.) Three-act
comedy, “A Brace of Partridges,” will be staged
by the society on Thursday and Friday next.
Tickets may be harpooned at Paling’s. Mrs.
Burton Dibbs is hon. sec.
Were there ever such people as the St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital Ball folk for taking time by the
fetlock ? The Rectress of the Hospital, who
carries the charming name of M. Gonzaza Russell,
announces that the preliminary meeting of ladies
interested will be held at the Hospital on Wednes-
day.
Mr. Cecil Pike, manager of the B. of N.Z. in
Sydney, and his wife have returned from their
holiday. Acting-manager Clayton has gone off
holidaying somewhere. No Sydney girl could
throw the lasso accurately, so he is still un-
attached.
A visiting Maorilander is Miss Warburton,
niece of the Auditor-General. She is staying
with friends, and finding out how necessary are
fans and ice to the stranger in this climate. Some
years ago, when Sydney had a record summer,
two Maoriland sisters came over here and made
the same discovery. They struck the city at its
worst, and the climate struck them. They
wanted to flee, but couldn’t, because one was
recently married, and her husband had had to
bolt away on commercial business immediately
after the 'ceremony, and she had promised to meet
him in Sydney on his return. They put in
three days at the Australia, and then gave it up.
So they hired a furnished cottage at North Shore,
in hopes of getting a breeze, and on the worst
days they lay in the passage for the sake of the
draught, with only a kimono on apiece, and
the slavey threw buckets of water over them at
intervals. Friends came to see them, and found
them dripping and horizontal in the passage, and
asked them what they meant by it, but they only
sighed. At last the husband —who was an Aus-
tralian—turned up, cool and happy, and smoking
a cigar. And when he found his bride lying in a
puddle on the bare boards, with her sodden brown
hair extending into the kitchen, where the slavey
was liable to put the pot down on it at any
moment, he asked her bitterly not to behave like
a doormat.
An American gentleman inquired at the counter
of a certain large store in Sydney for a tin of pre-
served meat. It was given. He asked whence
it came. The man didn’t know, and the buyer
was audibly disgusted at Australian business
methods. “You ought to know,” he remon-
strated. “Your people want a smart young
American behind this counter.” “Perhaps you
are right,” agreed the shopman. Then, nodding
significantly at the tin of meat in the buyer’s
hand, “ Perhaps there’s some of him in that.”
A girl speaking in a current novel: “I am tall.
It is the fashion to be tall now. It was Early
Victorian to be little. The late Queen brought in
‘ the dear little woman,’ and now the type has
gone out.”
Dr. Wallace, who looks after the lepers
in the lazarette near the N. S. W. Coast
Hospital, has received a presentation from the
lepers. The lepers love the doctor. Dressed in
their best, seated in a semi-circle in a room
decorated with flowers, they presented a piece
of plate to their friend. A comparatively new
leper made a speech on behalf of himself and his
fellows. In such a place the Oldest Inhabitant
doesn’t do the presentation.
Pianist-and-organist Sykes, Sydney’s musical
pet, has, Sydney will be glad to hear, recovered
from his recent sickness. It was consequent on
prolonged work and a regular scallywag of a
spring we had. Sykes was always there when
musical work for a charity was to be done, and
his hand was always ready to dip into his pocket
when a subscription was mentioned. Sydney has
a right to be very fond of Sykes.
Concerning man’s courtesy to woman. It is
one of the dull-season questions that burn in
the newspapers along with the domestic-servant
problem and the problem of the whyness of man’s
not marrying. Don’t propose to try solutions
here, but Awhile ago, I was in a registry
office giving my moral support to a friend who
was seeking a Blessed Damozel as parlor-maid.
Enter a man on the same quest for his wife. He
was well-dressed and well-looking, and when he
gave his wife’s address to the registry-
office people, it was one that stands high
in our poor little pinchbeck Mayfair. Many
women were seated around, but this man did
not raise his hat at all, not even at entering or
departing. He sat there gazing at his patent-
leathers, while the registry office-keeper made
certain notes. My friend murmured, “How truly
Australian ! Yet his wife is a gentlewoman. I
have met her. Isn’t it a wonder that she hasn’t
‘pruned’him, even if his mother couldn’t ? ” I
wasn’t in a position to deny that the gentleman
(no plain bloque) was an Australian. Very pro-
bably he was not. One could only be certain that
he was not an American or a foreigner. An em-
ployer lady who held a silky little dog by a
bunch of red, white, and blue ribbons ven-
tured the remark that “Australians who
have been educated in England or else-
where abroad have lovely manners.” An
expansive lady, glowing and expanding in soft
fat curves inside an embroidered lace and muslin
achievement, said that that argued very badly for
educators here, but for her part she thought that
discourtesy was a proof of selfishness and want of
heart. (Didn’t some great writer say that
“defect in manners is usually defect in fine per-
ception ” ?)
The three speakers were slightly known to one
another. She whose first murmur had started the
chat said that surely Australian men’s hearts were
as good as those of any nationality. To which
the greatly-curved lady replied that it was a pity
there wasn’t more proof of that on the surface.
In effect, why did they keep this form of “heart”
concealed about their vitals? Why didn’t they let
it get as far as their hands and hats? The lady
with the dog on the Union Jack ribbons said she
quite agreed with Mrs. Cuddlesome-Curves ; only
courtesy of a very perfect, if superficial, sort
could and did exist where the heart was as black
as pitch. “Now,” she asked (and lowered
her voice), “isn’t it the manners of those naval
men who come here on their warships that fas-
cinate our girls ? They can’t compare with the
Australian men in looks or brains, but because
they take off their hats as if they were not
ashamed of the action ”
“I can’t say I care for exaggerated courtesy,”
said Cuddlesome-Curves, who didn’t seem to care
for the dog and ribbon lady’s “agreement.”
“O, I don’t call it exaggerated. It is all acting
if it comes to that. Well, let the acting be of
the best and completest. As I was saying, these
naval men never fail in little things. They draw
out your chair for you to sit down when you go
into an afternoon tea-room with them, and they
hand you your sun-shade when you’re leaving, and
when you speak to them they look at you. They
don’t reply over their shoulders and treat you as
if you were another fellow. How many men
when they get out of a tram turn to give their”
“7 never travel in trams,” broke in the expan-
sive lady.
“Well, I have never done so; but you used to,”
answered the dog-and-ribbon arguer in citric tones.
“As I was about to say, eight out of ten men
just get on to the footpath as quickly as possible,
leaving the woman with them to clamber or fall
out. Really, all heads of boys’ schools ought to
'preach into their pupils the great value of small
courtesies.”
A blithe-looking, well-dressed young woman
came in and greeted the three ladies in a high,
jolly voice. She was to meet a French school-
room maid and send her north. While she waited
for Mdlle. Frog one of the ladies told her of the
discussion, and she took a handspring, so to speak,
into it.
“I have a room iu Bloated Buildings, you
know. My name is on the door—‘Miss Smithers.’
Well, scores of men looking for some dignitary or
other who has offices in that building knock at
my door in the course of the year to make inquiry,
I say ‘ Come in,’ and he comes in ; often he looks
like a young duke, but in few instances does he
take off his hat. In the early days I used to feel
insulted, and to one man who looked like Beau-
champ—he was making protracted inquiry about
someone who had left my floor —I said, * I cannot
talk to you in my studio while you wear your hat.’
He removed it instantly, saying, in a startled
voice, ‘I beg your pardon. I thought you were
a typiste.’ I tried hard not to laugh, but failed.
I pealed. Then I told him to put on his hat, for
from him discourtesy didn’t matter.
“ In fact, I used to try to teach by sarcasm any
specially elegant-looking youth who came into
my room hatted. Looking hard at his hat, I
would say, ‘ All goods are delivered to the care-
taker.’ But he would only seem dazed, and
explain that he wasn’t a parcel-delivery person.
As for the discourtesy of persons in trams .
Well, when I find a man or woman to give me a
‘ thank you ’ and a bend of a stiff neck when I
pass along his or her ticket and change, I believe
I shall swoon from the shock.”
She took a hairpin from her hair and with it
picked into higher relief the amber baby-ribbon
with which the Curved Lady’s bodice was inset,
working through the obviously ventilated blouse
achievement. Then she arranged a feather that
was not disarranged, and the soft Curved Lady
smiled like a split water-melon and said, “My
auto-mo-BEEL will be here in five minutes.
You’ll come to lunch with me.”
Which was exactly the invitation for which the
girl had fished with the hairpin.
Innocents out-back who write to me to ask
where in this State they may address Miss Con-
stance Smedley, are hereby informed that the
lady has never been in Australia. And the
Lyceum Club (her address) is not in Sydney ; it
is in London. Letters intended for Miss Smedley
have been re-addressed.
Young Leon Brodzky is now sub-editor of the
British Australasian.
An Australienne in London tells me that to her
the great drab city is made sadder by the songs
sung by the numerous street singers—awfui-
looking vagabonds (men, women, and children)
most of them. Some wail out hymns with as much
voice as has a Romeo cat on the tiles mewling to
his Juliet feline. The love, tenderness, and watch-
ful care of Providence, not alone for the singer—
the beggar-singer, blue with cold and hunger—
but also for “sparrers,” is voiced down to the
seventeenth verse. At the next crossing he or she
will sing a less hypocritical but sadder story about
a beloved mother who died years ago when little
Freddie was a “biby,” leaving the infant to the
careofsister “Soosan.” Then little Fred, “aiged”
twelve, who had been the sole support of Soosan,
who can’t leave her pore bed and ’as a bright red
spot on each cheek, is run over in the street. He
lives just long enough to send a message to Soosan
that he sees his mother waiting for him by the
pearly gates. It isn’t long before the grass is
wivin’ green on both gryves. In the ballads of
these precious domestic tragedies everybody
seems to work but fat her.
My correspondent asked a woman singer with a
hideously-bruised face why she didn’t sing some-
thing comic, or at least cheerful. She replied
that “people didn’t like to be made fun of.” It
is the sort of reply that provokes a long train of
thought about a sad section of a community which
doesn’t want to be deprived of the enjoyment of
its misery.
How certain words strain on the collar once a
noted writer has used them in a story that has
become famous. After the publication of “Under
the Red Robe” there was a rain of “Red” in
fiction-naming, such as “The Reds of the Midi,’>
“ The Red Fox,” and “ The Red Rat’s Daughter.’’
Have forgotten eight or ten other Reddened
titles—but they exist. Now there’s a run on
“Call” and “Wild” since Jack London’s
“Call of the Wild” barked at and bit the
public. Hitchins has “The Call of the Blood,”
Charles Roberts in the Century Magazine has
“ A Stranger to the Wild,” and G. B. Lancaster
in Harper's has “The Brand of the Wild.”
Hope they won’t drive us readers wild with the
wildness of their Wild.
Madame Clara Butt’s little girl “Joy” was
bridesmaid to Hetty Holroyd, the Australian
singer, last Saturday, on the occasion of her mar-
riage to concert-manager Tillett. The empire
wedding-gown and bouquet were both donated by
the Kennel ey Rumfords—also some daintily
upholstered furniture for the new flat at Havistock
Hill where the Tilletts will reside.
From M.L. Exhibition :
The Besses o’ the Barn have struck Christchurch all of
a heap, and since the heap gathers in the Sports Ground
to hear them, it is good business for the Besses and the
Exhibition. Gate totals have gone up greatly since the
arrival of Bess. Yet most people w’ere disappointed in a
sense. They expected the greatest band in the world to be
the loudest, and thought the blare and hoot of it would
reach the Port Hills. Instead, there is exquisite refine-
ment of playing, and rather less roar than the average.
It is hard to realise that it is a brass band. The effects
are of a fine orchestra, and often of an organ. The leader
of the orchestra, with some sort of cornety instrument,
might be playing the silver pipes of Pan. His soli are
pure, unadulterated melody.
“ Wonderland,” at the Exhibition, always in great
favor, has put the roof and pinnacle on its popularity
with a series of carnivals. On carnival nights the public
rushes the grounds in awful and wonderful disguise.
Giant chooks with human legs flap their wings at
hysterical girls, two-headed monsters rush from
the shadows of the Katz Castle and Helter Skelter;
beauteous flower maidens float about on the lake, and c.
woolly bear is toted round, led by a mad clown.
At every carnival the special attractions grow more
exaggerated. At the last, a surging mass of some 10,000
people struggled at half-a-dozen turnstiles to reach the
scene of a make-believe house a fire, with a real, live
fire-brigade to put it out, and a sensational rescue of a
screeching maiden from the top storey (built at the
apex of the toboggan slide) by the strong-toothed man
from Rickards masquerading as a fireman. Like Marcus
Clarke’s “ Bill,” he shot straight for the upper storey,
but he went up on an invisible wire instead of sitting on
the ascending stream of water. His descent was per
tooth and wire, with the maiden clasped in his arms.
She was a nice girl, too, and any man might be glad to
clasp her in his arms.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHL.


M
BOLOGNA
CAMBRIDGE,
OXFORD,
PORK & BEEF
SAUSAGES,
YOU have doubtless tried different
1 brands of Sausages.
But haveyou tried Q.M.E. Sausages?
They are made of the very finest
quality, specially selected ingredients,
backed by a guarantee of absolute
purity.
Their flavor is of a character you
have not before experienced in
Sausages. Try them Ask your
grocer.
r
i
m
The
€ Ht/ER/
TOR GRACE
“AND ELEGANCE,.
to His Majesty King Edward Vll.
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000.000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (£2. Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
km et
<Dress
5 H, ELDS
KLEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 4, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The French Fifi takes the art of being graceful
under all circumstances so seriously that a journal
is actually devoted to certain familiar matters
that the Anglo-Saxon deems less than notice-
worthy. For instance, the art of blowing out a
candle, of plucking a rose, of opening a door, of
serving tea, of dispensing candies, of shading the
eyes, of frowning, of pouting, of dimpling are the
subjects treated by L’art d'etre jolie. The man-
ner of wearing a hat is naturally a big potential
matter. Dozens of illustrations demonstrate the
difference made in the expression of a face by the
variations of a hat perch. The fashion of hoisting
a skirt is another familiar art treated with all the
solemnity of a leader on Court Judgments. But,
of course, we’ve got to that stage in Australia.
All the world knows that one feminine type—the
Grace Palotta type—picks up a skirt so that the
ankles are exhibited, the under-frillies suggested,
and the rounded hips given a clear and visible
line. It’s the blowing out of a candle, the yawn,
the draping of the ear by playful tresses and such
trifles, treated as essentials of the toilette art,
that make an Australian girl wonder.
The harmony of movement, however, is a big
matter to the frivoller, who has leisure and can
dress the part. The majority of local fashion-
ables are really hoydenish, or careless, or uncere-
monious slap-dashers. A picture- of Mademois-
elle Froggie sugaring her tea, or arranging a
boudoir-cushion for her back, or supplying a
gesture of some kind to her remarks, is instruc-
tive as to the difference the action makes when
executed with prepared grace. The fact is that
everything is worth while with a Frenchwoman.
No action should be wasted. Every ordinary
gesture, every sneeze even, slibuld be trained till
it becomes a habit of grace. A smile to Mdlle.
Fifi is a highly-ornate accomplishment, the shak-
ing out of her handkerchief an achievement fit for
a snap-shot every time.
Governor Le Hunte drifted along in a sac suit,
a boxer lid, and a look of almost civilian uncon-
cern last week for a chat with the local Exes.
Stonington had its shutters up and its chairs in
vacation pinnies, so the.S. A. .viceroy passed on to
Macedon, where the Talbottles keep a cow and a
bee, and generally lead the Simple Life. The
S’Australian Governor cottaged it a while, and
had a canter along the Macedon bush tracks, and
tramped over the tree-clad hills, and—a local
observer tells me—fitted into the picture comfort-
ably. There’s a lot of geriial humanity about him.
I found a new Mary Ann point of view, t’other
day. She complained that Missus was no lady.
“ What would she want to be talking to us for if
she was a lady ? ” she demanded querulously. It
considerably hurt Mary Ann’s dignity to have a
ma’am who was over-affable and friendly. It
seemingly improves the Mary Ann status to have
a missus who keeps herself aloof and haughty.
She is then convinced that she draws wages from
a real lady. When next I engage Sarah Jane
Clodd I will endeavor to suppress my natural
affability and kindliness of heart.
Cards are out for the marriage of Judge
Molesworth’s chick, Flaine, with Brevet Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Walker, whose name is loaded
fore-and-aft with letters of importance. The
warrior has seen service and earned medals in the
train of Mars. It’s to be a Saturday two-in-hand
affair. No one hereabouts has had the temerity
to depart from the Wednesday habit of contract
for quite a season or two. In the Cold Country,
Saturday is the marrying day, but the sentiment
about Wednesday has hitherto kept Australians
faithful to the old superstition.
Madame Blanche Arral sends word along of
her Dunedin success, with a pathetic little sigh.
Fortune has gone hard with the French skylark
in this golden country, but she blinks the ready
tear out of her engaging eye and allures the pub-
lic some more. That’s typically French.
The Walter Manifolds have packed themselves
off to Van Diemen’s Isle for a recreative term,
mostly to be spent toot-tooting round the apple-
orchards and over the green hills. Mrs. Ernest
Brook is not motoring. She spends most of her
time in Slowbart’s small social circle. Mrs. Nor-
man Bayles likewise airs her frills among the
local mighty. The Bowes-Kellys, who never
travel without their hyphen and their petrol car,
are also massed in the Apple Isle. It’s only the
avoirdupois of the Bowes-Kellys which renders
them great and impressive, and awesome. In
disposition they are as pleasant and mild as Bal-
larat bacon.
Senator Keating was charged with a full bat-
tery of double-barrelled congratulations when
last here. The applause about his success at the
polls he took with a gratified smile, but of his
recent domestic blessing he could say nothing, as
he had not yet been presented to Miss
and couldn’t say whether she took after “popper.”
A certain north suburban couple started the
matrimonial canter originally. The wedding
cards conveyed the information, “ No presents —
by request,” and every guest w'ent with a feeling
of timidity and semi-concealed pleasure. It’s so
usual to pay for a wedding-spree with a breakfast
cruet or a clock, that the gratuitous feast almost
alarmed the Bidden.
The floating hat-sails can’t last long. At pre-
sent they swing (they’re too violent to have the
term “float” applied) in the Block view, and
now and then smack a passing pedestrian in the
eye. That isn’t the worst. One set of millinery-
sails circled round a strange man’s neck on Mon-
day afternoon and threatened to strangle him.
The crime was averted, and the stranger re-
covered his neck; but one set of sails has since
been hauled in.
Another male complains of the flying mis-
chievous hat gossamer—not bitterly, but rather
quizzically. He relates that he sat on a train-
dummy at the side. A charmer was perched m
front. The breeze became active.. The gossamer
sails unfurled, flew out, smote him in the face.
He started dodging the draperies. Turning a
corner they flung at him desperately and encircled
his neck. They provided an unexpected and
furious embrace. He unwound the sails, wrenched
his neck free, felt mad ; but, finally, with a wink
at the conductor, produced a pin and secured the
flapping wings to his coat. The journey pro-
gressed. The male person gradually forgot the
incident. Presently there was a strong pull at
his clothing, a female striking him, a conductor
guffawing, and fellow-passengers giggling. Then
he repented his little joke.
A globe-trotter ran into Miss Una Bourne and
Herr Benno Scherek at Earl’s Court, London.
“Una had an excited air, excited for such a
spirituelle, thin-lipped young person. Herr was
more Hair than ever. Master and pupil were
just renewing acquaintance. The South Mel-
bourne pianist returns presently. You’ll find her
improved—the mind less groovy, her music
warmer. It was such pale gold music. Now it
ought to flash amber tints. One’s mental color
cannot help but be enriched by travel. Tempera-
ment improves and real talent starts to glow.
Mrs. Wesley-Hall is the one rich and charming
widow in the State whose persistent retirement
from the social competition removes all doubt as
to her intentions. At present the dame is bur-
rowing, as unostentatiously as a rabbit of ascetic
tastes, down at Mentone, a tiny village where
the cottagers snuggle among the loony ti-trees—
as a melancholy child I know dubs derisively the
inevitable beach vegetation. Mentone is a place
for tired old couples, or romping young children,
or repentant sinners, but as a locality for a young
and wealthy widow it’s weird. To dwell in a
salted solitude like that one has to have a Past to
reflect quietly on, or a Future to plan for. For
one with a mere barren Present it’s a tragic
corner to nestle in.
A large flock of charmers rallied from the sea-
shore and the bosky dells of Healesville last
week, to journey up to Mortlake for Mrs. W. B.
Oumming’s hop. A January dance is not always
a pleasant frolic, but this is a period of mild tem-
peratures, and cool winds blow ever Melbourne.
The youthful tram-conductor is a 'mistake at
any time. On a line running within holiday
and recreative beach grounds—such as the new
track between St. Hilda and Brighton —the
presence of a curly-haired young ticket-collector
is particularly inappropriate. The occasion was
a still, blue-sky night. A murmur of waves
tumbling on the beach stole to the ears as the
tram rushed along seductively. Aboard the Car
was a swarm of couples —all couples. The ticket-
puncher eyed the absorbed pairs at first amusedly,
with half a wink. Later, he leaned plaintively
against his post, and, to the giggling signals of
each pair, he jerked the bell-strap sulkily. When
I last looked, he wore a lugubrious air and his
soul was tainted with Bvronic melancholy, and
gleams of hate shot from his envious eyes. You
see, it’s largely a holiday track, and there’s no
girl hanging about loose to gaze upon the young
conductor’s brass buttons, and his lot is lonely.
And whom was I with ? Oh, that’s tellings.
The Melbourne public is developing a strong
taste for art poses of Yank Aphrodites and such.
It finds a piquant joy in the graceful attitudes of
Venus and Co. Living Girl is such an improve-
ment on Cold Marble. The new, expensive Joan
of Arc, that comes from the hand and chisel of a
famous French artist to the local Gallery entrance,
isn’t likely to attract any thrillful attention for
its beauty of line or sublimity of carved ex-
pression while the public can gaze upon
pinky-white Girl, in a porous-plaster dress,
evoluting through a series of statue-like poses.
Blinky Bill begins to conceive an idea of art after
gazing on a Live Girl imitating a statue, a thing
he never did while gazing on a dead statue pro-
fessing to be a live woman.
The statue nymph and the tableau goddess are
popular show items all over the place. At
Princes Court one of the porous-plaster-clothed
Graces has been bending herself into various
shapes for the edification of the public. A wag
interested in the box receipts of the Court has
been advising all his pals to hurry along and see
the poseuse before the police interfere. That sent
legions along, and when they got there they saw
nothing on which to found the ghost of a hope of
police interference.
The Madden-ing crowd has landed along here.
Everyone is agog to see Miss Ruby, whom rumor
has engaged to Princelets, foreign Barons, and
several British Lions. A fellow-passenger writes
me that she is more like the red, red rose than
ever _that no sunburn, tropic spells, or salt breeze
could affect the roses of her complexion.
There’s a crop of Penny Ruskins out! It’s an
aesthetic mistake. Ruskin cheaply produced is as
incongruous and awful as a canvas sky done in
washing blue. Besides, the cultured, who mostly
support Ruskin, sacrifice willingly at the altar
of Art Exquisite. It quite offends their sense
of the fitness of things to see a Ruskin in charity
covers.
A local bride started on her honeymoon last
week with a bandaged head, the result of a horse-
shoe, aimed by a felicitous friend at the knot-
tying. What a horribly silly custom is this
flinging around of lucky (?) hardware !
The theatrical star who revolves to the admira-
tion of the clans of greatest social tonnage falls in
for a good thing. Some admiring family comes
along, and saves her a large hotel bill. In Sydney
Miss Palotta has been the guest of Miss Pearl
Faithful all the time of her revolvings. In this
centre Miss Olive Morrell is a household pet at
Mrs. William Drummond’s, and remains there for
the greater part of the Panto, season. Presently
some materfamilias will be extending her hos-
pitable and motherly smiles to Julius Knight.
We shall see his heavenly socks hung on a sub-
urban clothes line, and know that he, too, is the
guest of some adoring, kind family.
Merchant Butler and his large, handsome mate
are off on the gad. After the prosperous two
have gathered a pile of travel-impressions, they
take a cargo of small Butlers from this State and
dump them down at foreign colleges for a term.
Mrs. Sumner, one of the trustees for the Sumner
bequest fund, received a mark of the gratitude of
the Old Colonists' Association, the other day.
The committee descended upon Stony Park in a
body with the yearly report got up as an edition
de luxe, and thanked the widow for all favors
bestowed. Mrs. Sumner is a wonderful old dame.
Half-a-dozen times she’s been so grievously ill
as to be despaired of by the Faculty, and each
time she has marvellously recovered. Her
strenuous early life is the secret of the strength
which, at 80, enables her to pull through severe
illnesses.
A sturdy old inmate of the Victorian Home
celebrated her (alleged) 101st.birthday_the other
dav She is Scotch and talkative. Her pride
at passing the centurw mile-stone and sobeating
all the records -of 'sbe institution, is great.
Vanity seems the longest-lived of the passions,
even in a charity institution. When other fires
are out, vanity—which is our egotism and, after
all, our life —survives, and the last and vainest of
vanities is that of being very, very old. Araminta,
who at 31 was 21, and kept short of 40 until she
was 55, has at 90 a tendency to hurry her age
forward ten years or so.
It’s an opulent time in dress-fashions. The
outer-garb is loaded with auriferous trimmings.
These alarm the bachelor who’s thinking of a life-
mate. He jingles a few silver coins in his pocket,
reflects, blinks at the gold of the girl’s apparel,
and postpones the proposal for an indefinite
period. Girls are very stupid. They should garb
themselves in plain, snowy muslins or beautifully-
cut hollands that look cheap and effective, and
then they would not strike the male mind as
having clothes at all, but just as being beautiful,
or sweet, or desirable pictures. To look expensive
is a foolish proceeding. If girls will be expensive,
let them adopt the art that conceals art and give a
costly clothes-builder five guineas to work up a
garb that looks worth, to the unknowing eye, as
many shillings.
The secret feelings, impressions, trials and in-
flictions of a Private Secretary should be worth a
laughable volume or two. It’s quite time some
ex-official told of his experiences when secretary-
ing to a viceroy. But unfortunately the official
who fills the post of First Shawl-Carrier and
Stamp-Bicker is generally humorless, and a great
deal more machine than man. In Mr. Share, the
G.-G.’s secretary, there’s a jovial sense of good-
humor, and much of the breezy nature that comes
of an early life on the rolling wave. But his in-
stinct of duty is so keen that the humor of his situa-
tion must fall flat. Bast week, for instance, the
G.-G. dame, in her commendable desire to encour-
age local industry and stimulate competition, had
the official running her round to grocers’ stores in
small suburbs, and shirt-shops, and pram-estab-
lishments, where the window-dressing had scooped
in Exhibition trophies. Private Secretary Share,
guarding Bady Northcote from officious shopmen
in the perambulator department, was an interest-
ing sight; and he should have been conscious of
its humor.
It must hurt the Knight Superbus muchly to
make his revival appearance in any place but the
capital. Julius has been told off to start his
season in Ballarat, and he moons off there this
week. It literally amounts to his trying it on the
dog.
Mr. and Mrs. Macrae (n& Rowan) pack them-
selves off to Colombo this week, flhat means a
second shower of confetti, old shoes, and bless-
ings. The bride’s home awaits her there.
From Brisbane :
Lord Bishop Donaldson has just returned to town,
looking as bright as a newly-forged sixpence, after a
holiday spent in the wilds. During his absence the
■strictest secrecy was preserved as to his whereabouts.
However, rumor hath it that the youthful Archbishop
employed himself learning to make billy tea on a station
near Esk, and got his first taste of stock riding under the
guidance of the pretty daughters of the house.
A well-known lady of generous proportions has just
returned from a holiday visit to your sea-girt city. Her
' whole chatter is of awful streets and vulgar footpath
ladies, and she tells harrowing yarns of how frightened
she was to walk abroad, “ even in the afternoon.” Her
friends are wondering if Sydney has suddenly become
infested with Hackenschmidts or Terrible Turks, as
nothing of a less stature could shift her even if it tried.
The long threatened resignation of Digby F. Denham
from the exalted perch of Minister for Agriculture and
Railways, has come at last. Folk smile when they re-
member the masterly way in which he carted his ex-
citable little spouse away to the south before he took the
plunge. He would never have dared to do it while she
was on hand. Wifey did so revel in being a Minister’s
better-half. . ~
Dr. Bobby Macdonald, Brisbane’s very nicest tooth-
hauler, departs for America in a few days on a visit to
sisters May and Vivienne, who married well-gilt Yanks.
Cricketer Bobby intends to finally settle in England and
whirl the bat there if he can see the ball through the fog.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
The A.R.G. meeting at Victoria Park, on 28th, was not
an exciting event. The peerage, still browsing like
Nebuchadnezzar in country parts, mostly failed to report
itself, and the lawns were decorated by the ladies who
dye their hair the hue of the simple buttercup. A few
frocky exceptions were Mrs. Arthur Rymill in a dainty
pink confection, Mrs. Herbert Rymill in white muslin
with much Valenciennes lace and pale blue ribbon, and
Mrs. Kred Scarfe in a smart green garment.
The Exhibition of Australian Women’s Work is creating
considerable interest in this mild place. The local com-
mittee is guided, in the absence of her Le Hunte ladyship,
by Chief Justicess Way, and consists of most of the
titled folk of South Australia, with Mrs. J. R. Anderson
as hon. sec. A grant of £lOO has been wrested
from a reluctant Government, with the idea of
holding a local exhibition in Adelaide, the prize
exhibits of which will be forwarded for competition
at the Melbourne affair afterwards. The plan seems a
good one. A strong and valiant selection committee
would be required in any case to separate the gcats from
the wheat, and the sheep from the tares, before per-
mitting them to represent S.A. in the next-door State.
Exhibits are invited from every trade, art, science, or
profession of Australian women, and will represent
everything, from the making of matches and pneumatic
tyres down to dancing a minuet or writing a prize ode,
so no she in the whole country has excuse for not being
represented. ....
Mr. W. A. Horn, an ex-Adelaidean who has resided of
late years in England, has descended upon South Aus-
tralia for a brief holiday. Mr. Horn decorated the S.A.
Assembly for some six years or so. He also equipped an
exploring expedition to Central Australia, and
bestowed statues of Venus, Hercules, and other
leggy, unclothed deities on this city. Just now he
is busy informing the reporters that Australia
cannot possibly have any art or literature because
it has no leisure. Wherefore it seems that the way to
turn out masterpieces of Art is to Loaf, and the way to
do great works of Literature is to Linger and Lean Up.
After all the gibes that have been thrown at this country
on the ground that it is prone to making a tired angle of
itself against a post, it is quite new to be told that we
are too hurried and strenuous, and too busy splitting a
hasty gash through the atmosphere, to be “ littery ” or
artistic.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Mr. A. H. Pearson, formerly Agricultural
Chemist to the Vic. Government, who has just
concluded a five years’ engagement as Director of
Agriculture in Natal, returned to Melbourne
t’other day. Says he
I never fully realised the advantage of a homogeneous
white population until I went toNataland had to arm my
wife and daughters, and teach them how to use weapons
in self-defence. All the progressive farmers admit that
black labor has kept the country back. All work has to
be kept on a plane with the black man’s intellect, and an
advanced implement cannot be placed in his bands.
The progressive farmer realises that brains beat
brawn. Presumably Spruce Myth and co. are
not progressive ; at least, that’s the kindest thing
anyone can say about them.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORRE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. ... Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CkS
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Austral la.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
rtbutu
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos- all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 8»C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
rtbutu
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import-them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
' able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,'
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
Also at Melbourne,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The next State elections in May will prove
a critical time for the cause of Labor in Queens-
land. At present, all eyes are turned upon the
Labor Convention to be held at Rockhamp-
ton in March. If the wiser counsels of the
moderate and more intellectual section of the
party prevail at the Convention, well and good ;
but if the threatened split occurs, then Labor
will probably be in for a bad time.
HIS LAST APPEARANCE.
The Tariff Question wilt come up for settle-
ment next session. After that a familiar goblin
will spread his wings in disgust and fly away.
S.M. Herald’s “ On the Land ” column
(25/l/’O7): —
The latest re-arrangement of rates on produce goes to
show that a State concern does not require to be com-
pelled to make reductions by force of competition. This
is one of the good features of the system. It is safe to
say that, were the railways of N.S.YV. under the control
of one company, accommodation for the public would
not be half so good as it is at present, while the freights
and fares would certainly remain on a much higher scale
than that which exists.
“A (State concern does not require to be com-
pelled to make reductions by force of competi-
tion.” This is “up against ”G. Reid and others
who allege that, if certain Australian monopolies
—the tobacco business is often mentioned—were
nationalised, the public would suffer, because
there would be no competition to keep down
prices.
After all the fuss and riot about the
“unconstitutional” position of Australia with
three parties in its Parliament, it is interesting to
note that Germany has just elected a Parliament
of 17 parties, and is still alive.
It would be interesting to know who were
the three members of the See (N.S.W.) Ministry
who wanted the Premier to throw out Owe’
Sullivan for his expressions of sympathy with the
Victorian railway strikers. They are three men
worth putting a blot on for future reference.
Queensland makes a little money out of
John Chow’s desire to have his bones taken to
Chowland, by charging a fee of £1 for a license
to exhume Sin Fat for exportation. The second
week of this year saw, in Brisbane alone, £lO
added to Kidston’s surplus from this source.
Over 1000 names have been sent in for
the new list of J’s.P. which the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is compiling. The job of sending them in—
and nearly every M.L.A. has sent a batch—is
mostly a mean and dirty attempt to placate sup-
porters, and the job of picking and choosing,
generally the Chief Secretary’s business, has been
pronounced by office-holders as widely apart as
Brunker and Barton to be mean and dirty also.
Yet the system is followed by Parliament after
Parliament, and no Government has the pluck to
abolish the ,T.P.
Prime Minister Deakin said a wise and
necessary thing when he impressed upon a Mel-
bourne audience the fact that, during its first six
years, the Australian Federation had made greater
progress than either the Canadian or Yankee
unions did in the same period. And he might
have gone on to mention that there is no earthly
reason why, when Australia adopts Protection as
the U.S. people understand the term, it shouldn’t
rival the progress of Uncle Sam’s country.
If the ictorian State Labor party wants
to rise from the grave it has lately dug for itself,
it should swear off Wren, drop its interest in the
publicans, and start arrangements right now to go
to the electors on two principal questions—the
breaking up of big estates by a heavy graduated
land-tax, and the abolition of the House of Rich
Landlords. And on these questions it should
bellow like the devil.
Letter received by the Warrnambool
branch of the “Royal Society of St. George”
from London secretary Howard Ruff:—
We must all be as patriotic as possible, for even now,
without her daughter States, England does not stand
first. With them she does, and will for ever continue to
do so. We have men here who would sell Australia to
Germany or to the friend!}' Japanese.
The one certain way of squelching any British
temptation to “sell” Australia as a place of small
account is to make Australia worth keeping, and
strong enough to resist any idea of making it a
chattel in some international bargain.
“Adelaide” : N.S.W. does make one so
tired. We are a poor, backward, horse-tram lot
in S.A., of course; yet oc-
casional Bulletin pars make
us realise much that we could
teach the Ma State (which
never was our Ma) about prac-
tical administration. “No
Public Trustee,” we learnt
lately—and Gentleman One
presumably eating up any trust
funds that lack adult claimants.
Law and Equity administered
in different courts. No State
Bank, of course; Several
guineas law-costs over a 10s.
claim (we allow no costs at
all on a claim under £5 !). And
now “valuations for Probate
purposes seem to come under
the heading of robbery ”• (B.
17/1/’O7), and there is quoted
the case of a big estate on the
south coast tliat was recently
valued at “ one-quarter of what
other people declare to be its
real worth.” Why Other
People? Is it possible that
you haven’t a Government
Valuator either? We in S.A.
send in a Probate valuation to
start with, but then the Govern-
ment man gets to work on it,
and by the time he and the
other fellow have arrived at a
compromise the value may be
taken as a fair one. Not once
in five years is the difference
so hopeless that they have to
go to court about it; but to
send in a preliminary valua-
tion at “one-quarter,” or any-
thing lessHlian 80 per cent, of
the truth, would be a mure
waste of time. N.S.W. might,
with advantage, send a Com-
missioner over here; not a
noisy, expensive Commissioner,
but a quiet official to walk about with his eyes
and ears open for six months and acquire prac-
tical points.
Methodist preacherdom is very angry over
the statement of Flowers, of N.S. W. Upper
House, that politically it is, in the main, a mere
branch of the Tory and Anti-Sosh League. One
of its angry replies is that Methodism, as an in-
stitution, has made no political pronouncements
at all. Well, no one said it had. But the indi-
vidual Methodist parson—the Fitchett and
Worrall kind of man—is mostly a shrieking
barracker for the rich man’s interests and an
utterly unscrupulous misrepresenter of the Demo-
cratic cause, and is willing to support even
drinkers and gamblers in politics so long as they
are Tories, rather than be seen in the same pad-
deck with a sober, honest Democrat. Nothing
more gross and shameful than Worrall’s attack
on the Democratic party before last election ever
degraded any church in Australia, and Worrall
was only a shade louder than some others.
THE FLEDGLING.
We have been cradled in localism, and have not out-
grown it. —Prime Minister DEAKIN.
Minister for Defence Ewing made an un-
fortunate though well-meaning start, by a speech
which was taken as a reflection on the discipline
-of militia forces as compared with regulars. It
seems that Ewing didn’t really say, or mean to
say, what he appeared to say. Certainly there is
no need for a Defence Minister to worry about
the “discipline” of Australian forces—at any
rate not until there are forces (not mere shadows
of forces) and rifles, and big guns and warships.
Rev. A. R. Edgar, superintendent of
Melbourne Central Methodist Mission, says a
word for Greater Melbourne and municipal own-
ing :
My work has been in the slums, and I now say that the
Council should buy up the whole of slumdom and rebuild
on the magnificent principles of the London County
Council. That Council works on splendid principles—
they stir one’s heart. I love to think of the children’s
play-grounds, dotted here and there over the pauper
quarters.
Public telephone bureaux in the Com-
monwealth now charge one penny instead of
threepence. Does the Cabbage Tree Mob ever
reflect on the enormous reductions of taxa-
tion for services the Post Office has made
since it came under Federal control ? Cost
of telegrams came down in some cases to
a third of the old figure ; postage' rates
have been, in a measure, reduced, and further
large reductions are foreshadowed; telephone
charges have been whittled down considerably;
and wdthal the Post Office still pays.
A difficult matter will be the choice of a
new President for the Senate. The Senate, much
more than the other House, is divided into two
camps, and Sosh and Anti-Sosh are each credited
with controlling 18 votes. The party therefore
which supplies the President stands a good chance
of being in the minority on critical divisions.
Josiah Symon is said to be a likely aspirant for
the billet, and he should get it. “ Josh for Anti-
Sosh ” is the battle cry, so to speak.
Now that Queensland Premier Kidston
has got rid of his awkward colleague, Digby Den-
ham, the member for Butter Fat, he should find
himself free to put before the electors a definitely
Radical programme. The rock which threatens
Kidston’s safety is that of compromise. He is
being so blackguarded by the extreme Laborites
that henaturally has a tendency todrift to theother
side. Butthatwayliespoliticaldeath. Let Kidston
put forward an honest, progressive programme
such as he believes in, and stand the racket, and
he will find the people voting on the right side.
Sydney Telegraph denies brazenly J. C.
Watson’s public accusation of bias and unfairness
in reporting current events. But it carefully
dodges his specific charge : that on the eve of the
South Sydney election it published in full a
lying accusation By G. Reid against Watson of
“miserable disloyalty,” to which was given the
color of truth by distorted extracts from Han-
sard. Then, in spite of repeated requests—and
after solemnly promising to do so—it neglected to
print a reply from Watson Convicting G, Reid as
a false witness, and showing that on the occasion
of “miserable disloyalty” Reid .had taken .pre-
cisely the same stand as Watson. It is hardly
possible for slander and misrepresentation to be
carried further than that.
The “absolute necessity” dor a meteoro-
logical station on Mount Kosciusko so suddenly
strikes N.S. W. Premier Carruthers that he’s
almost breathless. Joseph had f over three years
in which to reverse Premier See’s order to close
down the station, but the “absolute necessity”
didn't seem to hit him worth Is. 4|d. Now that
the service is a Federal one, and must be paid for
by the Australian Government; the “absolute
necessity ” appeals to Joseph. It appealed to him
within a month of the Weather Department being
taken over. If he doesn’t get it there’ll be
another wrong done on the Ma State. If he does
get it there’ll be another case of “Federal
extravagance.”
Irvine, in Victoria, begins to talk as
though he were the leader of some strong party,
instead ofjbeing merely one of an incoherent herd
of stragglers, some of whom are sure to drop into
Deakin’s bag as the only way out of that wet,
cold region where George Reid’s eyeglass takes
the place of sun and moon, and George Reid’s
tears make the landscape clammy, and George
Reid’s moans disturb the sleep of the weary. It
will be time enough for Irvine to talk large when
he really knows whether he commands the sup-
port of anything more than a very narrow majority
of the Flinders electors.
Philp, preparing for the Queensland
elections, says he is opposed to “the Betterment
Bill or other confiscatory measures.” The people
build a railway, add £5OOO- to the value of an
estate, and when the people want a small part of
that £5OOO to pay the bill for the railway, Philp
says it’s confiscation. But when the owner grabs
the £5OOO put on to the value of his land by the
people, and when he puts this amount into his own
pocket, and tells the people to go on owing the
£5OOO, that isn’t robbery. It isn’t even confisca-
tion. It is simply Private Enterprise. It is also
poor old exploded Philp’s idea of honesty and
“justice to all classes of the people.”
G B. Jmkly of Victoria has quaint
ideas about reforming and purifying P a rii»
ment ’ He wants to see only Good Men in th e
Legislature, and lie begins his career by trying to
drive out Frank Anstey, who is absolutely sober?
and was never even accused of gambling or
pursmng the strange, sudden female with
tlm large hat. Yet among the Tories of the
House there are giddy old whisky-sinks
whose existence is a staggering disgrace
and about whom there are told smoking
room tales that should make Juddv’s
hair balance on end. Apparently Jud—
seeing that he doesn’t try to shift any
of these—is only another snuffling
emissary of Toryism, and his ob-
jection to Anstey is not that he is
Bad but that he is Democratic.
Queensland’s prickly pear is
very much like N.S. Wales’ rabbit.
Land monopoly is what the pear thrives on, and
closer settlement is the remedy.
Ex-Premier Philp, of Queensland, punc-
tured and blown-out, announces his platform
for the elections, as leader of the party which
is “opposed to the Socialistic tendencies
of the Labor party.” He says that, if
elected, he will carry out his Anti-Socialistic
ideas by the Socialistic State-purchase of
estates, by Socialistic State assistance in making
feeders to more Socialistic State railways,
by Socialistic conservation of State forests, by
Socialistic water-works, by a Socialistic scbemeof
State-aided immigration,, by State subsidies to
steamship cos., and by the Socialistic institution
of a State Intelligence Bureau. In short, Philp
hugs the Awful Thing, to his bosom while he con-
tinues to throw' the same old mud at its name.
“Quex” : Australian lighthouses will
shortly pass over to Federal control, and the
little statesmen studded about Australia are busy
estimating the figure at which they are willing to
hand over this expensive and wholly unproductive
service. They have decided that if they sacrifice
the whole lighthouse outfit for £8,000,000, cash or
terms, it will be a fair thing. Now', not even a
land agent would covet the sites on which the
majority of the lighthouses are built. Thetowers
are not worth much. Their great cost is due to
the inaccessible and remote places where they are
erected, and this cost should have been written
off long ago, instead of being charged up to loans.
The lighting apparatus is often old, and some-
times obsolete. It takes an awful amount of
cheek to demand £8,000,000 for the goodwill of
some lighthouses.
“ Itan ” tells this story on his own respon-
sibility :
Anti-Sosh Anti-Federal Minister Denham is the Jonah
of the Queensland Government. He is reputed to be
worth considerable shekels now' through the butter
boom, and his interests are not entirely the interests of
those who are rowing up the stream in the Democratic
boat. Several times during the past year Digby has
risen up in the Cabinet to emphasise his objections to
progressive legislation, although, in justice to his Butter-
ship, he has never ceased to demand Socialistic aid to
the cult of the , Cow. Digby has been a very sour
person since Morgan went out of the team. Trouble
arose as to who should be the big, strong man’s
successor. It went abroad from inspired sources
that the successor would be Digby. Digby affected
to be coy, yet, inwardly he was yearning after
the job. So, presumably, was Mrs. Digby, who gives
evening parties and attends various ditto. There-
fore, the Cabinet looked like offering Morgan’s mantle to
Digby. That W'as on Friday. “ Give me till Monday,” he
said airily, and his colleagues did. In the meantime the
feeling in political circles w'as ooviously against Denham.
His appointment as Premier w'ould have wrecked the
Government. When Monday arrived the Cabinet
gathered up to end the suspense, and directly the
meeting opened Kidston’s name was hastily put
forward and accepted without opposition. Digby went
home disconsolate, but kept a brave front. He has not
forgotten the circumstance. For tnat reason, probably,
he is not quite sure of his ground in Bananaland politics.
Kidston should not hesitate to be sure of his, and give
the whale a Job. Jonah is always a danger in the boat.
A VOICE FROM THE TOMB.
GEORGE (piteously): “Alfred! Alfred!”
ALFRED : “Lie down, I tell you! You’re dead!”
S.M. Herald, moralising on the fact that
over £9,000,000 worth of wool is expected to be
sold in Sydney this season, all for export: —
The pity is, our woollen manufacturing industry hasnt
reached that stage when all classes of wool can locally be
followed through to their ultimate cloth.
The Herald, by its Freetrade policy and its
gospel of “down with the local manufacturer, is
mostly responsible for this pitiful state of things.
If your liver is sluggish and out of tone,
and you feel dull, bilious, constipated, take a
dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets to-night before re-
tiring, and you will feel all right in the morning^
WILL O’ THE WISP THE BOGIE MAN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
I'm Will o’ the Wisp the Bogie Man !
I help the people all I can.
Unheard, unseen,
I’ve always been
Careering round since time began :
I’m here
And there
And everywhere,
And may be now behind the chair i
A beggar to scheme and plot and plan
Is Will o’ the Wi p the Bogie Man !
Admittedly, I delight to lie,
It’s better than truth, you can’t deny !
If truth were told
Of young and old
A whimpering world would wonder why i
As yet
’Twill get
No need to fret
From me (and several more, you bet) 1
A lyre, before the pipes o’ Pan,
For Will o’ the Wisp the Bogie Man !
And one of the deeds I daily do
Is whispering things to persons who
Appear indeed
Too tired to read
Of matters I “ draw attention ” to ,
Each morn
You’ll scorn
This phrase forlorn :
“Sir, my attention has been drawn.”
Who draws the attention of this c lan ?
Why, Will o’ the Wisp the Bogie Man !
W. T. GOODGE.


If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, why
not ex-
change i t
for a new
one from
Paling’s.
Call at Paling's* who
will tell you how to
xnaKe an exchange,
and, at the same
time get a Catalogue.
*
Paling's,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
34
Banjos
at
Paling’s
rtbutu
We hold
the largest
stock of
Banjos
in Australia.
Best American make at
very low prices.
All Strings and Fittings
stocked.
Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
****
Paling'*s,
338 George St.*
SYDNEY.
Victor
Pianos.
—■■limns mi in i i ii mm
We
guarantee
the Victor
Pianos , to
stand all
climates ®.
to give the
greatest
wear.
You can-
not wish
for a better
guarantee.
Can you?
Sold in 3 Models.
Catalogues Free.
Old Pianos taKen
in exchange.
Paling'*s
338 George St.
Sydney
67
/ .
1 s
. i ■ 4
y I c“> t
LR
2h»
w pp Oi*
MAM
PA wATtR)
s£h Flat 3PRW<»>
M£.
C .r H g
l.T*.* • L
LANDS
5 fflCO
The MODERN
HOSTESS. &
“ I give you * KOOMAH
SPA' 1 Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
t. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.*
HAVE YOU “AN UP-TO-DATE” PIANO?
may tiave been a
In the piano business, a similar situation presents itself. To be strictly up- -
methods in a single instrument is the
PIANOLA PIANO—“ The First Complete Piano,
'\w
( PIANOLA 0
PIANO a
mm
v-i
iv
2*
L*a
The Hew Pianola Plano Is an Upright Plano of the Highest Grade, with a Metro-
style Pianola inside Its case. It is in every particular a Perfect Piano, and, in
addition, contains within its case a complete Metrostyle Pianola, the only Plano-
playing device endorsed by the greatest living musicians.
It can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
It can be played bvmeans of a Pianola action within its case.
Thereisnothingtomoveupin front of the keyboard. To change the method from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in the front of the
may be interested in he.rlng
the Pianola-Piano, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog M.
HENRY M. BIROE (Si CO.,
Head Office & Warerooms-185-7 Collins-st.. Melbourne.
Branches a* 357 George-st., Sydney; Sll Qtxeon-s*.,
Brisbane; 38 King* William-st., Adelaide.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
__Agentgj_Adgla[de, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit
Highest Grade
American . . . id I Im^rLn
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The general result of the Motor Reliability
Race, held on Sydney harbor last Saturday, was to
demonstrate that the motor-boat, if properly looked
after by people who understand it and pay proper atten-
tion to its little fads, is a fairly reliable animal. Of the
11 starters only two failed to comply with the non-stop
conditions, and one of these stoppages was not due to
any defect of the engine, but to the presence of
seaweed round the propeller. Only two, the Sim-
P' ex ®; n( l the Dane, had to go outside the Heads,
and they both came back looking spick and span,
liie crack boats, from a speed point of view, were
In vincible and Coo-ee 11. Mr. Relph drove his own boat,
while Mr. Oliver had charge of Mr. Davis’s Coo-ee. The
Australian-built flyer ran for eight hours, making an
average speed of 18 miles an hour. Coo-ee maintained an
average speed of 13£ miles an hour for 10 hours. The in-
side course was from Berry’s Bay to Ryde Bridge, thence
round Shark Island back to the bridge, back again to
Manly, via Shark Island, and back to the bridge. On
one occasion the Invincible ran from Ryde Bridge to
Manly in 46 minutes.
T? be on board a boat like the Invincible during
a reliability run is an experience. Starting from Berry’s
Bay, the Australian-built boat ran at a trifle over .15
miles an hour up the river. Parramatta River, and
indeed the whole harbor, are quite strange and new
when viewed from a motor-boat, lying low in the water.
They seena larger, and beautiful with a strange unearthly
beauty. The sky promised wind, and plenty of it, but
the river was smooth as glass. Coming back the
spray began to fly, and as the boat flew past
Dawes Point, it came over in sheets. On the run to
Shirk Island the green boat dashed into waves which it
threw up in clouds on either side, while a storm of spray
swept over the boat, so that when one looked up he
found a rainbow overhead. But it was on the run to and
from Manly that it became ecstatic. The long, rolling
swell made ideal conditions. Down in the hollows
the land disappeared, and then as the boat shot
skyward, cleaving the crests of the waves, the
spray came like showers of whips. The crew
Figged up a tarpaulin hood, which kept the spray off
their bodies but not out of ttoir eyes. And how it
* Seen from the front, it looked as though
the boat was running wild with never a soul on board.
Once round the Manly buoy the wind kept the spray
down, and the crew, lowering the hood, stood up to dry.
Running back, the owner rushed his spark up,' and the
boat went leaping through the rollers at over 20 miles an
hour. Bright sunshine, glorious green water, and a boat
that sprang like a living thing from roller to roller, flash-
ing past the yachts, past the ferry-boats crowded with
women in bright hats, through scattered masses of drift-
ing seaweed, past cape and bay, away to where the har-
bor gave way to the river.
* »
After eight hours spent in the Invincible at an
average speed of 18 miles an hour, the writer is quite
convinced that Australian brains and Australian foun-
dries can design and build engines with the best of them.
Sitting in the stern of Relph’s splendid boat, with a
60-70-h.p. engine forcing it through the waves, one felt
hardly any vibration. In fact, the only part of the boat
that suggested the presence of a real live engine was where
the man at the wheel sat close up against the controlling
lever, and even there it was nothing to speak of. In
smooth water and an open fairway one does not notice
the speed. It is among waves and harbor traffic that he
realises it. Stationary objects whirl past and disappear •
the wave, that was a hundred yards away, all in a flash is
ripped in twain, and goes roaring and foaming by •
and the steamer that a few minutes ago seemed a mass of
color against sky and water suddenly stands out in bold
relief and the faces of the people looking down are
seen clearly for a few moments, and then fade into a
blurr of color as the boat races away. On that class of
boat unceasing vigilance is necessary, for the thing that
a few minutes before was far away rushes on you while
you wipe the spray out of your eyes. For genuine plea-
sure the automobile is not in it with the speed motor-
boat ; the rock and the swing of the latter in the waves
is the mostdelightful sensation in the scheme of things.
The absence of Papa Relph’s new Van Auken
boat from the Motor Boat Club’s reliability race on Syd-
ney Harbor was a severe disappointment. Motor boat
men were looking forward with interest to see how she
would shape. The Van Auken engine is like the suit
with the extra pair of pants free of charge. It costs no
more than a single cylinder engine of the same power,
and gives you an extra propeller for nothing. It
has no cylinder heads, the explosion taking place
between the piston heads and driving them both
with equal power. The advantages of this arrange-
ment are obvious, when it is stated that one piston head
can be thrown out of gear, locked, and made to serve as
a cylinder head. Mr. Relph was very anxious to see how
the new idea would work, but unfortunately the people
who had charge of the installation could not get the boat
ready in time. It is expected to make a trial trip on
Friday.
Another disappointment was the non-starting
of Mr. Davis’s new Fairbanks boat. This is the boat that
was expected to wipe the roof of the harbor with the far-
famed Invincible, which, by the way, is now generally
understood to be the fastest single propeller boat in the
world (and all Australian-made). But quite recently the
Australian boat came soaring up alongside, throwing up
such a wave that the Fairbanks boat was in imminent
danger of being swamped, and it passed the foreign-
engine-driven boat in a way that left no question as to
which is the faster flyer. With that trial to go upon the
absence of the foreign boat on Saturday didn’t signify so
very much.
* * * *
Saturday was a great day on Sydney harbor.
The Inter-State Championships were being sailed off, the
Royal Yacht Squadron had a day out, the Amateur Club
contested its championship, and the Motor Boat Club’s
Reliability Test and Race were in full blast. The condi-
tions were ideal. The threatened big blow failed to
arrive, and was replaced with a cheerful north-east
breeze, which gave the sailing craft every opportunity
to crowd on the canvas, and was strong enough to make
heavy spray for the speed motor-boats.
* * * *
The inter-State dinghy races on Sydney harbor
came to an end on Saturday last. On the previous Wed-
nesday the N.S.W. Clio and Leila, by the aid of big han-
dicaps and a soldier’s wind, had completely beaten the
victorious Queenslanders of the Anniversary regatta,
Clio winning the 14ft. handicap easily enough under the
guidance of its builder, Charles Dunn. The 10ft, handi-
cap was won by Leila, which was steered by W. Purcell.
But Saturday last brought an unusually light nor’-easter
that allowed the majority of the boats to sport their
largest sails. In the 14ft. championship Queensland boat,
Violet 11. broke away at the start and got the weather
berth of the only dangerous rival, Jessie, the Sydney
boat which Claude Abbot handled so excellently. On
the run the bulk of the fleet crowded on vast spinnakers
and ringtails, but the Violet 11. set only a very small
spinnaker. Like Tybalt’s gash, it was enough, and the
Queensland boat drew steadily away and increased the
lead from 28sec. to 61sec. While the wind was fresh,
Violet gained : when it fell off Jessie drew closer; but the
wind brightening up towards the finish, the Queensland
boat won easily with 2min. 15sec. to spare. Jessie and
Eene were second and third respectively.
In the 10ft. championship the holder of the
title, the Queensland boat Idtina, was on the spot to
maintain its position. Other Queensland reps, were Irex
and Ada, while the Ma State was represented by a round
dozen—among them a craft bearing the aggressive title
of N.S. W. This boat made a splendid start, and at Wat-
son’s Bay Pile Light was leading by 2min. 20sec. Irex
made a bold bid, but could not pace it with the new
champion, which flew kites in a bewildering manner,
suggestive of Owe’Sullivan on the loan market, and
finally scampered home an easy winner by 4Jmin. Irex
and Ensign were second and third respectively.
• * * *
Sydney yacht Rawhiti is, at time of writing, on
its way back to Sydney with La Carabine Cup in the
locker.
Weights for the Australian Cup promise a
much better race than that of last year, when
Tartan started at odds on and won easily. The handi-
capper, by estimating May King (9.7) and Dividend (9.3)
to be better than Poseidon, whilst giving Antonious
Proceed and Dyed Garments a fair chance to foot it with
the champion 3-year-old, has tempted the owners of the
first four horses in last Melbourne Cup to have a go for
the longer race. The extra J-mile must tell even against
a Poseidon. He is burdened with 9.1, or 51b. more
than proved a trifle too much for Wallace of yore, and
91b. more than stopped Carbine from beating Lo’ehiel
over the same course. The champion is not so
very well in as he looks at a first glance. He may
be better able than little Antonious to carry a heavy
3-year-old weight over 18 furlongs, but it should
tell considerably against him in a struggle with Proceed
and Dyed Garments, a pair of sturdy veterans that can
be trusted to fight it out to the bitter end. The present
writer reckons that if Dyed Garments was at all troubled
by his cough on the day when he won the V.R.C. Handi-
cap he must now have a first-class show to win the Aus-
tralian Cup with 7.6. In fact, any good second-class, old
performer, leniently weighted, has a first-class chance in
this event. The resurrected Dreamland won it, likewise
the ex-hurdle racers Ringwood and Marmont. For which
reason Realm is fancied. But to most people it will seem
that Dyed Garments (7.6) is at least worth backing
against Realm (6.13).
* * * •
In the Newmarket Handicap list nothing looks
preferable to the mares Solution and Istria. The latter
sprinted well and consistently as a three-year-old at this
time last year, and is said to have improved a lot
* * * *
In the interests of blackmailing owners, the
horse reporters continue to tell tales of “ sweep’ con-
siderations ” which should never be printed. Melbourne
Age last week said, by way of bending future ticket-
holders to the blackmailers’ will—“ Sweep considerations
are responsible for the despatch to Tasmania of the
racehorse Pius to take part in the Hobart Cup. Pius has
not been doing too well of late, but on receipt by the
owner of the offer of one-half the sweep, the horse was
yesterday given a mile gallop on the tan, and as he
pulled up well, it was decided to ship him to Hobart.”
Thus the game of intimidation is kept alive. Holders of
horse-tickets in a Tatt. sweep are practically warned by
paragraphs of this sort that unless they offer half of their
winning chance to the horse-owner, they will not get a
run for their ticket. The par. in question reads very
like a veiled advt. of Tatt.’s sweeps, plain announcements
of which are forbidden in Victoria by Bent’s new Bill.
Is it legally permitted to a newspaper to state that a
blackmailing owner has come to terms with the party
who drew his (the b.o.’s) horse in a sweep ?
* * * •*
Humphrey Oxenhain, who was once the hero of
a Tivoli song, has apparently grown tired of the hammer
and the repetition of “ Any advance, gen’l’men ! ” and
has gone back to the more lucrative reiteration of “I
lay, I lay ! ” Together with Archibald Thompson he has
been licensed by the A.J.C. to yell the odds at Randwick
and other places under the club’s jurisdiction. The only
objection to Oxenham and Thompson in the past was
that they kept betting shops which had a tendency to
decrease the attendances at the club’s meetings—a thing
which the club abhors. Now that the shops are closed
the club is delighted to have them on the lawn.
* * • *
Considering that the Judkins Gambling
Bill is intended to discourage the evil sport in Vic-
toria, by suppressing betting shops and prohibiting all
advertisements calculated to lure punters to their doom,
how comes it that the dailies are allowed to publish cable
news re individual speculations at foreign gaming tables ?
The other day we were told, under an exciting cross-
heading, of how a well-known Hungarian gambler, after
winning a million florins in a night at rouge-et-noir, had
lost £27,000 in playing cards at a club. This is the most
pernicious and uncalled-for sort of betting news which a
public journal can inflict upon Brother Judkins.
♦ * * *
Another round of first grade cricket commenced
at Sydney on Saturday afternoon, with ideal condi-
tions and perfect weather. Gregg, of Burwood, made
125 against Sydney. Cotter, of Glebe, knocked up 99
against Eedfern, before he was caught hy Blankshy, off
his own delivery. The third position was held hy Sydney
Gregory, with 95 piled up against the bowling of Pad-
dington. Trumper showed up somewhat better than he
did in the inter-State contest, and carried his bat for 53.
Among the bowlers the honors were with Johnson, of
North Sydney, Blankshy, of Redfern, and Blaxland, of
Balmain. The first took six of Middle Harbor’s wickets
for 60 ; the second five of Glebe’s for 61 ; and the third
three of Central Cumberland's for 49. Carty, Finneran
and Pitt also did well. Carty knocked down three of
Waverley’s for 50 ; Finneran laid out seven of Sydney’s
for 120 ; and Pitt smashed six of University’s for 116.
Yet, taken allround, Saturday’s cricket was disappointing.
The conditions were eminently favorable to run getting,
but with a few exceptions the runs did not come off,
The best cricket of the day was displayed by Glebe, of
which team all but four men reached double figures’
Burwood, which made second highest score, was saved
from absolute disaster only by Gregg’s 125 and Garnsey’s
51, the other nine men making a miserable 134 among
them. As for the other teams, the less said the better.
♦ * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association last Monday night
decided, by 14 votes to 10, to make a fool of itself, and,
upon personal application of the disqualified players, to
remove the embargo which prevented them holding office
for a term of three years from July 1, 1906. Although
the Association resented the representations of the hole-
and-corner meeting in Bateman’s Hotel recently, it is
evident that the committee was, like Jericho and the
Bastille, knocked down by the row raised by the dis-
qualified players and their friends.
* * * »
Just after this paper had gone to press last week
word came that cyclist Frank Birtles had returned to
Laverton (W.A.), having failed to find the first water 56
miles out. He struck awful country, and took four days to
cover 107 miles. At time of writing, it is not known if he
will again tempt Providence. If he is wise he won’t.
Providence has barked at him once. It will probably
bite next time.
* • » *
The Bulletin takes off its hat to the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen for its dignified stand. It announced
that if it could not have straightforward honest racing it
would have none at all, and was prepared to throw up
even the Sydney Thousand rather than countenance the
practices that have brought the sport into such dis-
repute. For three years the League has used the axe
vigorously, lopping off the rotters and crooks, and now
the refuse heap is bigger than the tree, and the League
has come to the conclusion that there are not enough
honest riders doing track work to make a successful
carnival. So it goes out of the track-racing business for
a year. The existence of the. Cyclists’ Association de-
prived the League disqualification of its terrors. Members
who were fined refused to pay their fines and
announced that they would join the Association,
which most of them have done; while those who
were disqualified simply went straight over to the
rival body. So the track fixtures for 1907 have been dis-
posed of to other States, mostly Victoria, and the
Cyclists’ Association is left with a clear field. The fact
that the Association has received with open arms all the
men whom the League disqualified for foul practices is not
calculated to inspire confidence. The body is run by
bookmakers, and where the bookmaker is there wiil
crooked running be found. The Association will shortly
find itself in a worse hole than the League, as it wiil
have to either use the axe or be dragged to the ground
by the dubious wheelists who were largely responsible
for its coming into existence. For the next year the
N.S.W. League will stick to road races. These seem to
draw a cleaner and more honest type of cyclist than the
acetylene gas-lit track.
* * * *
Swimmer Billington was operated on in Mel-
bourne this week. The so-called matches with Lamb, at
the Melbourne Corporation Baths, were no tests of the
champion’s ability to swim a desperately hard race just
now. Lamb seemingly was not trying to make the most
of his time allowance. Instead of going for all he was
worth, whilst he had the water all to himself, he just
jogged along, so that Billington didn’t have a very tiring
stern chase. The Englishman was no sooner on the job
than he began to travel nearly twice as fast as the other
fellow. Having got within a few yards’ reach of the
lead, he merely kept pace with Lamb until it was time to
sprint ahead and win.
* * * *
The 500yds. swimming championship of Vic-
toria was contested at the Brighton Club’s carnival last
Saturday afternoon, before a full house. The five starters
included sprinter Frank Fitts, ex-distance champion
“ Billy ” Clegg of Ballarat, and a fifteen-year-old Frank
Beaurepaire. The youngster, in the absence of Mason,
who was competing in Maoriland, proved himself the
Victorian best over 300yds. at Ballarat on the
previous Monday, and was fully expected to
stay in front over the extra 200yds. The
struggle was over a 50yds. course of 10 laps. At the
end of 50j r ds., Beaurepaire was in front of Fitts, the field
battling close behind. The second lap saw Clegg
move up and supplant Fitts for second posi-
tion. From this out the race was a mere pro-
cession, the “ boy ” increasing his lead at every
lap, till, at the end of the 500yds., he pulled
up 25yds. in front of Clegg. The journey was
covered in 10 3-5 secs, outside standard 7min. A 200yds.
handicap in memory of Barney Kieran fell to Roy Hoff-
man, off the limit 25secs., back marker “ Wagga” Harris
struggling into third position.
* * • •
Sydney Sunday Sun has received the third
instalment, of £l5O, towards the £lOOO stake to be con-
tested for in the World’s Championship sculling contest,
on the Nepean, on March 2. The final deposit is due
before noon on February 27.
* * * *
It is now illegal to participate in a pigeon-
butchery within New Jersey (U.S.A.), and the poultry-
murderers, after unsuccessfully testing the law right
through the courts, now kill time spiking flies on pins, or
something like that.
* * * *
Some scientists have been investigating “ Motor
Mania,” the weird recklessness that causes decent men
who, in their offices, would not hurt a fly, to cheerfully
run over dogs and children when out in an automobile.
It seems that this madness only comes upon people when
travelling much faster than they are accustomed to. As
long as they bowl along at the rate to which they have
been accustomed to travel when sitting close up to the
tail of the horse, they will carefully avoid running over
anything—even a brick. But once let them double that
speed, and madness comes upon them. If the speed is
raised high enough, it overcomes even the instinct of
self-preservation. Man is a limited creature in every
way, and once he gets outside ordinary limits, his mind
becomes unbalanced. The Caesars were mad—unlimited
power made them so. Most of the modern millionaires
are mad, unlimited (to all practical purposes) wealth has
made them so, and the only ones who have escaped the
infliction are those who have not realised how much
money they control. And so it often is when the ordi-
nary, every-day, humdrum man gets loose in a motor-car:
he too goes mad and whoops wildly when he runs over a
fellow-creature, and charges past' the front of a railway
engine with a howl of maniacal glee.
* * * *
Monty Andrews and Lyn Truscott, both of
Sydney, were matched by the Melbourne Olympic
Athletic Club, and met at the Cyclorama on January 28.
It was an ill-advised fixture, as was made manifest before
a dozen blows had been exchanged. Truscott was quite
out-classed. It is about time Andrews gave the light-
weight division a rest, and took on the heavier men. He
is now a lumpy welter-weight, and Truscott is well under
the limit of the light brigade. A few punches from his
burly opponent served to take the steam out of Lyn,
who, although one of the gamest fighters in the business,
was quite satisfied after five rounds that he hadn’t the
ghost or semblance of a hope, and wisely invited the
referee to announce his decision. Andrews, finding his
opponent beaten, had not dealt too hardly with him,
otherwise proceedings might have terminated in the
third round with something like manslaughter. In the
preliminary, a light-weight named Donald, out of the
West—where they are breeding good punchers in the
pony division of bruising—made such excellent showing
against a ravening local lad that he is promised a m&tp?
with a good opponent. 0
• • * •
’ The Bulletin learns from areliableprivatesoun*
that O’Brien got so far on his way to fight Squires as to have
his luggage on hoard the Oceanic liner at San Francisco
But before the steamer left he received a better offer
from another quarter, and, as he is in the game for aUlo
can make out of it in the brief time it is driven to any fain
to be a top-notch pug., he quietly dropped Wren over
board, hustled his traps ashore, and simply cabled that
the match was off. Apparently, that startling alleged
message about his refusal to come to a county where
boxers were criminals was Mr. Wren’s little joke or fake
or something. ’ ■
• » * «
“Terrible” Terry M ‘Govern, the Yankee whirl-
wind fighter, is now a howling lunatic in a Brooklyn
asylum. Although he has been mentally weak for a lone
time he is still well-placed financially. He had the luck
while he was making money to strike an honest manager
who invested his winnings in real estate, so Terry will
have enough to keep a roof over him and supply him
with three meals a day if he ever comes out of Bedlam.
* • * *
“0.K.”: The business methods of prize-
fighters, or their managers, are still the same as when
the noble craftsmen went into the ring ungloved, and a
decisive blow on “the point” was a matter of accident
rather than design. Challenges and counter challenges
in the old days were rarely calculated to find acceptance
every hero being bent on getting credit for a red-hot
eagerness to meet somebody whom he didn’t expect to
turn up. The Johnson-Squires interchange of defiances
(through the press) is a mere demonstration of bruisers’
bluff. When Johnson arrived in Australia he found that
Squires had already booked a passage for America by a
boat leaving three weeks later. Therefore he posed as a
bitterly disappointed man, and called Bill Squires a
“guy.” His pose would have been more effective
if he had shut his mouth and smiled significantly.
For a whole week Squires said nothing. Then he
bounced upon the scene with £lOOO in his hand
and an announcement that the nigger could win
the money by meeting and beating him any time within
the next 16 days, after which he (Squires) would be
bound to leave Australia, because Mr. Wren (salute!)
wanted him to go away and challenge people in America.
Obviously 16 days’ notice was too short for Johnson]
who in the meantime had fixed up a fight with Peter
Felix. Of the two bluffs, the bluff of Johnson was the
more reasonable, for it implied the question as to why
the departure of Squires couldn’t be delayed, considering
that Mr. Wren (salute !) professes to be looking for blood
(on Bill’s account), and Johnson’s gore might be collected
in a jug before an American fighting engagement could
happen. Squires evades this question. He talks about
his blessed contract to fight for Mr. Wren (salute!) in
America, as though it prohibited him from again ap-
pearing under the same management in Australia. Does
he expect darkie Johnson to go back to America in
pursuit of him?
* * * *
“H.” : Bill Squires is making a most deplorable
exhibition of himself in the matter of meeting Johnson.
So far his tactics have been those of a man who is anxious
to escape a meeting, and who is trying to bluff the
public that it is the other fellow who is afraid. To ask a
man to fight within three weeks of the completion of a
voyage from ’Frisco to Sydney is absurd. Writer saw
Johnson stripped last week, and unhesitatingly declares
that it is impossible for him to get into proper condition
to meet a born fighter like Squires in the time. And,
surely, Squires does not want to win from a man who is
unfit for fighting through lack of timein which to prepare?
Anyhow, his conduct is calculated to do him harm. If he
shoots off to ’Frisco now he will arrive there loaded with
the suspicion that he was afraid to meet the colored
champion. He is treating “ this Mr. JohnsjKn ”as though
the colored man was a mere nonentity. As a matter of
fact he is a bigger man than Squires. He was con-
sidered good enough to meet the champion of the
world, when that champion was in his prime, and
the fact that Jeffries drew the color line does
not detract from that fact, but rather emphasises it.
For, till Johnson came along, Jeffries never drew the
color line. Johnson is known throughout the States as a
mighty basher, and the man who can beat him, and beat
him fairly, lands on American soil with his reputation
ready-made. Squires is regarded just now as Mud
Squires in the States. His failure to slay Kling in one
round caused his stock to slump fearsomely. So low has
his reputation sunk that Jonel Sulli-van seriously pro-
poses to match his sparring partner, an unknown hasher
who travels under the title of “ Kid ” Cutler, with him.
But, worse than all, W. W. Naughton, the great panjan-
drum of pugilistic journalism, has declared that Squires
must show cause why he should be matched with the
great ones, and work his way up from the bottom of the
ladder. What Naughton says to-day the pug. managers
of the States do to-morrow, and Squires has no hope of
gettingbig matches if he skips away to the States at
present. It will pay him to stay and fight Johnson, for
if he can wallop the dark man, whose abilities are well-
known in the States, he will have achieved a task that a
lot of the U.S. champions have been afraid to attempt,
and the best fighters in the States must needs regard
him as a serious opponent.
However, the wrangle grows hideously mono-
tonous. At time of writing, Mr. James Brennan, of
Sydney National Sporting Club fame, has offered a purse
of £lOOO for a fight between Squires and Johnson. The
challenge stipulates that the disturbance shall take
place in Sydney. This is understood to be quite a new
challenge, and to have nothing to do with the previous
wrangle. Mr. Brennan is understood to have grave
doubts about the integrity of Melbourne referees, and
declines to have anything to do with any scrap that may
take place in Victoria. It is also understood that John-
son will, rather than miss the contest, fight Squires
before February 16th, although he has no earthly chance
of getting properly fit in the time. In which case a vic-
tory over Johnson will do Squires practically no good as
far as enhancing his credit in the States is concerned,
while a defeat at the hands of a man out of condition
would have a disastrous effect, and practically damn
him.
* * * *
So far, none of the cyclists who have ridden
round and across the lone places of Australia seem to
have been able to turn their experiences into good copy.
Not one of them has published a book that anyone
remembers, or that set the waterways of the continent
on fire. Take Donald Mac Kay and the White brothers:
They must have had a lot of interesting experiences.
Mac Kay started from Brisbane, rode northwards, across
to Powell’s Creek, on to the overland telegraph line,
thence across the Northern Territory to Wyndham and
Kimberley, and round the coast of the continent. There
ought to have been enough material in that ride of 11,500
miles, which lasted eight months, to have filled half-a-
dozen interesting volumes. But where are they?
* • * *
Lance Skuthorp, the greatest horseman the
world has ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 150 animals, all
buckjumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Snips. Both these horses can be backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*
DEM ME EYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, dem me eyes ! I’m sick of life, of this blessed land
and all
The infernal legislation that is strangling liberty ;
The holy crowd of whimperers has Australia under thrall,
And dem me eyes ! Like all the rest, I’m longin’ to be
free !
We cannot bet. Oh, dem me eyes ! What good is Life
to us
Who’re achin’ for a spin, a scrap, or other exercise?
Now all us fellers has to do is sit around and cuss,
Or else the trooper’s like to hev us locked up—dem his
eyes !
We cannot go to Hogan’s pub. to put the Sabbath in,
An’ get a change of tucker in these days of heat and flies.
Of course, out with the lizards, if we want to blew our
tin,
We can drink the stuff got Saturday—flat three X, dem me
eyes !
There s little that bush chaps can do—why, strike me
deaf and dumb !
We daren’t move our tongues for fear the Law will get us
down ;
Old Trooper Scott, with wily leer, has got us ’neath his
thumb—
Oh, dem hie eyes ! Give me some beer that I my woes
may drown.
Yes, dem me eyes 1 And dem the crowd that puts us in
this fix —
With “ don’t do this,” and “ don’t do that,” that haloes
we may wear;
What profits it the holy crowd if Heaven is theirs for nix,
When all we brawny ones may do is sit around and
swear!
Yes, dem me eyes ! We swear all day and swear the hot
nights through,
’Tis not the demned Miss Skeeters—that we’re demning
to the eyes,
But the gimlet crew, with perky snouts, who stick to life
like gum,
And legislate to make this land a howling paradise !
VIC
NYM.


STOP THAT PAIN
15/-
Carriage
Paid.
rtbuturtbutu
There is only One Disease—CONGESTION.
There is only One Cure CIRCULATION.
The Ivtambort Snyder
HEALTH VIBRATOR
(9,000 to 15,000 vibrations per minute)
CONQUERS PAIN
The Most Beneficent Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion,
Poor Circulation, or any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paraly-
sis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak Eyes, Hay Fever,
Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag!
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation. Torpid Liver and Lung
Trouble, our Vibrator does marvellous work, and is a good
exerciser. Don’t Wait. Don’t Suffer. Get a Vibmtor and
Get Relief. The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only
hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
You can use it yourself, and it is always ready. Used and
endorsed by over 6,000 physicians. No Drugs, no Plasters, no
Electricity. You need the Vibrator in your family. Stop
taking drugs and let Nature’s true principle of Stimulation
by Vibration cure you and yours. You will never regret the
investment in a Vibrator. It is practically indestructible, has
no electricity, no wheels, no cogs or springs, and it cannot get
out of order. Send for Free Booklet and reports of doctors
using this Vibrator. American price 2ls. To introduce it, wo
will sell for a limited time at 155., carriage paid to any ad-
dress, complete with hook containing full directions and dia-
grams for treating most of the above named diseases.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
2000 MILES
without PUNCTURE TROUBLE-
“ Miraculum Corporation, Melbourne,
“January, 17, 1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —About six months ago I had the
tubes of my bicycle charged with Miraculum, with
very gratifying results. lam a country traveller,
and my average mileage for six months is, roughly,
2000 miles on all sorts and conditions of road. I
have picked up thorns, nails and tacks, and, on
removing them, found the Miraculum had sealed
the puncture effectively, as I could not detect the
slightest sound of an escape of air, the tyre remain-
ing cpiite firm. My experience proves that Miracu-
lum will do all that is claimed for it if properly
handled, and were the cost of charging 10s. per
wheel instead of 4s. for two wheels, I would
willingly pay it, as I have no doubt I have saved
the cost over and over again. Yours, &e. (Signed)
JOHN OWENS.”
If your dealer prefers charging you 6d. apiece
for patches to selling you Miraculum and giving
you an insurance for months against punctures,
call or write to us direct.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS :
MELBOURNE : 266 LATROBE STREET.
SYDNEY: VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
Dtp" GET OUR BOOKLET.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
THE GOLDEN KING
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
&
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
/ guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
&
Intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
/ do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me.
BanKers
Victoria and Royal Banks.
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “The
King of Sport ” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: “ King of Sport/' Collins St*, Melbourne*
KUGELMANN’S
J.
VL
V
5-"
<s*
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
FREE
SAMPLE
Sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
f/V*
DUNLOPS
Consistently
Triumphant!
rtbutu
Again secured the BEST Percentage in the
N.S.W. Reliability Motor Contest
OUT OF THE
To Tie on Full Points in last week’s
TEST using the World-Famed
rtbutu
Similar Results were achieved in the Dunlop Reliability Motor
Contest in ,
1904, When the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th & sth Contestants to finish used DUNLOPS
..AGAIN IN..
190.5, 13 out of the 16 Contestants to complete the journey from Melbourne to
Sydney used the Reliable, Durable and Trustworthy DUNLOPS.
..again in..
1906, 5 out of the 9 to finish used the World-Famed “DUNLOPS.’*
The DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne, and All States.
N.S.W. Depot: 255 Clarence Street, Sydney
‘* My policy has always been one of pro-
gress,” says Philp to Queensland in his. election
manifesto. Certainly. Look at this (from
Coghlan’s statistics): —
Progress towards the
Philp’s Office. Biggest Debt on Earth.
1896 .. Minister for Railways. £31,944,934
1897 .. „ 33,569,414
IS9B " Treasurer. 33,599,414
1899 .. 33,599,414
1900 "" ” 34,349,414
1901 36,850,314
1902 .. Chief Secretary. 39,338,427
1903 .. „ 41,031,247
And the only reason why Philp didn’t progress
faster was that Cohen finally went to Queens-
land’s rescue and told him to give the pawnshop
a spell.
Not long ago the Sydney Herald let its
agricultural columns declare that the group
system of settlement had broken down in Queens-
land, and that the influx of farmers from the
South had developed into a sorry procession. But
the very contrary is the case. One firm of agents
at Grafton (N.S.W.) has on its books the names
of 300 farmers who want land in Bananaland
as group settlers. And there are many other
agents. Meanwhile, N.S.W. Lands Department
is as hopeless as ever. If N.S.W. men had a
reasonable prospect that they would be able to
get land during the next couple of years, either
from the Government or from private estates
under the bursting pressure of a land-tax, they
would prefer to remain in their own State. But
a thick mist enshrouds the outlook.
“Relay”: Last year, just about this
time, when things were ripening for the
A.N.A. Exhibition in Victoria, one of the
association’s lynxes discovered a grievance—
the military forces were preparing for the
usual annual camp, on 26th Jan. and two
following days, and this, it was alleged, would
draw men out of town and away from the exhi-
bition. The association kicked up such a dust
about it that Playford, then Senator and Minister
of Defence, promised that no camps would be held
this year. Now, though Playford’s not in office,
the Victorian military forces are debarred by the
decree of an ejected Minister from attempting to
do the little they can towards making themselves
fit to defend their country—and all to please a
one-eyed crowd of men, the majority of whom
ought to know better, and all of whom ought to
be ashamed of themselves.
Municipal bodies take a fearfully long
time to think. Melbourne suffers from a .Build-
ing Act that is 50 years old—so old that it still
demands that all external walls shall be of brick
or stone, and modern ideas concerning the use of
steel and concrete are absolutely barred. Mel-
bourne has known of its backwardness for years,
but the City Council has never thought of having
the Act amended. It doesn’t seem to be thinking
of it even now.
Rev. Tregear, of Melbourne, who has been
seeing Popes in his sleep these many years, is
beginning to show more alarming symptoms. He
told an audience last Sunday :
Victory would not be won without a struggle —a
baptism of blood must come to Australia along the lines
of a great religious civil revolution, and he hoped to be in
it. A few days ago a young man said to him as he passed
a street corner, “ We will put your pot on some night.”
He was a parson and not supposed to know what a slang
word meant, but he expected the fulfilment of the threat
was to get apiece of bluestone where he would not like
it. That was the same old game.
Give it up, dear sir. Give it up, whatever it is—
Cold Tea or gingerbeer. Give it up. When a
man begins to dream of baptisms of blood and
things like that, all is not well. It is time to see
somebody.
A startling improvement in the latest
Victorian issue of Wise’s Post Office Directory is
the comparative slimness of the red-covered
volume. A little more matter than before is
given in a Directory which measures less than
two-thirds of the thickness of its estimable for-
bears. The mass of information is printed in the
usual type, but saving of bulk is accounted for by
the up-to-date paper, on which all modern editions
of standard literature are printed. Wise’s P.O.
Directory is a standard work —of a sort.


TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER, 255.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, £7
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
SOLID
GOLD
£3.
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, 80s,
40s, 50s. 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS..
These illustrations reveal some of the very
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, 16.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
Bet pearls and turquoise,
355. Others £2, £2 10b,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
(i.. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and
Rubies
Sapphires, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£lO
or Sapphires, £lO
Emerald Centre
£l2 10s.
£l2/10
.. OAUi'i IJU-IVO.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£B/10 £l2/10
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
Keyless
Lever,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
rtbutu
rtbutu
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
Qt 0)
a
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
an d rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to £5O
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
SOLID
GOLD.
£7/10s
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815, 817 George-st„
ggflwlyS?a"o„, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


*3
wM
1
ft
v*
0
is#*
'
y
& .'•/*
%
o/
\\
c-
a
S
*,«
•-V
£
W#
&K
'H
m
■m
K !i /
1
v-n
'/If
11
as**'’
11
S*
II
*m
WM
m
«
■ I
If
aw
s»fe
l
m
<■;■■
i
<
m
W
m
tern
.V*i
4
\
ml
\
l
: . ;■" ~ ■
fl
' v-'
X
i
■
i
,
.-■ • •kh '.-'s V . *
■
mm
■A&&
mm
m
sat
I
i
i
ss
ass*
»w
. :
ws.
m
m
m
IN THE HOT SUMMER-TIME * *
When FLIES ARE SWARMING
IN THE ROOMS ....
INSECTIBANE
should be dusted on the window and picture frames or diffused in the air, with close«
doors, when £ yer y Fly will Fall Dead.
Blowers for diffusing the Powder can be purchased from all vendors of Insectibanc,
No other Insect Powder possesses the qualities which render
INSECTIBANE so peculiarly eff.cacicus.
* SOLD EVERYWHERE. *
Proprietors—Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.
Whc.esa'.e—E.ilott L.d,


'
■ ■
. h •
k
I-..'
CM
m.
■ •
... ■
■: •/\■•' * w t ■
. Q
:
m*.
mma
mm
'
*, v • ••*’**/ 'i\
' ' .%Vi
Si#;
a
■.
M-mA
§
m
~d
SIP
• 5 r.^2
■
ill
t'l
—1
'
■
hi
j
i
si
<55
Xfab
r
;., .
m
8
sfesi
• ■ ■■ : •■.
. .. ■
. .--I i
• Hin-v J 'Wt'i+o*'-
‘
Ha
'
Si
■
• V ■
’V
f’lg
.... ■•■
■Mil
m
§mm
m
mm
m
mm
• .
««
The sling's and arrows of outrageous fortune ” are
rendered Harmless by the soothing' magic of
CAPSTAN TOBACCO.


The “SUNSHINE” HARVESTER.
The World’s Best.
The “SUN” GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL
—Hoe and Disc.
The NEW ADJUSTABLE PLOUGH.
2,3, 4 and 5 Furrows |
ThO “ SUNRAY ” DISC PLOUGH.
2,3, 4, 5 and 6 Furrows.
life
uSUNRISE ” STUIVIPJUIVIP PLOUGH.
High and Heavy—2 to 8 Furrows.
“SUNRISE ” STUIVIPJUIVIP DISC
PLOUGH. 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 Furrows.
Let me send you my new
.Illustrated Catalogue.
Sent free to your address.
ITS HOME- IS HERE.
With the Sunshine Harvester & “Sun” Series
I JM*
-
an
•.
***: ...
■
%
Here, where Australia's Greatest Inventive genius,
the experience of thousands of practical Australian
farmers, the most skilled artisans, the most improved
methods, and the best material, are brought together
and put into the tangible, practical form of the-
Best Agricultural Implements
in the World.
HUGH V. McKAY,
FACTORIES-BALLARAT &• BRAYBROOK.
MELBOURNE OFFICE - 008 BOURKE STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE - - - 42 ENGINE STREET.
ADELAIDE OFFICE - - 50 NORTH TEl^*^s' E *
PERTH - W. SANDOVER <St CO., HAY STREET.
3
I,nil
•• MAXIM " CHAFFCUTTER. Nos. 1,2& 3.
see™
“ HERCULES ” HORSE WORKS. Ito4H.P.
“ SUNDIAL ” DISC HARROWS •
.
i
isjjjjjj l jjj x » ...
BALLARAT CORN CRUSHER.
Perkins’ Patent Bag & Bale Loaders.
=55
GARDEN and FIELD GATES.
FREE
FOR WRITING.
GUARANTEED Cure for Drunkenness.
For 30 Days we are giving away FREE SAMPLES of the world-renowned EUCRASY.
Send for Booklet and Samples; enclose 6d. in Stamps for postage.
Oall on or Address THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
FACTS ABOUT THE.
EUCRASY Treatment.
The Celebrated Cure for the
LIQUOR
TOBACCO
AND
THE
DRUG HABIT.
If you are addicted to Drinking, Smoking, or the use of Drugs, m any form and you
now suffer the consequences, you must not delay in availing yourself of the
EUCRASY TREATMENT for the following reasons :
Because
Several thousands of
Australian Testi-
monials are on file in
our offices. Many are
from Clergymen and
prominent public men.
Because
People addicted to
drinking, without re-
alising their own
folly, can be cured
secretly, even against
their will, and with-
out their knowledge.
All cases are treated
Confi d e ntially and
with absolute privacy.
Letters and packages
are forwarded in plain
envelopes, sealed from
observation.
Because
Physicians, Clergy-
men, Politicians, the
Press, and Business
Men of high standing
endorse tne Eucrasy
Treatment.
Because
Our specially prepared
remedy, in powder
form, is tasteless and
odorless, and can be
administered in food
without the patient’s
knowledge..
■ For further informa-
tion, call or address
the
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Mgr.
m
Moinii
il
i
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queen’s G&teTer race
London. S.W
UNDER
HOYA'
PATRONAGE
ONE 0F
THE \ZmOST
\ FASHIONABLE j
HOTELS IN /
l\ LONDON
I NOTED FOR\
ITS COMFORTS-
CONVENIENCE
A PERFECT
Clock Work Fan
YOU’D go a long way before you
came across a better clock
work fan than this. It is satis-
factory from every standpoint. It is
almost as good as an electric fan in
enough power to drive the
fan at a high rate of speed for one hour
on each winding—cools the office or
home or sick room. Is handsome to
look at—has silver-plated fan blades
and a gunmetal case. It runs noise-
lessly and will stand on a table or hang
on a wall.
PRICE
6 m
Carriage Free
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
“ My
Opticians,”
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE ST
OPPOSITE
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.


Shipping.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydnev.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle 'gents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENi* I WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New "Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callao, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial |||utuai [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
'■ FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGF STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiii, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 O' 0
Reserve Fund 1,115,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,115,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Katkr, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
lion. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sa}e in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
UNT. 33. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Porta.
*T\vin-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
SANDAKAN 12th FEBRUARY.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to.the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(Invested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
, Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.Mtf}., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grim wade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban , Capetown, Plymouth ,
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
DAMASCUS
•fMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
H. A. Schleman ..
T. F. Spalding ..
A. Simpson
Noon, March 2
Noon, Mar. 20
Noon. April 26
•Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE
rtbutu
PLYMOUTH & LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 23rd FEBRUARY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Eeq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
> HOLIDAY,
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
rtbutu
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit, to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
3£ DayB to Auckland 8J Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 18, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11,1 p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA Twin-screw, sails APRIL 1, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. w '
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS. '
WE
$
*2
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3ST-S.-W.
(HontdepieteO.’!LCo.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL. MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS-
Feb. 18, March 18, April 15.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th.
The Most Comfortable Vessel on
the Pacific .
ISST Send for Illustrated Pamphlets, isfc
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee: of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6cf.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
• • •
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
Jj#* SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL—£I,9OO,OOO. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. Gkorqb H. Moore, Manager.
, Shipping.
THE ADELAIDESTEAMSHiPCO
(LIMITED). 1
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian.
Victorian and Queensland Ports/
FOR MELBOURNE, v
ADELAIDE, 1
PORT PIRIE I „
And GULF PORTS I B,S ’ Gran tala (from Mel.
ESPERANOE BAY I bourne), Wednesday
ALBANY, f January 15.
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle Y°ngala(from Sydney)
to all North Western Ports Wednesday, Feb. 20.
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for'' 0 „ ur
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. 1 b ’ S - Warrego, Feb. 9.
BRISBANE, L„ „ . _, .
MACKAY, VS.S. Marloo, Feb. 16.
TOWNSVILLE, L a T . , „
And Ports North to Cairns. ‘ Inna,lllnoka . Feb. 23.
Best ana Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after th»
first Port of ca 1 with other inter-State Companies «*
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertain,
on application at the Company’s Office a
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,’
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maxitimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE
jrAooiii-Nerjiiia Dooked to Bombay, India Chins
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7s'
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meel
the passengers for London and give them every assistant*
in landing and pass! ng their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais. ’
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney. ’
J- LOTH. Acting Principal Agent
jßanlting. Public Companies. &cl
Bank of ||bui South Wales.
Establish™ 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... ... „
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ...
... 2,000,000 0 o
„ 1.475,000 0 0
... 2,000,000 0 0
Total -. ... ... 5,475,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.0., President.
Sir James R. Fairf ax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milsok, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through'
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO . Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Bents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Hotels.
v| SITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Boaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-*• the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-bour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
IM*jPy
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, oppose St
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Darg
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9*. per Day, or irow
2 Guineas per Week.


SHStTNIU SMRIFICI
Made necessary by the Expiration of our Lease and our determination
not to take a Single Article of Jewellery back to America mtk us.
220
Former Price, 245.
Former Price, 16s.
130
Former Price, 14s.
3030
Former Price, 14s.
280
Former Price, 14s.
AUy
\L 'J
\\'/i -
'/ .T" /7» \
'i * 'A'
2060
Former Price, 18s
4570
Former Price, 18s.
250
Former Price, 16s.
2300
Former Price, 16s.
We have already explained in our previous advertisements that our sole
obiect in opening our branches in Sydney and Melbourne was o
convince you that
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
Are the finest Imitation Diamond produced, and
that they absolutely retain their brilliancy for ever.
This we have repeatedly demonstrated by various tests, and we believe convinced
even the most sceptical as to the truth ot our claim; and, furthermore, we have
sold thousands of articles of Jewellery set with Barrios Diamonds, and none ave
ever been returned as unsatisfactory.
a«~OUR LEASE IS NEARLY AT AN END
And we are more determined than ever not to take a single article back to
the United States with us, consequently have decided upon a still further
reduction to sell off the balance of our stock quickly.
EACH
YOUR CHOICE
of any RING, PIN. BROOCH, or
any article illustrated, or i«* fact
any article of jewellery remaining
in our stocK that we formerly sold
up to 245. at the uniform price of
EACH
We still have thousands of articles from which to
make your selection, but we advise calling or send-
ing early to get the Brightest and Prettiest Goods.
Send for Our Illustrated Catalogue
POSTED
FREF.
MAIL ORDERS.
To give those in the country the oppor-
tunity of this grand sale, we will mail
any article upon receipt of
With the distinct understanding that your money vein be
refunded if goods are not exactly as represented.
2
EACH
CAUTION.
In consequence of the wonderful success of our Barrios Diamonds
it has led unscrupulous people from time to time to try to
imitate them, but without success, they in some cases selling
sn nrsrsr--=r2 •sjrsr.'p?- £ =
Barrios Diamonds can be obtained at oar two mam depots only.
lARRIOS DIAMOND
52 SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE
Open Saturdays till 10 p.m.
MPANY,
KING STREET,
SYDNEY
330
Former Price, 245.
Xn'A'///
W
0
'/iI
2230
Former Price, 14s.
300
Fcrmer Price, 18s.
5010
former Price, 16s .
4750
Former Price, 16s,
5500
Former Frice, 16s.
7030
Former Price, IGa
80
Former Price, 14s.
2280
Former Price, 18a.


Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of .. .. Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS presents
THE SIDNEY HOWARD ENGLISH DRAMA CO.,
in the Great English Domestic Drama,
HOME, SWEET HOME,
by Frank Lindo.
Box Plan Elvy’s. Prices, 3s, 2s, Is. Booking- Fee, lsi
Early Doors to Stalls and Gallery, 6d. Extra.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* ■ Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS
of tbe Celebrated Young American Tragedienne, Miss
TITTELL BRUNE,
in the Romantic-Mystery Drama, entitled,
PARSIFAL; I
or, THE REDEMPTION OF KUNDRY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as KUNQRY.
Prices as usual. Box Plkn at Paling’s.
H EAT R E
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. . ... J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
BLAND HOLT’S Romantic Austrian Military Melo-
drama, entitled,
REVENGE!
Artistically Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic
-Organisation of the Australian States.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
DA LACE, THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
Commencing SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY.
STORY OF THE KELLY GANG,
By BIOGRAPH.
Realistic, Living, Moving, Historical and
Chronologically Correct.
STORY OF THE KELLY GANG—NEXT SATURDAY.
W on °ERLAND CITY, BONDI
ww (The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
SWEPT BY OCEAN BREEZES.
CHEFALO AND .SENORITA OHEFALO,
Looping the Loop and Leaping the Fiery Chasm.
Two Death-Deriding Feats of Sensationalism.
BAKER AND KILPATRICK’S SPECIALTY CIRCUS.
Twelve World’s Feature Acts.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES.
The Cream of Vaudeville Novelties.
Fun-Producing Devices Without End.
TLY OLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor * Mana-rer— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME
MISS CASSIE WALMER, MISS RHODA DENDRON.
MISS FANNY POWERS.
CHANTI, the Marvellous Electrical Protean Artist.
FRED. CURRAN, Singer of Quaint Songs and Parodies.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. THE ROSE SISTERS
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, CHARLES HOWARD
MISS GRACIE COMPTON, MISS ADDIE LEIGH ’
MISS LEONIE DIXON, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
n PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers.
CORA CASELLT; Song and Dance Artiste.
HARRY LEWIS, Quaint Comedian.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
KING AND BENSON, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
H
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
IVIEW THEATRE
■ * Lessee
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, FEB. 7, & FRIDAY, FEB. 8, Last Tw<
Performances of WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9,
Ur. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in
the Great Drama of Australian Life,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
Depicting station life in the days of Ben Hall.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
CIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to il p.m. Igr* ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
Business Announcements.
“ ARABIC” tile -like coating.
v. COOLS Best! Lasts Best!
Insist that Oases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTA. Note Spelling :
Chief Ironmongers and “ A— R— A—-B—l—C ”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark. ’
NTJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTB on Trade Marks
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
DISPERSAL SALE
OF
THE RANCH STUD
OF HIGH-CLASS
TROTTING STOCK.
We have received instructions from Mr. W. B,
Veirs and Mr. Alex. Robertson, proprietors of
the celebrated “Ranch Stud Farm,” Glenroy (Vic.),
to sell at auction at our City Horse Bazaar,
Melbourne, on 6th March, 1907 (V.R.C. Autumn
Race Week), their entire Trotting Stud, including
the highly-bred Imported Sires, “Dixie Alto”
(2.24 3/sths), “Digitalis” and about sixty
Imported American and Australian - bred Brood
Mares, Stallions, and Youngsters of the choicest
blood lines.
Catalogue containing full description and
breeding of each animal and terms of sale will be
posted free upon application to
CAMPBELL & SONS, Auctioneers,
Kirk’s Bazaar, Melbourne-
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club, IT Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS MODERATE.
JOHN BRUSH,-
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SY3DKTEY.
ii Britisb=Hustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Beitish-Austbalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS iT E S”
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tel. 4552.
0
a
GOLD MOULDED
LYRIC”
OF ALL DEALERS,
I s
EACH.
WILL FIT ANY PHONOGRAPH.
RECORDS
ARE FAMOUS THE
WORLD OVER FOR
VOLUME,
DURABILITY,
QUALITY.
ONE. FREE SAMPLE RECORD
Will be forwarded to all Phonograph users on receipt of 6d. to cover postage and packing. Name and
number of machine must be stated when applying for this FREE SAMPLE.
Dept. B. COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO., Gen'l.,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
rv
d
WJ
mu.
DON’T
CALL
A MAN
into the kitchen to light your lire. You
only annoy him and make him bad-
tempered. Besides there’s no need to.
With our wonderful “ FAVOUBITE”
GAS-SPIBIT STOVE, you have only got
to put a match to it and light the stove.
That’s all. You see the “ FAVOUBITE”
makes its : own gas. How ? you
say. Well, the “FAVOUBITE” is the
very latest in stove construction. It is
tilled with Methylated Spirits, and is
ALWAYS BEADY FOB INSTANT USE.
You simply depress a little pump once
only, which deposits sufficient Spirits
in the Beservoir immediately underneath
the Burner, to give the Stove a start. In a
few seconds the Burner is sufficiently
heated, and draws the air through the
spirits, thus converting it into Gas, and
giving forth a splendid heat. There is
no noise, no smoke, no smell, and none of
the objectionable features which makes
other brands dangerous and liable to
explode. There is practically no mechan-
ism about the Stove whatever, conse-
quently nothing to get out of order-no
parts to replace. It is blown out like a
, candle. The greatest feature of all about
[the “FAVOURITE” is Economy. Other
old-fashioned Wick Stoves are simply
drinking up the spirits the whole time.
The “FAVOURITE” is so ECONOMICAL
because it bums more air than spirits. It
will boil a pint of water in 5 minutes- So
simple that the youngest child can use it.
The very thing for the sick room. Noth-
ing better for getting tea ready after shop-
ping. You can light it with your gloves
on. A boon to gentlemen who shave.
GUARANTEED
for Six
Months
You really ought to have the “FAV-
OURITE.” Everybody who has bought
it is more than satisfied with the wonder-
ful work it does. The price is very cheap.
ONLY 3s. 6d. each ; postage, N.S.W.,
6d. extra; anywhere else, Bd. extra.
Kettles, 2-pint, Block Tin, Copper Bot-
tom, 2s. 6d. ; postage, N.S.W., 6d„ else-
where Bd. extra.
A. J. SMITH & CO.,
14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
' Wholesale Prices upon Application.
Name this paper.]
Use the
Favourite
Gas-spirit
stove
m
A MOUSTACHE for 10/6 ,
The only sure and always certain Moustache
producer is
CAPIELARINE
It will give any man a full, luxuriant Moustache,
and we guarantee every jar of it. For 20 years we
have sold it, and not a single complaint yet.
Price, 10/6, Post Free anywhere In Australasia.
Under Sealed Cover.
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
J o ofV-S NE %Tn JO F N JONES (
V, of Wilham Wallace, late of Waterloo near
Sydney, m the State of N.S.W., Licensed Vi!
tualler, deceased) will communicate with the
advantage? 11 WIU heaF ° f somethin £ to his
H. J. ASPINALL, Solicitor,
St. .James’ Chambers,
King and Macquarie Streets, Sydney.
Re ARCHIBALD KENNEDY, deceased.
IF this sliou.d meet the eye of Mart MacDonald
and Archibald MacDonald they will hear
of something to their advantage by communicat-
ing with the undersigned. Any information con-
cerning their whereabouts will be thankfully
received. J. W. ALEXANDER, Solicitor,
Flinders Street,
Townsville, Queensland.
NFS TER (or NESTOR), aged about
21 years, son of John Nester (or Nestor),
deceased, late of Sydney, New South Wales,
cab proprietor, is requested to at once communi-
cate with M. MORNANE, Solicitor, 125 Queen-
street, Melbourne, when he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
ANNE WIGGINS, deceased. Information
desired of WILLIAM WIGGINS, last
heard of at Caboolture, Queensland, in 1889.
Apply. A. D. GILFILLAN, Solicitor, St.
Arnaud, Victoria.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
!
QUEENSLAND BRANOH-
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Head
is
Wrong'
when one forgets. Suppose
you stop that by feeding the
Brain properly on
Grape-
Nuts
10 days trial will demonstrate
the truth.
"There’s a Reason.'*
Made by Postum Cereal Co.,
Ltd., Battle Creek, Mich.,
U.S.A.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send
date of birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and
postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (o f London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA,
Private Address—Woodville, Mt. Albert.
Fill in, Cut Out anb Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth. .....y.
The battle over the price of beer in
Horsham (Yic.) resulted in a victory for the
swallowers. Hotel-keepers raised the price to
sixpence, saying that Bent’s Licensing Bill made
it impossible to sell at the old threepenny figure.
After the strike had lasted a fortnight or so, one
drinkery sent a man round with a bell, and
announced that threepenny beers were,on again.
All the devourers rushed the backsliding publican
and he had the whole beer trade of the town for
a few glorious minutes. Then the other Messrs.
Public-house followed his example, and things
were normal again.
With great patting on the back S.M.
Herald quotes Mr. Sam Cook’s defence of the
Australian journalist who has learnt his journalism
in Australia :
One would imagine from some remarks which had been
made that in order to find people properly qualified to
conduct newspapers we'must come to the old country for
men of talent and culture.
But. had somebody quoted to that same London
audience the Herald’s leaders on the necessity
of having British-trained railway men for Aus-
tralian railway management, what a guffaw of
ridicule would have overwhelmed the genial Sam !


OF
LEMON WHISKY.TheF
WHAT IS IT ?
rriHE subject of this article, for several important reasons, should be given preferenc
' I ' ordinary whisky. It is less intoxicating, yet more satisfying, and is therefore destined
1 a great want—a beverage suited to persons of temperate habits, yet not teetota l r
stimulant which strikes the happy medium between ardent spirits and the mawkish sott drm .
Lemon Whisky supplies this want; it is at once a stimulant, a luxury, a food, and a medicine,
hanov combination of all the qualities which are essential to an ideal beverage. ,
The ingredients used in this preparation, although simple and familiar to everybody, possess m
important medicinal qualities. It is not a mysterious chemical compound; it is simply a scientiti
preparation of ripe lemons, pure whisky, and specially refined cane sugar, It is guaranteed
absolutely pure, containing no adulterants whatever. ... , , ~, • .
We invite our readers to carefully note what medical authorities have to say about the mgr , x
contained in this unique beverage ; the authorities quoted are the best known and the highes m
world; their opinions cannot be questioned.
Dr. Robert Farquharson, late lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Mary s Hospital Medical Sc 100 ,
etc., in his work, “ A Guide to Therapeutics,” p.p. 208-209, says
“Lemon juice has some important therapeutical properties unexplained by any action it pos,
over the healthy organism. , . - , • ,
“ There is no doubt that persons afflicted with chronic rheumatic pains may often derive be
from taking a tablespoonful of this agreeable remedy two or three times a day with their meas.
“The occurrence of scurvy on board ship is now looked upon as a clear indication that the regu-
lar administration of lime or lemon juice has been neglected, and that the crew lias leen a ac ax by
a painful and dangerous disease, the absolute preventability of which experience has amply confirmed.
The same authority points out “that citric acid, from which most of the so-called lemon prep i
tions are compounded, is in no degree antiscorbutic.” ... , .. . . •
It will be interesting to here mention that, by an Act of the British Parliament, eve y p
sailing from a British port must provide at least loz. per day of lemon or lime juice for every mem er
In the “Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia,” 1899 edition, p.p. 400, wei find.—
“Lemon Juice —medicinal properties—refrigerant; when diluted, a particulaxly useful bever-
age in the prevention and treatment of scuryy relieves thirst in febrile and mflammatoiy a ec-
tions. In acute rheumatism, §to 1 pint daily.” x , , , • • f .
Dr. Heinman, speaking on this subject said:— You cannot take too much lemon juice, t
natural salts of which act as a solvent on uric acid in the blood, the cause of so many painful
maladies.” J
• whisky. ... . 1
We will now say something concerning the whisky contained in this preparation. J
Dr. Robert Farquharson, while deprecating its excessive use, states A moderate quantity j
of alcohol stimulates the mental faculties, and is often beneficial to weakly persons by giving tone j
to the digestive organs and aiding the due assimilation of food. It is of great service to dwellers in
large towns, and others whose mode of life involves much mental strain. tl .. , ,
In the “Companion to the British Pharmacopeia, 1899 edition, we read:— Alcohol.
Medical Properties: Internally a powerful diff usable stimulant, especially cardiac; mildly anti-
pyretic, diuretic, diaphoretic; used in states of acute disease characterised by excessive debility, ,
as in typhoid, acute pneumonia, and influenza, in insomnia of old people; as an aid to digestion,
more especially in the aged and feeble, and those exhausted °y overwork . . . ,
Dr. Robert Hutchinson, M.D., Edin., M.R.C P., author of “The Principles of Food and
Dietetics,” says, pp. 324 :—“ Alcohol must be regarded as a digestive stimulant , pp. 626. V ges
tion is not merely a chemical process ; the movements of the stomach walls play a large part m it
also, and here the action of alcohol, in dietetic doses at least, is entirely favorable, for ithas won-
derful power of increasing the activity of the stomach peristalsis. Alcohol not ; merely increases the
stomach movements ;it promotes very powerfully the secretion of gastric juice. pp. 324
in dietetic doses, 30 to 40 grammes (about two tablespoonfuls), taken before or during meals, actually
shortens the time required for the digestion of a meal by half an hour. Ihe net. influence, then, o
moderate doses of alcohol upon stomach digestion, even in health, is favorab e rather tha the
reverse, while in some conditions of disease its power of exciting the movements of the walls of the
stomach, and promoting the flow of gastric juice renders it a valuable ai“J. JJ®. ’“S ljf 8
food. The importance of these conclusions regarding the influence of alcohol upon digestioni ca
hardly be over-rated, for they explain much of the benefit often derived from the moderate use of
alcohol even in health, and still more in cases of disease.
sugar. ~ , - ,
To complete our description of Lemon Whisky, which contains a considerable proportion of sugar,
it will now be necessary what are the effects of sugar on the human system. In doing so
we cannCrdo better than again refer to Dr. Robert Hutchinson’s work, treating of the nutritive value
of sugar. On pp. 271 we find it stated that “refined sugar is to be regarded as a practically pure
carbohydrate ; that being so, its food value must be high, for every gramme of it will yield 4 1
Cal °"Ttfs Isa 1 " muscle food that sugar is of special importance. We have already learnt (pp 38) that
carbohydrates are probably the chief source of muscular energy, and sugars, on account of the ease
and rapidity S absorption, are better calculated to perform this function than any other
member of the carbohydrate group.” Dr. Hutchinson’s treatise on sugar is too lengthy to be fully
SpmducS the space at our command; we will therefore condense some of his more important
are plorers , the yalue of sacchari ne has long been familiar ”
“Sugtr is liven to blood horses in order for sustain them in the trials to which they are sub-
“ Sugar has a notable effect in lessening muscular fatigue. r j-„ work
“Vaughn Harley found that if he took 17£oz. of sugar per diem, his power of doing work
WaS^S C u e garls 6 i splcialTyvMukble food for persons who have to perform a single muscular effort,
whowfreSventelffZ^of sugar per dw in addition .0 ordinary rat.cn* marched
suffered less from hunger and thirst than their fellows not 80 J^h^inieased to 60grammes per
ments the surgeon in charge recommended that the sugar ration be increased to W grammes pe
:: : -7aryirLtt^
th 6 We do «ot°a “nkf «ryfor our S“ f 6 Ly further
entitled to first place in the category of alcoholic stimulants, and that it is Deyona aount ov
Wbe iTpll£iThe digSS,' cleanses the blood, quietens the circulation, creates energy,
assertions; they are the teachings of our greatest
L‘ h ri t iS’c^pu n t d atTo h „°of^*e e it would be advisable to take,
accorf'nl to’expressed’medical opinions, wjuld be 10 to 20oa, (half a pint to a pint) per day.
IT MAY BE TAKEN : , , Ao „
Plain in a wine-glass, as you would take a liqueur. Diluted. with cold water to taste As a
summer drink. A wineglassful mixed with cold soda-water. A wineglassful vmred ™ a large glass
BiVe ObSin7bie f fron, all Hotelkeepers and Wine and Spirit Merchants throughout the Commonwealth.
LUCAS, LOCK, and CO., Pitt-street, Sydney, are the Proprietors.
mzvh sihl
rtbutu
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning 1 Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6.
The FINEST RAZOR,
Made of specially tempered steel—hollow
ground—the finest razor ever sold at or near
the price, and guaranteed for two years.
Money back to any dissatisfied customer.
PRICE, 10s. 6ft., POST FREE.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St,, Sydney.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society united
N,B.w. — 263 George street, SydW
LIFE ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE
’ ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Total
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (I) £2OOO if < leath takes place as result ofL "oV fcmporary Total Disablement;
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement , W !}ir week for incapacitation through
rR \ £1 10s per week for Temporary Partial Disablement, and(6) P y j£. BAXTER. Res. Se&..
For full Particulars and conditions call or write fpr Prospectus. v,
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
w/ * _ nxai/rr nr TCM 10(1.
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
A HUGE INDUSTRY!
An Australian Invention which will SAVE over
£100,000,000 Yearly in the manufacture of the
World’s Greatest Commercial Necessities,
IRON AND
vv
gn
mmmmm
The Value of the World’s Production of these VITAL COMMERCIAL
COMMODITIES last year w;as over £500,000,000.
f '' *
The Saving to be effected by applying the MOORE-HESKETT PRO-
CESS would considerably exceed $,100,000,000.
S he MOORE-HESKETT
PROCESS,
,-A
due to the inventive genius of TWO AUSTRA-
LIANS, will shortly Revolutionise the IRON
and STEEL manufacture of the world.
THE RIGHTS for the Commonwealth and New Zealand have been secured by
a Strong Syndicate, who are now forming
The New Direct Process Iron, Steel
and Metals Corporation, Ltd.,
With a Capital of £400,000 for tho Commonwealth, and
£350,000 for New Zealand.
THE PROSPECTUS will be issued shortly, but applications for Shares from
intending Investors in the Company are being Registered Now,
APPLICATIONS are flowing in from all parts of Australasia.
SECURE your interest in this magnificent Investment NOW.
All Information regarding the process and the Company will be gladly supplied on
application to the Offices of
J. EARLE HERMANN, Organising Manager,
6, 7, 8, 9 VICKERY'S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT ST„ SYDNEY.
CLAUDE MUSSON (EL CO., Elizabeth St., Brisbane
NEIL McPHIE (EL CO., Longreach, Queensland
J. COCHRANE THOMSON, 40 Jervois Quay, Wellington, N.Z


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for ail Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE,
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE ;
STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
1
Regular Shipments.
The Trade Supplied.
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantis, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUCCY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. I*-Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET EL
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Cd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, iilus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniqity’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
HI IS FREE 1 ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
JN ature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
wmcn they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, winch makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived,
i SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth -covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SE VEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ffisr Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
• •
WEAR . .
BucKleys* Nunns
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price.
No. lO 1C
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
15(3
rtbutu
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prixe Medals..
Works e Birmingham, England
These series of
l ews neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
| paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention ’s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.o.tmg Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
■ ♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SSlTno, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s Cd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, 1 s 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. N fcw Book or Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s Od post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingeiisoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. llow to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Cd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 iilus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Jmrnal
says :~“ Benger’s Food has
bv its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’’
%
For IWANTS, imUBS. corf the AGED.
BgHaasrs food is sold jjt chemists, &c., e yeb ywhhre.
Benoer’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men v/ho know its value.”
“ Lantana ” : Having decided to turn over
a new leaf at the beginning of the year, I thought
the most acceptable thing to do was to start by
going to cliurch, so New Year’s Eve I attended
what is called a watch-night service. I quite
agreed with the parson while he gave out the
hymns and prayed short prayers, but when it
came to the sermon and personalities, I felt like
keeping back the thrum I had promised him.
Here is the gist of his “ few remarks ” :
Deahly beloved brethren and sisters.—To-night we
stand on the threshold of a new yeah—yea, verily, a new
yeah. Looking backward, yes, backward, many of you
—most of you—nay, all of you, must own to your inner
consciousness, j’our inner selves, j'our very own selves, that
had you, any of you, all, each and everyone of you, been
weighed in the balance, the scales of eternal justice, all,
each and e.eryone would have been found—ah —wanting.
You, individually, singly and collectively, must admit
that you have been living on the crater of a volcano,
with the lurid flames of damnation—yea, damnation—in
view. Had you got your desserts the bottomless pit
would have to be enlarged—verily, enlarged. By a
great mercy, those present have been saved. Time—
that priceless, unpurchaseable gee-ift—has been given
you that ye may repent. Yes, repent while there is ye-et
time. Your lives have —you know they have—have
been and are examples of over-eating, and over-
drinking, and over-sleeping. Yes, deah brothers
and sisters, we sleep over-much when we ought to
be up and doing, for Satan goeth about con-
cealed in the guise of various forms, and we must not let
sloth get the uppah hand of us lest when it has got you
in its grip it prevents you from being up and doing.
And the shepherd’s audience consisted mostly
of cowmen, who are out pursuing the moo animal
before the first streak of dawn, and who do odd
jobs by starlight when the sun has given things up
as a bad job. Think of telling people like them
to be up and doing. They are hardly ever down,
and even when they are down they dream that
they are up.
Said the barman on the racecourse :
Been at the game oft an’ on this twenty year. No,
there’s not much in racecourse work as a rule. But
there useter be once. We useter get 13s. 6d. a day, and
we had a chance of tips too. Now we get Bs., an’ if we
get caught takin’ tips, well, out we go
Tips? My oath ! I’ve seen W. R. Wilson walk up to the
Members’ bar and sling a sovereign to be cut up
among three barmen. And that was when he’d had a
bad day, too. If he had a good one he’d think nothing of
making it a quid each. No. There’s none like him in
the game to-day.
I heard a man who was here a few' minutes ago totting
up his winnings up to Cup da}'. Total £350. That man
beat me for a shilling on Tuesday. I knew he did, but I
daren’t say a word. He’s a Member. An’ don’t they
just look after themselves ! The only filter on the course
is in the Members’ bar. And the liquor ! Well, all the
best brands you can name. They pay 6d. a drink. So
do the Flatites. But the fellow on the flat has to drink
What’s put in front of him. If he doesn’t he can go to—
well, thirsty. On the Flat it’s whisky and soda. In the
Members’ it’s soda and whisky, with dashed little soda,
let me tell you. And some of them will drink liqueurs
out of long glasses if you let them.
The best bar for a barman is the “Say When "bar up
in the Grand Stand. You see, it’s mostly women up
there. And they sail in and say, “ A drop of Joshua’s
best, please.” Then they ask me to pour it out. So I
hold the bottle over the glass and “Say when.” That’s
how it got the name. But it’s easier work serving the
ladies. An’ they don’t try to beat you, an’ take two
cigars when they’ve only paid for one. An’ they don’t
threaten to report you if you ring in Australian, instead
of imported, mineral water.
Yes ; they’re great on imported stuff in the Members’
bar. On the Flat they get soda water—just plain, com-
mon soda water ; good stuff, mind you. I’m not running
it dow'n. Butin the Members’, where they don’t pay a
copper more for their drinks, they must have lithia,
and, tonic water, and seltzer. And let me tell you if
you’re on the Lawn an’ w'ant lunch you can get it for
3s. 6d. But become a Member, an’ you can get a darned
sight better one for 2s. 6d.
Last race over. Thank Heaven 1


DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph
%
r
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. a
imm jbw.
Warranted equal to any £lO lOs.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
SULPHUR
Truths the Sick. I
For those DEATHLY BILIOUS
SPELLS depend on Sulphur Bit-
ters; it never fails to cure.
DO YOU SUFFER with that
tired and all-gone feeling? If so use
Sulphur Bitters; it will cure you.
Don’t he without a hot- TRY
tie. You will not regret it IT,
The lof a fair face is a beauti-
SecretlM skin. Sulphur Bitters
makes both.
If you do not wish to LaNHMmaaa
suffer from RHEUMATISM, use a
bottle of Sulphur Bitters; it never
fails to cure.
Are you CONSTIPATED? If so,
Sulphur Bitters is just what you need
Poor, weak, and weary mothers
RAISE PUNY, PINDLING children.
Sulphur Bitters will make them (
strong, hearty, and healthy.
Cleanse the vitiated blood when
you see its impurities bursting
through the skin in
Bely on Sulphur
Bitters and health
will follow.
PIMPLES,
BLOTCHES
AND SOREB.
Your Fortune Free
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer, Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/- for
postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and confi-
iential, a document of great value to you in the pursuits
of your future happiness in love, business, and other
gelds of life’s activities. Thousands are this day blessing
the hour they first wrote me. Address —
Prof. Henri de Astro, 366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
««r
*
%
%
WE GUARANTEE TO
CURE YOU.
We agree, promise, and
undertake to cure you,
because we know that we
can do so once we accept
your case as curable.
Rheumatio Gout.
Thb Dr. McLaughlin, Co. MILDURA, VIC.
Dear Sirs, —It is now over twelve months since'l
laid your belt aside, as I was then completely cured
of the Rheumatic Gout from which I had suffered
for over thirty years. It took five months to cure
me, but the belt is certainly all you claim it to be.
I now feel twenty years younger, and it has
renovated my whole system and thoroughly re-
newed my vigor. I sleep well and get up as fresh
as a lark in the morning.
Before getting it I was an out-patient at the
hospital, and took loads of drugs without any bene-
fit. My joints used to swell up and the pain would
be unbearable, but I am now happy to say that I
suffer no more, and am strong and well.
Yours truly, J. B. MANN.
Every Man or Woman
who uses our Belt be-
comes a walking adver-
tisement for us.
Backaches and Headaches.
BRUSHGROVE, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —Before obtaining your Belt I had suf-
fered for years from an extremely bad backache, in
fact, often during the night I could not turn over
in bed owing to the severity of the attacks. My
head at times also bothered me greatly, and m v life
was simply a miserable existence. The different
remedies that I tried seemed to have no effect
whatever, and until I obtained your Belt I never
got any permanent relief. It, however, did me a
wonderful lot of good ; it cured my back and
stopped my headaches completely. Before obtain-
ing it the hot weather was almost unbearable, but
now it does not affect me. Sometimes I have a
slight recurrence of the backache, but it is always
traceable to some action of my own.
I will certainly advise any person suffering as I
did to obtain your Belt, and I am indeed very
grateful for what you have done for me.
Yours truly,
J. P. MULLIGAN.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
mm
FREE Book
If you have not read our book on
Electricity “ Nature’s Remedy”
send for it just as soon as you see this
notice. No sufferer can afford to be
without it. We will send it to you
free and postage prepaid.
It tells all about our remedy, and the
illustrations show you how it is used.
Won’t you sit down at once and write
for it ?
jpy FREE ADVICE.
If close enough, call at our office for
a free test and let us advise you. No
fees or charges of any kind for advice
or consultation. Call to-day. Don’t
delay.
Consulting; Hours:
9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Daily.
Wednesday and Saturday Evenings.
IF WE FAIL, WE RE-
FUND YOUR MONEY.
Having agreed to cure
you, we make good the
promise, or, if we fail,
we refund your money.
Is this a fair proposition ?
Why you should go on suffering after
the proposition we are now making to
you is a puzzle that probably only a
seer could begin to solve.
Do you suffer from a weak or aching
back ? Weak kidney or bladder irrita-
tion ? An inflamed Prostate Gland ?
(This is mostly the cause of organic
debility.) Do you feel weak and done
with excitement ? Do you suffer from
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Indigestion,
Constipation, Nervousness or Insomnia?
All these complaints are due pri-
marily to your having drained the
natural nerve life from your nerves and
tissues, the result being imperfect cir-
culationand, consequently, onlypartially
nourished tissues.
We know the secret of this nerve
life, and how to replace it when it is
lost. Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belt lias astonished the
medical world, and so certain is its use
in these cases that it is sold on a
Guarantee refund plan. (We reserve
the right to refuse any case which we
do not care to guarantee.)
We presume you desire to get well.
Write or call on us, and let us give you
our candid opinion free of charge, and
we will advise you to, or not to, get the
Belt as the case may be.
100 W. Market St., Sydney
AWMW FEEXJVUfc
v\o s\vou\dto wttou\ \\, \ sex\t v ot\ recast.
p progress/ve d/eta/y ac/apted to c/>e grow/tp d/ffest/Ve powers.
Milk Food N9I I Milk Food N? 2 I Malted Food 1N93
fromfrt// to 3moatAs. I from 3to 6 mo/7 Ms I from 6moaMs upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure tke Nerves, Debility, Lost Powrer, Restore Lost
Will lUU e . the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
hey*see*u re the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair,
ioies fis & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
-iir.r Dll | Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOOD CUKE PILLS. Qravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and allßlood
Disorders BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course,
SifoOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
BLOOD , onmnlaints Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
Weak WomCll special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
PlU^ Cure Costtveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 SEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
Brancnes m HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
uiuc orTrn b tcuiltllN.
“•V*
SC
with 4 months
Altdicator, «lz«
3i Inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of- the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure! If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hav Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co.. 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
21
rtbutu
THE SKIN
f CLE AR
TRY IT -
AT OUR EXPENSE..
A DAINTY SAMPLE BOX: containing ]** of Creme
** Simon. Boa oC Powtlef. end Cake ol Soap* Knl 00
receipt ol 3d. in stamp* to Corel postage.
JOUBERT * JOUBERT. Melboemet CLAUDE BEALE • CO. *1 fill SL.
Brent;; « LOUIS JOUBERT. »l» Wellloitoe SI.. Psitfc. AOEWTS.
"Ask your Stationer for a_oamp(!£
maker!
William Mitchells!
3 WILLIAM
to MITCHELL’S
CD IST CLASSSHOU^ER
rtbutu
natural \
/ preparation.
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice
is not a concoction of artp \
ficially made chemical crystals.
is the pure juice of the famous
\ Indian Lime Fruit, specially /
*• cultivated for that purpose in /
\ the Island of Montserrat. /
The Lancet counsels
to drink.*


VICTORIA
Collins &
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
3955397 Hay Perlti fill
QUEENSLAND fy'
Queens Edward $?? Brisbane Y&
NEW ZEALAND
H 65143 QueenS?.
I S 3 LambtorvQuay. Wellington.
236 £235 High S* Christchurch .(
Princes S Dunedinj
/(o<,
Hi
£
CORNER, CEORnr ct sydh^
I
If ft's from ,
[Stewart Dawsons]
ifsgood.
Write
the
store nearest
you,
You can order anything on this page with every confidence—if it
does not please you in every way, return it and get your money.
Your request for return of money is just like a cheque on a bank.
We pay postages and guarantee safe delivery. Catalogues Free.
No. HB2s—lset. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll
Brooch, £1 10s
No. G446l—Strongly made Diamond and Ruby
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £3
No. G9oo3—Secret Photo.
Pendant, 9et. Gold, ±ll7s 6d
15ct. Gold and Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
No. G0367—15et. Gold and Fine Diamond
Set Brooch, £2los
No. G7657—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Set Photo. Pendant, £2
Plain Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
3 ??
No. G7913.—9ct. Gold Muff Chain, New Style, £4.
No. G9789—15ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Set Brooch, £5 10s
15et. Gold Single Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
Swan Fountain Pen.
All Solid Silver—Plain, 35s ; Chased, 455.
18ct. Gold-Filled—Plain, £2 ; Chased, £2 10s each, in Case.
No. G 6006. —15ct. Gold Two-bar and Filigree
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. G9395.—15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Brooch, £2.
No. G9922.—501id Silver Full Size Penholder, 10s 6d ; Plain, 8s 6d.
No. G733l.—Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold and Greenstone Heart,
£1 7s 6d ; Plain Greenstone
Hearts, 11/6, 13/6,15/6, 17/6.
No.
Gold King', Half-
Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s.
No. G9755.—15et. Gold and
Pearl Safety Pin, 80s.
No. F 5419—2 Dia-
monds, 3 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold and Dia-
mond Engagement
Ring, £l2 10s.
No. G92Bo—Faceted Link and Chased Bead 9ct. Gold Muff Chain, &i.
No. F3—lsct. Gold Rope Bar and Ball Muff Chain, £9 10s.
9ct., £5.
No. G9l93—Oct. Gold Faceted Secret Link Muff Chain, £4 4s
No. G2s2o—9ct. Gold Muff Chain, £2 17s 6d.
: II IQ
No. H6l3—lBct Gold,
Diamond & Sapphire
Ring, £2 10s.
NO.FB7lB—lBet.Gold,
Gem Set, 5 Row
Ring, £7 7s.
Special Value Solid Silver
Match Box, 7s 6d.
Initials or Name, Is extra.
%
/
%
w
X eWART DftWSB(, &
\
4
The Waterbury Watch for Men, Keyless,
Nickel Short Wind, 10s 6d.
No. G67s6—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold Heart, £2 ss.
Hi
No. G 6996 —Lovely
Sapphire Sec 15ct. Gold
Locket, £3 10s.
/
Keyless Steel Lever Watch, Durable and ]
Accurate, £1 ss. ,
No. G6742—9ct. Gold, Pearl and
Amethyst New Style Necklet,
£4 ; others, 455, 90s, 105 s.
stewartDawson&C‘
*,?•.** * r
No, P4B37—Pearl and Turquoise Studded 9ct.
Gold Heart and Necklet, £4 10s.
No. G67s4.—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold and Enamel
Pendant, £1 10s.
Jf'
No. GBB76—Fine Pearl
and Amethyst Pendant,
set in 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
No. H2o72—Nursery Rhyme Child’s Silver-plated
Cup. Sensible Style ; Substantial, and not
easily upset, 9s 6d.
No. Hls7l—Solid
Silver Vase. siin.,
12s 6d ; 6Jin., 14/6.
-r—W' 1 : - - aM . r :
y*3?&Sgg2®:*£
s&‘:
. ■ •
Case of Solid Silver Hair Brush and Comb,
215,• 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
The Grecian Key Gold Mounted Back Comb,
255. Other Styles, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s.
No. G 9428 —The Thistle Sugar and Cream Stand,
Best Silver-plate, £2 10s.
Silver-Mounted Shaving
Tidy, 10s 6d.
When You Visit London!
Meet Your Friands and
Fellow Australasians at
Stewart Dawson’s,
19, 20 & 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART DAY?SON & CO.
for the better reception of the many visitors to London from Australia. It is miles ahead of any building anywhere devoted to the Jewellery
business. Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and New Zealand Stores of all the new
things as they appear. There are Three Showrooms, Home Offices, Reception Rooms, Two Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
the least, a Bureau where you can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort, or have a glance at the Australian and New Zealand papers.
Ibis convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addressed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will al ways be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


Would Scratch and Tear the Flesh
Unless Hands Were Tied—Wasted
to a Skeleton—Grew Worse Under
Doctors—Skin Now Clear.
WOULD HAVE DIED
BUT FOR CUTICURA
“My little son, when about a year
and a half old, began to have sores
come out on his face. I had a p_hy-
"Sr
sician treat him,
but the sores grew
worse. Then they
began to come on
his arms, then on
other parts of his
body, and then one
came on his chest,
'worse than the
others. Then I call-
ed another physi-
cian. Still he grew worse. At the end
of about a year and a half of suffering
he grew so bad I had to tie his hands
in cloths at night to keep him from
scratching the sores and tearing the flesh.
“He got to be a mere skeleton, and
was hardly able to walk. My Aunt
advised me to try Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. So great was her faith in
them that she gave me a small piece of
Soap to try and a little of the Oint-
ment. I took it home without any
faith, but to please her I tried it, and
it seemed to dry up the sores a little.
“I sent to the drug store and got a
cake of the Soap and a box of the
Ointment and followed the directions,
and at the end of about two months
the sores were all well. He has
never had any sores of any kind since.
“He is now strong and healthy,
and I can say that only for the
Cuticura Remedies my precious child
would have died from those terrible
sores. I used only one cake of Soap
and about three boxes of Ointment.
Mrs. Egbert Sheldon, Woodville.Conn.,
April 22, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in tha
office of the Potter Drug St Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns St Co., Merchants,Sydney, N.S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Rumour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
insisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug it
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CSfMailed Free, “All About the Skin, Scalp and Hair.
address, K. Towns it Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
I IF YOU DON’T
LIKE THE HEAT
. . . WEAR . . .
Aertex Giiuto
. . . AND KEEP COOL.
“ AERTEX ” ventilates the body—lets out the heat
and keeps the skin dry and cool.
It prevents that uncomfortable warm feeling caused
by too closely woven underwear. It is beautifully
soft and will not irritate the most sensitive skin.
Doctors recommend it as the most healthy fabric
ever invented.
SHIRTS from 4s. ; SINGLETS from 2s. 6d.
Full Illustrated Price Lists and Samples Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
► freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how
splendidly, how easily, and how
thoroughly it cleans.
> Sold, by Local Chemists and Stores.
J Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng
Henry Skinner,
Ciareudon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10!$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT Ol' 1 TABU;. 1* UK.NISIIINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Hin.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
100,000
“THE WAY BACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
mm
A
W,
OF
M6O
An Agreeable
Mila and
’Efficacious
Laxative#
Gentle
Prompt
m Action %
acts pleasantly and promptly, cleanses
the system gently and effectually when
bilious or costive.
California Syrup of Figs is a positively reliable and at
the same time the most agreeable family remedy for
Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Depression, Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Headache,
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits. California Syrup
of Figs is strengthening and invigorating-not weaken-
ing and lowering, as most ordinary pills and purgatives
are. There is no discomfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are
healthful regularity and freedom from dangerous
impurities in the system. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FI
SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
—— ■" pmWM
rtbutu
The “
made of p
durable, r<
Price 2/6,
The
Son of a Gun” Squirt Pistol
Will stop the most
vicious dog- (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
I n valuable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
dished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
aliable, and economical novelties ever produced,
or post free anywhere for 2/9.
“Joker” Trick Match Box
■MjWBOISNH
a
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
arid then
closed,
and, to
the
amaze-
your friends, upon re-opening the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7d. post free.
PUZZLE PURSES.— Superior quality leather and
strong nickel frames. Price, post free anywhere,
1/9 and 2/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbi ters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free an vwhere.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
The Look and Laugh Glass*
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing:
Camara furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, tram's, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Novelties.
Write for Price List B.
The Demon Rattle Box Trie It.
The Laughing Camera.
rtbutu
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Rings,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ROCKY CREEK” and
“ CURRANGANDI,”
BARRABA DISTRICT, N.S. WALES.
SUBDIVISION SALE, by order of the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Executors of the Will of the late JOHN ARNDELL.
About 25 miles from Barraba, to which a railway is being constiucted.
AVERAGE RAINFALL—26 INCHES.
The above Properties will be submitted to PUBLIC AUCTION at
Mechanics Institute, Barraba, on THURSDAY, 14th MARCH, 1907,
AT NOON, on the following liberal terms :—One Quarter Cash. One Quarter in Iwo
Years, and balance at end of a further period of Three Years, with Interest meantime
payable Quarterly at 4| per cent., commencing one month from date ot sale.
“Rocky Creek”
comprises an area of 3,207
acres, Freehold, with sub-
stantial Brick Dwelling,
Wood Shed, Hay Shed, Outbuildings and Yards, TO BE SOLD
IN ONE LOT. Homestead situated in charming position at
foot of large fertile valley, surrounded by large ranges and spurs.
Elevation about 2,800 feet. Climate and Rainfall, Good.
“Currangandi”
Subdivided into Fourteen
Lots in areas ranging from
500 to 2,700 acres, compris-
ing Freeholds, C.P.’s and C.L.’s ; the various allotments cleaily
pegged out by the Surveyors. The land is eminently suited for
MuTed Farming. Watered by the Horton River and several
creeks and wells. Timber—Box, Apple and Gum.
“CTTRRANGANDI.” —Intending purchasers desiring to inspect should communicate
with Mr. S. H. Nicholson, at “ROOKY CREEK,” via COBBEDAH.
For full description of each Block, see Lithographs.
via COBBEDAH.
For further particulars apply—
Messrs. Hill. Clark & Co., Sydney.
Messrs. Garven & Cousens, Tamworth.
Arthur Bull, Bingara, or \
C. G. Williams, Barraba. f
Agents in
conjunction.
PLANT AND FURNITURE will be SOLD AT “ ROCKY CREEK ” about Three Weeks later.
LIVE STOCK
OSTRICH TIPS
rtbutu
From the Famous
Farms of
South Africa.
Black,White,
Cream and
Black tipped
with White.
C , the Bunch,
\J / ~ Post Free.
Two Superior Black Tips
Length 10 inches.
Worth twice the Money.
Write To-day. Send Postal
Note. Illustrated Price List sen t Free
MILLER’S FEATH ER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Ths Bulletin.
KEENER
■UNS
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.’*
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6)000,000 RABBIT .SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & 00.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Ke- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1901 .. £3137 15 t>.c. =£lBBs £1252 £44,153
Dec., 1901 .. 2494 15 ~ „ 1885 609 44,702
June, 1902.. 2660 15 ~ ~ 1885 775 45,537]
Dec., 1902 .. 3499 15 „ „ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903.. 2778 15 „ „ 2574 204 47,060
Dec., 1903 .. 3280 15 ~ ~ 2969 311 47,371
June, 1904.. 3309 15 ~ ~ 3264 45 47,416
Dec., 1904.. 3630 15 ~ ~ 3312 318 47,734
Share premiums and suspense items 3309 51,043
June, 1905.. 3835 15 „ ~ 3375 460 51,503
Dec., 1905.. 3544 15 „ 3375 169 51,672
June, 1906 .. 4111 15 „ „ 3375 736 52,408
Dec., 1906.. 4560 15 ~ ~ 3375 1185 53,593
The profit and loss account shows just enough net profit
to pay the dividend ; the balance of revenue over ex-
penditure is transferred to the various reserve accounts.
These reserves have moved this way :
Dec.,’ol. June,’o6. Dec.,’o6.
Reserve (general) .. £14,500 - £20,010 £20,660
Renewal plant, &c... 24,475 29,675 30,325
ivleters.. .. .. 5,205 1,063 923
Insurance .. .. 225 450 475
Undivided profit .. 357 1,210 1,210
Capital in the five years has been called up from £25,128
to £45,000. The amount added to reserve for renewals
in the same period is £5850, which doesn’t seem
excessive, cdhsidering that “ works, apparatus and
landed property ” stand at £77,144. Still, many
renewals may have been made and paid for out
of revenue ; also, there’s the general reserve to
look at, though the increase there has been nearly
counter-balanced by the shrinkage of the meter re-
serve. In connection with a gas co., as with every
other sort of eo. whose assets consist largely of property
subject to rust and worms, there are many things that
the balance-sheet can’t tell—which, anyhow, it doesn’t
tell till the information isn’t much use. Only a general
id a can be formed at the best as to whether enough pro-
vision is being made to meet decay ; often no idea at all
can be formed. This co.’s total reserves (including the
reserves for the renewal of the partly worn-out plant,
&c.) now amount to very nearly 70 per cent, of the whole
capital sunk in works, &c.; and nearly £25,000 of it is in
liquid assets. Altogether, the position is unusually
strong.
* * * •
Manly Gaslight and Coke Co. (N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £238
1902 ..£1497 7 p.c. =£loso £4OO ' £47 285
1903 .. 1445 7£„ ~ 1125 400 205
1904 .. 1830 8 ~ ~ 1200 400 230 435
1905 .. 2093 8 „ ~ 1200 650 243 678
1906 .. 2838 9 ~ ~ 1498 1340 2018
The system of presenting the accounts has been changed ;
and the figures above may be wrong. It is this way :
Hitherto certain sums have been written off ; in that case
they didn’t appear as reserves. Twelve months ago a
start was made to build up formal reserves ; out of the
profits £4OO was appropriated, and £278 was carried
forward —total reserves £678. But at the same time £450
was appropriated to be written off various accounts.
Now, without any special appropriations, the re-
serve funds lumped together have sprung up
to £l4OO, and nothing has been written off. In
other w'ords, the reserve fund isn’t now altogether a
real reserve, but is simply a provision, in whole or part,
for actual depreciation ; and it is doubtful whether the
£450 provided last year hasn’t been included. If so, the
profits are £450 less than shown above. And, in any
case, they are not true profits, as they have to bear a
deduction for wear and tear. Seeing that the form of
the accounts has been altered, the directors ought to
have made some explanation. The profit and loss account
indicates a profit of £1676 ; this is after providing for
depreciation, &c. On that basis £l7B was added to real
reserves last year ; total, £856, leaving the balance (£1162)
of the so-called reserves available to represent rust and
decay. Twelve months ago the co. had liabilities £2869
in excess of liquid assets ; the excess is now £2403 —
before paying the half-year’s dividend in each case. For
the latter half of the year the div. was put up from 4 per
cent, (for the half-year) to 5 per cent.
* « * *
The Broken Hill Prop, is experimenting with
magnetic separators. The normal assay of the zinc con-
centrates is about 42 p.c. ; a unit of zinc is now worth
over 55., so an addition of 10 units to the assay value of
concentrates would practically double their selling value.
It would pay to lose a much larger proportion of the zinc
in the tailings, in order to secure a higher grade concen-
trate. Poor concentrates are just as expensive to ship
and treat as higher grade stuff. In America zinc ore
worked up to 60 p.c. fetches over £8 per ton.
Ex-Governor Kintore, chairman of the Sulphide
Corporation, made some remarks at that co.’s meeting
about zinc-treatment and profits ; he said that the
profits might be taken roughly at £1 per ton of zinc con-
centrates. At this rate, as it took 104,772 tons tailings
and middlings to make 37,231 tons of zinc concentrates,
the profit was at the rate of about 7s. Id. per ton of tail-
ings and middlings. More than half the stuff dealt with
was middlings, which run about 25 percent, more silver
and lead than the tailings ; so it looks as though 6s. per
ton for tailings is full value. As a matter of fact, that is
what the co. got for the tailings it sold straight out.
And 6s. is a long way off the £1 a ton profit that London
has been hearing so much about.
* * • *
At long intervals, like those wdiich elapse
between drinks, the lethargy of the N.S.W. North Coast
dairy-farmer is disturbed by reported discoveries of gold.
Some time ago what was locally considered payable stone
was obtained near Mullumbimby, but an assay made in
Sydney showed that, although there were traces of gold
and silver, it wasn’t a payable find. So once more the
district, which was beginning to know the meanings of
such words as syndicate, scrip and assay, has gone back
to its old cow-attitude.
* k * m
Engineer (Jorin, commissioned by Queensland
Government to report upon the utilisation of the power
of the Barron Falls, estimates that the capital cost of
plant for utilising 50 cubic feet per second to develop
3500 e.h.p. at the generator’s termina s would be
£BO,OOO, with £lO,OOO annual cost; for utilising 150 cubic
feet per second to develop 10,500 e.h.p., capital cost
would be £129,000, with £15,000 annual cost. Ordinarily,
the flow over the falls is not less than 150 cubic feet per
second ; but in an exceptionally dry season 50 cubic feet
per second may be relied on ; so that if the higher-
powered plant is installed, storage will be necessary.
Proposed uses of power are for lighting and power at
Cairns, electrical operation of Cairns railway, driving
sugar-mills, the manufacture of calcium carbide, electro-
metallurgy, and copper smelting. The present mills will
naturally stick to steam until existing plants are worn
out, but new mills and new local railways would be cer-
tain to instal the new' power. There are many difficulties
at present in the way of the payable utilisation of the
power, but the Barron Falls scheme—which will neces-
sarily include storage at two or three points on the
Barron—must grow into fact. Apparently it will be a
State-owned scheme —the first Socialistic power works of
the sort in Australia.
* » * *
In the Brilliant Extended’s deep ground the
further out the levels get on the western side from the
No. 3 underlay, the poorer the stone gets. No. 12 is
being pushed out to the Deep Levels boundary, so that
that co. can connect for ventilation. This level is the
furthest out, and has followed the course of the reef for
600 ft. For half that distance the stone has been whitish,
with rare splashes of mineral. No. 13 we6t level is out
436 ft., with 3ft. of valueless white stone in the face and
backs. Close to the underlay there is payable stone
showing. Th' se western levels were to open up a fresh
patch of untried ground that lies below the No. 2 and
the No. 4 underlays. The latter is being sunk on 2ft. of
low-grade mineral stone.
* * * *
Two prospectors, working under the directions
of Humphrey Berkley, of Suva, have lately been on the
hunt for miscellaneous minerals in the district of
Noikaro, Colo West. Fiji. One specimen looks like
graphite, and others carrying copper and gold have been
secured. The result of parcels sent to Sydney was such
that an Adelaide expert thought it worth while to inspect
several propositions, and authority to start work has
been applied for.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
CO
yj
i i i
Tlx© Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
chronic, nor Consumption to develop.
° 7 » au U ancugiu iu me vuice, anci it neitner allows a tougn or Astnn
Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine
/£innill£ SL dose is J?6nerallv Rnffiripnf nnrl a rnmnlpfp C* nro ic oortoi
No house
’ . —.iicvci uccii Known 10 exist wnere nave
be without it, as. taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain
Imitations . The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get if
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
W * G ‘ HEARNE » Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc Hy.
IMOTICE.~ Hearne,S Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
- the youngest child and the most aged person.
«fo r
F„tUTP
&
mm
KlßisinfectingiM
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRAGRANT,
NOMOOJSONOUB.
1/-
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Blck Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers .
The “SANITAS ” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1698.
CURBS"
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
i
rtbutu
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illuttrated Lists of Books and Novelties
A
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
POLICY fou the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
rtbutu
rtbutu
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color,because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Cl"
a
BOUAKDSFoR
THEMOME •
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards cas: 1/maintains its indis-
putable position as the King 1 of Indoor
games. Aicock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to bo placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOC K.<SlCo.
422 GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
AND
mtuimm*
MELbOURTiE.
Beautiful Home Decorations
rtbutu
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
„ "SAPOIiIIV” I<XOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation,
imlhant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“S.ll’Ori.V” AH'llivum KMMKI, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver fiuish.
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPASESE GOLB PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in litis climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT at
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
&
m
&
An
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Bros., Sydney; Felioin, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
The Pipe
Without a Rival
Thestandard of Quality
in Briar Pipes.
obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
RHEUMATISM 1
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/gperbox
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
GOUT
pAT FOLKS
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars iree. Address—
J AS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can beoome a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and attectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
and learn to Hypnotize. Kemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
nackage of other valuable, interesting,
* . .e in.-.r.+fn+o'l 1 ilpra+.nrA wi+.Vi-
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime
Write to-day.
Address—
g>rof. R. H. BARRADEN, ay Pitt St., Bydn«T
rtbutu
rtbutu


the Stomach.
Nothin 0, will relieve indigestion that doesn t
digest the food itself, and give the stomach a
' ' You can’t reasonably expect that any weak
stomach will regain its strength and get well
when it is compelled to do the full work that a
sound stomach should do. .
You wouldn’t expect a sick horse to get well
when it is compelled to do a full day’s work every
day of the week.
Your stomach must have rest.
But it isn’t necessary to starve yourself in
order to rest your stomach.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are a perfect
digestant. They will digest all of the food you
eat, regardless of the condition of the stomach.
Digest ULhaf you eat.
A Positive Cure for Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Flatulence, Headache,. Water Brash,
Belching of biausea, Gastritis, Heartburn
and all troubles arising from indigestion and non-
assimilation of the food.
“ For three years I suffered severely from indigestion, and
it was not until I started to take Dr. Sheldon's Digestive Tabules
that I found any relief. Now lam happy to say lam completely
cured. “Agnes Northrop, Glassop-street, Balmain, N.S.W.”
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
SOLD IN TINS CONTAINING
80 TABULES 2/6 Per Tin.
Make the
STOMACH
SWEET
Sold Everywhere or post free
upon receipt of price. SHELDON
DRUG C0.,15 O’Connell St., Sydney
CURES.
Bright’s Disease.— From Mr. William John Yuille, Harveytown. Eaglehawk,
Bendigo, Vic., Ist Sopteml er ’ towed the hospital doct ors and nurses, 1
th. doctors to.ing diagrosed oogpUm. “f f
pvemeupasincurable andgaveme but f k m father did not wish me to die in the
hospita to.my home “ yBe i f that there was hope whilst there was life and, unlike my
hospital. -But It '. • r\ n tu vvav horne my father procured a bottle of Warner s Safe
friends, I did not give up in despair. On the wayf had under gone on the way. My
b ' , ] t’. °i n - a^ r ihat the Safe Cure would dome no harm if it did me no good, gave me a small dose,
father, thinking that the Sate j felt a ij tt i e better, the agonising pain being
continuing to , d “ 1 X and was soon able to get a little rest and sleep,
less severe, 1 continued to take a antie friends began to have hopes of my ultimate
and my strength very giActual 1} returned. _ My health steadily improved. Each
b-a^-jCTT;j sas. abl CJ e B Siljt,
for six years have been in constant employment on
the mines.”
Bladder Disease.-Erom Mr. E. H. White, 37 Errol-street, West Footsoray. Vic.,
in my bad.. A C.
cipitated in my water. Atfreqnent mter.alsXsnfferec j commenoed l 0
that I was not able to get.abouta lined a.number ofn.ediciwe coodili w „
b^“dSir„d d ssss&lj** «- «-*«
troubles.”
Liver Disease.-From Mrs. Mary Maher, 18 Burrahpore-street, Sydney, N.S.W .
ease and comfort.”
Rheumatism.— From Mrs. Mary Regelsford, 84 Gerard-street, Alexandria, N.S.W.,
“I wiflSd'upwitTfcute Rheumatism and Rheumatic Fever for eievenw-eclrs, and for eight
doctor°but afte^tekinglins 11 medicine^mly^got^elief 3 fora little while. \ then thought a change might
do me good so I wen? away and while awly I got so bad that we called in another doctor He pre-
scribed^for me but I only seemed to get temporary relief. I also tried many professed cures for Rheu-
matism both internal and external, but could get no relief whatever. I was beginning to get very
down-hearted after trying so many medicines. Finally I made up my mind to take Warner s Safe
Cure Altogether I took seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and one bottle of V arner s Safe Rheu-
matic Cure After taking the second bottle I began to feel a change, so I persevered with the treat-
SSt and found that I wfs improving with every dose I took. The result was that I was thoroughly
cured. I can honestly say that I feel like a new woman, being now able to attendto my ®°ua®
duties, washing included. You are at liberty to use this letter as you like, so as to benefit others who
may suffer as I have.”
A pamphlet containing many similar letters will be sent, post free, by H. H. Warner and Co.,
Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne, proprietors of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
"Fakamotu” (Island Fashion).
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
fJIHIS is a word I found one time, one happy
■ time, when roaming
Where “ Holy Tonga’s” reef-fenced isles
break blue seas into foaming.
It is a word condensing all the Island ways of
With one* *“ tabloided ” summary a whole induc-
tion giving.
It is a word that signifies a lot, or yet a little.
Read as you please, it maybe makes the Ten Com-
mandments brittle;
Read as you please, again, perhaps, it marks the
straight path surely,
The mission-man may with it point the narrow
pathway purely.
All that it means you think you know to-day, and
then, O sorrow !
All that you knew was yesterday ; more meanings
meet the morrow.
So it goes on. More diverse still you find the
weird word waxing,
Your memory, your patience, and your compre-
hension taxing.
It may be used to tell of fear, greed, valor, pride
and passion ;
Hate and despair, mirth, mournfulness, as shown
in “Island fashion” ;
Faith, and dear hope, and charity, and kindness
never-ending,
Virtue and vice, man’s deeds and moods, in one
strange mixture blending.
Cause and effect within it dwell, and life, death,
health and illness;
Din of a pagan jamboree, the “Christian
Sabbath’s ” stillness;
Alpha and Omega in one, the sum of native
learnings;
Tongan humanity’s excuse for all its pranks and
yearnings.
He that has drunk may deprecate by “ fakamotu ’
pleading ;
He that has loved not wisely can thus shrive his
love exceeding ;
He that has done the blushful things, and left un-
done the others.
Finds a sure lenity in blame from men who feel as
brothers.
He that is “good” is saintly, too, most strictly
“ fakamotu ”
Which in his case means all-day church, or, as he
calls it, “ lotu ” ;
Housed happily therein with smug reflections on
his neighbors,
Just in the dear and orthodox old style of pious
labors.
Never this word’s true like was seen: absolving
and far-fetching,
’Tis handy for a constant use, I don’t know one
more stretching.
Grasped, it will keep for reference, for palliative
pleading,
When any right or any wrong is explanation
needing.
And, as each hide-bound day drags past, I come
to see more clearly
Howl should like to live again all “ fakamotu’’
merely ;
How I should like to live to love my neighbor,
and his daughter,
And learn of him the Island ways, and teach her—
what I taught her.
N.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.
The Full Moon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The moon rose large and red behind a
ridge of clear timber.
The Cocky’s wife bustled to the door
of the slab-hut, put her hands to her mouth, and
called shrilly, “ Su-pper! Su-pp-err!” Cow-
time was over. Father and the boys scrambled
up the steep hill. They had put in a big day
cuttin’ scrub, shiftin’ logs, burnin’ rubbish,
fencin’, trappin’, and chasin’ off lories that were
playin’ Old Harry with what they called the
“ cultivation ” paddock ; and now, after milkin’,
they were all dog-tired, hungry, and irritable.
After supper, which consisted of warmed-up
corned beef, smokin’ spuds, and five pints of tea
apiece, they went outside to cool off.
When mother had emptied the debris into the
pigwash and had taken it to the “sooks,” she
noticed that the moon was at its full. It shone
like a gorgeous balloon among the clear trees.
Mother seemed suddenly to remember something,
and rushed back to the hut.
“Bill-ee,” she cried, “come an’ git your hair
cut.” Billy was the youngest son, a ginger-
headed, casual imp, aged nine. Before he could
duck and take to the timber, mother grabbed
him by the scruff of the neck and dragged him
inside.
“Keep quiet, can’t yer!” she said, as she
planked him on a box, clapped a puddin’ basin on
his bobbin’ head, and brandished the shears.
She clipped his ginger locks where they stuck
out like hay from a manger, pressin’ hard on the
bowl during the process. Billy howled, and got
biffed (because he wakened the baby) before he
was turned loose, rubbing his sore head.
“Charlee, it’s your turn.”
Charley was a yob of 15, who acted as rouse-
about at nothin’ a week to the old man.
“Stop sulkin’,” said mother, as Charley, who
had done two bullocks’ graft that day, sat and
glowered on the barber’s chair.
“Ain’t a cove to git a spell sometime?” he
grunted.
He needed it, but mother, choppin’ vigorous y
with the dull scissors, broke out: “What o you
wanter spell fer, yer big, lazy slab. Look at me .
W’en do I git er spell ? Don’t move your head or
yer’ll git jabbed. Washin’, scrubbm , bakm ,
churnin’, mornin’ an’ night—l’m butcher, an
baker, an’ tailor, an’ barber, too, w’en I git ttier
change.”
She gave a final wrench at his shaggy mane >
and then shoved him outside. Charley sat down
on the step and dully watched father loping for
the stables. }>
Mother looked round. “Dad, dad, she
bawled. “Come ’ere, dad, I want yer. Some
minutes later Dad’s bulky frame was seen crawl-
in’ up the hill, like a sheep to the slaughter,
was only seein’ if the old ’orst was alright, he
explained. ~
“ Don’t yer see it’s full moon? said mother,
as she started shearing dad.
Dad had to hear it all over again.
Mother’s gran’-dad had been a sailor (a sea-
captain, she said), chock-full of sea lore and salt
junk superstition. He must have got moon-
struck one night, for ever after he held unbounded
faith in the mystic properties of the orb of night.
Everything he did, or partly did, or thought of
doing but didn’t do, on sea or land, he timed and
calculated by the moon. He maintained that
things grew up with the moon, and got
and dwindled as the moon waned. “Gran-dad
had a very great brain,’’ said mother, who had
become imbued with the astrological traditions of
the family. ' , ,
Mother also religiously observed the phases of
the moon. She grafted fruit, planted slips, killed
pigs, cut the family hair —all in due season,
thereby receivin’ valuable assistance from that
useful luminary. . ,
“Sit still, father!” she remonstrated with
father, who wriggled as some harsh hair trickled
down his spine. The scissors were dead blunt by
this time, but she snapped and hacked and sawed
valiantly at father’s tough, wiry hair in order to
reap the benefit of the full moon. .
Father turned round to laugh, and got a jab in
the neck with the shears. He roared like a bull,
but mother held him down. She was shocked and
disgusted. , , , .
“Shut up!” she cried. “ Yer don’t know how
busy I am. I ’aven’t a minit ter spare, day an
night. I can’t waste all me time cuttm’ ’air. If
I cut it at ther new moon it ’id want cuttin’ agen
in another fortnight. Ye or’ter ’ave more con-
sideration. Now,” —and. she smiled with business-
like satisfaction—“ now, I won’t ’ave ter touch it
fer two months.” . .
Father, holding his head in both hands, slunk
outside. He cursed the full moon that winked
wickedly from behind the mysterious ridge of
dead timber. _ _
LOUIS ESSEN.
City o’ Dreams.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAR down south lies my City o’ Dreams.
You may know it—you may even live in
it. Perhaps when a gust of fierce north-
easter has wrapped you in an embrace of banana
skins, dust and straw, you have cursed it—but
then again, perhaps it isn’t your City o’ Dreams.
You see I love it. From the miles of box trees
that form my prison, my thoughts wing longingly
to that fair city by the bluest harbor in the
world. A certain kind of poet is always
writing from his city den (always a den)
of the charm of the bush, of the joy of
riding in the dawn, and of the girls that
are waiting for you by the stockyard rails.
I never had a girl waiting forme at the stockyard
rails. I am not a bard, and so prefer another
place to woo at. Also, I have never been able to
find the “charm ”of the bush. I have searched
for it for years and only found ants, mosquitoes,
snakes, and dreariness unspeakable.
When, after the fever heat of day, the night
wind comes sighing through the grey brigalows,
the sound brings to me an aching memory of the
faint whinny of the harbor ponies rushing on the
shores of innumerable bays.
When the moon shines through the shadows of
the trees I think of the long paths of light
stretching from shore to shore, every now
and then cut across by the ripples in the wake of
a passing boat. The clinking of the horse-bells
in the scrub seems like a faint echo of the tram-
bells as they rush down hill to the broad, square
wharf. I can even see the blind man playing his
organ there, his body swaying to and fro like a
pendulum, and I can hear the hoarse whistle of
the engine waiting at the station for its share of
the incoming boat’s cargo.
I would give a good deal to form one of the
jostling, imDatient crowd waiting like a herd of
wild animals for the opening of the early doors. I
think I would be happy if I could only form one
of that hot, happy multitude that will presently
be eating stale chocolates and peanuts, and drink-
ing long lemon squashes from smeary glasses.
For I would be in a theatre—what matter where?
One whiff of its concentrated odor of orange peel,
stale cigars, cachou, violet, peppermint and hu-
manity would be far sweeter to me than the
“ glad' fragrance of the dawn” I read of in bush
ballads. . , ~ ,
The hot, glaring pavements, the strident
notes of a street singer, stuffy shops, with
the dear, indescribable smell of many books,
the Gardens—they all call me with many voices.
I can even find it in my heart to long for a certain
cafe, beloved of Bohemian friends of mine, where
they throw bread-crumbs from the windows to
the inhabitants of the water below, and where
one eats one’s fish to the tune of squeaky violins
and the noise of the boats bumping against the
piles of the pontoon.
I think of my City o’ Dreams as I last saw it—
one April morning of tears, many weary months
ago. A moving curtain of grey driving ram veiled
the harbor as the train toiled up the cuttings on
its journey to the lonely land beyond. I like to
think you were weeping for me —my crowned
queen of memory.
But my dearest memories are of summer after-
noons spent lazily pulling about the sheltered
ultramarine and emerald-green waters of nameless
bays and headlands.
Ah ! City o’ Dreams ! Above all, for that won-
drous sapphire heart of yours I long—the heart
that sooner or later calls your wandering children
home wherever their vagrant feet have gone.
B. CECIL DOYLE.


- - MISHAPS OF—=,
CHILDHOOD.
Healthy youngsters seem to be “ always in
the wars ** catting and knocking themselves
about and sustaining bruises and gashes,
the sight of which often make their
mothers turn their heads in horror* Just
what every home needs is Zam-Buk. A pot
of this Balm and a bandage on a handy
shelf, where they are ready for immediate
use, save untold pain, time and money.
Mrs. C. Hedges, Cash Store, Ilaveiis-
wood, Queensland, says: “ I have used
your Zam-Buk Balm on my little daughter
for cuts and bruises, and it gives me plea-
sure to testify to its valuable healing
qualities. The effect of the first applica-
tion was very soothing, and continuing to
apply it, the child’s wounds were speedily
healed. 1 have also tested its powers on
myself for a deep wound in the .'pot, caused
by a nail, which obstinately refused to
heal, but Zam-Buk effected a thorough
cure. I have recommended Zam-Buk
Balm to my friends, and its success has been
equally pronounced.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk, [
ZAM-BUK BALM, the WORLD’S GREATEST
HEALER, SPEEDILY CURES PILES
Running SORES, SORE
LEGS, ANKLES, FEET, or BACKS RING-
WORM, BARCOO, &c. As an EMBROCATION
for STRALNED MUSCLES and TENDONS,
TT^;^V^’ T r^ ed well into the parts affected, is
UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM
CUTS BURNS, BRUISES, CHILDREN’S
SORES, BLACKHEADS and PIMPLES, ZAM-
BUK is INVALUABLE.
lam-Buk
J
%
a
aSi
“It's
getting
better I
The merits of Zam-
Buk are recognised by
doctors and. nurses.
It is invaluable for all
injuries to, and
diseases of, the skin.
PRICE 1/8, or 3/0 Large
Pot for Family Use
(containing nearly
four times the 1/6), or
post free from The.
Zam-Buk Co., 39. Pitt
Street, Sydney.
9
it
Russia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
m HERE are many kinds of Russias : there’s
the Russia of the stage,
Of the cables, and the fables of the
“shilling shocker’s ’’ page;
And we’ve often idly wondered in a desultory
way
Which on earth of all the Russias is the Russia
of to-day.
There’s the Russia that we read of in our little
books at school,
Where the serfs were always groaning underneath
an “iron rule”;
Where the wolves were always howling through
the watches of the night.
And the snow was always falling, and the world
was always white.
I was a land of grim romances of a terrifying kind.
Which possessed a fascination for the undeveloped
mind,
And we liked the thrills of terror which came
creeping down our back
As we read of sledging tourists with the wolves
upon their track.
How we shuddered at the horror of the reckless
race with death!
Saw the monsters’ eye-balls glitter, felt their hot
and foetid breath!
And with mad excitement followed all the details
of the run
As the driver cut the traces of the horses one by
one !
T 1 en we sighed with satisfaction when the final
page was read,
And the post-house lights were gleaming, and the
tourists weren’t dead.
But we doubt with much misgiving, now our hair
is turning grey,
If the Russia of our childhood is the Russia of
to-day.
Take the Russia of the drama—Oh ! we know the
mise-en-scene
And the march of weary captives o’er the white
and windy plain ;
While the snow-flakes blurr the landscape, and
starvation thins their ranks,
And a band of scowling Cossacks hovers ever on
their flanks.
Still this venerable drama wends and wobbles on
its way,
And the mauld and fluff of ages gets encrusted on
the play.
And the interest wanes, and wanders, and mean-
ders round about
A proscribed and captive maiden, and a Cossack,
and a knout.
She’s the spirit and the centre of a Nihilistic lot,
A.nd she s broody as a bantam when she’s hatching
out a plot;
While her pa has an ambition, which he drives
like Jehu’s car,
To lodge some high explosive in the brisket of the
Czar.
But her amiable parent is a captive in the mines,
Doing time in expiation of political designs j
He’s a picturesque old party, and lie’s something
of a crank,
But we always weep sincerely when we hear his
fetters clank.
Yes, we know this sort of drama, and, though
rather overdone,
It appeals to lots of people, and it always has a
run;
But, although we love it dearly, still we’re doubt-
ful in a way
If the Russia of the drama is the Russia of to dav
There s the Russia of the novels—it’s a spacious
field indeed
That the writer of the “shocker” has to cover
with his screed,
And he screws our expectations to the very
highest pitch
While he thrills us with the story of Ivan
Ivanovitch.
He can scarcely overdo it, so he needn’t be
afraid;
He may splash the local color ’’ on the picture
with a spade,
He may spread it with a shovel, or a besom, or a
hoe.
If his paint is thick and lurid—why, his book is
bound to go.
He creates a charming countess, and a prince or
two, or more,
And some vodka-swilling “ moojiks,” and police-
men by the score—
For a moojik reeks of vodka as a sailor reeks
of tar.
And policemen swarm like rabbits, ’neath the
aegis of the Czar.
When he starts to build a countess, sure he doesn’t
scamp the job—
foie’s a dainty sort of daisy, you can bet your
bottom bob—
She’s as lovely as a houri, she’s as wicked as a
witch,
And she casts her roving optics on Ivan Ivanovitch.
She has barrow-loads of lovers, and they mob her
in the street,
And the Counts who call to see her mostly perish
at her feet,
And French domestic who attends to
her bouditfr,
Gets sweeping fragments of her lovers
from the floor.
He constructs a few conspirators, who make
things pretty hot,
And he keeps his cast a-movin’ while he worries
out his plot,
And he sets ’em all intriguing till, with infinite
finesse,
He contrives to get the hero in a devil of a mess.
Then he brings along more women, for he knows
his way about—
Say, a maid or two of honor, and a maid or two
without—
And some Captains, and a Colonel, bronzed and
bearded, with a star,
And he makes ’em snug and social round the
steamingsamovar.”
Yes, he does all this, and does it most particu-
larly well,
And the publishers can tell us how the “shilling
shockers ” sell,
And we buy ’em, and we like ’em, but we
shouldn’t care to say
That the Russia of the novel is the Russia of to-
day.
But the Russia of the cables—that’s another pair
of shoes !
We acquire some vague impressions from the
“specials” in the Noose,
And the principal impression they have left on us
so far
Is that life is too explosive in the country of the
Czar.
Very vivid are the notions we have gradually
gleaned
From perusing the concoctions of the cable-
grammic fiend,
And among ’em are convictions that in Russia
you will find
There is too much “Little Father” of the step-
paternal kind;
lhat a noble goes to breakfast in an armor-plated
suit;
That there’s dynamite for dinner in the flowers
or in the fruit ;
That when wearied out with dodging the stilettos
and the lead,
There are bombs instead of pillows in his cosy
little bed;
That it s hard to run a paper in the country of
the Czar,
V itli a bobby standing sentry as you hammer out
a “ par”;
While located in your office, just to see what
you’re about.
Stands a grim and grimy Cossack with a sabre
and a knout.
But perhaps the “ leaded ” details in the dailies
that we see
Ain’t as perfectly convincing as they’re reallv
meant to be ; '
And the smallest odds in roubles we'd be disin-
clined to lay
lhat the Russia of the cables is the Russia of
to-day.
Still we’ve come to the conclusion that we’re
better where we are;
Vedont want to go selectin’in the country of
the Czar,
And the sum of our convictions, in a gen’ral sort of
way,
Is that life is too exciting in the Russia of to-day.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.
Thompson’s Cigar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY had come from the billiard-room
and taken seats on the hotel balcony.
“ Now,” said Bryce.
“You mentioned Thompson,” said Jocelyn,
“and wanted to hear something about his death.
I didn’t like to go on with the subject before the
others, but I don’t mind telling you what I
know.”
“ It was about a girl ? ”
“ It was.”
“ Did you know her ? ”
“Well, yes, Fanny James. She was barmaid
at old Andy Fleming’s, of the Miner’s Rest, when
I met her. That cigar of yours brings back
Thompson. No one ever saw Thompson with-
out a cigar in his mouth, except when at meals
or asleep. We were good enough friends,
but he got the better of me with the girl. I went
down to the creek to look for ducks one evening,
and was crawling along stealthily, when I came
right in view of Thompson and Fanny standing
under a gum, he with his arms around her neck,
and their heads together. There was the con-
founded cigar smoking in his mouth. I felt
savage, but nearly laughed, and as I drew back
without letting myself be noticed, I wished her
luck of the sweetheart who had no better use for
his mouth on such an occasion.”
“ Did she string you on ? ”
“I won’t say. I never let myself think. I left
that part next day and saw neither beauty for a
period of five years. Here comes the incident
you have hinted at. I got off the coach at
the Miner’s Rest, and walked up the hill.
I had put a few questions to the driver as
we came along, and from him I learned that
Thompson and his wife—for he married her—had
soon parted. They quarrelled up hill and down
dale. Thompson had cleared out, and she was
dressmaking and nursing, and making her living
in various ways.
“I had no wish to meet her, but half-way up
the hill whom should I see near the windlass at
an old working but a pair of figures that I at once
set down as Thompson and Fanny ! If they had
studied it they couldn’t have better reproduced
the old situation at the creek. There were the
arms about the neck, the heads together, and the
confounded cigar still smoking.
“I see you throw away your cigar. I confess
I can’t bear one in my mouth since then. But
there was the picture; and I stood as if rivetted
to the spot, staring at what was either an
hallucination or an amazing coincidence. As I
stared there came a flash, his head seemed to
jump and dissolve, and a crash and roar followed.
“That was the end of the pair. It was a
horrible butchery. The cigar, on that occasion,
was an explosive of his own manufacture. He
had pretended a reconciliation, and was just
telling her he loved her as much as ever when it
went off. She lived to tell that much. I tried to
be sorry for her, but somehow I couldn’t.”
“Nor can I. She married me before she
married Thompson,” said Bryce.
OBY.


Boils, Pimples, Rashes-all eruptions of
skin cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strength-restorer. Read Mr. .
Sinkinson’s strong words in its praise. His ph
graph is also given. from indigestion ,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
but I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties
b F J. Sinkinson, Unley, S. A,
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. The
you will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force into the nervous system. And it fortifies
againsfhot weather, cold weather, or changeable weather.
It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsapa-
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitatio ns fas
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla- AYER 5. a
tonic for all seasons of the ydar.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEE & CO. s Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A-
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
rtbuturtbutu
FR
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward yo 1' fi P a packe t. When you
of our colored and high art Post Cards to ’ for your trouble any present
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send ,y<yu t ' continuinff t £ e sa l e
you may choose from the list of jewellery w Watch aucB Chain. Remember, we
of our cards you can eam a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Wateh and isfact > ;on
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must g J connection with any other firm.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards H not so ut Qur jewellery> or we could not make you
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia and imp J wherever seen,
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cams
rtbutu
rtbutu
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
PATERNOSTER^
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR..
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand. _
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’jf
fNLORODYN
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for GOUGrHS, OOLDSi
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
TWARRHfEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNE
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says: _
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple, ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
rtbutu
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name |n
MOV
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
rtbutu
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight' ls * ®
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 0 Connell 8t. f
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this booh.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send, the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we ohargre
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address t HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney,
FREE
BY POST, P* PERFECT
HOME CUBE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE "pure and simple for all who need it. Addres^-
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYX32nTjE'Y*.
IF YOU WANT
to have good health, to feel fresh and “fit,” ready for work or play,
with a capacity to enter with zest into the affairs of life, you must
keen vour system toned up, and to ensure this you cannot do better
than take an occasional dose of BEECHAM’S PILLS, which, by
driving out impurities from the body, will enable the stomach and
liver to perform their work properly, so that you will be able
TO KEEP WELL
and enioy life. Whenever the system displays an irregularity, and
such ailments as headache, constipation, biliousness, and other dis-
orders arising from the stomach and liver show themselves,
BEECHAM’S PILLS will be found most efficacious and speedy m
affording relief. To be healthy
AND LIVE LONG
is the natural desire of everyone, and in furtherance of this end
BEECHAM’S PILLS will do more to keep the stomach m order and
the liver active than any other medicine.
The striking fact that these pills have the enormous sale of six
million boxes per annum, and that they are in regular use in thousands
of homes, is sufficient testimony to their genuine worth. They stand
first as a safe and reliable household medicine. If you want to keep
well and live long
TAKE.
Beecham’s
Pills.
everywhere in Boxes, Price lOid. (36
Is. lid. (56 Pills) and 2s, 9d. <l6B Pills).
rtbutu
A good Clip will
not necessarily
. GOOD PRICE unless Handled
by GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
FREE TRIAL 11
not a penny down.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to
latest improved high grade
BEI/rS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
nev Live?, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free sr&ES
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
air COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIO.
Please mention this paper.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of bis best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers, xrost
free from Bulletin office, sb.
eEsezws*6Msaae
W/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
W BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct Oold-FHled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendairt. B/-. mustrated Cata.
logue sent Free. R- SIMS, GOLD MNG, Cole ®
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY, «
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at *•**
a BIMPIiB HEINS or SELF-CURB. Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
° n Address:*A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
rtbutu
ARE
YOU
deaf
rtbutu
p«§
tn w|
jf HERE’S A NEW HELP
■ lor the ear«—-a. greeter help than
■ h»s been before invented
1 THE ELECTRICON. 1
' It does what all other deviceatawre 1
been trying to do. Itdoesmore. It'
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERHON COY.„
CO-64 Hunter Stre«. ancy.
theelecTriconn


If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on ■— more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones. too.
Thsre’s no better Hosa than ours.
Use Your
Hose— Now
Sence for
P’s'loe Llsta
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdr/au Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
6RIIMLTS INDIAN RlfiAßFTffg
ETTES. Sold by all ChemUU. " CIGAB.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
rtbutu
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
CSSOS&O
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time
GHf
Abb
WOLF
07
A*
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
aiso at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK/’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
proprietors
J, & Jt Maxfield, Ltd*, Sheffield
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
Ihe acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power: gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success,* and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
i( If interested, write for the book entitled,
lhe Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,'
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free,
ouccess Guaranteed.
PROF, M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
If
V
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
Mines'or ' l U> a Pneu “ atic Hammer Rock Drill for
i 0^ EN .T s :-W. & J. LEWRJERE, 506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., IV
And at 64 PITT ST., SYI
bourne
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
6
POCKET
KNfVES
are the
JEST.
rtbutu
first
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 1/e
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2 6
DODGE “INDEPENDENCE” PULLEYS
ALWAYS RUN TRUE.
&f)Q most generally serviceable, as well as tbe
most inexpensive Pulley, is without doubt tbe
Wood Split variety. Tbe best is tbe DODGE
41 INDEPENDENCE.” Every Pulley is balanced,
bores are standardized, and shaft compression
is perfect. Keep them dry and they last for ever.
PARKE ®. LACY COMPANY, Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
rtbutu
A VERY LARGE STOCK
ON HAND.
60 CLARENCE ST„ S
■
Emu
—3M
! i
mmmmm
£?ri
■MB
Rb lib SORUTTON & GOb w
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
have in stock-
sole AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys—Cant, W. 1., Wood, Shafting-, Hangers, Ac., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
ittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invitbd.
Motor Car
Tyres^
p
Made by THE
Silvertooin Rubber go.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
rtbutu
Handy Mine Pumps .
F°i all rough-service, low-lift pumping about the mine, such as draining shafts, galleries, raising
water from one level to tailings, slimes, etc., there is nothing equal to
rtbutu
Pumps of all Hinds manufactured by
Pulsometer Engineering Co., England.
discharges no exhaust steam,
, requires but little attention
aru no 01 , packing or special foundation. Works as well suspended as stationary. Has no easily
deranged inside or outside mechanism. Gritty, Muddy Water does not hurt it. Simple
o install. Simple to operate. Write for Catalogue.
N. CUTHRIDCE, LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney, AGENTS.
