

aDEW-A-IR’S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
WHISKY.
■*..
R. 6. WATKINS «S£ GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ "and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS amd GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
eg
:oßA3?rr.
——
adley’s Orient (jotei.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
NG
B
LTI
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C,Ludowlci & Son, Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
«'"*r f.s* SAWING & WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
Planing and Moulding Machlnos, General Wood-workers, Deal and Flitch Frames,
Log Frames, Band Mills, Circular Saw Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, Sue., Sue.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney.
\
Take it back,
1 must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand ®
CHUBB’S
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
7laficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
Now South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Offloa Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w 4. QIB B, Manager.
Active Age ts andOanvaaeers Wanted.
CIU fa) * id
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
goldsbroUgh, MORT & GO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manaqjs».
BENSDORPS
I
dsfd
is the Queen of dl Cocoas
F°F^
l Aroma,Strmgtlu'Puritjc
si-'2 *• '- ' Jgg»‘ • , >3 ~ ' ’ ,
WUNDERLICH
Regd.
2
Trade Mark.
sd
m
i
■ to ;' • •
*6
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— . SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia o/ Refrigerating' and
Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GrOI.I.IJXT & CO., A.genta.
The Bulletin
Vol 28.— N0. 1405. J
[Thursday, January 17, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo.
Co. Prop.
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Benson, R.H., The Sentimentalists, cloth 3s 6d, post od.
Blyth, Poisons, new edition, revised, 255, postage Is.
Biles, The Steam Turbine, 7s 6d, postage 6d.
Udale, Handbook on Pruning, Is 9d, postage 4d.
Findlay, Practical Physical Chemistry, 4s 6d, post 6d.
Locke, Recent Advances in the Study of Variation, 9s,
post Bd.
The Pocket Thomas Hardy, Selections, 2s 6d, post 3d.
- Prim J a n e ’ IJ^L of J 3ourkes ’ Aust - stories, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Griffilih Geo., Ihe Conquest of Fortune, cloth 3s fid, p. 6d.
Fark, The Cyanide Process, new edition, 9s, post fid.
Bangs, Holmes & Co., author of “ House on the Styx,” &c.
™ 'P* Hall, Days Before History, 2s 6d, p. sd.
Tooley, History of Nursing, illus., 9s, post Bd.
Keid, L.C., Doctors’ Locum Tenems, 8d posted.
Kelly, Operative Gynecology, new edt., 2 vols., 70s, p. Bs.
THE TEXT BOOK OF JU-JUTSU,
AS practised in japan, sy
Many Illustrations, 3a, postage 44,
AUSTRALIAN TALES & VERSES,
By P. STEWART; Is.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PTY. LTD., MELa. & SYDNEY.
“ Sincerity is the hall-mark of Mr. Stewart’s verses.” —
The Age.—- “Beauteous thoughts in an Australian
dress.—The Advocate. “ Pathos and a fine healthy
spirit pervade them.”—The Messenger (Presbyterian).
“The book right through is of a lofty tone.”—
Review of Reviews.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
G.WUDSO/V
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young.
Th* Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bactericidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette: “Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. f*.
The RED PAGE
MEREDITH’S “MODERN LOVE”
George Meredith, the novelist,
is now generally accepted of the
people ; George Meredith, the poet,
has not yet found the wide audience
that awaits him in the future. He writes
strange music, appealing from the ear to the
brain, even as in the world of harmony
Richard Strauss deliberately does injury to
melody by daring cacophonies that captivate
the intellect. Each is writing for a dawn
now near ; each of these two minds reaches
straight to its end, impetuously dis-
carding the means. The human brain
becomes more and more complex, more
and more subtle, and Meredith, the
poet, has forged for his work an individual
method that has the drawback of occasional
incomprehensibility. Meredith’s brain is so
complex, his images so teeming and tumul-
tuous, his imagination so fertile, that often
he impatiently omits the links that would
make his meaning plain. Simile and meta-
phor flash from his lines with a speed
and suddenness that confuse. He stabs
you with his meaning, and hurries on,
leaving the knife inconveniently sticking.
For a comprehension of Meredith’s
method one of his earlier poems, Modern
Love , abundantly repays study. The poem,
though composed of sixteen-line stanzas,
may, without carping, be termed a sonnet-
sequence. It is packed with thought, and
opulent with the lyricism of youth. Its
obvious obscurities are due to the prodi-
gality, and never to the poverty, of his
imagination. So tremendous is the gamut
over which the poet ranges, so sonorous the
tone he produces, so incisive the analysis of
love, that the poem instinctively suggests
comparison with Shakespeare’s Sonnets.
Yet in his treatment of the tragedy
of a wedded love grown cold Meredith
is as modern and subtle in his pyscho-
logy as Ibsen ; and beneath the artistry the
reader may perhaps divine a personal ex-
perience that shows the poet bleeding as he
wrote.
J*
The story is a simple one. A man and his
wife, once lovers, have ceased to love.
Abruptly the tragedy opens, like a slowly-
healing wound torn savagely apart.
By this he knew she wept with waking eyes :
That, at his hand’s light quiver by her head,
The strange low sobs that shook their common
bed,
Were called into her with a sharp surprise.
And strangled mute, like little gaping snakes,
Dreadfully venomous to him. She lay
Stone-still, and the long darkness flowed away
With muffled pulses. Then, as midnight makes
Her giant heart of Memory and Tears
Drink the pale drug of silence, and so beat
Sleep’s heavy measure, they from head to feet
Were moveless, looking through their dead black
years,
By vain regret scrawled over the blank wall.
Like sculptured effigies they might be seen
Upon their inarriage-tomb, the sword between ;
Each wishing for the sword that severs all.
It ended, and the morrow brought the task.
Her eyes were guilty gates, that let him in
By shutting all too zealous for their sin :
Each sucked a secret, and each wore a mask.
But, oh, the bitter taste her beauty had !
He sickened as at breath of poison-flowers :
A languid humor stole among the hours,
And if their smiles encountered, he went mad,
And raged deep inward, till the light was brown
Before his vision, and the world forgot,
Looked wicked as some old dull murder-spot...
The consciousness of their deep estrange-
ment grows ; the man, “a shuddering heap
of pain,” claiming “ a star whose light is
overcast,” turns vainly for solace to Phi-
losophy.
All other joy of life he strove to warm,
And magnify, and catch them to his lip :
But they had suffered shipwreck with the ship
And gazed upon him saHow from the storm.
Or if Delusion came, ’twas but to show
The coming minute mock the one that went.
Cold as a mountain in its star-pitched tent
Stood high Philosophy, less friend, than foe :
Whom self-caged Passion, from its prison-bars,
Is always watching with a wondering hate.
Not till the fire is dying in the grate,
Look we for any kinship with the stars. . . .
The woman has destroyed the future : he
turns desperately to the past. He will not
forego one of his torturing memories.
And if I drink oblivion of a day,
So shorten I the stature of my soul.
But the husband’s suspicions find damning
proof.
I think she sleeps : it must be sleep, when low
Hangs that abandoned arm toward the floor ;
The face turned with it. Now make fast the door.
Sleep on : it is your husband, not your foe.
The Po,et’s black stage-lion of wronged love
Frights not our modern dames : —well if he did !
Now will I pour new light upon that lid,
Full-sloping like the breasts beneath. “Sweet
dove,
Your sleep is pure. Nay, pardon : I disturb.
Ido not ? Good ! ” Her waking infant-stare
Grows woman to the burden that I bear :
Her own handwriting to me when no curb
Was left on Passion’s tongue. She trembles
through ;
A woman’s tremble—the whole instrument: —
I show another letter lately sent.
The words are very like: the name is new.
Then follows one of the most beautiful
sonnets in the poem—and in the English
language.
In our old shipwrecked days there was an hour,
When in the firelight steadily aglow,
Joined slackly, we beheld the red chasm grow
Among the clicking coals. Our library-bower
That eve was left to us ; and hushed we sat
As lovers to whom Time is whispering.
From sudden-opened doors we heard them sing :
The nodding elders mixed good wine with chat.
Well knew we thafrLife’s greatest treasure lay
With us, and of it was our talk. “ Ah, yes !
Love dies ! ” I said : I never thought it less,
She yearned to me that sentence to unsay.
Then when the fire domed blackening, I found
Her cheek was salt against my kiss, and swift
Up the sharp scale of sobs her breast did lift:
Now am I haunted by that taste ! that sound !
The man grows cynic.
If any state be enviable on earth,
’Tis yon born idiot's, who, as days go by,
Still rubs his hands before him, like a fly,
In a queer sort of meditative mirth.
Jt
Then, twisting beneath the torture of a
love that still persists, the husband turns for
distraction to another woman ; but on her
lips he finds :
A kiss is but a kiss now ! And no wave
Of a great flood that whirls me to the sea.
But, as you will ! We’ll sit contentedly,
And eat our pot of honey on the grave.
It comes at last to the man that this
trifling cannot calm his jealous fever ;
woman is not “ her sex’s antidote.” And
in the reaction that follows the discovery
of their mutual faithlessness, the two patch
up a sorry truce, taking up
a lifeless vow
To rob a living passion : dust for fire !
But the two keep their pitiable bargain,
and into their lives come faint compensa-
tions—pity and a deeper understanding of
each other. And keyed in this quiet mood
follows the exquisite sonnet that gives George
Meredith rank with the classics.
We saw the swallows gathering in the sky,
And in the osier-isle we heard them noise.
We had not to look back on summer joys,
Or forward to a summer of bright dye :
But in the largeness of the evening earth
Our spirits grew as we went side by side,
The hour became her husband and my bride.
Love that had robbed us so, thus blessed our dearth !
The pilgrims of the year waxed very loud
In multitudinous chatterings, as the flood
Full brown came from the West, and like pale
blood
Expanded to the upper crimson cloud.
Love that had robbed us of immortal things,
This little moment mercifully gave,
Where I have seen across the twilight wave
The swan sail with her young beneath her wings.
But the tragedy, after this twilight pause,
leaps swiftly to its close. “This woman, O
this agony of flesh!” “destroyed by subtle-
ties,” leaves him with the quixotic idea that
*he may return to her rival, and on his find-
ing her she desperately kills herself. The
poem ends with that tragic irony which
Meredith subsequently employed with such
tremendous effect in his prose masterpiece,
Beauchamp’s Career.
Thus piteously Love closed what, he begat:
The union of this ever-diverse pair !
These two were rapid falcons in a snare,
Condemned to do the flitting of the bat.
Lovers beneath the singing sky of May,
They wandered once; clear as the dew on flowers:
But they fed not on the advancing hours :
Their hearts held cravings for the buried day.
Then each applied to each that fatal knife,
Deep questioning, which probes to endless dole.
Ah, what a dusty answer gets the soul
When hot for certainties in this our life !
In tragic hints here see what evermore
Moves dark as yonder midnight ocean’s force,
Thundering like ramping hosts of warrior horse,
To throw that faint thin line upon the shore !
♦
In connection with its quarrel with the London
I üblishers Association, The Times has been giving
startling information to the public concerning the
profits made by the publishers on the sale of
books. The cost of printing and binding a 4s. 6 d.
volume is 6 d. Of the balance, the author gets Is.
6d., and of the remaining 2s. M. the bookseller is
lucky if he gets more than 20 per cent., the rest
going into the pocket of the publisher. Cheaper
editions, intended for sale in India and the
Colonies these are the publishers’ words—brin o,
only 4 \d. to the author, the difference between
that and Is. 6d. practically representing the dif-
ference between the prices of the cheaper and 4s.
Qd. editions, the printer, publisher and bookseller
getting almost the same profit in either case.
The accuracy of The Times’ figures has been
denied by at least one publisher, who alleges
that the cost of printing and binding has been
consMeraHy under-stated. He further states
that the average cost of producing shilling editions
during the first nine months of 1906 amounted
to Is. 4 gd., which doesn’t seem true. In reply
to this, The Times, which has had practical
experience of the publishing business, has
been giving the figures of the cost of pro-
duction—that is, printing and binding— of its
History of the War in South Africa, and
Busch s Memoirs of Bismarck. The former
costing 3s. Id., sold at a guinea, and the latter, in
three volumes, sold at 10s. per volume, costing
only Is. 6kd. per volume. Numerous illustrations
and maps added much to the cost of the book on
the .Jew War.
VERSES BY GEORGE ESSEX EVANS
LUX IN TENEBRIS.
. . . For, lo ! through all that seemeth inspiration
Enters the curse that blurs created things ;
Beyond the barriers of our limitation
Not ever yet a soul has spread its wings !
Nor has been yet, nor ever shall there be,
A perfect song—a perfect harmony !. . .
0 Poets, round whose souls, since the beginning,
Strange echoes tremble and wild visions throng,
Ye all have heard the sweetness of the singing,
But no man knows the meaning of the song
That lifts our frail souls heavenwards with its
strain —
Then flings us bleeding to the earth again !. . .
Throughout all nature and throughout creation
A Power Supreme its manual sign has writ,
In pain and stress, through seons of gradation,
Shall the weak soul of man decipher it;
For, since the spirit is above the clay,
Man shall not know th’ Eternal in a day.
Yet, though we know not their immortal places,
And though their footsteps are not heard of man,
And though with mystery they veil their faces
And bid us search the Universal Plan,
And though to all there cometh with Life’s breath
Suffering, and doubt, and weariness, and death —
I sing Eternal Hope and Strong Endeavor,
Truth shining down a myriad aisles of thought;
I sing the deathless souls of men, for ever
By strange, wild paths to one vast triumph
brought.
The God in Man—the hunger of the soul —
One with the Wisdom that inspires the Whole !
ON THE PLAINS.
... The vagrant lark on wayward wings
Is fluttering low, is floating high ;
No Northern trill of rapture rings
Through the vast temple of the sky ;
But not in vain
Thy Southern strain,
Thou brown-winged angel of the plain !...
And now I watch, with slackened rein,
The scattered cattle, hundreds strong,
As slowly moving home again
The lazy vanguard feeds along
To the waters cool
Of the tree-fringed pool
In the distant creek when the noon is full.
Slip girth and let the old horse graze;
The noon grows heavy on the air.
Kindle the tiny camp fire’s blaze,
And ’neath the. shade, as monarch there,
Take thou thine ease :
For hours like these
A king has bartered satrapies !, ..
THE FRIZEODER
It is given to some to write poetry, and to
others to construct Prize Odes. The poet is born,
not made ; the prizeoder is made to be borne with.
Poets, hard pressed, have written prize odes;
prizeoders may reverently worship Poetry and,
without demerit, acquiesce in their limitations.
“ All things are Hers, and so to Her I bring
Songs of the dreams that haunt me on my way—
I, who scarce hear the rustle of Her wing
Borne on the wind away ! ”
So confesses George Essex Evans in his collected
volume, The Secret Key, and Other Verses, now
added by Messrs. Angus and Robertson (Sydney)
to the valiant array of books placed by the patriotic
upon the shelf consecrated to Australasian
literature. ~~
Yet from this ungracious prelude it must not be
assumed that George Essex Evans is nothing but
a prizeoder ; the winner of the Commonwealth
Ode competition merely suffers from the defects
of his high qualities. He has no lyric enthusiasm,
no clamant message ; but he is dowered in no
small degree with the qualities that, though
specially adapted for the composition of prize
odes, may produce much dignified and cultured
verse. Evans is an object-lesson to our careless
bards of the back-blocks in his mastery of metre,
his scrupulous correctness, his culture, his pre-
cision and reserve. When he paints a simple
picture, as in the following stanzas, he does it
with a tradesmanlike touch that betrays a pro-
fessional delight in the tools of his craft:—
Nature feels the touch of noon ;
Not a rustle stirs the grass ;
Not a shadow flecks the sky,
Save a brown hawk hovering nigh,
Not a ripple dims the glass
Of the wide lagoon.
Darkly, like an armed host,
Seen afar against the blue,
Rise the hills, and yellow grey,
Sleeps the plain in cove and bay,
Like a shining sea that dreams
Round a silent coast.
Yet we look almost in vain for that sudden
lyric singing voice that here and there breaks
triumphantly forth from Lawson’s careless and
sometimes slovenly rhymes. In Evans’s book
there are many things aptly said, but few that
say themselves. We may find a stanza that is
admirably phrased, but no cry of love or grief or
pain or triumph that has broken irresistibly from
the almost unwilling lips. Yet, sometimes, as in
this picture inspired by Spring, we find the fervor
of Song:—
Across the street, across the grass,
Across my life I watch her pass.
No pure star on a dusky height
Hath eyes more bright,
No lily on her emerald bed
A statelier head,
No dewdrop on the beaded thorn
More radiantly doth glow apart!
O, she doth shine all these to scorn !
Fair are they all—star, flower and dew ;
She is the green bud breaking through
The winter of my heart.
Evans’s highest note is a note of grace; and
perhaps we should be thankful for his formal per-
fection. His is minor poetry, written in a major
key. He does not risp high, but but seldom
that he drops to the bathos of his Eland's River
with such execrable lines as these :
Hell belched upon our borders, and the battle had
begun.
Our Maxims jammed. We faced them with one
muz/.le-loading gun. . . .
Or the pitiable prose of this couplet:—
Army stores were there in mounds,
Worth a hundred thousand pounds.
And at his best, which is in his philosophical
poems, Evans neatly phrases the old problems,
towards the solution of which Poetry and not
her colder sister Science may more confidently
reach.
What though we die forgot and sad for the song
unsung !
Fresh from her thousand deaths ever the world is
young
Ah, but like broken swords, scattered along the
van,
Perish the outpost souls that fall in the march of
man !
We have received the initial issue of The Book-
fellow, an illustrated Australasian literary weekly,
edited by A. G. Stephens, who so long and ably
conducted this prettily rouged—or is it blushing?
—page. The admirably printed and illustrated
sixteen-page review is published at Hamilton-
street, Sydney, and costs threepence. The con-
tents of the first issue range from verses and hook-
reviews to articles upon Caran d’ Ache and the
Australian cattle-dog.
Another literary weekly is forthcoming. It
will be edited by Bertram Stevens, the editor of
the recent Anthology of Australian Verse. .
A volume of Edw'ard Dyson’s “Faet’ry ’Ands”
stories, a number of which have appeared in The
Bulletin, will be published by Geo. .Robertson,
Melb., at the end of this month. Six of the
eighteen stories will be new, and Will Dyson will
contribute fifty pages of illustrations;
Tolstoy cannot digest Shakespeare. He has
honestly and laboriously tried, as he mourn-
fully explains in Dec. Fortnightly. As a young
man he swallowed, one after another, all of
Shakespeare’s best works, and felt only “an
irresistible repulsion and tedium,” and he doubted
whether he “was senseless in feeling works re-
garded as the summit of perfection by the whole
of the civilised world to be trivial and positively
bad, or whether the significance which thiscivilised
world attributes to the works of Shakespeare was
itself senseless.” For a long time Tolstoy
could not trust his own judgment, and during
fifty years, in order to test himself, he several
times recommenced reading Shakespeare in
Russian, in English, in German. He invariably
underwent the same feelings—“repulsion, weari-
ness, and bewilderment.” And now, an old man
of 75, he has again read the whole of Shakespeare,
and he has felt with even greater force the same
feelings, “ this time, however, not of bewilder-
ment, but of firm, indubitable conviction that the
unquestionable glory of a great genius which
Shakespeare enjoys... is a great evil, as is every
untruth.” Tolstoy’s digestion declines to accept
Shakespeare “either as a great genius or even
as an average author.” Selecting King Lear as a
dreadful example, he calls it “a very bad, care-
lessly-composed production ’’—which, in some
respects, it undoubtedly is. Tolstoy makes the
mistake, permissible in a foreigner, of concluding
that there is, in the English and Teutonic world,
nothing but a blind, almost hypnotised, worship
of an infallible Shakespeare; he does not know
that we are conscious of our dramatist’s faults—
and love him all the more. “Every man of our
society and time,” says Tolstoy, “from the first
period of his conscious life, has been inculcated
with the idea that Shakespeare is a genius as poet
and dramatist, and that all his writings are the
height of perfection.” Tolstoy has, perhaps un-
consciously, put his idol upon an impossible
pedestal, in order that the fall might be greater.
We recognise in Shakespeare depths and shallows,
immaturity and power, genius and affectation,
drama and melodrama ; above all, we see Shake-
speare as a product of his own careless, exuberant,
tremendous time. Still, Tolstoy’s criticism is
useful, even though, as in his sneer at the greater
man for his anachronisms, he betrays a lament-
able ignorance of the conventions that ruled the
Elizabetbian stage. Meantime, it would be re-
freshing to hear Shakespeare’s opinion of Tolstoy.
The Gastlereagh Booklets (J. R. Tyrrell, Sydney),
a series of collected epigrams and worse, from the
Duke de la Rochefoucauld’s Maxims to frivolous
Don'ts, are daintly printed and intelligently com-
piled. Rochefoucauld’s reminder that, “allow-
ing for a little vanity, heroes are just like
other men,” is worth treasuring; w’hile, for
the trivial, there are At the Sign of the
Golden. Calf obvious truths like these : When the
Devil, the Moon and a Woman conspire together,
Man is but a Flimsy Atom. ... The morals of to-
day are the immorals of yesterday, and the creeds
of to-morrow... . Opportunity robs Heaven of
Inany pretty women.... To enter Society is com-
paratively easy. A graceful exit requires more
poise.,. . Temperament rules the World and the
Flesh ; and the Devil rules Temperament.
The potency of a Name ! Louis Becke has
found a publisher—or a publisher has found
him—for a book of trivial Sketches from Normandy
(T. W. Laurie, Lond.) that any novice could have
written—had he thought it worth doing. And
once Becke had something to say By lieef and
Palm !


WOOL
Send Tour WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD
The Leading Sydney Salesmen.
THE LEADING FISHING TACKLE DEPOT.
We carry a Complete Stock of all the Best Continental Fishing Tackle suitable for Australian Fishing.
The Largest and Most Up-to-date Stock of
Mick Simmons
FISHING TACKLE
In The
States.
8008.
Split Cane.
RODS, REELS, LINES, FLIES, MINNOWS, SPINNERS, HOOKS, Suitable for any Fish.
Rods and Reels Built to Order, Prices on application.
All our Goods are made of the best materials and by the most improved machinery and
mechanics it is possible to obtain, therefore we can fully guarantee that they will bear
out tlie reputation they have gained of being the best and cheapest in the world.
Best Sptit Cane Rods .
These Rods are made especially to our expert’s
designs and guaranteed to stand the severest tests.
No. I, Pattern 800—15 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button and metal knife for
butt; weight, 2lbs., complete in bag, £5 10s.
No. 2, Pattern 800—14 feet. 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button ; weight, 14oz. ; com-
plete in bag, £4 15s.
No. 3, Pattern 800—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronze fittings, net handle hollow for tops, best snake
rings, silk whippings, button ; weight, 13oz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), £2.
No. 4, Pattern 800—11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, German silver snake rings, silk
whippings, best finish, button ; weight, Boz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), 21s.
No. 5, Pattern 800a —12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, lock joints, net handle for tops,
serrated ferrules, best snake rings, silk whippings,
rubber button and metal knife for butt; weight,
14oz. ; complete in bag, £2 10s.
No. 6, Pattern 800a —12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel centre,
spiral lock joint, bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules,
German silver snake rings, silk whippings, landing
handle hollow for tops, rubber button and metal
butt ; weight 16oz. ; complete in bag, £4 10s.
Best Greenheart Rods .
Many of the leading anglers who have used our Greenheart
Rods speak in the highest praise of their durability.
No. 13, Pattern 200—13 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
14 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 20s 6d.
No. 14, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 245.
No. 15, Pattern 200 —14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 30s.
No. 16, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short,
balanced grip, bronzed fittings. snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt; weight, 14 ozs. ; in
bag, 14s.
No. 17a, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short),
balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings ; weight, 16 ozs. ; in bag, i4s.
MICK SIMMONS
* i
800 a.
No. 400.
General Rod for Fish up to 61b. Weight.
No. 18, Pattern 200 —12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short), cork grip, lock joints, bronzed fittings, best snake
rings, universal winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 14oz. ; in bag (metal brazed), 255.
No. 19, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 14oz. ; in bag, 21s.
No. 19s, Pattern 200—12 feet 3 joints, 2 tops, wood grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, screw butt, superior finish ; weight, 16oz. ; in bag, 17s 6d.
No. 22, Pattern 400—13 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 14oz. ; in bag, 11s Od.
No. 23, Pattern 400—12 feet ,3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 16oz. ; in bag, 9s 6d.
No. 24, Pattern 400—10 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button ; weight, 160 z.; in bag, 9s Od.
No. 24a, Pattern 400—11 feet, 3 joints 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fiittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button ; weight, 17oz. ; in bag, 10s 6d.
No. 25, Pattern 400—12 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button, strong make : weight 14oz. ; in bag, 11s.
No. 26, Pattern 400—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 14oz. ; in bag, 15s 6d.
No. 27, Pattern 400—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button, in bag, strong make ; weight, lib. 60z., 16s 6d.
No. 29, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button ; weight, lib. 3oz. ;in bag, 16s 6d. Post free, N.8.W., 17s 3d ; Interstate, 17s Bd.
No. 30, Pattern 500—10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, best winch fittings, strong
make, wood button ; weight, lib. Boz. ;in bag, 9s. Post free, N.S. W., 9s 9d ; Interstate, 10s 2d.
No. 81, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, strong make, wood button ; weight, lib. 4oz. ;in bag, 15s. Post free, N.S. W.,' 15s 9d ; Interstate, !
16s 2d.
No. 32, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, extra strong make ; weight, lib. 40z.; in bags, 18s Cd. Post free, N.S.W., 19s 3d ; Interstate,
19s Bd.
No. 33, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, 140z5.; in bag (strong make), 19s 6d. Post free
N.S. W., 20s 3d ; Interstate, 20s Bd.
No. 34, Pattern 600—14 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt ; weight, lib. 6ozs. ; in bag (strong make), 21s.
Best Lancewood Rods .
No. 12, Pattern 100—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced grip, beet nickel fittings, best rings, best winch fittings ;
weight, llozs. ; in wood case and bag, 10s 6d.
No. 17, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short), balanced grip, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 15ozs. ; in bag, 13s 6d.
Best Quality Hickory Rods .
These Rods are especially made to our own designs and guaranteed to stand satisfactory tests.
No. 35, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings ;
weight, lib. 6oz. ; ,in bag, 7s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 8s 3d ; Interstate, 8s Bd.
No. 36, Pattern 500—11 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings ; weight, 14ozs. ;in bag, Bs. Post free N.S. W., 8s 9d ; Interstate, 9s 2d.
No. 37, Pattern 500—10 feet, 5 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ;
weight, 13ozs. ;in bag, 10s. Post free N.S.W., 10s 6d ; Interstate, 10s Bd. : -
No. 38, Pattern 500—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 1 lb. 14 ozs. ; in bag, 10s 6d.
No. 39, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, uni-
versal winch fittings, best finish; weight, 1 lb. 2 oz. ; in bag, 9s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 10s 3d; Inter-
state, 10s Bd. 1 \ i
No. 40, Pattern 500—11 feet, 6 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings ; weight, 1 lb. 1 oz. ; in bag, 13s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 14s 8d ; Interstate, 14s Bd.
No. 41, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings,
universal winch fittings, best finish, knife for butt; weight, 1 lb. 3 ozs. ;in bag; 15s. Post free N.S.W.,
15s 9d; Interstate, 16s 2d. ' ’ ! '■ \
No. 41a, Pattern 600—12 feet, 5 joints, 3 tops (1 spinning), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal :
winch fittings, best finish ; weight, 1 lb. sozs. ;in bag, 13k 6d. Post free in N.S.W., 14s 3d ; Interstate,
14s Bd. ' •.
No. 42, Pattern feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish, strong make 1 ; height, 1 lb.' 12 ozs. ;in bag, 27s 6d. '
No. 43, Pattern 500—It) feet, 4 joints, I top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings; i
weight, 1 }b. 3ozs.; in bag, ss. 6d. Post free N.S.W., Os 3d ; Interstate, 6s 8d; 1
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks
and Hints on Fishing, POST FREE. ’
Nottingham Pattern Walnut Wood Reels
HI
All our Nottingham
Wood Reels are
manufactured from
the Best Materials
and Properly
Seasoned Wood.
No. I—B es t Solid
Brass Fittings,
Fast Handles, pol-
ished, 2in. dia-
meter, Is 6d
each ; 2jin., Is 9d
each ; 3in., 2s 3d
each ; 3Jin., 2s 6d
each; 4in., 3s 6d
each ; 4Jin., 4s 6d
each; sin., 6s
each.
No. la— Solid Brass
Fittings, Fast
Handles, polished,
2in. diameter, Is
each ; 2Jin., Is 3d
each ; 3in., Is 6d
each ; 3Jin., Is 6d
each; 4in., Is 9d
each.
MICK SIMMONS
No. 2
No. Ib— Brass Back Polished Boy’s Reel, one handle, 2in. diameter, 5d each ; 2£in., 7d each ; 3in., lOd each»
No. 2a— Best Star Back, brass handle plates and fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 5s each ; 3Jin., 6s each
4in. 7s each, without guard.
No. 2—Best Star Back, brass fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 5s 6d each ; 3Jin., 6s 6d each ; 4in., 7s each
4iin., 7s 6d each ; sin., 8s 6d each, without guard.
Our Expert is -visiting the Tumut and Cooma Trout Streams.
No. 10
No. 10—Gunmetal Movable Check Reel, Screwed
Fittings, Plated, 2in., 2s each ; 2Jin., 2s 6d.
Best Tackle Books.
No. 96.
No. 96—Best Combination Tackle Book, Gin., 7s each
No. 92-—4£in. Grained Leather, 2 Parchment Pockets,
Pages for Flies, Flannel, &c., Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each
No 93—4 in. Leather, Three Pockets, Trout Pages,
Felts, Strap and Buckle, 3s 6d each.
No. 94—5 in. Solid Leather, Two Pockets, Parchment
Pages, Felts, &c., Strap and Buckle, 4s 6d each.
No. 95—4 in. Canvas Cover, Waterproof, Two Pockets,
Trout Pages, Parchment Pockets, Felts, Strap
and Buckle, etc., 5s 6d each.
No. 3a —Best Combination Keel, Star Back, Movable
Check, Patent Bine Guard, Detachable Barrel,
3in., 12s each ; 4in., 13s (id each.
We have just published our Immense
Fishing Tackle Catalogue.
No. 97.
Palley’s Cast Case
4in., 2s 9d ; sin., 4s 9d each.
Superior Quality Fishing Lines
No. 146—The Standard Waterproof Plaited Braided Silk Line, rolled on cork.
No. 20yds. 40yds. 80 yds. No. 20yds. 40yds. 80yds.
K3OO Is lOd 3s 8d 7s 4d each 660 3s 6s 12s each.
J2OO 2s 4s Ss „ F4O 3s 6d 7s 14s
1100 2s 2d 4s 4d 8s 9d ~ E3O 4s 8s 16s
HSO 2s 6d 5s 10s ~ D2O 5s 10s 20s
No. 146 T—The Standard Double Taper Lines, for Trout Fishing-, waterproof
braided, plaited silk in coils of 40yds. No. 30 to 60, 9s. 6d each.
No. 1460—The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Braided “Sure Catch” Silk Line, on
Cork. No. 40, 25yds., Is 3d each ; 50yds., 2s. 6d. each ; No. 30, 25yds., 2s 6d
each ; 50yds., 5s each.
No. 148—The Crown Waterproof Twisted Braided Silk Line, on Cork.
40yds., Is 6d each.
English-Plaited Hemp Lines on Cork—
No. 20yds. 40yds. 80yds. No. 20yds.,
60 Is 9d 3s 6d 7s I 30 2s 6d
40 2s 4s ' 8s | 20 3s
No. 148 L—Best Plaited Irish Linen Line XX Strong, on Cork—
No. 60, 25 yards .. Is each No. 40, 25 yards .. Is 3d each
No. 60, 50 yards .. 2s each No. 40, 50 yards .. 2s 6d each
40yds.,
5s
6s
No. 60,
80yds
10s
12s
No.
100
80
20
Best Japanese Gut, 2yds. in one length, no joins
2d. each ; XX Fine, 3d each.
The
Reliable Gut Cast Lines •
Best Selected Gut, Blue, White or Green.
Quality No.
202 Fine
303 Stout
404 Medium
■505 Stout
606 X Stout
707 XX Stout
808 XXX Stout
909 XXXX Stout
Each.
2yds. 2d.
2yds.
2yds.
2yds.
2yds.
2yds.
2yds.
2yds.
2d.
4d.
4d.
6d.
Bd.
Is.
2s.
attached, Id each." ,
Best Double Gut Cast Lines.
Quality No. 10, Fine, lyd., 3d each ; 2y<Js., 6d each..
Quality No. 9, Stout, lyd., 4d each ; 2yds., 8d each.
Remittance and Freight Must
Accompany Order. ,
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian
Established 1349.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian states or New Zealand UPf*** at LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A; W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winclicombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows' Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(ML UAL) n.s.w.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY „
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s, 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
■ppoiflpd diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec^
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLO WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with'Concert Base. Many of our agentsare making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an oIA, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
WeeH
Given
Away
Free
0,
%
A
\J
r3*
V
PPWom
ml. 5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLEI
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
tocoCR&C“ 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FfcoM 4
2,11.5.
MILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
&
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL. WATERS, CORDIALS, &c,
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
sdsd
K
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, gyjen footers,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
They Always Get The Game*
For Sale Everywhere.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS,
THE HOULDEB, LINE STEAMERS. fS'SJ.S'ST
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,760
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,380
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE ..
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS .. .. .
Tens
6.300
9.300
10.500
6,350
11.500
11,500
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Nature’s Own Food
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steak.
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh Milk
TRY
<V>
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
I /I
V
S’
££o&
;
22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests,.
U. M. C. • 22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack
or smokeless powder,
' are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing p<
Furnished with ungreased bullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
i ! ii!!!!!l!!iii!il!U., BlftI001E:p0 ® T *..V*..11111111i11U!iiilh!(!
i|
wer.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
SALT/
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Jlm Cmpault marked ENQ’B ‘FRUIT IALTi' Without It you htrt a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, IN8„
by J. O. BNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
sd
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
BALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY In
Barters
ITTLE
IVER
ML
They TOUCH the
Bp Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.


Losing your liair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
It lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
ytger’s
ytair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
Care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sdsd
His Majesty the
Kins and
Royal Family.
IP YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MO SR’S
" MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
It is Replacing All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LiniTED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
[1
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
Sfi Hicrh.slrPfit Ttolfoof.
IRISH
©^
©t^
S
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT * . ,
Hacking Cough,
T roublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
pip
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
CAUTION-
The Public are warned against the many spurious
imitations brought into the market under various
labels, and it is therefore necessary to ask for my
No. 4 Eau de Cologne,
ď
sd
distilled strictly according to the original recipe of
the inventor, my ancestor, which is known in all
parts of the world by the lawfully registered label
here shown.
The addition of- address “JULICHS PLATZ
No 4 " alone warrants genuineness of my EAU
DE - COLOGNE.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Julichs Platz No 4,
Cologne o. Rhinei
By appointment to H.M. KING EDWARD VII.,
and to most other Imperial and Royal Courts.
Header, why not he able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure d lsease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs : y° u
nothing to find out all about it. I have
lust issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON OT Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
sd
sd
sd
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Stotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Willows.
Short is their sleep. Awhile they stand
Dreaming beneath the gold they wear—
The fierce, bright west wind smites the land
And in a night their boughs are bare.
One frosty moon floats by unseen,
Another, and they wake again,
Thrill to the live dark, the serene
Glad whisper of the quiet rain.
Oh, pleasant waking ! Clover beds
About their feet lie blossoming ;
And lightly veils their drooping heads
The radiant vesture of the spring.
To every breeze they bend and sway
Smooth as unbroken waters run,
A living green across the grey,
Parched paddocks silvering in the sun.
QUEENSLAND.
A. W.
Summer Idleness.
Idleness and summer weather
Very fitly go together,
And the ripples here a-nigh
Croon a liquid lullaby,
Minist’ring deliciously
To my sweet tranquility.
Lullaby, lullaby,
So the ripples sigh.
In an amethystine swoon,
All the dreamy afternoon,
Lies the blue-encircled deep,
With its pulses steeped in sleep.
Far too languid e’en to surge
O’er the rocks upon its verge.
Lullaby, lullaby,
So the ripples sigh.
Northward, headlands changing through
Green and violet to blue,
In the tremulous heat-shimmer,
Growing gradually dimmer,
Till they merely stain the verge
Where the sky and ocean merge.
Lullaby, lullaby,
So the ripples sigh.
I am steeped, I do confess,
Through and through with idleness—
Quite content to lie and bask,
With no sterner mental task
Than to fashion fantasies
Out of drowsy reveries.
Lullaby, lullaby,
So the ripples sigh.
N.B.W.
TRIS.
Ti-tree.
In the coat you left behind
Is a faded ti-tree spray,
Smelling of the sun and wind,
Breathing of the breaker’s play—
In the old grey coat you wore,
Freda, on the ocean shore.
When I found that faded flower
Clinging to your worn old coat,
Time put back the clock an hour,
O’er the past that I might gloat,
And beside the summer sea,
Once again you roamed with me.
Bluer than the dancing waves
Shone your laughing eyes that day,
As about the rocks and caves
Flew your bare feet white as spray,
And your brown hair glowed like gold
With the sun’s warm kisses bold.
By and by, do you forget ?
On the sand we cast us down
While you wove a coronet
Of sea poppies ; such a crown
Never Queen or Empress wore
As sweet Freda on the shore !
Freda, it was long ago.
Lonely is the shore to-night,
Where we watched the breaker’s flow,
Praised the seagulls’ boundless flight—
But this faded ti-tree spray
Gives you back to me to-day !
vio.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
The Immigrant.
Slow drops the sun beneath the sea,
The waves roll dark ; this lighted ship
That bears the hopes and fears of me
Speeds on where sheer, grim coastlines dip
Unknown. With phantoms from the Past
I watch this strange night gathering fast.
To-night, ah ! folk will gather round
Their heaped turf fire to pray for me,
The wanderer who breaks new ground,
The exile far across the sea,
Far from those green fields, mountains grey,
From hearts as kind, as warm as they.
For man must seek his fortune where
Good grit may master circumstance.
Wide is the view, and free the air
In countries of the Better Chance.
The Old World life is cramped and wan,
It has no room for man as man.
I watch the wild gulls wheeling high ;
Sure, land’s in sight. Then, crystal clear,
A new dawn bursts in sea and sky,
The new land’s slowly drawing near.
Though some may bide, there’s one must roam
From the old home to the new home.
Jk
LOUIS ESSON.


THE “ BRUNSWICK” ICE MACHINE
a*
COLD STORAGE ON A
SMALL SCALE.
OF course it can be done on any scale, no matter how
large, but tbe “ Brunswick ” is the first successful
small capacity machine, i.e. it will give you a cooling
capacity equal to the melting' of 200 lbs. of ice, and only
takes a i h.p. to drive it.
This means that it is admirably adapted indeed in the
smallest size. It is intended for the large Boardinghouse
or Mansion, the Hotel, Butcher's'Shop, and anywhere
where it is desirable to preserve perishable articles of
food. In the hot regions of the country, where ice is,
if obtainable at all, very costly, it may be installed, and
will be a great boon. Very easily worked, with
practically no attention, and always effective.
Write for our interesting Catalogue
and further particular.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., s ° te 7 B, 9 Market St., Sydney.
A. SUMMER BOON. Don’t forget
Mas the largest sale and is superior to all others.
RISK’S WHISKY
Is simply
Perfection.
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Will Anprape »■ BOOKS.
sd
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is Bd. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Nigiit, 1/3. Staining, Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d-
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s Gd posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. NkwTricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter- Writer, Is. Tocology
for. Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St. f Melbourne
ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JOHNBECCS.
SfECIKI IIQIHUR
Scotch whisky
wm
me
s Pjm
m
mm
W7Jm
m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
sd
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
post free;
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Tipped with
White.
WRITE NOW.
as
53 .. : v.
MILLERS
jS?
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
Length, 12 inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Money Order payable to
John Miller. Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.!
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
The MISSES ISAACS Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair- IC}l KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
\
■c*
sďs
A/so KANGAROO, WALLABY,
opossum\ &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
śd
■
' :
2M
I; ’«i|
P
Follow the lead of the
Wise.
Roof yotir hotise with the
Spoofing* that renders
definite service.
RUBEROID
ROOFING
ID
Sydn^
Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28. No. 1405.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1907.
Pbioh 6d
JOE’S IOME.
JOE CARRUTHERS SAYS HE IS GOING TO RAISE HIS LOANS LOCALLY IN FUTURE.
The Magsman: “You see, ladies and gents, I borrow the money out of this pocket and put it into this one, and I make out my own IOU and
give it to myself, and put it in this other pocket, and then I take the interest out of this pocket and put it in this pocket, and then
I'm the Iou to the goot. besides, this sort of thing helps to develop our great natural resources.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A ustralia for the A ustralians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SZTBSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... *... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tioo columns in length, or, say, 3000. words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomvarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu tours in Ilf note and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture lohich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Honglvong. —Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A (tents’ Special Not ice.
The Bulletin metal advertising ’plates, size 6%in. x Vfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Z&'SBtdle&n.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1907.
JOSEPH CARRUTHERS’ IOME
A few days ago Joseph Carruthers, Premier of
N.S.W., greatly exalted his tail in the matter of
the financial reform he says he has done and the
financial reform he says he is going to do. As the
past is a dead thing at the best, interest chiefly
centres round the financial reform which Joseph
says he is going to do. This consists really of one
item; Joseph says that, in future, he will
float his new loans in N.S.W. Renewal loans are
still liable to be floated in London, but fresh
borrowings are to be done within the State.
There is no promise that the public debt will be
reduced, or even that it will be kept stationary,
only that the increase will be a local indebtedness.
There is no definite assurance that the new local
borrowings will be used any more honestly than
the old local and foreign borrowings. Joseph
doesn’t offer even his unreliable guarantee that
the use of the proceeds of land sales as revenue
will be abolished as some kind of a set-
off to the continued borrowing. He offers no
hope at all that the State, though it is now on
the top of the biggest wave of prosperity that has
yet washed in its direction, will be able to do
without borrowing at any period within his vision.
Even in time of profound peace, with no naval or
military burdens worth mentioning, with the
biggest land revenue per head on earth and the
biggest known in history, with record harvests,
and splendid prices for wool and metals, and with
such an aggregate public income as the State
hardly dreamt of before—with all these things
Joseph the Incapable regards continued and
regular borrowing as N.S.W.’s normal condition.
Joseph the Muddler looks forward to no period
when the State won’t he holding out its horny
paw for loans. Joseph the Oaf doesn’t see
that there is anything wrong with the situation,
and Joseph the Loon wonders what anybody can
be troubling about in the best of all possible
States, supervised by the best of all possible
Josephs. Even the promise that new borrowings
are to be done locally isn’t, so far as the evidence
goes, to be backed by an Act of Parliament
declaring the flotation of new foreign loans
illegal. The small fraction of reform over which
Joseph so wildly exalts his tail merely rests on
the verbal assurance of Joseph— a-person who is
partly here to-day and likely to be wholly gone
to-morrow. Why Joseph should whirl his caudal
appendage so largely in so very small a set of
circumstances it is hard to understand. A wise
man would save up the appendage for a greater
occasion.
***•*■
In the year which ended on 30th June, 1900—
the last financial year before Federation—the
gross revenue of N.S.W. (not including postal
and telegraphic receipts, now collected by the
Commonwealth) was £9,403,450. Last year
the State revenue (again not including post
and telegraph receipts) was £12,291,368. Yet
with £2,887,918 more revenue to spend,
Joseph the Great Reformer is apparently no
nearer to doing without loans than his prede-
cessors were in 1900. In the last financial year
before Federation the gross expenditure of
N.S.W. (less the cost of the postal, telegraph, and
Defence Departments, and some sundries, all now
defrayed by the Commonwealth) was £9,238,405.
Last financial year the State’s gross expenditure
was £11,386,864 —for the same departments which
cost only £9,238,405 in 1900. The Commonwealth,
which borrows nothing at all, and has to charge
everything: to revenue, cost N.S.W. £1,571,774 last
year, of which £930,243 went to pay post and tele-
graph charges taken over from the State Govern-
ment, £264,291 to pay Defence charges taken over
from the State Government, and £72,682 to pay
the cost of the Customs and Excise Departments
taken over from the State Government. In other
words, the increase since 1900 (£2,148,459) in the
cost of running the State Government of N.S.W.
is between seven and eight times as much as the
net cost of Federation to N.S.W. —the cost of
N.S.W.’s share of the Australian Parliament,
High Court, Governor-General, official depart-
ments, and all the rest. The common gag is
that “Federal extravagance ’’is the cause of all
the State’s financial difficulties, yet, as a brilliant
essay on State extravagance, the fact stands out
that somehow the huge State expenditure of 1906
did no more in the way of covering the cost of new
public works than the small expenditure of 1900.
The public debt of N.S.W., according to the
Auditor-General’s certificate, was £83.662,432
at 30th June, 1905; and it had grown to
£85,641,734 at 30th June, 1906. During the
late financial year, according to the same
authority, Joseph Carruthers received nearly
£1,100,000 from the sale of public lands—
and spent the money obtained by trading away
those assets as if it was-ordinary revenue. And
amid all these extravagances, political profligacies
and lost opportunities, Joseph bristles up his tail
with the pride of a heaven-born financier because,
for the future, he intends to borrow locally.
* * * •
When a country is able to do without foreign
borrowing then it is absolutely certain that, in
times of peace, it is able to do without any bor-
rowing at all. This doesn’t in the least affect the
great truth that local borrowing is a hundred
times less disgraceful and disastrous than foreign
borrowing. The latter is a huge crime ; the former
something of a sin and more of a foolishness. When
a State can borrow locally for its own public
works, it plainly has the money to pay for its
own works. But instead of taxing itself to pay
for its works it lends itself the money to pay for
them, and gives itself its own I O TJ, or rather its
I O Me, as security. By this document it under-
takes to tax itself sufficiently to pay itself the
interest it owes to itself on the money it has lent
itself. Also, it is assumed to undertake that it
will, at some future date, tax itself sufficiently to
repay itself the money it lent itself, after which
it will burn its own I O Me in its own grate, and
slap itself proudly on its own back, and say that
it is at last out of its own debt. The process in-
volves a lot of needless expense in collecting
revenue; a £1,000,000 loan, before it is finally
liquidated (not renewed, but liquidated), may
easily make it necessary to raise about £10,000,000
in principal and interest, and the collection of ten
millions costs a great deal more than the collection
of one. Then there is the complicated book-
keeping to pay for, and the cost of keeping the
I O Me in repair. And all the time the 1 O Me
is a kind of bogus currency, a stock-jobbing
counter, and a gambling instrument. The nation
in general buys, sells, hoards, and does bull and
bear operations in its own printed promise to pay
itself a certain amount of money. And, in addi-
tion, the blessed I O Me or We O Us is a stupe-
fying and soporific document, which has a
woefully bad effect on the public conscience. The
borrowing disease has got such a hold on Aus-
tralia that loan expenditure is never scrutinised
with the same care as ordinary expenditure.
Even when loan money is our own money, lent by
us to ourselves on our own security, it is shovelled
out with a recklessness that seldom characterises
oi dinary expenditure. The only time when there
is fair excuse for borrowing—even for purely local
borrowing—is in time of war or overwhelming
national calamity. Then, if we lend ourselves
our own money on our own documentary se-
curity, the I O Me, though only a species
of bogus addition to the currency, may help,
as a circulating medium, to relieve the
pressure, just as even a very shady and
hopeless species of paper money is better than no
money at all. Of course, all these things don’t in
the slightest degree alter the fact that local
borrowing is infinitely better than foreign borrow-
ing, and that the I O Me is vastly less undesirable
than the I O U.
So far the case has been considered only as it
affects the State as a whole. If the community is
regarded as a single individual the I O Me is a
huge joke. But when the nation is considered as
a mass of separate items, the borrowing curse is
worse than illogical, and the I O Me becomes an
instrument of the worst kind of class tyranny and
class distinction. If the country raises, by taxa-
tion, £1,000,000 with which to build a railway the
transaction isn’t loaded. The railway is built.
Every person in the community is a shareholder
in it. There being no interest bill to pay—only
cost of working and maintenance —the line can
carry freight and passengers cheaply, and
each shareholder gets his dividend indirectly
in cheap goods and cheap communication.
If the same line is built with borrowed money the
transaction is loaded. The £1,000,000 worth of
I O Me goes into a few hands. The community
is divided into two classes—a large class which
only pays interest and a small class which also
receives it. The great snowball of compound
interest begins to roll and accumulate. The
interest can be invested in the purchase of more
I O Me till the community owes £50,000,000 to
the small section of itself which originally lent it
£1,000,000. The I O Me fluctuates in value, and
a small body of Stock Exchange sharps buys it
when it is down and sells it when it is up, and
without doing any productive work accumulates
wealth at the community’s expense. Most of the
great fortunes which weigh like a mountain on
the chest of the globe were made by speculating
in railway stocks (wherefore all good Democrats
hold that railways should be Government pro-
perty, so that there will be no stocks for the
wrecker, re-organiser and re-constructor to gamble
in), by jobbing in land (for which reason every good
Democrat wants to put the strictest limitations on
private land ownership), by dealing in bank, in-
surance and such-like securities (the sound Demo-
crat believes in State banking and State insur-
ance), by monopolies (the Democrat consequently
advocates the nationalisation of monopolies), and
by trading in foolish public documents like the
I O Me (the Australian Democrat, for some in-
scrutable reason, regards this great machine for
the accumulation of compound interest rather
with favor than otherwise). The community
where all men are comfortably off, while none are
inordinately rich, will be a community in which
there are hardly any Stock Exchange securities to
gamble in, where industrial monopolies, railways,
and banking and insurance business belong to the
State, where large estates are rendered impossible
by law, and where there is no public debt. And
the necessity for having no public debt is just as
essential to the Socialistic ideal as the necessity
for having no great landowners or great mono-
polists.
• * * *
The IO U and the IO Me are devices whereby
a cowardly and spineless generation sells its
children into slavery to avoid a little —a very
little—immediate personal exertion. Men cannot
be born free and equal when the many are born
to pay interest all their lives while the few are
born to receive it. To postpone the necessity for
a little self-sacrifice, or a mere shred of economy,
or even to avoid the worry of levying an ade-
quate tax on the great landlord whom it professes
to abhor, the N.S.W. Labor party, which claims
to be in the front rank of progress, is willing to
borrow a couple of millions any year and every
year. The loan will have to be repaid some day,
unless the State repudiates—every curse comes
home to roost some day—so it is a mere postponing
of the trouble. It may be a local loan, and it
mny remain local—it is just possible that the prin-
cipal holders won’t gather up their securities and
become absentees, though, on the other hand, it
is just as likely that they will, though that is a
side issue. By the time the £2,000,000 loan,
which is so lightly incurred to-day, has been
finally disposed of, the large section of the com-
munity which only pays interest will probably
have handed over at least £6,000,000 to the com-
paratively small section which also receives
interest. Out of that—all money paid to merely
postpone a liability which must be met in the
end, and which might as well be met first as last
—it is probable that at least one or two huge for-
tunes will have arisen, and one or two huge land-
grabbers and monopolists will have been made.
Every bit of interest-bearing paper that is put
into circulation sets the ball of compound interest
rolling with renewed energy, and gives fresh
opportunity for the accumulation of great for-
tunes in the hands of the few, and for the im-
poverishment of the many. The public debt of
N.S.W., like that of every other State, repre-
sents Private Enterprise in its worst form. In
the case of N.S.W., it represents over £85,000.000
of Private Enterprise, and N.S.W. pays to that
Private Enterprise over £3,000,000 a year, and
pawns its lands, its public works, its private
wealth, its living children and its unborn children,
its honor and its salary, as security. It did all
this unspeakable foolishness to avoid a little
trouble, and to avert the necessity of taxing the
class which could best endure taxation, and which
most deserved it. It loaded itself with the huge
burden of the public debenture-holder to avoid
seriously disturbing or discouraging that other
incubus, the great landlord and the big capitalist.
And it is still doing this same incredible folly.
It is for these reasons, as well as for some others
that are crowded out, that The Burretin feels
only moderately enthusiastic about Joseph Car-
RUTHERS’ proposed 1 O Me. It is a reform cer-
tainly, but it isn’t the overwhelming reform that
it might be.
THE INCOME TAX CASE.
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council,
which has just overruled the judgment of
the Australian High Court in the Income Tax
case, consisted of Lord Harsbury, a peppery old
gentleman of 81 ; Lord M’Naghten, of 70, not
quite so old nor so peppery as Lord Harsbury ;
Sir Arthur Wirson, a gentleman of over 70, who
was once a Judge in Calcutta ; and Sir Arfred
Wirrs, aged about 72, who, in the remote past,
was an English Judge. Not one of these old
gentleman has ever been in any way connected
with Australian affairs, nor, so far as it is
possible to ascertain, has any one of
them ever displayed the slightest interest in
constitutional developments in this country.
The High Court, which has been over-ruled, con-
sisted of Chief Justice Griffith, and Justices
Barton and O’Connor, who have been for the
last twenty years in closer touch with the consti-
tutional history of Australia than any other living
men. The Privy Council, however, has held that
the High Court was fatally and fundamentally
mistaken as to the meaning of the Australian
Constitution, while they, the old gentlemen of the
Privy Council, know exactly what it means. The
Privy Council has decided that the Justices of
the High Court haven’t even an elementary know-
ledge of the intentions of the framers of the Aus-
tralian Constitution, while they, the members of
the Privy Council, can read them exactly.
* * * *
The point at issue between the two Courts can
be very simply stated. The United States system
of Federal Government involves a distribution
between the Federation and the States, of all the
powers of government. The Federal Government
is supreme and independent within its own
limited sphere; the States are equally supreme
and independent within their spheres. In order
to maintain this mutual supremacy and inde-
pendence, Chief Justice Marsharr (to whom
Lord Harsbury condescendingly refers as a most
learned and logical lawyer) laid down the rule,
commonly known as the rule in McCurroch v.
Maryrand, that apart from the express limita-
tions in the Constitution, the whole system of
government erected by that instrument implied,
necessarily, that the States should not be allowed
to exercise their legislative or executive power in
such a way as to impede the operations of the
Federal Government ; and, conversely, that the
Federal Government should not be allowed to
exercise any of its powers so as to impede the
operations of the States. With this decision
before it, the Federal Convention deliberately
adopted the United States Federal system, in
words that, if not precisely the same, are essen-
tially similar. The High Court naturally held
that the Federal Convention, in doing this,
adopted not only the words of the American
Constitution, but also the results that are
necessarily implied by those words. In other
words, the High Court held that the rule in
McCurroch v. Maryrand was intended by the
Convention to be applied to the interpretation of
the Australian Constitution. The Privy Council
holds that the Convention intended nothing of
the sort, and that the High Court doesn’t know
what it is talking about.
* * » «
The average daily newspaper, with a blatant
ignorance that generally prevents its vision from
spreading beyond its own nose, sees nothing in
all this but a decision that Jones, who is em-
ployed in the Post-office, will now have to pay
his State income-tax just the same as Smith, who
keeps a shop. 'Whether Jones will have to pay
his income-tax is not the important question
which is being discussed here. But in spite
of the Privy Council, it may be safely said that
that question is by no means settled yet. Perhaps
it would be more correct to say that it is settled,
and settled in a manner quite contrary to the
decision of the Privy Council, by the case of
Deakin and Webb, which still, under the Consti-
tution, remains the law of Australia. However
that may be, the question whether Jones, the
Federal official, pays State income-tax or not is
trivial when compared with the real issue which
is raised by the Privy Council’s decision. That
issue is whether the development of the constitu-
tional system of Australia is to be left in the
hands of the Australian people, or is to he
controlled by the whims of a little group of
octogenarians at the other end of the world.
Even apart from this decision, few people who
cared anything about the national destinies of
Australia doubted that the High Court, and not
the Privy Council, was the proper tribunal to
interpret the Australian Constitution. If any
doubt remained, it has been dispelled by the
publication of the judgment. No more rigidly
technioi; and narrow-minded utterance has ever
fallen fro. ~ a judicial tribunal. It has con-
strued the Australian Constitution as it would
have construed an Imperial Dog Act. Of course,
such a statement will be regarded as almost
blasphemous by a large number of persons in this
country, who look upon any criticism of the Privy
Council with the same horror that, fifty years ago,
greeted a suggestion that possibly Baraam’s ass
didn’t really speak. With all deference to these
persons, it must be further said that the judg-
ment of the Privy Council betrays a complete
ignorance of the American system of constitu-
tional law, on which the Australian system was
modelled. It also betrays a comprehensive ignor-
ance of, and indifference to, the intentions of the
people who framed the Federal Constitution, the
political needs and aspirations which brought
that Constitution into existence, and the purposes
which it was intended to serve. All this is quite
consistent with the admission that the Privy
Council’s judgment may be technically correct.
But a judgment that is technically correct, in the
sense that it infringes no technical rule of inter-
pretation, may be outrageously and absolutely
wrong, in the sense that it fails altogether to
interpret the real intentions of the people
who framed the instrument that has to be inter-
preted. The same instrument may be interpreted
in an absolutely different sense, with equal
technical correctness, by a tribunal which knows
the conditions which brought it into existence,
the needs it has to serve, and the atmosphere in
which it took form and substance. That is what
has happened in this case. The High Court and
the Privy Council may both be technically correct.
But the High Court judgment is the judgment of
middle-aged men who know ; that of tae Privy
Council is the judgment of old men who don t.
* m * *
The admission of the technical correctness of
the general principle of interpretation, adopted
by the Privy Council, does not exclude ones right
to point out some propositions in the judgment
which are manifestly inaccurate and absurd. One
is that no statute under the British system can be
“unconstitutional.” This appears in the same
judgment with a decision that a Victorian Judge
was quite right in holding that Sect. 39 (2) of the
Commonwealth Judiciary Act was unconstitu-
tional. Another such proposition is that there is
no analogy between the American and the Aus-
tralian Federal systems. Such a statement is as
wrong as it is possible for any statement to he.
The Australian Constitution was deliberately
modelled on that of the United States of
America, with certain modifications. It is im-
possible to have any confidence in the law of old
gentlemen who are so very much mistaken in
their facts.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Defence Portfolio.
The Deakin Government has a chance now to
break away from a bad habit into which the Com-
monwealth is drifting—the habit of appointing as
Defence Minister the known fool of the Cabinet;
or the latest recruit who, it is feared, will prove,
on closer acquaintance, to be afool; or the awkward
man who is in the Cabinet for no particular
reason, and who can’t be given any other port-
folio because “Parliament wouldn t stand it.’
All Defence Ministers, except the purely
temporary holders of the office, have so far
come under one or other of these descrip-
tions. The first was Dickson, of Queensland,
who was put in the Cabinet because Queens-
land had to be represented somehow. No one
knew what Dickson could do, so he was made
Minister for Defence on the principle that it,
like the job of editing a newspaper, was any fool’s
job. Dickson died, and was followed by Forrest,
whose chief recommendation was that he had
been Postmaster-General for 17 days, and had
proved, even in that short space of time, that the
hillet was beyond his tonnage and lifting power.
He was succeeded by Drake, who also fell
out of the Post Office after proving unequal
to the contract. When the first Deakin
Ministry was formed Chapman was taken
in. and, of course, made Defence Minister. He
had never before held a portfolio, and was quite
an uncertain quantity ; so he got the prentice job.
That Chapman was a conspicuously able man
wasn’t the fault of those responsible for the
choice; when the second Deakin Ministry-came
to pass, the Prime Minister remembered Chap-
man’s ability, and gave him another portfolio.
The idea of wasting an able man in the Defence
Department wasn’t to be dreamt of. In the
Watson Ministry Dawson was included, though
he was even then a has-been, a man with a good
past, but no future or present. Of course he was
made Minister for Defence. The Reid Minis-
try departed an atom from the rule;
it might have made Drake Minister for
Defence, but it took the next man, in order ot
incapacity— McCay. McCay was an amateur
soldier, and had hankerings after the post. He
was responsible for the stupid system ot military
government by a Board which is in force to-day.
The second Deakin Cabinet gloriously vindicated
the ruling tradition by making 1 RAYFORD its
Defence Minister. It is a fact of some signifi-
cance that all these men, except Chapman ana
Forßest, have’ disappeared from politics. Hx-
Defence Ministers Drake, Prayford, Dawson


and McCay demonstrate the standard of Weak-
ness of the mett who have been selected for the
Defence portfolio. The time has now cotne for a
change. Under present Australian circumstances
the Defence Minister is far and away the most
important member of the Cabinet, for the
Treasury and the Customs, which rank as equal
in national importance, are set in a good groove,
whilst the Defence system, to be worthy of the
name, needs to be thoroughly re-organised, almost
re-created. A strong Prime Minister would be
his own Minister of Defence.
■= o
Beer, &c.
“C.J.” writes : It costs Maoriland a good deal
more than £2,000,000 a year to slake its thirst in
pubs and out, and for a country that won’t con-
tain a million people for a few years yet, and
which also contains big tracks of prohibition
territory, this is not bad. Despite this thirst
M.L. is a sober spot, but M.L. handles the “pro-
hibited ” person with difficulty. A man has the
privilege of going before a magistrate and swear-
ing that he’s a nasty drink-smitten person. Will
the magistrate prohibit him ? The magistrate
will. The law is set in motion. The prohibited
person has his name entered up in a book, the
police file a blue document, the court sends a copy
of the blue document to all the pubs in the
licensing district, and—in law—the man is as good
as saved, dear brethren. All the publicans, bar-
maids, chuckers-out and hotelkeepers generally
refer to the sheaf of blue papers hung over the
best beer tap, and the police, having thus warned
them to desist from supplying Jay Kay or Ell
Em with liquor, they proceed to desist. Barmaids
are supposed to know instinctively that the
respectable man with the clean shirt and the
polished accent who breasts the bar for a pint
is Jay Kay on the list. Constable A really
does know Jay Kay, and he is, as a general
thing, waiting round the corner, hoping with a
10-horse power hope that Jay Kay will breast
the bar. It does not matter to the constable or
the magistrate before whom the publican is
subsequently brought for breaking the law, that
none of the hotel people know Jay Kay from a
bale of wool. The hotel-keeper is fined. Prohi-
bition orders are licenses issued to the police to
inflict fines on publicans. A prohibition order
for the suppression of the drink disease is as effec-
tive as a wad of sacking in a burst boiler. You
might as well give an engine cough mixture to
heal a cracked plate as a prohibition or der to a
drunk to heal his disorder. In one or two towns
of Maoriland—notably Wanganui—the prohibited
persons camp together and scheme to cheat the
law. In Wanganui there is a sick colony
of derelicts, all of them on the publican’s blue-
paper file, and none of them ever go so near a
hotel. Their very good friends supply the law-
breaking liquor, and things in that drunk-camp are
only medium several times a week. Maoriland tried
hard to reclaim the drunk awhile ago by drafting
him into Government drink-cure homes, but the
aristocratic drunk got so angry at the inferiority
of the liquor and the near proximity of the
debased female who had been before the magis-
trate 107 times that he rebelled. There aren’t any
homes now. The large, anaemic body of prohibi-
tionists in M.L., who called loudly for the
suppression of the derrink, until the late
Premier Seddon brought down a Bill that would
prohibit the possession of drink in private houses
within a prohibition district, still regard a drunk
as a person who should be sent to gaol every time
lie loses his balance. Maoriland doesn’t recog-
hise that the man who has the drink microbe will
feed it at all costs. Maoriland is gradually
going to have its glass of beer taken away from
it because a very small minority in that country
are incurably ill. M.L, has listened to the prohi-
bitionist until it begins to believe that the
prohibitionist will have nothing to be angry about
in a few years’ time. In the meantime, che
hardest-drinking person in the isles is the person
who is legally debarred by various portentous
papers from slacking a thirst that continues to
get slacked despite all precautions.
Japan and California.
Japan seems to have backed down from the im-
pudent claim that the American State of Cali-
fornia should not merely provide adequate
educational facilities for Japanese children resi-
dent there, but should allow them to be taught
side by side with American children. California
showed no inclination to give way to the bullying
either of the Asiatic or of the deafening cocktail
Roosevelt, who stood behind the Asiatic ; and,
it seems, the matter will now be quietly
dropped. The making of the claim, in
the first instance, was a singular sample of
insolence, and illustrates the state of swell-head ed-
ness into which the Jap has got. No civilised
Power has hitherto presumed to dictate to another
on a matter of such purely domestic concern as
educational administration. The Japanese “chil-
dren,” whom California refused to allow to be
taught side by side with young Californians of
both sexes, were in some cases adults, their ages
ranging from 18 to 23, whom it would have
been strictly equitable to have barred from
State schools altogether, whether their color
was white, black, yellow, or brindle. In
offering to them special schools of equal status to
the white schools California did all that generosity
could prompt. But Japan’s arrogance saw in it
occasion for quarrel. Fortunately, the Asiatic’s
swelled head is just now supported by a very
empty belly, and when it came to a matter of
backing bluff by fight, Japan quieted down.
But when it is Australia’s turn to be threatened,
the bluff may have a better backing. From
the exhaustion which followed the war with
Russia, Japan is quickly recovering. A policy of
High Protection, of State exploitation of mono-
polies, of Japan for the Japanese and only the
Japanese, is having its natural effect in promoting
a rapid growth of material prosperity. Soon Aus-
tralia will have to calculate with a fully rein-
vigorated Monkey.
“ Lessons from Denmark.”
From a worthy Tory, J. M. Gillespie, of Vic.
Closer Settlement Board, comes, per medium of
Melbourne Argus, a glowing account of the
benefits bestowed by State Socialism on the
farmer in Denmark. Here are some of the things
which Gillespie viewed without shuddering
Much of the success which attends the dairying in-
dustry and other branches of farming in Denmark is due
to the advanced system of education, coupled with the
State assistance to closer settlement, which has enabled
90 per cent, of the men who are working the land to
become owners.
The Agricultural College at Ringsted, about 40 miles
from Copenhagen, is owned by the principal, but the
State has lent him some £3OOO at a low rate of interest on
the security o'f the property. The fees charged are about
£2 per month, including board and lodging and all
teaching. Under certain circumstances the State pays
the greater portion of the fees. There were 100 students
i n residence.
About 100 years ago the land was principally held by a
few large proprietors, but since that time it has been
gradually subdivided, and is now chiefly held by the
peasants as proprietors. The figures showing the dis-
tribution of the land, according to the latest returns 1
could obtain, are as follows :
92,656 properties from J to 6 acres each.
66,491 properties, from 6 to 20 acres each (average
acres).
73,889 properties, over 24£ acres, with an average of
74.7 acres each.
233,036
The average holding of the above is 23.6 acres each.
Over 90 per cent, of the present occupiers of land in
Denmark are proprietors. Before this subdivision of the
estates, Denmark was not progressing; emigration to
other parts was very frequent, and the best of the young 1
men were leaving the country.
An applicant can choose his own farm or allotment,
subject to the approval of the land board. The total
sum which the allotment will eventually cost the pur-
chaser must not exceed, save in exceptional cases, the
sum of £277 10s., and nine-tenths of this amount may be
supplied by the State on loan. The purchaser has to
mortgage the property to the State, with the buildings
and stock, as security for the advance. For the first five
years, interest only is charged. After that time the
capital is repaid at a minimum rate of one per cent, per
annum. Interest must be paid half-yearly.
The Argus rather carefully dodged allusion, to
the tremendously high-handed methods by which
Denmark broke up its great estates. Still, even
with that omission, the Argus heading, “ Lessons
from Denmark,” is a remarkable outbreak for an
Anti-Sosh newspaper which barracks incessantly
for the big landowner in Australia.
Sandbagging the Tariff.
One day last week the papers printed this new
Commerce regulation:—
Some merchants import spirits at proof or overproof
strength in bottles, and reduce it and re-bottle it in Aus-
tralia, As the imported article is not that which is ulti-
mately sold, the bottles containing the spirits have not
been labelled in any way, in order that the risk of confu-
sion and mistakes might be minimised. The importers
concerned desire to continue to import the spirits in this
manner without labels on the bottles, and it has been
decided to permit it upon condition that the importers
enter into security with the Customs in the sum of £lOO
with one surety approved by the Collector, that the pre-
scribed trade description will be applied to the re-bottled
spirits before it is offered for sale.
The Customs seem to have a large, receptive ear
for the whisperings of the men wdio want to smash
the Australian spirit industry ; and this is another
point gained by them —presumably because the
Customs didn’t know what it was loaded with.
The whisky of commerce is practically all 16‘5
underproof. Formerly most of the stuff used to
arrive in bottles, and of that strength, and
the duty was charged on the total quan-
tity, with a deduction for the added water.
But with the new Tariff Act the deduc-
tion was abolished. Importers then had to
pay as much per gallon for underproof as
for proof spirit. The object, of course, was to en-
courage bottling and packing in Australia; and
that meant not the mere bottling and packing,
but the manufacture of bottles and cases in Aus-
tralia, because a duty was put on imported cases,
bottles, &c. The idea was to encourage importers
to bring in their stuff in bulk, break it down here
to the underproof spirit of commerce, and use
Australian bottles and packages for retailing pur-
poses. Presently, however, after facilities for
bottling and packing had been provided, some
smart person discovered a hole large enough to
crawl through. If bottles came through filled
with spirit, neither bottles, straw envelopes, nor
other packing had to pay duty; they only had
to pay duty if they came in empty. So
the smart people who discovered the ori-
fice promptly ordered their consignments
of foreign spirits to be sent out in
foreign bottles enclosed in foreign packing.
On arrival, they simply drew the corks, poured
out the spirit, added the water to reduce the stuff
to 16'5 underproof (or as much underproof as the
customer and the law would stand), poured the
diluted stuff back into the same bottles, put them
into the same envelopes, and stowed them in the
same cases. Then smash went the Australian
bottling business, and the Australian manufacture
of bottles and packing material tailed off to a
mere thin streak. All the new bottles that were
wanted were the few required to hold the extra
volume after the water was put in. The Customs
Department might naturally have been expected
to he mad when it saw its scheme for promoting
the Australian bottling business wrecked ; but it
appears to have not only taken it in the resigned
spirit of an early Christian martyr, but to
have now actually made things easier for
the importers who have biffed and beaten it.
Anyway, this new regulation actually makes pro-
vision for the Australian industry-smashing trick.
“It has been decided to permit it,” and all that
the importer has to do is to put up £lOO. Aus-
tralia doesn’t even get the £lO0 —it doesn’t get
anything, in fact, except the foreign spirit in the
foreign (duty free) bottle, put up in the foreign
(duty free) case. Meantime, however, the Aus-
tralian manufacturer will have to either pay the
necessarily higher price for Australian-made
bottles, &c., or import bottles and pay duty for
them ; and either way he will be heavily handi-
capped. And he had, in many respects, hardly
any Protection before. Take gin, for example.
The duty is 14s. per gallon. The Australian ex-
cise duty is 12s. if the spirit is made from grapes,
or 13s. if made from other things. In order to
compete with Dutch gin, which is made from
whatever happens to be cheapest at the moment
—potatoes, sugar-ref use, or anything else —
the Australian maker finds it impossible to
use grapes ; and so his effective duty is reduced
to Is. per gallon. For it is to be noted that,
though the Australian has to pay higher duty
if he uses potato spirit, the Dutchman may make
his spirit out of potato or any other old thing,
and pay not a penny more. Still, that is by the
way. With wine, a more sensible and effective
plan is adopted—apparently because there were
more people in Parliament with wine growers for
constituents. Wine in bulk pays fi. a gallon ;
wine in bottle pays Bs. That gives a very re-
spectable protection to the Australian bottling
business ; and the obvious intention was to give
the Australian bottling business the same Protec-
tion in regard to spirits. But the wily importer
found a backstairs way where no Customs officer
was lying in wait; and now, instead of barring up
that doorway, the Customs lays down a carpet
and provides a nice door-mat. Also, it prints
“ Welcome” on the door-mat.
What Happened to Beeby.
The problem of what will happen in politics, or
anywhere else, when the normal man bumps up
against a Personality, however unpleasant,
was solved once more in Blayney (N.S.W.)
last Saturday. That, indeed, was about the only
interesting feature of an otherwise banal and
futile contest —futile since, for all the good or ill the
victorious Reformer can do between now and the
next general election, he might as well have been
returned to represent a constituency in the Parlia-
ment of Mars ; and futile, moreover, since neither
Withington nor any other Reformer will ever
be elected to represent Blayney again, the con-
stituency being naturally a Labor one. The
entire question, with Reformers and Laborites
alike, from the issuing of Crick’s demand in
the press that his friends should abstain from
voting as a sort of mark of esteem towards
himself, was simply “Will they?” On that, it
was recognised, the whole election hinged. A
comparison of Saturday’s figures with those of the
last election, which Crick won against Garland,
and also with those of the recent Federal
election (wherein Blayney formed a sec-
tion of the Macquarie division, won by Carr),
shows that Crick’s friends did amazingly.
Lagoon, which gave Carr, M.H.R., a big ma-
jority, and which, in 1903. polled 94 for Crick apd
18 for Garland, gave Beeby and Withington 36
and 30 respectively. Duckmaloi, another Crick
stronghold, despite the presence of a camp of
Laborites, who were there on a holiday, and de-
spite the descent on its peaceful glades of a
perfect cloud of Reform orators, by way of anti-
dote to this Socialist bane, polled but 16 votes
all told. Yet Carr there got a majority of 60.
Porter’s Retreat, which has been in the habit, for
years, of voting—Crick 61, the other man one (the
one in question being the contribution of the anti-
Crick canvasser), disfranchised itself to the tune
of 80 per cent. Isabella did the same. And so
on. Without straining the point further, it is
enough to remark that, with the solitary exception
of Burraga, Crick’s old supporters kept off the
polling booths in the same marked fashion every-
where, and as a result Withington crawled in by
the skin of his teeth. This happening is the more
notable when it is recalled that, in his cynical
contempt of these amazing followers of his at
Blayney, Crick has been always quite unique. A
sprightly retort by him to John Haynes (Haynes
claimed he had received a letter from a Blayney
elector) was, “You’re a liar; none of them can
write ” ; and it was before an enthralled audience
in this constituency that its representative,
who was predicting he would make them
“shudder in their socks” by his recital,
suddenly broke off with the courtly aside,
“Those of you, that is to say, who happen
to wear socks.” Further, Crick has not been near
the electorate since August, three years ago.
In fact, his openly-expressed desire has always been
that he might represent, instead of Blayney.
Wilcannia—a place from which no excursion
trains ever run. What is the true meaning of
this Crick fetish then, whereby a certain section
will suffer almost anything so only that it be
from Crick ? To the impartial onlooker the thing
is as obscure as G. Reid’s “Anti-Socialism,” if
not more so. Personality is the only explana-
tion ; and it’s rather a lame one.
A Burst Prophet.
It is an open secret that George Reid is not
enthusiastic about appearing in the new House
of Representatives as leader of the Anti-Sosh
Opposition, and is seriously considering the
advisability of. throwing up his Parliamentary
“ honors.” It is not that R,eid is tired of politics,
although he has certainly good reason to be, and
his meagre attendances during the last session of
the dead and gone Parliament indicated that he
was quite exhausted. But even among the
disciples of Anti-Sosh he is regarded as the sink-
ing ship and the man who is going under. At
the general election the people made a dead set
at everyone connected with him, and reduced
even his own personal majority from over 4000 to
1250, and members take the hint and seek any
excuse to get away from him. The fate of Allan
McLean and Lieutenant-Colonel M‘Cay, the
Protectionist rats; of Pumpkin Smith, who was
Reid’s watchdog and underground engineer; of
Lonsdale, who looked upon him as the only
heaven - sent statesman in Australia ; and
of Conroy, who was his “candid friend” —is all
a solemn warning of what may happen these times
to a man who is too closely associated with Reid.
So men like Knox were careful to announce
during the campaign that, although they were
Anti-Sosh, they were not following Reid under
any circumstances, and wouldn’t touch him with
the far end of a clothes-prop. And since the
election other Anti-Soshers have taken the hint
and sized ud the situation, and have signified
their belief that Reid is impossible as a leader.
The presence of Iceberg Irvine supplies the man
who is fitted to take his place, and the nine other
Tories and Freetraders from Victoria are under-
stood to be ready to proclaim him leader of the
party, and freeze in his company. The South Aus-
tralians are also spoken of as hostile to Reid, and,
although most of the N.S. W. contingent, or rather
remnant, will remain true to its traditional leader,
his fate really depends on how the Queensland
and Tasmanian cats jump. There is something
humorous about Reid, who started out to preach
the doctrine of only two parties in Parliament,
coming back to find that his own crowd has split
into two and made the position worse than before ;
also about the man who invented Anti-Sosh being
scorned and thrown aside by his own implement
and rejected by his own wax figger. This is a
predicament in which Pumpkin Smith would have
been invaluable. He would have flown around and
poured grease over the malcontents, and oiled them
privately, and given them butter on a lordly dish.
But Pumpkin lost his political life on December 12,
and Reid has no one to take his place. His own
natural bearishness makes it impossible for him to
ladle out his own grease, even if he melted him-
self down to supply the stuff. It would be a
strange ending to Reid’s long but useless political
career if he should be deposed from his position
as leader; but there are more unlikely things than
that he will be thus dragged down if he attempts
to assume command of the party in the new
House.
The Coming and Going of Taylor. .
Taylor was an English farmer, and when he read
Cogiilan’s gush about how any man with energy
and brains could make a fortune dairy-farming
on the shares system in N.S.W., he said, “ Thaat
be tha place for I!” He sold out his English
property, and duly arrived in Sydney. There he
presented himself to the great H. C. L. Ander-
son, of the Intelligence Bureau, to whom he gave
his letters of introdution from Coghlan, with the
request that H.G.L.A. would find him a farm on
the halves arrangement. Anderson said it was
impossible, but offered several places where
Taylor would do all the work, and take all the
risk, while the other fellow would take two-thirds
of the profits. Taylor -wasn't a genius, but he
knew enough to see that this was worse than the
squire at home, and said so. He said it violently
and disrespectfully, and the Intelligence man
became annoyed. Then Taylor got into the
papers; and the press and the Government re-
quested Anderson to get a move on, and
find something decent for this fine promis-
ing, sturdy, eminently-desirable type of im-
migrant who had been assisted out here.
Was the country to lose such people after going
to the expense of paying part of their passages
out, because an unintelligent Intelligence Depart-
ment couldn’t find a landlord who would be
content with half the takings? Premier Car-
ruthers emitted many words on the subject.
Anderson wrote minutes and explanations. Then
a man named Montgomery, who represents
Maoriland down in George-street. Sydney, heard
the noise, read the disturbance, and, rising up
swiftly, went out and sought Taylor. He found
him wandering round Sydney clutching two bags,
in which he carried £5OO, all he had in the world.
Montgomery grasped him firmly, fled with him
into the bank, took out a draft for £450, pinned
it inside Taylor’s inner pocket, rushed him down
to his office, showed him the map, and spread
himself on the beauties and resources of Maori-
land, and the ease with which money is made
there. He took Taylor out to dinner, and thence
to the U.S.S. Co.’s office, where he bought his
ticket. Also, he carefully conducted the family
on board, saw the steamer start, and followed it
in a motor launch to see that Anderson didn’t
recapture Taylor at the last moment. But the
N.S.W. Department didn’t even know till quite
a while later that Taylor had been kidnapped
out of its jurisdiction. Now perhaps Carruthers
will do something about a graduated land-tax, or
take some other strenuous measures to find land
for valuable persons dike Taylor, whose coming,
under present conditions, seems only a very bad
joke.
♦ — .
The Tail-End of the Sectarian Spectre.
During the Commonwealth election campaign,
Sydney Telegraph and other Anti-Sosh organisa-
tions loudly declared that Socialism was opposed
to Christianity, and one of the most widely-
distributed leaflet of the Anti-Soshers bore that
very title. It declared that Socialism was
atheistical in its origin and practice, and was
the policy of Anti-CHRIST, and it quoted the
encyclical of a late Pope as one of the
authorities for its statements. The Pope, it
was declared, had heaved the whole weight
and curse of the Church at Socialism, and tried
to knock it out in one round. But Anti-Sosh
didn’t win, and the Telegraph slewed round,
and described the Labor successes as a victory
of the Roman Catholic Church, and inquired
agitatedly what Roman Catholicism expected to
get out of it. “ What concession was the Church
to receive for its support?” asked the ’Graph
in a terrible voice. Now there are indications
that a systematic effort will be made to
stir up a blizzard of sectarian hatred which
will make the State general election a question
of Protestantism v. Roman Catholicism—with
the Labor party representing Roman Catholicism,
of course. The chances are that it will fail. Quite
a number of leading Protestant clergymen have
The Monkey and the 'Roo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ May I walk into your parlor?” says the Monkey
to the ’Roo,
“’Tisafine and large apartment, and its rather
empty, too.
I can fill its vacant spaces in a jiffy, more or less,
When our parti-colored races to a fusion may
progress.
“Will you? Won’t you ? Will you? Won’t you
let me enter? Do!”
“Oh no, no, no! Oh no, no, no!” replies the
Kangaroo.
“ But your reasons ? ” cries the Monkey. “ Cau-
tious, callous Kangaroo !
Can it be that I am doubted, whose whole heart
goes out to you ?
You have room for me, and others, from the
Asiatic strand.
We are allied to your brothers; let me come and
take your hand.”
Fawns the Monkey, “ Won’t you let me come and
dwell in peace with you ?”
“Thank you, Monkey, but I’m funky,” frowns
the cautious Kangaroo.
And he adds this cold rejoinder, to his pleading
would-be mate,
“ Since you put the question straightly, you shall
have your answer straight.
Yes, I doubt you—you and others of the Asiatic
brand,
And we meet not here as brothers, lest you come
to take our land.”
And “Mayn’t I?” moans the Monkey, “mayn’t
I take you by the hand ? ”
“No,” the Kangaroo respondeth, “you might
also take my land.”
“ Hairy Fathers!” swears the Monkey; “ what a
perverse Kangaroo!
Don’t I proffer you a future such as radiates for
few ?
Oh, a time of fuss and feathers, for a staggered
world to con,
When we twine our tails together and hop
amicably on.
“Can’tyou see the future shining in a pleasant
sunrise hue,
If we tether tails together, Brother Ape and
Brother ’Roo? ”
“No, I’m nervous, very nervous,” to the Ape re-
sumed the ’Roo,
“ That our tails won’t twine together as you think
they ought to do.
Should you find most incommoding my long
bounds along our track,
I’ve a nasty, cold foreboding you might jump
upon my back.
“Yes, I feel an icy something that I cannot well
define,
Just a shiver, like a river, and it’s running down
my spine.”
“ With your will, then, or without it,” fumes the
Monkey, “ listen, ’Roo !
I shall walk into that parlor, and annex it largely
too;
While another tune you’re humming, I may
batter down its door,
In a sure time swiftly coming, though the need I
shall deplore.
“Won’t you, then, admit me, brother, ere I force
myself on you ? ”
“ No ! I dare you ! I can’t bear you ! ” still replies
the Kangaroo.
N.s.w.
TALAFEKAU.


denounced the move, and Sydney Worker has set
itself to the task of reminding the wage-earners
that, no matter what their creed may be, their
material and worldly interests are the same, and
that the men who are trying to stir up sectarian
strife are really the enemies of all sects, and
mostly opposed to all religion, except the worship
of the golden calf. And this is gospel truth. It
is the - old policy of dividing to conquer. The
monopolist and the sweater set the workers fight-
ing one another about their souls, and, when they
are thoroughly exhausted, the monopolist will
seize the bodies of both combatants and put them
through the mill which turns their bones into
dividends. And, if the workers are not cute
enough to see through such a miserably trans-
parent dodge, they deserve all they get, even as
they got it when Irvine became Premier of Vic-
toria.
♦
Some weeks ago, it was unofficially announced
that Carruthers would not seek re-election for
St. George (N.S.W.), and Haynes announced
his intention of standing for the seat. But, so
far, the Deform Premier has not personally
announced that he will retire with the expiring
Parliament, and has contented himself by wailing
about the enormous sacrifices that the position of
Premier entails on him. Nobody ever dreamed
how great these sacrifices were till he announced,
during a speech in the Blayney district, that, on
the day he took over the Premiership, he sent
£lBOO worth of legal work out of the office to
avoid the suspicion of evil. Presuming that the
day he took oyer the Premiership was just an
average day with the firm of Carruthers and
Wilson, and allowing 300 working days to the
year, this would infer that Carruthers’ ordinary
turnover is £540,000 per annum ! Talk about
Cincinnatus ! Lands Minister Ashton is another
patriot who is being bled for his country’s sake,
and he, too, talks of considering if it is advisable
to worry about saving the country. So far, the
gentle Ashton has not staggered humanity by
disclosing the length and the depth of the hole
that saving the country is making in his pocket;
but, presumably, it is less than a million per
annum.
+
The ‘‘ insolence of office ” is again exemplified by
the action of Melbourne Harbor Trust in calling
for tenders for dredges from outside the State,
notwithstanding repeated Government protests
against this unpatriotic policy. Also, it is months
since the Geelong Harbor Trust knew that its two
dredges were lost—those machines that were
allegedly imported because they could not be
made locally with sufficient speed—yet no action
has been taken to replace them. They could have
been built here, and at work long ere this, but
these officials think it is fair to bite the hand that
feeds them, and merely await a chance to buy
another cheap, foreign-built article, not the least
of whose recommendation to them is that it isn’t
Australian.
♦
There seems just a faint chance that the Austra-
lian navy—or the apology for a navy—will be
built in Australia. Alfred Deakin has cut down
Captain Creswell’s scheme considerably, and
instead of the insufficient 24 boats, costing 2J
millions, he proposes to build a miserably insuffi-
cient 12 boats, costing £750,000 —half the number
of boats, and of inferior quality to boot. Three-
quarters of a million does not offer a very great
inducement to any private firm—which might
never get another such contract —to start a naval
dockyard, and it does not seem to have yet
occurred to the Affable One that there is no
earthly reason why we should not have a Com-
monwealth dockyard and build our own ships.
We would save the profit in that £750,000, and
once Australia had got its yard started the cost of
increasing the fleet—and it will have to be steadily
increased and constantly replaced—would be
materially reduced. Deakin has been sending an
officer round to all the dockyards in the Common-
wealth, but no one is willing to take the job in
hand. Now heis proposing a partnership between
an English firm and an Australian one—the work to
be done in Australia. This is better than havingthe
whole business done in England. Still, it’s a
poor crumb compared with the policy of building
our own ships in our own naval dockyards. The
fault of the Australian Government is always the
same—lack of initiative and pluck. A search is in-
variably made for some compromise, or some way
of putting off the decision or passing on the re-
sponsibility. Yet, in this case, there is a good
precedent to go upon and a good example to
follow. The case of the Phoenix foundry, the
Austral Otis, and other engineering shops is good
evidence to go upon. They had to confess that
they could not manufacture locomotives at the
price at which the Victorian Government work-
shops could deliver them fully equipped. Yet
Victoria had to wait for Bent to find this out.
The outside shops were fleecing the State for
years before Bent came along and roared.
--
All the while that Queensland was crying for its
cheap nigger—in many cases because he was a
foolish nigger who was easily persuaded to pay
fancy prices for tawdry rubbish—Australia was
told that the Kanaka positively shivered at the
thought of being taken home to be clubbed and
eaten. Australia was even assured that the poor
heathen wouldn’t go back to darkness and the
family cook-pot without a desperate struggle, and
the Labor party was reminded that, if there was
bloodshed in the attempt to drag the gentle
Tommy from his adopted home, the gore would
be upon its head. The S.M. Herald, which im-
ported an assistant editor from Queensland while
the papers there still told that sort of yarn, appa-
rently doesn’t know that the tune up north has
been changed now, and it still pours tears over its
adopted brother, and apologises for disturbing
him. Brisbane Telegraph used to say just the
same sort of thing; but it is no use saying it now
in Queensland, so it reports truthfully as
follows:
The work of deporting to their native islands Polyne-
sian laborers and their families resident in this State is
being carried on apace. The willingness—in fact, one
might say, the eagerness—of the islanders to return to
their places of birth has greatly facilitated the deporta-
tion operations.
They are eager to go ” —which is the nice way
of saying that they would have gone before if
they could. And that sounds a good deal like
slavery.
4
The repeated fining of Charles Hillman, of
Sydney, under various trade names, supplies a
valuable argument in favor of municipalisation of
the milk trade. Hillman trades under the name
©f the Camden Park Dairy Co., The London Milk
Palace, and Charles Hillman and Co. Previous
to last week he had been convicted three times of
adding water to the milk, and his employees had
been proceeded against 47 times, and fines totalling
£lBB had been imposed by way of a hint. But
apparently the fines were not heavy enough to
make the milk-and-water business unprofitable
and last week Charles Hillman and his sleeping
partner, Moore, again appeared before Syd-
ney Central Police Court on 11 charges of
having added water to the cow-juice. They
were convicted on all the charges, and fines
and costs totalled £147 13s. 6d. But judging by
the fact that the previous £lBB didn’t deter, little
or no reformation can be expected as the result of
£147 13s. 6d. The Act under which the prosecu-
tions took place requires to be amended. The
man who sells adulterated milk, knowing it to be
adulterated, is the Caesar Borgia of commerce.
He is the vampire who sucks the life blood of
infants to make money, and that he should be
allowed to pursue his calling is quite against the
spirit of our civilisation. Gaol, a fine heavy
enough to deprive him of his ill-gotten gains, and
permanent exclusion from the business would best
meet this sort of crime. In other words, the
defendant should be struck off the rolls. If a
man persistently sells milk and water it is a fair
thing to put him right out of the milk business,
and let him devote himself wholly to the sale of
water.
«
S.M. Herald's “ On the Land ” column (11/l/’O7)
told the farmer how his alleged friend, the Free-
trade importer, has been taking him down :
It is customary for Australian merchants to place
their orders for jute early, so as to prevent the forma-
tion of a Calcutta ring at a moment when bags are
badly needed here. Local merchants would almost
declare that they did this in the interests of the
farmers, although it is obvious that, if their only idea
was to act as dealers between the farmer and the mills,
they would not be much concerned whether the buying
was done early or late. But it is clear that our merchants
have come to look upon jute as a big field for speculation.
So they buy early, and thus have more time for their
operations. I.ast year they dipped in at the customary
season, not many months after the harvest. Bags were
bought freely at 6s. 6d. landed in Sydney, and, when
enough had been secured for the harvest at
about that figure, an impression got abroad
that the jute crop then growing was likely to be
a light one. Almost at once prices began to jump, and
during May there were large sales here at 7s. 9d. per
dozen. • All through the winter the speculation con-
tinued, and the same bales of bags were again and again
turned over. At least one attempt was made to corner
the Australian supply, but without success. The high
hopes of dealers continued right up to the opening of the
harvest, and farmers, unconscious of the surplus impor-
tations, were compelled for some time to pay over Bs. a
dozen for their bags, delivered.
Even when it was working its hardest to invent
fairy tales about the farmer’s alleged enemy, the
Protectionist harvester manufacturer, the Herald
never invented anything half so severe as this.
And this isn’t about the manufacturer, but about
the Herald’s special friend, the Freetrade im-
porter.
The new Socialistic legislation is at it again,
harassing commerce and interfering with trade,
and dislocating the processes of interchange, and
doing the other things that Torydom complains
of so bitterly. Its latest foul deed has been to
have a Sydney consumption cure man committed
for trial on the charge that his medicine is
a sham and a getting of the money of
the one-lunged section of the community
by false pretences. Now the sale of a con-
sumption cure, bogus or otherwise, is com-
merce, just like the sale of 9-carat gold jewellery
as 15-carat, and the sale of goods made out of
shoddy and mungo as pure wool, and the disposal
of 80yds. of thread as 100yds., or of 14oz. of some-
thing in a tin as lib. And the law which inter-
feres with these things interferes with commerce.
And the daily paper reckons that interfering
with commerce is a shade worse than interfering
with the Twelve Apostles.
There died in the Wairarapa (M.L.) re-
cently Chief Kingi Ngatuere. He was thrown
out of a buggy ; and when a twenty-stone Maori
hits the earth, there is a tangi. The biggest
tangi in the memory of any pale person is happen-
ing now over the remains of Kingi, and the con-
sumption of food is something frightful. Ngatuere
Tawhiri Matea, the father of the dead chief, was
the most influential “friendly” rangatira what
time the sod of the Wairarapa was strewn with
red-coats and brown bodies.
The Year Book oe N.S.W. is to hand as
a sort of forerunner of the bigger volume, the
Year Book op Australia. It is a most valuable
work, bar the usual omissions, which omissions
seem incurable or thereabouts. For instance, all
particulars are given of the election for the House
of Representatives and not a word about the elec-
tion for the Senate—the Year Book has never yet
really learned that there is a Senate. In the same
way it never seems able to realise that there are
any elections for the State Upper Houses in
Victoria, Tasmania, S.A. and Westralia. The
Fire Insurance section gives the same old list of
offices. The Farmers’ Co-operative Insurance
Association of M.L. is 16 years old now, but it is
too young for the Year Book to have heard of it,
and the Commonwealth Insurance Co. (Melbourne)
hasn’t come within the volume’s line of vision yet.
Similarly the banking section of the Year Book
has never yet heard—or at least it hadn’t heard
up to last year—of the Ballarat Banking Co.
though that institution had then been established
for 41 years. These are curious omissions, and
probably there are more of the same kind, but
The Bulletin hasn’t had time to hunt them up.
Yet with all drawbacks the Year Book is a most
valuable work of reference.
The casualness of some people is wonder-
ful. The other night a man was walking home
from church at Golden Square, Bendigo (Vic.),
when suddenly the asphalt footpath in front of
him buckled up, broke, and dropped away into
nothingness. A great hole gaped in the footpath.
The young man clawed hold of a convenient
verandah post, and just missed a journey through
nothing with the asphalt. But he was not dis-
turbed. He knew what it was and told the
nearest constable, who put a barrrier across the
footpath, and said he’d get it filled up in the
mahrnin’. It was an old shaft, 150 ft. deep, that
had suddenly asserted itself. There are old shafts
all over Bendigo, each one covered with a few
ancient slabs, which rot through in course of
time, and tip whatever and whoever may be on
top down to the bottom. Sometimes people are
killed; sometimes they aren’t. When they are,
they are buried, and that’s all about it. It is
nobody’s business to see that these old shafts are
filled up, any more than it is anybody’s job to see
that the new generations of shafts being sunk
where future cities will be built are filled in when
the sinkers abandon them. The shaft nuisance is
a very real danger all over the mining districts of
Victoria., and a sufficient method of guarding
against it can’t be evolved too soon. At present
there is no method at all.
The necessity for obviating strikes by the
removal of strike conditions has been again
emphasised by the sheer stupidity of the Brickies’
battle in Melbourne. Where reason is dammed
(the d.a.m. kind of dam) by pride a little milk of
human kindness in the shape of D.C.L. Whisky
should be used to make it flow smoothly again.
The flow of D.C.L. and common sense are mostly
simultaneous. And an appeal to the Whisky of
the Wise is always preferable to an appeal to arms
—idle arms.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The New Clown.”
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.” (Matinees, “Alice in
Wonderland.”)
Theatre Royal. “ Revenge.”
Palace “Jane.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bondi i... “ Wonderland.”
Amphitheatre Vaudeville Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ Village Black smith. ”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Atiienasum Hall “The Kelly Gang” Biograph.
St. Kilda Esplanade. .. “ Dreamland.”
4.
The banana-tree (which is a fern if it isn’t
a banana) in the foreground of J. C. Williamson’s
earthquake at Her Majesty's, Sydney, is so used
to falling now that when The Bulletin last
viewed it, it beat the clock, and began to moult
50sec. ahead of the earthquake. Generally speak-
ing, it is a wonderful illusion; yet even in the
best regulated earthquakes a painted box which
has been busy forming the innards of the scenery
will sometimes fall forward in the universal
smash, and get in front of the curtain, and that
spoils the harmony of things. The more one sees
of “Parsifal,” however, the better one appreciates
Thomas Kingston’s work as “the simple one
and pure,” who begins as a poacher in
the preserves of Holy Grail, and winds up
as King of those picturesque parts. But
his opening scene must be a sore trial to
a serious-minded man like Thomas Kingston.
There really isn’t a smile in “Parsifal” from
start to finish ; yet Parsifal’s purity and simplicity
are represented in such a w'ay that the audience
inserts a loud laugh every evening at 8.40 or
thereabouts, and it looks as though for consump-
tion elsewhere that part of the scene may have to
be re-cast. Vivian Edwards’ Amfortas shows
rather less light and shade than when he knew the
part less well and had to think harder. Beau-
champ is an improved and meritorious guardian
of Kings’ morals, and Mervale becomes a rather
less intelligible wizard as the treasury swells under
the influence of a remarkably successful season.
“The New Clown,” at Sydney Criterion,
in its fourth week, is still a source of innocent
merriment to full houses. A new feature has
been added—“ A Day at the Circus”—and there
were so many funny old features that the new one
had hardly room to squeeze in.
*% * *
Those who wish to tread “The Path of
Thorns” at Sydney Royal, to the ultimate
undoing of all villainy and the complete triumph
of virtue, will need to take occasion by the fore-
lock this week. On Saturday the stirring yarn,
with its pictures.of Sydney slums, will give place
to “Revenge,” an Austrian military melodrama
which is new to Sydney. It may be safely fore-
casted that the word will be R-r-r-revenge in the
mouth of the villain ; also, that the stage setting
will be something great.
** * «
At Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night Mr.
Spencer submitted an entirely new lot of theatre-
scope pictures—amongst them being “A Venetian
Tragedy” (a fine subject, illustrated with Venetian
scenery and effects), “The Artist’s Dream,”
“The Miner’s Daughter” (a drama without words,
told on canvas, or rather, on a sheet), and sun-
dries. Two fine colored sets are “Magic Roses”
and “Aladdin.”
m* * *
Man, woman and jest, under the compre-
hensive syllable “Jane,” were put on at Sydney
Palace last Saturday. Jane is a sweet old name
—a revival like fichus and mittens. In the piece
Jane is a housemaid. To-day housemaids are
named Alys or Alexandrina. To re-popularise the
sensible Jane, a Czar or some such potentate
should marry a Jane. Her Imperial Majesty
the Empress Jane would help this name thing
along. The Jane at the Palace ought to be seen
by all bachelors. (This advice is tendered by a
hardened celibate.) A bachelor and such a Jane
as Miss Vera Remee make a perfect work ; the
artificial flower of as fine a state of civilisation
as you’ll find in any thousand-guinea flat.
Miss Remee brushes the beautiful bachelor—
Harry Diver is him, and Harry ought to get a
bonus from his tailor and tie-merchant for the air
with which he carries the grey overcoat and the
neck string—straightens him up, puts his gloves
into a hand that was going to smite the air, sticks a
posy in his button-hole, and tells him significantly
that he is quite ready to go. Is Sliackleton-
Diver a hero to his housemaid ? No ! He is an
animated clothes-rack put into this world and
that flat for the purpose of paying wages to her
and his man William Tipson. Jane and William
have been married on tne morning of the day on
which the play opens, and as the play and the
day end together, matters go with a rush like the
water that comes down at Lodore, or which will
come down if Bent’s Waranga Basin bursts.
Mr. Harry Macdona plays the comic man (William
Tipson) to the young swell so humorously that
the realist wonders why he is not “fired ” with-
out a character. Mr. Diver, Miss Remee, and
Mr. Johnston Weir (as Mr. Kershaw) carry the
piece through as it deserves. And it deserves
well for a jolly little comedy.
** * *
Brennan’s National Amphitheatre (Syd.)
seats 4800 at a time, and the capacity is taxed
regularly. This seems to prove that it pays to give
good amusement atlowprices. Since Boxing Night
no less than 80,000 people have flocked to the
Amphitheatre. Lieutenant M‘Donald is still
there with his gun, and when one watches him
shooting small discs off thfe head of his assistant
it is easy to understand why that young man
wears such a jaunty expression. His billet is
fairly, safe—as long as the Lieutenant keeps his
shooting form. At least, this writer doesn’t want
to take the young man’s job from him. It is a
curious thing that it is possible to enjoy watching
an imitation of an actor without liking the actor
in the least This scribe never yet gazed upon
John E. Sheridan without a hostile feeling. And
yet Garden Wilson’s imitation of Sheridan is a
bright and gleaming oasis of joy amidst the deso-
lation that spreads between drinks.
** * #
“ Wonderland ” is giving its patrons glori-
ous nights of thrills and horrors. On Saturday
the Chefalos, man and wife, bade each other a
solemn good-bye, kissed their infant a possible
good-bye for ever, and then took their lives in
their front extremities and tempted Providence.
He loops the death-trap loop on a bicycle. She
leaps the fiery chasm on another bike. And at the
psychological moment, when the temptation is
tickling the nose of Providence, so to speak—the
moment of Cold Thrill —all the thousands of up-
lookers shut their eyes tightly, then open them
hy-and-by o and say it was “very nice.” Baker
** * *
Notlxiiig new has transpired at Sydney
JLivoh since last week, except that Charles
Leonard 1' leteher is now another set of celebrities
Other™ the Bill is the same pretty good
that the Rickards house welcomed little 1907 with.
** * *
Some grand opera details
George Musgrove’s grand opera scheme is now an
assured fixture for this year. The names of the princi-
pals so far to hand were announced last week. The latest
advice gave the probable repertoire as “Hansel and
, .Lohengrin/’ “La Boheme,” “Tannhauser,”
The Flying Dutchman,” “Die Walkure,” “ Romeo and
Juliet, and probably “Faust” and “Carmen.” The
subscriptions, which hung fire at first, are now arriving
in a satisfactory way, but, in order to complete
arrangements, a dozen influential gentlemen in-
terested in music have arranged to give the
financial support necessary in advance of further sub-
scriptions, and the whole amount required has been
forwarded to Europe. This does not shut out further
subscribers, who should apply for shares or par-
ticulars to the secretary of the Australasian Grand
Opera Company—Mr. Philip Fox, 472 Chancery-lane,
Melbourne. At the end of the tour the net profits are
to be equally divided between the company and Mr.
Musgrove. In the event of a loss, the same is to be borne
by the company, but only to the limit of its unexpended
capital, and no further claim can be made upon
the company or its shareholders. Shareholders
will have no right to seats, but will have the
privilege of booting a day before the public.
The promoters of the present scheme satisfied themselves
by an examination of the books of George Musgrove’s last
grand opera tour in Australia and Maoriland that that
tour was a sound financial success. Mr. Musgrove and
some of the company sailed from England on Friday last.
The remainder sail from Genoa on February 3rd. The
Melbourne season opens on March 30th, the Sydney
one commencing May 25th.
* * *
This seems a suitable moment for men-
tioning that the most impressive human feature
of the panto., at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), was
made in Australia. Probably there never was an
imported “ principal boy ” who looked the part so
effectively as Florence Young, or sang it half so
well. She fends to raise the standard of popular
taste in this delicate matter. A panto, “boy’s”
figure should present just as much charming evi-
dence of her being a girl as is consistent with a
strict regard for propriety. The fraud should be
sweetly apparent—not too plumply palpable.
The costume should not look as though it had to
hold tight going round the curves for fear of
an accident. Miss Young •fills all the pictorial
requirements of the part without distending them,
so to speak, and, as far as a panto, love story can
be made interesting, she pushes it along in a very
gentlemanly manner. One night last week Miss
Ghiloni was absent from the cast on account of a
dental difficulty, but she returned to duty on
Saturday, when “Mother Goose” started its
fourth week with an overflowing audience.
** * *
Seemingly “The Village Blacksmith,” at
the Royal, is to wipe the domestic tear-drop from
his eye for at least one more week. Anderson’s
drama was born under a fetching title, and
although the blacksmith is a weak-minded per-
son, who lets his business go to ruin after the first
act, he seems to have won the respect of Mel-
bourne’s working classes by turning up as a cham-
pion wrestler at the finish. Anyhow, he’s a
popular attraction, and in one respect he suggests
the hero of Longfellow’s ballad, for his melodrama
language was certainly gathered from the spread-
ing chestnut tree.
** * *
The strain on the seating accommodation
at Melbourne show places in ordinary will be
somewhat relieved this week by the opening of an
Exhibition of Australian Manufactures, where
the industrial achievements of this country (in-
cluding music and fireworks) are submitted to the
disapproval of the Stinking Fish party for a
modest sixpence—children, half-price. On this
excellent entertainment the blessing of The Bul-
letin rests like a dove. It is essentially a good
show. Within the Exhibition Building, during
the next two months, the common or wicked
typical Australian gambler, smoker and drinker
may foregather with Judkins on equal terms of
approval. At the “Industries” every local
mechanical contrivance, except the tote and the
starting-gate, will be revealed to the public.
Last year’s Exhibition was merely a great success.
This year’s is to be an enormous triumph
of Made-in-Australia sentiment, and a final ex-
tinction of George Reid.
** * #
Dreamland, by the St. Kilda beach, con-
tinues to improve on acquaintance; also, the
Kelly Gangograph, at the Athenaeum Hall, is
s'till bringing much grist to the mill of the Taits.
And if the old story of the Kelly bushrangers, the
bloodstains whereof are almost dried out of recog-
nition —if this ancient police court romance is
such a profitable subject for the biograph, there
must be a lot of other old claims suitable for
working by the new process. The Boot Trunk
Tragedy, complete in all its gruesome details,
would outrival “The Face at the Window.”
And how about Dreadful Deeming, the hearth-
stone murderer ?
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House a considerable
change of bill is looming in the immediate future,
not that the present bill has exhausted its finan-
cial strength, but because several people are
wanted elsewhere, and some people have com-
pleted their contracts, and new shipments are
coming to hand. The newest thing at the
Rickards house just now is the grief of the ven-
triloquist’s dummy when he speaks of his faithless
donah.
** * *
The illusionist Czerny has gone from
Adelaide Royal, which has settled down to a mid-
summer sleep. Czerny was an amusing talker,
The Tyree method of stopping bush fires
is to drive a one hundred gallon Tyree Automatic
Spray with two nozzles to wet the grass on each
side of the cart in two strips about 20ft. apart.
The dry grass between the wet strips is burnt off,
thus leaving a fire break that costs one-tenth that
of ploughing, as the break is made as fast as a
horse can walk. The Evening News, of January
10th, says
An ingenious invention, the Tyree Spray, was on exhi-
bition at the Metropolitan Fire Brigade headquarters on
Wednesday. It was there to support a claim to being a
handy fire extinguisher to have about a house. This it
did in a most satisfactory manner, throwing a strong jet
of water a long distance. The advantage urged for it
over other flame extinguishers, however, w'as that it was
always ready, it having other uses which kept it from
getting out of order. One of these was that it could be
utilised for spraying fruit trees or garden plants. It was
also shown to be a splendid apparatus for painting build-
ings, throwing the kalsomine or oils in a fine cloud that
made the thinnest coat or the thickest, as might be
required. The demonstration was witnessed by a number
of city gentlemen.*


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Gets There Quickest
CURES INDIGESTIOn
HEADACHE & NEURALGIA
FISHERS
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/6.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FKEE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr -J h . o J na /®’ or^ h > of Ashfield . writes and declares
on oath the following I suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning: pain. My tone-ue
got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
pmwHmvl rehef ‘, By l in three weeks FISHER’S
EHOSRHRRINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of
dl " e r !?- , Fly e to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOS.
PHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth
and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone
know of my case.” J
tfcn&r-
Subscribed and declared at Ashfleld this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney
SPEEDIEST CURE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNEBS.
but the heartiest laugh he got was not of his own
raising. At a matinee, he made the usual bluff of
asking, “Will some little girl from the stalls come
up and cut off the heads of these two pigeons for
me ? ” And from the gallery came a shrill, eager
boy’s voice, crying, “Bring ’em up here l .” The
Tivoli and the Hippodrome have good but not
startling show's. The Science Congress, after
w'orking hard from 10 to 1 each day, has drag-
picnics and concerts, and lectures for Men Only,
and other recreations the rest of the time. And
swimmer Billington, who is not much to look at
but a good one to go, takes on the local cracks
most evenings, and wipes up the water with their
defeated remains.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Pianist Gange was a student for the R.O. priesthood
before joining the Amy Sherwin concert company.
Originally a church organist, Gange studied music for
some years, and then suddenly abandoned it to enter the
church. He had qualified and was awaiting appointment,
when he visited Rome, had an audience with the Pope,
and was told by that dignitary that he would do more
good to the world by punching the keyboard than by
pounding the pulpit. The Pope said that priests grew on
every tree, but musicians were rare, or words to that
effect, and Gange returned to his first love—just like
Jenny Lind, about whom much the same yarn was told,
many years ago.
“J.A.C.”: Genevieve Ward, concerning whom a par.
appears in The Bulletin (3/1/’O7), must surely have a
good way to go before she reaches 70. She made her
dramatic debut in ’72, and women, as a rule, don’t take to
acting when they are approaching 35. True, she had
previously appeared, as Madame Guerrabella, in opera at
London Covent Garden, but her connection with the
lyric stage was brief. She made her first dramatic success
in “Forget-Me-Not,” a play in which she appeared
throughout Australasia some twenty years ago. G. Ward
was born in New York, but studied in Paris.
“J.A.C.”: Was Beerbohm Tree (B. 3/l/’O7) making a
quasi-unfathomable joke when he referred to Emily Sol-
dene as ‘‘ the Angel of Islington ” ? The Angel at Islington
is one of the famous ‘• pubs ”of London. It stands at the
corner of Pentonville Hill and Upper-street, and nearly
opposite was the Philharmonic, formerly a music-hall,
where Little Em’ly drew the nobocracy of London, away-
back in the 70’s, to see her play Drogan in “ Genevifeve de
Brabant.” On the site of the Philharmonic now stands
the Grand Theatre, where Clarence Holt, father of our
own Bland, first produced “New Babylon.” The good-
will and lease of the Angel—the pub, not Emily—was,
not long ago, sold for £60,000.
“ Asper ” : When the old Sydney Lyceum, still echoing
with the shouts of many villains and the shrieks of many
mangled and anguished heroines, was taken over by the
late Ebenezer Vickery, it was understood that the place
was to be cleaned and fumigated, and was to become,
when clothed and in its right mind, the scene of some-
thing extra moral and bun-strugglish in the way of enter-
tainment. I called in there recently and saw the Bio-
scope. The pictures included many drunks, humorous
and otherwise; some scantily-clad girls bathing ; and
another case of the gypsy’s warning neglected, and
another kid on the rich man’s doorstep. I now intend
seeking reform from Anderson next time he puts on
“ The Spine at the Coal-Scuttle.”
The Vic. tenor, gentle Walter Kirby, says the cable,
sang last week before a “ Royal gathering ” at Chats-
worth House, the Duke of Devonshire’s place. Kirby has
more than fulfilled Melba’s prediction of “ You’ll do.”
As a drawing-room tenor he is doing uncommonly well,
after wasting a lot of time in his native country, where
sweet tenor voices are even more rare than they are in
England. Kirby made his first prominent appearance in
Melbourne at a time when people were not listening very
attentively. He was one of the co. that supported
Antoinette Trebelli (now Antonia Dolores) in her first
Australian concert season, nearly 11 years ago. The
charming Trebelli had John Prowse, Maggie Stirling
(then at her best), and Walter Kirby as assistant vocalists.
The late Howard was ’cello soloist, and Benno Scherek
figured at the piano. It was a capital entertainment, but
the “ musical public ” mostly stayed away. They had
not begun to discover the sweetness of Trebelli. They
were being entertained by an angel unawares.
Miss Rhoda Dendron, the lady who executes the bare-
footed or bare-legged dance at St. Kilda (Vic.) Dreamland,
is the sister of an English serio-chronic who captivated
the gods at Melbourne Opera House on the two occasions
when Rickards brought her out. Miss Defidton has
initiated a new fashion in names, and sby/wfll probably
be followed by Miss MagNdlia, Miss Holly Hock, Miss Pet
Unia and the like.
“S.S.”: A trifling incident in “The Village Black-
smith,” now happening Wig'htly at Melbourne Royal, has
amused me. The heroine, virtuous spouse of the-smith-
a-mighty-man-is-he, enters the room of the slim villain
to receive a fortune of £lO,OOO that has been mislaid.
The villain dfers her a small settee, about the size of two
candle boxes, with arms all round it. “Be seated,” Says
he, courteously. “ No,” says the Virtuous spouse,
haughtily, “ I prefer to sit here ! ” and she 'takes a chair.
■ w Ah,” responds the villain, with a melancholy inflection,
” you never did trust me.” Applause 1 Now, that’s one
of the funniest things I've sttUck in melodrama, and no-
body smiles.
“N.”: Two Melbourne newspapers display their
'bloated ignorance bv putting in a statement, palpably
'from the same correspondent in London, that in the sixties
the members of Vic. Parliament acted “Hamlet” at the
Theatre Royal. The play they acted was “ The Merchant
of Venice,” with Mark Last King as Shylock, George Seth
Ocppin as Launcelot Gobbo, Tom Carpe’nter as Old Gobbo,
.and the rest of the cast filled in by Messrs. Howard,
Lock, Wilkie, and the requisite number of legislators.
King’s proper name was sftfiply Mark Last. He acted in
Sydney and Melbourne over half-a-century ago as a star
tragedian, reckoned pretty good in Shylock and Richard
111. Afterwards he became a Melbourne auctioneer, with
the firm of Gibbon and King. He was likewise an M.L.A.,
and a Justice of the Peace, especially fond of sitting in
the District Court.
“ The Colonel ” : “ The Captain ” (B. li)/l/’07) is
deucedly angered because Australian talent insists on
billing itself as “ from England.” t admiah his pride in
his native land, and to console him, don’t-yer-know, I
might suggest that perhaps Australian talent bills itself
that way because it is (really from England—a long way
from England, don’t-ycr-know. I remembah when I was
in Indiah, G.B.W. Lewis brought along a dramatic com-
pany from Australia!!, and billed it as Australian, too.
They made really quite an awful lot of money. They
weren’t billed as “from England ”at all, really. I don’t
know that I can throw any further light on the subject,
pon me soul.
“ N.L.”: Re “Ned Kelly ” reaching the English stage
(R. 10/l/’O7). - Edward has been there before, but somehow
he didn’t seem to catch on that time. Critic William
Archer compiled the early version when he was young
enough to know better, and that’s a good many years ago.
A GAY TRIO.
The New Clown (Hugh Ward), the graceful
circus girl (Grace Palottu) and the lion
coique circus master - (Willoughby).
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
On Thursday next the Stage v. Press cricket match is
to be played on the Sydney Cricket Ground. J. C. Wil-
liamson, who is an enthusiastic cricketer, is to play with,
and captain, the Stage team. William Wonderland
Anderson is playing, and has given a trophy for the
highest scorer. Harry Rickards is also selected, if not
as an actual player, at any rate for a speech at the
luncheon. Harry and Frank Musgrove are in the theatre
team. Frank is a good all-round player, while Harry,
who managed the Australian Eleven tour of 1896 in
England, America, and Maoriland, scored over a century
at first time of asking against All England.
“Frank Macgregor”: Re par. (B. 10/l/’O7) that Edie
Stach’s “tireless manipulation of the trudgeon stroke has
■carried off several championships of recent years.” lam
desired by the holders of the championships over every
distance in Victoria during the last four years to point
out: —(1) That Edie Stach has never won any champion-
ship event in Victoria during the last six years. (2) That
she has not been swimming longer than that period. (3)
That she has never even started in any championship
contest in Victoria. (4) That she has never won any race
in Victoria from scratch. (5) That she has never
■“trudged” 100yds. straight out in any race. (6) That
she has never “ trudged ” right through a 50yds. race.
(7) That the only race she ever won was at St. kilda last
year, off Bsec. start, from four competitors, and that was
when all the cream of the swimmers were at Brighton
competing in the Half-Mile Championship.
Snake showmen are a curious crowd. A Vic. snake-
charmer was bitten by his favorite tiger snake whilst
giving a show at Lethbridge (Vic.). The measures
for the restoration of the apparently chewed were
applied, and in a day he had recovered sufficiently
to continue his tour as far as Lai Lai. There he recom-
menced operations, and the same snake landed him
another nasty one on the wrist, upon which a bystander
promptly fractured its vertebra with a stick. The
charmer was too overcome to pay any attention to the
fate of his favorite, and, by the time he had made his
second recovery, his benefactor was far away. But many
snake charmers are not grateful for outside interference.
At Euroa, last year, one was summoned for a violent
assault, and pleaded justification, inasmuch as the citizen
assailed had killed his most imposing reptile. The plain-
tiff admitted the snakicide, but alleged he had acted in
the charmer’s interests. The tiger had his fangs embedded
in his master’s hand when the stranger welted it with a
swingle-bar. The charmer immediately turned in
anger to demand why he didn’t mind his own
dashed business, and stoushed him vigorously until
the effects of the poison made further battle im-
possible. Then he was saved by the local chemist.
The Bench inflicted a fine of 55., and the indignant
charmer went off declaiming against the corruption of
persons in high places, and threatened to sue the man he
had punched for the price of the snake.
Fred. B. Norton tells a good yarn about a well-known
Melbourne identity and a harassed theatrical friend
whom he met in London a while ago. The actor was
about to take a co. to S’Africa, leaving a few liabilities
behind him. Being fearful of getting writted before the
boat sailed he asked the Melbourne man (call him M.) to
stand by him in the hour of need. So 'M. boarded the
vessel at Tilbury next morning with a falloW-conspirator,
and they put the actor-manager fti’to concealment behind
the bar counter in the Saloon whilst they w'ent on deck to
ward oft the bailiff, Lhe first fellow they met was a vin-
dictive-looking person who inquired for the man in
hiding. “We left him in London. He's not going by
't/his boat,” said the crafty conspirators. Then did the
angry stranger swear by all the gods that he was not
going to be left in the lurch. He would never rest till
the actor-manager had come to a settlement with him.
The situation became so tempestuous that M. went down
to his friend and begged him to beware of the raging
bailiff with the supposititious writ. Cautiously the actor
came out from behind the bar counter to get a sight of
the enemy, a'n'd then it was his turn to get angry.
“ Great Csesar ! ” he yelled, “ that’s not a bailiff. That’s
my low comedian. He thinks I want to break his
engagement.”
“O’Fipp”: Re the current idea that “bowls must
have been invented for stout and elderly persons ” (B.
8/11/’O6). An episode in “The Two Angry Women of
Abington,” a comedy by Elizabethan dramatist Henry
Porter, shows that in the time 'Of Liz the Loud bowls was
a favorite pastime of the young and dashing. Among
other incidents-of an'afternoon at Abington, sport Frank
Goursey beats 'Uport Phil Barnes at bowls for “ ten good
crowns,” Which probably gave the local Judkins a chance
to Spread himself on “the shocking vice of gambling
which has so recently reared its hydra head in our
midst.”
“ N.L.” : Giuglini, the old-time operatic tenor lately
mentioned in “Poverty Point,” had a curious way of
amusing himself by throwing lighted crackers, “bung
bungs,” and various other fireworks from failway-
carriage windows. Then he took to kite-flying (not in
the slang sense). Finally he had to be carted to a lunatic
asylum, where he died.
“Hamer”: “ 0.K.”([8. 6/12/’O6) is wrong. It is not
the Scotchman Who makes the success of Scotch concerts.
The plain Englishman, proud as he is of his phlegm, is a
sentimental creature. He can’t be sentimental as an
Englishman, so he talks about the Celtic or Gaelic blood
in his veins. It is really marvellous how many veins that
blood happens to be in. Not only Scotch and Irish
music, but Irish drama has an appeal for all English-
speaking people, and is a paying proposition everywhere.
“J.A.0.”: Re “ Poverty Point” par (3/l/’O7) concerning
the success of Leslie Brothers abroad. Your corres-
pondent “Philo" errs in one
'trivial particular. Their father
is not Harry Stoneham but
William Stoneham, generally
known as Bill—just plain Bill.
He is possibly the oldest living
musician—was 75 last birth-
day, when a number of Sydney
music-men made himapresen-
tation. For years he was
known as a leader of circus
bands. I think the old man
can play every wind instru-
ment in existence and many
that are extinct. The only
Harry of the family is his
son, one of the best cornet
players in Australasia. There
was another Harry Stoneham-,
a cousin, deceased, a ohce
well-known actor, whose par-
ticular forte was villainy. He
had the Missing Will and the
Incriminating Document
about him to the last. The
Stonebatas have all been
bibsiciahs from childhood.
When Fred Stoneham, son of
Bill, the elder, and father of
Fred Leslie, at present with
J.C.W.’s Opera Co., took to
the variety stage he adopted
the name of Leslie. Besides
being a thorough musician,
Fred, travelling with his
father in circuses, became
an accomplished acrobat. He
at first did the music-hall
business “on his own,” but
was afterwards joined by his
brother, Bill the younger.
(These Bills are getting
mixed.) Hence the Leslie
Brothers. Young Fred,
J.C.W.’s Fred, also for some
little time appeared with
them. Old man Stoneham has
a brother, considerably
younger, a prominent member
of Sydney Fire Brigade, and,
I suppose, the biggest man in it, a 19st. mam, yet
as active as a cat, and as strong as a bullock. He also is
musical—used to sing and occasionally breathe his senti-
ments into a trombone.
“J.A.C.”: Died recently in London, at the age of 64,
Harry Hunter, for years well-known in the minstrel busi-
ness. Some 35 years ago he and his two brothers founded
the Mohawk Minstrels, who for very many years played
at the Agricultural Hall, Islington, London. When I
made his acquaintance, 30 years back, the Mohawks were
going strong, and were hardly inferior to the Moore and
Burgess Minstrels at St. James’s Hall. Hunter wrote the
words of many alleged comic songs. That classic, “ I
saw Esau Kissing Kate ” was one of his greatest efforts.
He was a very big man, and not at all a bad sort. Later,
he was a member of Francis, Day and Hunter, music
publishers in Oxford-street, London.
“ Hamer” : I have had some Thespian experience, but
only once did I have to do the tramp, which is one of the
jests—to the people who haven’t to do it—of the
“ profesh.” The co. had been having a bad time, but we
hopefully coached eight miles to Bunkville to appeal to a
Saturday night mining audience with our moderately
great drama of “ East Tom ” or “ Uncle Lynne’s Cabin ”
—I forget which. There was lack of cash but great
hilarity amongst us, for the place was reckoned good for
at least £B—enough to see us comfortably over the week
end. It panned out at under £5, and the Prickly Beer
Hotel was hostile, and wouldn’t take us in. So the co.
hastily decided that an eight miles’ walk back to the
railway on Sunday morning was better than waiting till
Monday ; and we tramped back in the early and glorious
dawn to catch breakfast and the 8.30 train. On the
whole the journey was an enjoyable experience—for
once—though the hills had not struck us as nearly so
steep on the way out. We brushed the dust and the burrs
off ourselves outside the railway town and made a digni-
fied entrance, the tidy soubrette leading and the
untidy heavy father in the rear, with a yarn that
our conveyance had broken down and reduced us to
hoof travelling. In reply to an inquiry, we ventured
Murphy as the name of our driver, and it proved after-
wards that there was a Murphy in the carrying line, and
that he was a reckless driver with a tendency to accidents.
We said that we hoped Murphy would arrive in time to
pjjt our lug-gage on the train with us, but he didn’t.
Anyhow 1 , we ate a breakfast that left very little profit to
the hotel-keeper, and I had bacon and eggs thrice.
Quite a number of people went out to assist
Murphy with his breakdown, but we were far away
in the train before they probably deciding that
it had been a very bad accident—so ba!d that Murphy and
the vehicle were both quite obliterated.
“ The Tramp ”: Concerning advance agents aiid their
trouble's. I once had an experience that I shall not for-
get ror some 'time. Left Christchurch (M.L.) for Ash-
burton with single ticket, 2s. 6d., and a box of “East
Lynne "bills. Arrived all right, and got date-slips and
dodgers printed, ads. inserted and hoardings covered,
and secured a week’s board and lodging by issuing pay-
on-demand notes. But at noon of the advertised day
there was no sign of the company, and I began to look
like a person who had got board by Tjilste pretences, I
lighted out along the road to the pity of the Plains, and
covered 30 miles per hoof. Next night I “jumped" the
train, find got to town to find the crowd still there.
Three of them were enjoying fish and chips in a hotel
bedroom. The original Lady Isabel (who was starred on
the bills for “ her great dual impersonation ”) had
resigned, and no one cared whether I was alive or dead,
or whether Ashburton still existed or not. They had
struck enough money for fish and chips, and took ho
thought for the morrow. Last I heard bf the hiahiger
he was humping great logs of. Wood in a Uhiber,y t ard f
You would be quite astohisbed if you heard the name of
that manager. jfiv ,
E. A, Bryant, in the Lon'uon Magazine, writes of
actresses raised to the peerage. The Coutts money came
through Harriet Mellon, actress, Duchess of St. Albans.
Btyan't states that the Duke of St. Albans, as descendant
o'f the honored bastard of royalty, is “the one man in the
world who may once a year drive the length of Rotten
Bow." What does this mean? Is it true? But to
perpend. Harriet Mellon had been “ the poor, bare-
footed girl of other days, whom charitable ladies
redeemed from the misery of life with her strolling-
player parents.” Her first marriage was as banker
Coutts’ second wife. His first was Elizabeth
Starkey, his brother’s servant girl, who became
mother of the Marchioness of Bute, Countess of Guildford,
and Lady Burdett, mother of the Baroness. The Earl of
Peterborough married Anastasia Robinson, actress. The
character of Polly Peachum, in “The Beggars’ Opera,”
was performed by three actresses who became peeresses :
Lavinia Felton, Duchess of Bolton ; Mary Bolton (odd
coincidence), Lady Thurlow ; and Catherine Stephens,
Countess of Essex. Kate Walsh, actress, became Duchess
of Grafton. The next instance is indirect, but better
than direct. William IV. had 10 children by actress
Jordan. One of their grandchildren became Earl of
Munster. The fourth daughter of William and Mrs.
Jordan became Countess of Errol, from whom descehued
the present Duke of Fife, husband of the Princess Royal
The eldest daughter of Royal William ahd Mis. Jordan
became Lady de L’lsle and. Dudley, and the ■Vbh'ngesb
married Viscount Falklabd. What a tnaghilicteht rfec'oin-
mendation was their Royal blood—bevel mihd thei'ctless
or even the illegitimacy 1 Elizabeth Farrfeh-, who had
been a strollihg player, beteahie CoiiritfesS of Derby.
Louisa BriintOh became OobhtesS of privleh. MaHa
Foote became CoUhtess of Harrington. Their daughter
Was Lady Corvynghahv, favorite Of George IV.; and grand-
mother of the present Earl of Pohynghaha, wh’o is iso
Vouhg that he was a tiny phge at thte corob/Lti'pfi of
Edward Vll. Mrs. Nisbett only c&pturte'd Batoh'et Boothby.
Frahces Brahabi, daughter 'of the st'ag'e celebrity, became
GbiintesS of Waldegrave, in her s'econd hiatriage. Her
third WaS to the 'eldest sbh 'of the Archbishop of York,
and her fourth—sire wAs a de'epiy-married lady—to Lord
Carlingfold. MissFairbrother, burlesque actress, married
the Duke of Cambridge, Queen Victoria’s cousin, a bona-
fide marriage. Towards winding up the chronicle of
glory, we have Dolly Tester, Marchioness of Ailesbury.
She is married again, to a commoner. Some marquises
are very filling at the price. Then there are Connie Gil-
christ, Lad}' Orkney ; Belle Bilton, Lady Clancarty;
Estelle Berridge, Countess of Clonmell; Rosie Boote,
Lady Headfort; Camille Clifford, wife of the heir to Lord
Aberdare ; Frances Belmont, a “Florodora” girl, Lady
Ashburton ; and Eva Carrington, Lady de Clifford.
“ Crade ” writes :
This one-adult-one-vote principle is all rot—just plain
rot. I haven’t got a vote because lam only 20 years old.
Yet Smithkins, who is one year older, has that privilege,
though he solemnly assured me, the other day, that
“ Australia will never be a great country, because, you
know, old fTer, it has no iron.” Also his sister, who is
23, and has yearnings to go to some place she calls
“ hoame,” and thinks Strzlecki was a musical composer,
and shows her silliness and ignorance in a dozen other
ways—she has a vote. Also Smithkins’ old man, who
solemnly reads the Argus leading article every morning,
and then goes to the warehouse to superintend the
throttling of some Australian industry. Also Smithkins’
old woman, who is Honorary Brahmapootra or something
of the Wimmin’s Asinine League, and is worried about
the marriage tie, and removes her clothes every evening
for dinner—she is not silly enough to be deprived of a
vote. The Smithkins’ imported governess, who is en-
gaged in rescuing the young Smithkinses from the blight-
ing influence of “colonial” environment and is not re-
conciled to the fact that “ you have no aristocracy
heah,” has a say in the management of this country—my
country. It’s all rot to talk about one adult one vote.
As soon as I reach 21 I’m going to commence an agitation
for a Smithkins Disfranchisement Bill.
Apparently as a counterblast to the Indian
Congress in Calcutta, another body, the Moham-
medan Conference, is sitting on its heels at Dacca,
the capital of Bengal. i
The Nawab of Dacca declared that the mischievous
action of extremists in the Indian Congress had compelled
the forming of a league of Moslems in order to prevent
Mohammedans being submerged by the enormous and
noisy Hindu majority.
That’s how the cat jumps in India, and in a good
many other parts of Asia. India contains some
80,000,000 Mohammedans, and 200,000,000 Hindus
and assorted religions. The Mohammedans, being
in the minority, naturally want the “ paramount
power ” on their side, and protest their loyalty.
Religion, or what passes for it, is at the bottom
of the outcry about the partition of Bengal. In
Eastern Bengal, Mohammedans are in the
majority ;in Western Bengal, the Hindus. There
used to be rows in consequence. Most of the
schoolmasters were Hindus. Sometimes one of
them would set up an idol in a Mohammedan
village school, and give the young Moslems lessons
on their duty to Brahma, the wickedness of
killing cows, etc. Next day the villagers, armed
with big sticks, would come round and remonstrate
with the schoolmaster. There would be a case in
court, and a new schoolmaster.
M'GEE’S MISTAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ We was goin’ ter ’ave a little darnce, an’ I was made
M.C.,
So thought I’d get a tip or two in Melbourne,” said
M‘Gee.
“ I noticed in the papers that displays by Miss F. Green
An’ pupils, at the Town ’All, on the Sat’day could be seen.
Thinks I, that’s just the ticket, so I rambles to the place,
Plumps down me arf-a-dollar ; gets beside a bloke whose
face
Was hidden in a collar that was near six inches high,
Who’d forgot to put ’is vest on. ’E’d a winder in ’is eye.
“ ‘ Don’t seem much room for darncin’,’ sez I, pointin’ to
the stage.
(It was like a bloomin’ garden.) But ’e glares at me in
rage,
So I sat a minnit wonderin’, when on a big bloke slid
An’ shook ’is mane, an’ then flung back the grand piannv
lid.
* We’re goin’ ter ’ave some music for the darnce,” sez I
ter ’im
As sat beside me, statoo-like ; but ’im, ’is face was grim.
‘ls she any class of darncer, mate,’ I sez, * Miss Florrie
Green ? ’
But some pea calls out, ‘ ’Ush, ’ush, there,’ and sez I,
’ Oh, all serene.’
“ Then nearly forty troops on ; some ’ad fiddles in their
’ands,
Some ’ad flutes an’ some 'ad trumpets. Gosh! It was
the best o’ bands
I ever see for darncin’—so I gives a loud hooray ;
But fifty voices bellowed, ‘ Throw that blessed bloke
away.’
Then on a cove came shamblin’ with a small stick in ’is
’and,
An’ he turned ’is back towards us, an’ ’e shook it at the
band.
Spare me days! I’ve ’eard some noises, but that sound
fair made me scared—
It was like a lot o’ dingoes, an’ the roarin’ of a herd.
“ ‘ Bring along the bloomin’ darncers 1 ’ I calls out amidst
the storm,
When two stalwart blokes jist seized me—they was
dressed in uniform.
Down the stairs they fairly rushed me, an’ they pitched
me through the door ;
And I tried to get a word in, hut they only pulled and
swore.
Then I gets me breath an’ asts them, ‘ Ain’t this show by
Florrie Green
(Which I’ve paid me arf-a-dollar to gaze at) not to be
seen ? ’
‘ Show by Miss F. Green an’ pupils,’ sez the bloke in
buttons tall,
‘ Was last week. To-day’s a concert by Perfessor Marshal
’All.’ ”
VIC.
JOHN MEIGHAN


Deafness, Dead noises
own w U m “ s ? as ®-P e ™ anen t!y cured at your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
div& own home without any detention from your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following- statements :
oPfi2 nllm Pnf^ W W ANI> HiGIILY - Este EMKD NURSE STUART,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I' am happy to tel
you that after 15 years of suffering: I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be forttr-
A 6 ® nou £h to hear of youi wonderful EAROSCOPE ”
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better, and my hearing- is improving eveo-y day y ” 3
~ Al s Ex-Postmaster writes : “ Your EAROSCOPE is
tried; all
THE 11 " EAROSPnpf Particulars. Address-
UE EAROSCOPE CO,, 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W-
The Lone Hand
A Monthly Magazine of Imagination
(The Bulletin’s New Publication)
ft
CONTRIBUTIONS ARE INVITED.
PICTURES. PROSE. POETRY.
Anything that will interest Australia
and the World.
Address—The Editors, 21U George Street,
LONE HAND, Sydney.
Have a Care
for Your Eyes.
The Grfeat Poet Milton asks:
Why was this sight
To such a tender ball of the eye confined
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy
Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &c.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian
National Remedy,
HOSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION,
This Preparation has been the salva-
tion of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated
Eye Lotion is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally a postal note
for 1/9 to the Proprietors, will bring you
a bottle by return post.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
EHI. A. ROSE & CO.,
Chemists and Druggists,
531 George Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
Some of the Governors’ aides seem to think
a great deal of notice is taken of their imported
selves. One wandered through a crowded city
street, the other Saturday night, asking every
now and then if anyone had seen (say) Captain Le
Microbe, his colleague, whom he had lost sight of
while buying some cigawettes. But, alas ! all
had to confess that they didn’t know Le Microbe
from a grasshopper.
THE LATEST AMERICAN PET.
THE GIBSON GIRL : “ You’ll have to buy me a
little porker, Bertie. Everybody is cutting
us to-night, and I'm sure it’s because we
haven’t a pig.”
Writes the Oldest Inhabitant:—
T^ 0 S P n iningr C * tizen ays fchafc he walked into Sydney
J, 0 * n ™ recently to inquire what had become of the
clock that adorned the turret in the old market-house in
w^ r F ; f tr v? et V Haymarket, over a generation ago, and
was quite hurt because no official could trace the relic.
Hat?na k r t ' h 0 a , lluded to stood on the flat' between
Hay and Campbell-streets, where certain fine Corporation
properties are now. The ancient building was occupied
in various, way. At one time it was a theatre, where
some very respectable performances were given. It was
also used as a store by Kidman, grocer. When the
market-house gave up the spectre, its turret clock did
uty for a time in the Town Hall tower, but the eastern
face was blown out one night in a gale. A new clock
was then provided for the Town Hall, and the old one
was mounted m the turret of the Woolloomooloo fish-
market, where it tells the time with fair accuracy to this
Premier Bent’s day as travelling inter-
mediary between strikers and employers in the
Melbourne building trouble was something to be
remembered. Bent came into the business with
a bull-like rush, determined to hustle this thing
through as he hustles his Bills through Parlia-
ment. First of all, he saw Hannah and Prender-
gast, who came to his office. He stalked out of
that office looking like Alexander the Great, and
V>de down on a tram to the builders’ committee.
-The builders said that they would hold a confer-
ence in 10 days, if the men would come to work,
at 48 hours a week, within seven days. That gave
at least three days’ work on the old terms before the
conference began. The men suspected the bosses
of trying to lure them back to work till city con-
tracts were finished, with the intention of
chucking ” the conference as soon as that was
done. So when Bent eddied out of the builders’
room, and fell out of a cab at the Trades Hall
with the proposal, the strike committee said
something in Australian. “ Righto ! ” said Bent,
wu that * , e don’t suit you, this here will.”
Whereupon he crossed out half-a-dozen words,
and wrote half-a-dozen others, and made the
thing read “ Return to work within 10 days.”
Conference and work would thus begin together.
Ha, ha! all’s settled!” quoth Bent; “I have
made a compromise.” He willy-willied back to the
builders, and he was so happy that he could hardly
breathe. When the buildersheard what he had done
they spoke purer Australian than the strikers.
Bent trundled out with his glory falling off him
in large, thick chunks, and when the reporters
pushed their faces into his cab to ask how he was
getting along, he emitted angry grunts which
meant something like “ Youbedamned.” But he
didn t toil m vain. The color to which his com-
plexion had turned haunted both sides all night,
and next day they came closer to an agreement
than they had ever been before. But Bent wasn’t
In lfc \ Went s - ee tl . ie Kel] y Gi *ng pictures at
tiie Athenaeum, being in search of scenes where
people were willing to meet each other amicably.
All the same, it must be admitted that Thomas
toiled manfully on a hot day in a good cause.
Some townships, seemingly, are planted
with as little wisdom and foresight as the ordinary
suburban garden tree which grows into a demon-
stration of human foolishness. An engineer
appointed by the Vic. Mining Department to
report upon the cause of floods at Newstead, has
come to the conclusion that the township pitched
on the lowlands either side of the Loddon River,
is right in the natural waterway for floods, where-
as the domiciles might have been located with
complete success on the adjacent high ground.
Ihe narrow river channel has never been large
enough to accommodate thestream in rainy seasons,
yet the people who located themselves where they
were bound to suffer periodical inundations have
persistently shut their eyes to the truth whilst
oemoaning their “misfortunes.” Some of the
poor farmers at Newstead have placed themselves
in such a position that they are afraid to pray for
rai ? J 6S j t^ le Gor d should harken to their petition
and flood them out.
* * * *
Sectarianism is at last getting a hold on
the people in Bent’s State, and such death notices
as Our 1 rotestant Bud in Heaven,” are becom-
lng quite common when a kid belonging to one
ot the excited little sects buttons up its wooden
overcoat and departs. Now, what’s wrong with
Our Buddhist Bud,” when Wan Lee strikes out
for the Celestial shore ?
* * * *
“ S.S.” : Met with a new institution in the
bush recently—the peripatetic bush washer-
woman. She carries two light gal-
vanised tubs, containing a few
necessaries, strapped on her back,
and washes for the diggers on
an extensive Gippsland reefing
field. It takes her just three
weeks to do her round, in
which time she covers about
100 miles. She is a large,
iron-framed, sandy Hiber-
nian, and has no settled
place of abode. On a pinch
she makes a roof for her
head with her two tubs and
a strip of sail-cloth. The
resulting tent is circular and
ingenious. One tub, lying
on its side, serves as a head
wall, the other as a foot
wall, and the sail-cloth goes
round the two. She aver-
ages about five shillings a
day, and declares she has
no fear “iv th’ interfer-
ences iv anny man,” and
if you could see her stripped
right arm you wouldn’t
doubt it for a moment.
This strenuous Australienne
is willing to take on any
other light work, such as
paling or shingle splitting,
clearing, or cookins- for
harvest hands, but sticks out for man’s wages.
*■•••*
The Crick-Willis affair seems to have
almost as many branches and divergences as an
octopus. There was the original trouble over the
Sims-Browne case. There was the Lands Commis-
sion branch of the trouble. There was the series
of criminal trials which ended nowhere in parti-
cular. There was the Parliamentary row which
ended in Crick’s exit from the House. There is
the unfinished question as to whether Crick shall
also exit from the legal profession. And Sydney
has been wading drearily through a long inquiry
about the alleged suspicious behaviour of a jury-
man at the Crick-Willis criminal trial, and has
decided that the whole Crillis case is the most
dragged-out business that it h*s met with for a
long time, and that its capacity for turning into a
new cul-de-sac, and coming up against a fresh dead
wall, is next door to incredible.
*
The Anglican Church in N.S. Wi, according
to a resolution signed by its six bishops, will in
future only marry a divorced person when the
cause of the divorce has been the other party’s
adultery. Adultery isn’t a specially nice thing
to prove in court, and in a very large number of
cases the unpleasant subject is quietly dropped ;
the plaintiff doesn’t seize on her chance to* blight
the other cat’s character, and says nothing" about
the color of the hairs she found on the hairbrush
and the matter is simply called desertion. Now,’
the Anglican Church won’t re-marry chat kind of
plaintiff because she didn’t go into all the
unwholesome particulars. The Church demands
its unwholesome particulars, and won’t be satis-
fied till it gets them.
* * * *
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion of mind or body, and
,e no a d after-effects. We are talking
of Wolfe s Schnapps.*
AN UNENDURABLE LIBERTY.
“ An’ what did Sarah leave ’er last 'place for? ”
O the missus started carry in’ on with ’er young man!”
“0.K.” moralises :
Re the Women’s Eights question raised in last Bulle-
tin : Seems to me the unwritten law which practically
entitles an angry husband to slaughter his wife’s para-
mour, and which holds him guiltless if the killing be done
in hot blood, is a bad law from the beginning’. It is
based on the pretence that such murders are prompted
by virtuous indignation or noble passion, whereas the
first motive is jealousy of the other fellow’s success. The
impulse to do an awful injury to your rival man can have
no virtue imparted to it by a civil marriage contract,
or a superfluous ceremony performed by a priest.
A husband who murders his wife’s paramour is
the slave of the same enormous self-conceit as the
slighted lover who murders his girl’s “best boy” or
as more often happens, kills the girl herself, so’ that
none may possess her if she is not willing to have
him. The rejected lover whose mad, wh le-hearted
yearning for the woman really persuades him that he
can t live without her, is the unfortunate who ends his
trouble by suicide. The disappointed egotist kills
his rival, or the girl, or both. If the Law
shows no mercy to the murderous lover suffering from
an unsatisfied desire, it ought to be more austerely
merciless to the murderous husband who cannot even
plead that hopeless longings have turned his brain. The
husband can plead nothing save an outrage on his
‘ honor” as an excuse for slaughtering his wife’s unlaw-
ful consort. Clearly he is not considering the honor of
his wife or the children (if they have any) when he
washes the family’s dirty linen in blood. What he calls
his ‘ honor” is not self-respect, but self-conceit. And
here we have a reason why wives in general will never
think of exercising their “ woman’s right” (suggested bv
The Bulletin) to murder the husband’s paramour. A
woman doesn’t “fancy” herself with masculine fatuous-
ness. A wife is more jealous of her husband’s love than
of her own domestic importance, and in her maddest
hatred of a rival she is concerned, more or less unselfishly
about her matronly duty to the children, and Chris-
tianity, and Mrs. Grundy. Though there be no children
to consider, there is always Mrs. Grundy.
* * * *
Present Adelaide Science Congress recalls
that this country’s first scientific body— not count-
ing, of course, any rain-making associations formed
by our black brother Bill—the Philosophical
.Society of Australia, was formed in Sydney in
1821 by Gov. Brisbane, who was something of a
meteorologist and a star-gazer. The members
were: Governor Brisbane (president), Alex. Berry,
Dr. H. Gratton Douglas, Judge Field, Colonial
Secretary Goulburn, Captain Irwin, Captain
P. P. King, Surveyor-General John Oxley, As-
tronomer C. S. Rumker, and Edward Walston-
croft. They met at each other’s houses. Re-
freshments were coffee and biscuits, and every
member had to read a paper in turn under a £lO
penalty. The Society died young. The Govern-
ment decreed that the then current dollar should
still retain its original value after a small centre-
piece had been punched out to make a coin worth
sixpence. The Philosophers took sides for and
against the ukase, and m the hubbub over this
hole in a dollar the Society petered out.
* * • *
Australia is getting back its own one way
or another. No less than five Australian stow-
aways from S’Africa were found aboard the
Salamis in the Southern Ocean. Said one of these
to the writer: ‘ * And I drowned my dog before I
left. I hadn’t the heart to leave it in such a hole
as South Africa’s become since the war.”
The silly conservatism of the Sydney daily
press was never more clearly shown than in the
outcry against a small telephone reform instituted
with the beginning of_ the year. The Sydney
phone system is growing fast, and official wit
designed a means of saving time and minimising
errors in “ringing up.” Under the old system,
to ring up 1330, the subscriber said, “ one, three,
three, nought.’” Under the new system he is
requested to say “ one, double-three, oh, ” The
“oh” for zero is shorter and crisper than
nought,” and is both easier to hear and easier
to pronounce; and “double 3,” or “double 7,”
instead of “3-3” or “7-7” is also a help to
correctness. The old “ three-three ” was as often
as not one three and a hiccup, or one three and
an impediment in the speech. But Sydney dailies
squeal against these small reforms, and see in them
darkly another Federal encroachment, and another
attempt to tear away State rights and trample on
the Ma province.
AN ADDED HORROR TO THE BORROW-
ING EVIL.
A man entered a bank in Philadelphia, and asked for a
loan of £1000, and, on being refused, he exploded a
bomb, which tore himself and the cashier to fragments.
“ Now then, Jones, five quid or up you go ! ”
They that have the Sabbath thirst and
swear that they are bona-fide travellers have to
sign a book now in Victorian pubs. On the first
Sunday the Act was in force no less than 11 men
named Judkins turned up at one out-of-Mel-
bourne refreshery. At least, they signed the
book to that effect. Yet there are only two male
Judkinses in the Melbourne directory.
THE LITTLE PEOPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If to please the little people you would dedicate your
life,
You must emulate the crawling of the worm ;
Yqu must be the neutral person—absolutely void of
strife ;
You must be a weathercock, and never firm ;
You must go to church of Sundays, and drop buttons in
the plate,
And wear garments that make no pretence to style ;
You must “ get it in a bottle,” you must never stay out
late,
And at women you must never, never smile !
For the little people gather on the corners of the street ,
And analyse the faults of me and you,
And they sit in cushioned armchairs, and wear slippers
on their feet,
And shudder when they see us scudding through ;
If a ballet bud we button, and we hail a hansom cab,
And go driving through the suburbs in a whirl,
Some evil-minded nonsense to their trusting wives they’ll
blab,
And say they’re “ very sorry for the girl ” I
If you form a resolution and renounce the flowing bowl
And thirsty suffer, morning, night and noon,
They will prophesy your downfall with their rheumy
eyes a-roll,
And say you’re “ bound to break out very soon ” !
If you ve got a streak of talent in your carcase, and can
write,
Or can paint or sing, the little insect blinks ;
When a chum narrates your virtues, he’ll murmur “ You
are right,"
Then add, " But what a pity that he drinks ” !
O I I hate the little people with a vast relentless hate,
And their posings turn my stomach very sick ;
They are parodies on mankind, and desire no better fate
Than the swift and sudden violence of a brick !
I (to plagiarise from Byron) wish they had one stodgy
neck,
And my tapered hands were strong as iron bars,
To pulverise and squeeze ’em to one universal wreck,
And tear them up and stick them on the stars !
TAS.
THE CHOST.


We teach Students
all oveijUtiustfialia
Shorthand
f Pen-1
. man-1
Typewriting. Bookkeeping/ ship.
Electrical
r Engineering
[Architecture
'Building
Business, Technical and
General Educational
Subjects, x? jZ?
Stott and Hoare’s
BUSINESS COLLEGE,
rnnc~?mrHoiA Moore Street - Sydney
Mech-
-anicall
Drawing i
k We prepare
L for all
lExams^
i Home Study
.-sent Post
Free on '
.Application,
HOT WEATHER PYJAMAS
iJMi !
ill
W
i; i<- H \ll !! 3
I
m
OME of these hot nights make one feel like
donning the lightest Pyjamas that can
be made.
We offer First-class Pyjamas, specially
made for hot nights. They are made of
Oxford materials—-light, cool and comfort-
able, with pearl buttons. The collar is round, like
illustration. The materials are figured and striped
fabrics, with white grounds. The garments are cut
full, and are shaped to fit well.
PRICE, 12/0, ADD POSTAGE, 9d.
Send chest and waist measurement over vest, when ordering.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
MEN’S & BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
S
About a huge scheme :
Melbourne alleged Hospital has for the last 10 years
stood condemned as a place for the treatment of any-
thing-. It is tattered and antiquated. It is unhealthy,
insufficient, and expensive. Proposals have been made
to rebuild it, but the site on which it stands is too small
for an up-to-date Hospital which requires extensive build-
ing's and large free air spaces. Therefore, the Hospital
has been looking round for a fresh spot on which to pitch
its camp, and the spot agreed upon as the most fitting is
the site of the Pig and Cattle Market in the city, within
five minutes cable tram of Collins-street. This pig-
infested lump of land (about six acres) is owned by Mel-
bourne City Council, which got it for nothing from the
State. The City Council also owns a nice block of land
in Collins-street, on which the Town Hall and offices
stand. These offices are too small, just like the Hospital,
and there is no room for expansion.
Just at this juncture some hard-headed business men
have stepped in with one of the biggest and boldest
schemes that Melbourne has yet heard of. This is their
idea: The City Council, having got the Pig and Cattle
Market site for nothing, should hand it over to the Hospital
people for nothing, and get Bent to give it a new
market site out of the city, where the smell of pigs won’t
float thickly through the streets. The Hospital people
will sell their site to the City Council for a Town Hall,
and get £120,000 for it, and will then build £lOO,OOO
worth of splendid new Hospital on the Pig and Cattle
site. The City Council will sell its present Town Hall
site for £300,000, and as it has £60,000 of a building fund
already on hand, that will leave it £360,000. Out of this
it is to pay £120,000 for the Hospital site, spend £200,000
on building a magnificent new Town Hall on that site,
and have £40,000 left. And if it gives that £40,000 to the
Hospital it will just make up the amount required to
complete the new building. Everybody will profit except
the Htate, which is to find the new Pig Market site.
The Corporation will have a vastly better hall and
offices ; it will levy rates upon the old site,
and rates on £300,000 worth of land are worth
something ; also it expects that the substitution of a fine
hospital for a seedy Pig Market will improve property
values and lead to more rates. The Hospital people will
have a splendid, large, new building instead of an old one
that is gone to the dogs. The city will look and smell
better, and it will still have a Pig Market. The idea looks
dizzy and magnificent, and if it isn’t too dizzy it should
be carried out in haste while the present land and build-
ing boom is on. A boom is a thing to be taken by the
forelock, and if Melbourne can fish a new Town Hall and
Hospital and increased :ates and a fresh Pig Market out
of the troubled waters, all for about nothing, it should
clasp the opportunity with both/arms.
* * * *
Why did Sydney Sunday Times of 13th
January end up Bruce Smith’s eulogy on him
self as an able, conscientious and profoundly read
politician, with the statement that prizes for cut
out jokes are given every week by the Arrow ?
THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOOD AND EVIL.
“ What’s swears, auntie!”
“ Naughty words that hoys shouldn’t use.”
“ Tell me some of them so’s I’ll know not to.”
Secretary Scott, of the Federal Postal
Department, wears a harassed look. So many of
the telephone damsels, especially in Melbourne,
have applied for exemption from Sunday duty on
“conscientious grounds,” that either the bureau
will presently have to be closed on the Sawbath or
the tender consciences of the damsels will have to
be trodden on. The Department found a ray of
hope flowing around the other afternoon when
one officer applied to be relieved on Saturday, he
being a Seventh Day Adventist, but said he was
willing to work on Sundays ; and the Department
smiled on him, and hoped his complaint was
catching. But probably the quickest way out of
the difficulty would be to increase the Sabbath
rate of pay. Time-and-a-half has a tremendous
effect on a tender conscience.
Premier Bent has now certainly got some-
thing to roar about in Victoria. The great new
Waranga Basin reservoir is said to be going
swiftly to the devil. The water is backed up by
an embankment 4.1 miles long. The bank is com-
posed of clay, faced with spawls, stone pitching
and other heavy matter. Now it is alleged that,
with the reservoir only half full, a great deal of
this stonework —which is said to be soft sand-
stone—is dissolving and becoming mud. There
has been a hurried stoppage of the inflow, and
the Department is toiling like a nigger shooting
more stone —allegedly more soft sandstone—into
the water. But unless the reservoir is emptied it
is impossible to do more than pitch stone in
loosely, and the reservoir can t be emptied for a
while’yet. The channels which might carry its
waters away to the dry Mallee aren t finished,
and to simply open the outlet and let the
water go raving over the country - side
would make people angry, and Bent cant
bale the water back with his hat into the
river whence it came: People below the great
reservoir begin to wear a harassed look. They
are told that when the hole is full there will be
over five miles of water for the wind to play with,
and on such a surface a south wind will raise
quite a good-sized baby-storm, and waves as high
as the Minister for Water Supply will beat furi-
ously on the embankment, and there is a general
impression that there is altogether too much soft
sandstone in that embankment. And if Waranga
does come down hurriedly some day into the low-
lands, with a great beer-froth of foam in front
and over fifty-three billion gallons of water behind,
it will be a very wet experience.
* * » *
“Boh”: Feeling dull one afternoon I
took the tram to a drapery clearing-sale. A few
yards away from the rag-shop a lady-like girl
passed me. Coming in the opposite direction
was a man whom she evidently expected to meet,
and did meet—with a crash from her umbrella
full on his head. She just smote him hard and
walked on as if nothing had happened, while the
man, with a countenance full of blood, groped for
his hat, and also walked on. Not one word
passed between the pair. I presume he was the
evening - dress betrayer with the cigarette,
and she the simple village maid that he had
beguiled. Shaking, I climbed up the steps of the
emporium to find myself in the midst of a fight.
Two women, with streaming hair, were battling
wildly 1 , each holding, one, end of a torn silk blouse
that had been going at a great reduction, while
three white-faced shop-walkers tried vainly to
separate them. I ambled weakly through the
welcome quietness of the furniture department,
and emerged suddenly into the show-room, where
a stately woman, beautifully dressed, waved her
arms and flung herself on the floor at my feet. I
thought she wanted to tell me the story of her
life. When I came to myself, a mantle-hand was
cutting my stay-lace, while a second employee
searched in my pockets for a reliable address to
forward me to. Then they explained that the
tall lady who had prostrated herself was only an
image on which the firm displayed its latest
creations. Two other women had started fighting
tor the possession of a seven-and-sixpennv gar-
ment, and had capsized the figger, and I had
taken it for a lady who had led a life of crime and
was about to confess all.
» * * •
It is a pet fallacy of literature (which is
the spirit of its age) that sincere reverence for
parents and faithfulness of hired service existed
only in the past. Shak-
speare’s characters lamen-
ted the disrespectful-
ness of the rising
generation ; and
Doctor Johnson,
two centuries
later, talked in
the same strain.
Probably Cain,
the son of Adam,
shook his head at
his offspring, and
lamented that
parental authori-
ty was weakening
as the world grew
old. Anyhow,
Johnson said to
Boswell —“There
is a general re-
laxation of re-
verence. No son
now depends
upon his father,
L as in former
I times. Pater-
' nityusedtobe
considered as
of itself a great
thing,. which
had a right to
many claims. That
is, in general, reduced to very
small bounds.” Considering that
the popular parental complaint is covered with
the dust of ages, it seems probable that even the
Australian youth is not really so irreverent as he
is painted. How can he have fallen from a state
of grace which long ago ceased to exist? You
can’t fall from a thing that was flattened in the
dust before your great-grandfather was born.
* * * »
Where is Woolloomooloo ? Some years
ago there used to be such a place between Sydney
and Darlinghurst. In its own way it was notori-
ous, too. But apparently the expansion of its
neighbors has pushed it into the harbor, or it has
been carted away. Inhabitants north of William-
street now inform the inquirer that it lies to the
south; and those to the south say they live in
Darlinghurst, and that Woolloomooloo is towards
the harbor. A street that looks like old
Woolloomooloo-street is named Cathedral-street,
but the neighborhood has become so respectable
that the Salvation Army never visits it. Thus
a glory of Sydney has departed.
* * * *
Mr. W. Daniels, Temora, N.S.W., says
‘ Some six months ago I was very ill for nearly a
week with colic pains, suffering great agony.
Speaking to Mr. Rigney, one of our local chemists,
about it, he said he had a good remedy for such
complaints. Leaving me for a few minutes he re-
turned with a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy. After the first
dose I felt relief, and in less than 24 hours was
completely cured. My daughter has also during
the last few months been similarly attacked, but
a dose of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy soon put her right. lam now
never without it in the house, and make a point of
recommending it to my friends.”
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful Remedy in the
world for bowel complaints. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
NOT A SUN-STOPPER.
Tearful Wife (after the row): “ John, dear, don't let the sun go down upon your wrath”-
John, Dear : “ Dammit , woman! D’you think I’m, Joshua !”
In Victoria the railway-men head the list
of insolvencies for the year. They were 37.
There were 214 sequestrations m Melbourne
with the surprising assets of £6l, 0/3 for assignees
to bite at ; liabilities were £150,200. The year
has been better than usual for assignees, which
hungry persons had lately been accustomed to
put clients through the mill for a mere fiver.
It was all there was to swallow. But m 1906 the
214 gone-brokes in Melbourne had nearly £23,000
more to be divided than the 224 in 1905. Be-
sides the 37 railway-men, there were nine
other civil servants, 17 laborers, 12 clerks,
six “ out of business,” three “ gentlemen ” and
three men of “no occupation” (which
makes 12 “ gentlemen ” altogether). There were
two dentists, one costumiAre, and one masseur,
but otherwise the learned professions managed to
keep out of the insolvency court. Regarding the
railway men, a report has been furnished by Tait
and co., who say that when a railway man goes
insolvent w'ithout making them understand why,
or has his remuneration garnisheed or assigned,
he will be “suitably disciplined.” They can’t
sack him, for a railway man isn’t liable to be
bagged forgoing broke unless the Court reports
that he has been extravagant, fraudulent, or dis-
honorable, and the Court has not said so in a
single instance. The Court seems to think it is
will be “suitably disciplined.” There are rumors
that Tait is conspiring behind his cigar to transfer
the blessing of his presence to another State. Then
that other State will be “suitably disciplined.”
« * » *
Lovely picture of Moonee Ponds Creek
nr , 7 1 n a ~I+irviafolyy
(VicA whose aUeged waters flow ultimately into
the Y arra .
Just south of the racecourse, in a bend opposite the
spot where the Essendon Council's drain enters t e river,
li’lJeHlimf.td
filth more than a foot thick. A similar state of things
exists in other bends of the fiver, while the water for
hundreds of yards south of this point is colored a bright
green with slime. In the hot, dry weather recently the
stench was almost unbearable As the riverus dammed
bv a series of bands of rock, which cross it, the green mtn
accumulates and the water stagnates. Between 20 and
30 cows graze there and drink the stagnant water.
Always«hecow 1
tioniylreM dime, ir filed or movable bine
slime, or a narrative of scum, or an account of old,
settled-down water with sediment at the bottom,
and bubbly-looking smudges on top, and perhaps
a drowned “ slink ” in it, without finding a cow
drinking at the end of the facts? And surely
what comes out of the cow must have a certain
relation to what goes into the cow !
General Booth’s Anti-Suicide Bureau has,
it is cabled, been a “ marked success ”—so marked
branches have been opened. It is easy to
, \ c
understand that such a thing must succeed if
there is a decent-sized piece of corned beef behind
jt;. The hopeless dead-beat sees in the Bureau
h ope however faint, of raising a meal or two, so
1 ~ ’ A
he announces himself as a resolved suicide and
enjoys whatever comforts Booth gives him.
As a rule there is precious little charity in a
Booth institution except such as is sold at
full market price, but this new fad is
probably an exception. If the corned beef is
brought out, and the derelict is filled up with
vittles and good advice, he naturally abandons
his alleged intention of being a dem’d unpleasant
body in the river, and Booth blows his trumpet
joyfully. But if there is no corned beef the bogus
suicide will soon leave off coming to Booth, and
even if there is corned beef the real suicide will
probably stay away all the time. When the
year’s returns are in, it is pretty safe to bet that
the silent tenant of the morgue will be just as
numerous as he was before Booth began to give
good advice to the apparently drowned,
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : Allow me to smile. It is
stated in your pages <27/12,>06) that the Sydney
cabman s ‘ legal fare is becoming the actual fare
(with a small pour boire added in most cases), and a
customer knows that he can travel for 15 minutes
for a shilling, if he chooses, without insult.” If
the passenger is a he—perhaps. If he is ahe
with a big square jaw and a look of big-chested
decision —mats certamement. But if he is not a
& she _ parUeu! Fift een minutes’ ride
will cost this poor he which is a she sometimes
2s. 6d., sometimes 3s. The general public of
g y( j ne y s tiH aV oids the cabby as an extortionate
and ijulting animal, and travel, only in hi. care
when absolute necessity drives. IHE BULLETIN
must have found a tame cabby who belongs to
Y.M.C. A. Or, perhaps, the cabby was of the
usua j variety, and found his language unequal to
magni fi cent insolence of the legal fare. [ln
_ & , . , ~ . i
reply to which this papei can only say that if
Hassan desires to smile, as mentioned in his
bTS
won't alter the facts, whioh are as the B. stated.]
. , . . , , , , . , ~
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
LIFE AND HAPPINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
General Booth’s Anti-Suicide Bureau a marked
success. —Cable allegation.
Rejoice, ye would-be suicides !
Rejoice, and grieve no more !
A great philanthropist provides
Of his abundant store !
The thread of life why would ye drop,
For death why would ye seek,
When there are loads of wood to chop
At half-a-crown a week?
Rejoice, ye fallen sisterhood,
Whose dreadful trade destroys ;
Think not of suicide ; be good,
And seek the wash-tub’s joys 1
Poor blighted bud ! Poor withered flow’r !
Why falter by the way?
Oh, come in peace to scrub and scour
For sixteen hours a day !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S n^ 8h vi*.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
___________ »iea m Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
En S | i'es, Thrashers, etc., etc.
run on N * ch |j° c & r | 0 R n ° s^ e E ” | ay h to g H-ti , nrt heeP Pear 2’ s E l n * ,ish Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Material and Mining KLes of 3escrlpX,nBrX ,n8r - Stee ' Ra " - Locomot,veB - T ~V
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Consider tl\e case of. Spooner—it will throw
some light qn the problem p( why money is piling up in
the vaults of Australian banks,,pr is, shipped, to London
and used to assist foreign,, manufactures and foreign
trade, while Australia, which in 1903 only imported
£37,021,000 worth of foreign goods, last year imported
no. less than £44,600,000 worth. Nearly 20 years ago
Spooner started to make polishes—boot polishes, other
polishes—in Victoria. With the protection of a duty of
25 per cent, ad valorem, along with 6d. per dozen on the
bottles, Spooner began to build up a business, and the size
to which it grew can be reckoned up from the fact that the
concern regularly paid from £3OO to £4OO a month to the
Melbourne Glass Works for bottles. That was only one
item and one firm; but it shows what the 25 per cent,
duty ad valorem and the 6d. per dozen on bottles, filled
or empty, was doing in the way of providing employ-
ment for both labor and capital in Victoria. Meantime,
whi,e the duty was providing employment for labor and
capital, the price of polishes, both imported and Aus-
tralian, was gradually reduced ; in other words, the duty,
besides supplying work, wages, and interest, actually
reduced the cost to the consumer. Then Federation
arrived, and G. Reid, Cook and others began to have a
say in Victorian matters. The duty, which had stood at
25 per cent., was cut down to 20 per cent., and the duty
on filled bottles Was abolished altogether.
Consider now the things that happened to
SpOotler—and others —under the new condition of things.
The Spooners, making an Australian liquid article, have
to put it Up ObVipUsiy ih either, an imported or an Aus-
tralian bottle—thby can’t sebd it oilt wtapiped Only iri
dm and its sterling qudlity. If they import bottles they
must pay dilty i ; if they lise .Australian tmtblei; made
under Australian conditions bv inen paid. Australian
wage§, they must pay Australian ,pripes for them, tile
Australian bottle-man', even .under Australian good-wage
conditions, can ( luaky ( bottfes almost as cheap, as the
foreigner ; bqt whp t polish manufacturer has
to decide .between selling his goods and throwing the
bottle in at a slight,loss on pne, side, and losing the sale
altogether on .the otbe,r side, he prefers to make a slight
loss oij the bottle. Anyway, so far as Spooners are con-
cerned; thpy oiighp to be on the same mark, sq far
4s booties, are concerned, as the foreigner ; and they are
not; the foreigner gets his bottles in free while
the Australian has to pay duty. The result of that and
of the reduction of duty on the polishes themselves is
just this: under Protection (which reduced the cost to
the consumer) the concern employed 30 hands ; now the
factory can’t find employment for seven. G. Reid, Cook,
and the other people who whittled down the tariff,
sacked the other 23 and gave their jobs to the foreigner.
Then there is the bottle that Spooner puts his
paste ip. The chief bottle-works in Victoria belong to
the Melbourne Glass Bottle Works Co., and some time
ago it sent Spooners a list of the latter’s orders and
wanted to know if there was anything wrong with the
company’s bottles nowadays. Part of the list of bottles
supplied ought to make G. Reid blush a bright red (the
figures are gross dozen)
2oz. 2oz. 2oz. 2oz.
Square Square T Navy
Screw. Finished. Finished. Dressing-.
1903 .. 3,216 939 75 1 346
1904 .. 2,842 1,038 62 404
1905 .. 2,091 544 4 47
1906 .. 856 32 Nil Nil
There are other lines, of course—a dozen of them—but
these are the chief ones. From £4OO per month, the
bottle bill has fallen to £34. G. Reid, Cook, and the rest
sacked the men who made the other £366 worth per month,
and gave that work to the foreigner, too.
The Bulletin doesn’t know the financial posi-
tion of either the Melbourne Glass Bottle Works Co. or
Spooner and Co. Proprietary, Limited, but it reckons
that they can’t, be feeling too well. No concern could
possibly feel well with a nightmare of this size sitting on
its chest. It doesn’t know, either, what has become
of the men who have been sacked, so that the
foreigner could bring his imports into Australia up to
£44,600,000. But it does know that while the tariff under
which these things are possible is in existence the
millions that are lying in the banks can lie there—nobody
Will be fool enough to risk them in Australian industries.
And if they lie in the banks earning nothing, deposit
rates must fall —they are only propped up now by the
unusual and temporary demand from London. So it
isn’t only the Spooners and the Glass Works and the
men who used to be their employees that will suffer.
When the slump in bank deposit rates arrives, G. Reid
and the rest who whittled down the tariff can be thanked
for it; and when, on account of the reduced earnings of
money, insurance bonuses fall off further, insurers can
accept the notices as the fruits of Foreign-trade states-
manship in Australia.
* • * *
In the last published accounts of the 16 Austral-
asian fire and marine insurance offices the results of the
’Frisco catastrophe are not shown, at any rate so far as
the trouble affected the New Zealand Co., which was the
office most concerned. That co.’s annual reports are
published early in the year ; almost all the others drop in
during the closing month or two. The ’Frisco trouble
may possibly make the current year’s figures look as
though they had been fighting Win. Squires for the
heavyweight championship, but it leaves the fair appear-
ance. of last year’s returns unspoiled. The total profits
for five years past have been :
1902.. .. £284,474 I 1905.. .. £317 374
1903 .. .. 261,306 1906.. .. 378 365
1904.. .. 381,378 I ’
Included in the 1906 figures are £9898 distributed as
bonus to policy-holders by two Sydney cos. In the fol
lowing, however, only shareholders’ net profits are
shown :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
£ jg
South British .. 72,103 27* p.c. =27,500 44,603 414 120
New Zealand .. 69,375 15 „ „ 30,000 39,375 440’986
National (M.L.) 43,626 15 „ „ 15,000 28,626 238 243
Col. Mutual .. 45,886 20* „ „ 20,500 25,386 210’582
Victoria.. .. 28,330 36 „ „ 17,975 10,355 109 352
Aus. Alliance .. 15,328 4 „ „ 5,000 10,328 54 464
United .. .. 20,032 121 ~ ~ 10,675 9 357 I4s’qn
N’th Queensland 13,212 8 „ „ 4,300 8,912 61091
Aus. Mutual .. 16,141 14* „ „ 9,262 6,879 129 156
Standard .. 12,953 10 „ „ 7,500 5,453 78’119
Derivent-Tamar 10,122 15 „,, 7,875 2 247 73984
Merc. Mutual .. 8,512 14* „„ 6,536 1976 4i‘>76
Mutual of Tas. .. 3,781 8 „ 3 150 631 30 533
Vic. General .. 3,534 15 ” ” 3 000 534 12 8U
Farmers Co-op. 1 ‘
(M.L) .. .. 3,899 3,400 499 15 338
Commonwealth 1,633 6 „ „ 1,186 447 2739
The totals run this way
Dividends oc Q
To Reserves ”
Total Net Profits .. .. .. £368,467
Total Reserves £2,064,138
So that in the aggregate, the Australasian fire and marine
offices distributed m dividends 46'9 per cent, of thTir net
profits, and put by 53’1 percent. for the better protection
of insurers. In connection with the foregoing’ table, one
or two. explanations are necessary. The dividend shown
above is qalciilated on the paid capital as it appears in the
balance-sheets; bilt the . Australian Mutual, Colonial
Mutual, Mercantile Mutual, arid Australian Alliaiice have
capitalised large amouhts of, profits, so that the rate of
dividend oil capital actually paid by shareholders is
larger. The Partners’ Co-operative of Maoriland pays, in
addition to a 6 per cent, dividend, a 10 per cent, bonus to
shareholding insurers. This is included with the divi-
dend.
, The next list shows what the 16 offices Have
done with their net premiums :
i- Net Expenses, tosses. Surplus.
N . , . Premiums. p.c, p.c. p.c.
Neiv Zealand .. £425,99}. 2Q’2 64“2 9-fi
South British ~ .. 319,434 26’8 58’2 15'0
Colonial Mutual .. 150,011 38‘4 34 '9 267
National (M.L.) .. i 06,036 34’2 38’6 27’2
United, .. 90,792 41‘3 47T it-6
Victoria , . . 83,535 28’2 44'0 27'8
North Queensland 79,232 35'7 52’3 12 4 0
Australian Alliance 55,854 31'7 53-4 14’9
Standard .. 54,246 33'2 54'2 12’6
Mercantile Mutual 53,667 49'2 28’6 22’2
Australian Mutual 36,137 427 23'6 33 -7
Derwent-Tamar .. 20.455 31'6 41 ’9 26 ’5
Victoria General.. 9,124 34’0 41-9 24T
Commonwealth .. 8,359 28'4 56'3 15-3
Mutual of Tasmania 5,999 40'8 54-5 4-7
Farmers’Co-op. (M.L.) 5,875 42-9 46'4 107
The aggregate net premium income was £1,504,777.
How do these Australasian figures compare
with those of Great Britain, whose insurance managers
pretty often adopt a haughty tone when speaking of the
“local concerns”? For British offices 1905 was a year
of most remarkable success ; the underwriting profit, or
surplus of premiums over losses and expenses, amounted
to an almost unprecedented 17J per cent. For that year
the following were the figures of 23 of the greatest of
them:—
Total profits £5,531,393
Total dividends .. .. 2,537,632
Added to reserves .. £2,993,761
In this extra good year the additions to reserves should
have been something special ; as a matter of fact, they
amounted to 54T per cent, of their profits, while the Aus-
tralasian lay-by for all offices, great and little, ainounted
to 53-1 per cent. The advantage is thus only 1 per cent:
on the side i of the picked British offices, ihpdgh cifcliWi-
stancqs wholly favored the latter: All the s.-ime, the
comparison oughtAo make some Australian insurance
think. , While the majority df them are making’
a lay-by far ( of the British average a few of them
spoil the Australian aggregate figiires by grabbing the
available profits and leaving future insiirers without the
protection of rapidly growing reserves. This list wifi
pretty well sbow which Australian offices are sinning and
which are not; it indicates the proportion of profits put
to reserve :
North Queensland.. 67-5 p.c. Standard .. ~42Tp.e.
Aus. Alliance . .67-4 ~ Victoria .. ~36'6
National (M.L.) ..65'6 ~ Commonwealth 27’4 ”
South British ..61-9 „ Merc. Mutual , .23‘2 ”
New Zealand ..56-7 „ Derwent Tamar 22-2 ’
Col. Mutual ..55-3 „ Mut. of Tasmania..l6’B ”
United .. ..467 ~ Vic. General ..15 - 1 ’
Aus. Mutual ..42-6 ~ Farmers’ Co-op.
(M.L.) .. ..12-9 „
The one satisfactory feature is that short-sighted greed is
bringing its own punishment, and that the large increase
of business is with the cos. that stand nearest the top of
this list.
In comparing the Australian and British lay-by
one other point has to be considered. Most British
accident and guarantee business is done by cos. that
specialise in those lines—-vast concerns like the Ocean.
Having no “conflagration hazard” to provide for, these
cos. don’t require huge reserves ; practically each year’s
premiums are calculated to cover that year’s risks. In
Australia the bulk of the accident and guarantee business
is done by fire and marine cos. So their lay-by of 53T
per cent, of profits is probably better on this account
alone than the British 54’1 per cent, for the 23 selected
offices. Many of these latter offices have been in exist-
ence close upon 200 years. The Sun dates from 1710 the
Union from 1714, the Royal Exchange from 1720 ’ the
Phoenix from 1782. The paid-up capital in many cases is
hardly anything. The great Royal has (1904-5 Insurance
Blue Book) a paid capital of only £391,887, the Sun
£120,000, the State £70,000, the Union £lBO,OOO, the
Yorkshire £55,646, the L., L. and G. £245,640, the Com-
mercial Union £250,000. Practically, these cos. must
depend wholly upon their reserves. Yet their reserves
for four years past (still of the 23 selected cos.) have
borne the following ratio to premium income ■
Reserve Ratio to
Funds. Prern. Income.
1902 .. .. £26,514,500 132 ’0 per cent.
1903 .. .. 29,026,200 142-0
1904 .. .. 29,353,300 137‘2
1905 .. .. 32,389,000 1487
The young Australasian offices, with a vastly greater
paid capital in proportion to risks, have reserves amount-
ing to £2,064,138; their premium income last year was
£1,504,777 ; so that, in spite of their larger capital, their
reserves amount to 137-1 per cent, of the premium in-
come, while the average for the 23 selected British offices
for four years past is 139-9 per cent. The comparison is
wholly in favor of the Australasian offices. Premium
income is the best guide to risks ; the Australasian offices’
risks are far better protected by paid capital, and
though the Australasian offices are as yet mostly young’
their reserves are already within 3 per cent, of the figure
for even the selected British offices.
* * * *
The manager of an English insurance co. puts
the foreign side of the case“ In This Bulletin of
December 27th an Australian insurance manager writes
at length anent repudiation. Apparently the favor
shown by the public to English insurance cos. is the shoe
that pinches our Australian insurance manager. It is
always interesting to get at first causes, and what is the
reason for the support given to English insurance cos. ?
Briefly, it is just the fear of repudiation by the local
offices in event of a catastrophe such as overtook
Chicago, Baltimore, ’Frisco and other places, where the
local proprietary cos. closed their shutters in the face of
the policy holders, but where the English cos. without
exception fully met their liabilities. The ‘ Australian in-
surance man ’ does not give his name or number, but, from
the ‘ fullness of his heart from which he speaketh,’ he
would appear to be managing a certain co. that is at
present collecting premiums from the public on fire
marine, and accident business, and incurring consider-
able liabilities thereby. In the fire branch it has (if I
judge him correctly) over £1,500,000 at risk in the Sydney
metropolitan area alone, apart from its liabilities in
other parts of Australia generally, and its reserves to
meet this liability amount to £40,000 or £5O 000 Can
we not pertinently ask ‘ What is this amongst so many ? ’
and is repudiation so impossible in the event of a con-
flagration such as occurred in other parts of the world
and may at any time occur in Sydney ?
“I admit that the same can be said of another
local co., which holds £10,000,000 at risk within the
Sydney metropolitan area, and is constantly increasing
its liability there, and has added nothing to its insignifi-
cant reserve fund of £40,000 for the past 10 years as pro-
tection for its policy-holders—living from hand to mouth
but collecting premiums from the public, and paying
dividends to shareholders calculated on gross income
irrespective of profit. With these facts staring them in
the face, we need not look far to assign a reason for the
public throughout the world favoring the large English
corporations that have stood the test of disasters for a
century or more, and have never repudiated a just
claim yet. No doubt the Australian co. would be o] a d
to have this opposition removed, and I dare "say
feels very much like the German trading concern
did when it found that ‘ an important Australian institu-
fciori ’ (I thank the Australian insurance man for the
term) was poaching, as it thought, on its preserves in the
Pacific. Then, of course, the boot was oh the other foot;
yet a squeal wag heard. Can this also be the voice of
Jacob, but the hafcdofEsau? I can sympathise with
him in his virtuous indighatioh against any person, com-
pany, or corp' .tion that repudiates an agreement, be it
with another person or company, and am glad to learn
that at any rate his Office is one that woiild scorn to
break faith with its confreres, arid would rather suffer at
the hands of its competitors than sully its reputation.
With that high standard before, and sound finance behind
it, there is still hope that the need of repudiation will be
warded off, and its High reputation preserved fof all
time.”
All of which is a very good piece of canvassing ;
but it doesn’t get over the fact that, while the Aus-
tralian cos. haven’t repudiated, and haven’t failed to pay
UP their Australian claims, some foreign cos. actually
pave repudiated. The quoted S.M. Herald telegram
from Perth was the bald, brutally frank statement that
the VVestralian Government bad,effected an insurance of
£1,500,000 at Is. per cent, for three years certain with an
English co., but that later on “the manager had in-
formed the Under-Secretary that he had gone outside his
authority in agreeing to waive right of cancellation, and
that his company declined to be bound by his action.”
In short, it repudiated its liability. It isn’t much
satisfaction to an insurer to know that the
foreign co. has millions if it refuses to let him have
any of its great wealth. And, in any case, how does the
average foreign co. stand in the matter of its liabilities in
proportion to its funds ? It isn’t much use saying that
the Australian co. has £50,000 of reserves (capital, by the
way, isn’t mentioned) and £1,500,000 of risks if the
foreigner has £200,000 of reserves and £10,000,000 of
risks. The argument that the foreigner has his
risks scattered isn’t of much account; as a matter
of fact, the heaviest losses usually occur in the
remote places where a co. can’t watch its business;
and a£l,soo,ooorisk, under the co.’s constant supervision,
isn’t in practice more than half the size of a £1,500,000
risk scattered over the ends of the earth. Australian
cos. have chased business into odd corners, just as the
foreign cos. are doing ; but it is out of the Australian
business that they have been able to build up their
growing and in most cases already fine reserves. Foreign
cos. are not in Australia for the good of their health ; if
they couldn’t see profit in the business in Australia, they
wouldn’t be here. They hang out their signs not to pour
money into Australia, but to drain it out of Australia ;
and Australia, can’t afford a drain running through a
fpreign fire office any more thah through ah importer’s
Warehouse.
And, by the Way, speaking of repudiation and
Siiqhdike, didn’t the great Eagle Insurahce t)o. of England
(100 years qld and supposed to be the very embodiment
of old, solid, bell-toppered respectability) close its bfficfe
in S.A. ? And wheii a very smiall policy fell dub, although
the co. had Oollectfed the premiums regularly thrOfigh its
agent ,iri Adelaide, didfi’t it.tell the ekecutors that they
could tramp a|l the way to England for the money, Or else
Whistle.for it? The policy was a very Small one. It was
on the life of one of the richest and best-known men in
S.A.— Johri Darling. There was ho Attempt to set forth
that the claim was in any way shady, and the case Was
one in which there was bound to he a memorable stench.
Yet this great English co. put up with the ignominy ot
having a receiver put into its Australian premises rather
than make a prompt settlement. When such things are
on record it is unwise for an English insurance manager
to put on such lordly airs, and to sniff such a lordly
sniff, as if an English co. was necessarily the Almighty,
and everything else was necessarily dirt.
* * * *
A scrap of unexpected political wisdom from
the Argus book-review column (ex-Governor Sir Frank
Swettenham’s “ British Malaya ”): —“ The development
of the Malay States is due to the fact that Singapore
possesses the largest tin-smelting works in the world.
An American attempt was made to transfer this tin-
smelting to the United States, and so obtain in time com-
plete control of the Malay tin production. It was, how-
ever, frustrated by imposing a prohibitive duty on the
export of tin ore, and giving an equivalent rebate on all
ore smelted in the colony.” Yet if the same thing were
suggested in connection with the huge lumps of Broken
Hill that are now sent abroad to provide work for
foreigners, the Argus would shriek about the interfer-
ence with private enterprise. The Malay States, by the
way, have always shown a fine contempt for private
enterprise when it conflicted with public interest.
* * * 9
Those A.M.P. policy-holders who were deluded
into voting for the extension of the business'to Great
Britain probably won’t think anything'better of their
guides when they read that the Citizens’ has decided to
cjuit the British business. The Citizens’ opened its office
in London in 1901, and has given the Fog a five-years’
test ; and the best proof of what the result has been is
that the directors now take the extreme step of closing
up altogether. It had the advantage in Britain of having
as its consulting actuary Ralph Hardy, almost the best-
known of English insurance men ; while its organisation
is so good that in Australia there is no doubt its new
business is costing less than that of any other office. And
yet it shuts up its London shop, and appoints an agent
to pay claims and receive premiums. In the face of this
actual experience, the mere expectations of the blind
leaders of the blind A.M.P. policy-holders don’t count
for much.
» * * •
Bank dividends still move up. The Union
makes its distribution 12 instead of 10 per cent.; it calls
the extra 2 per cent, a bonus. Possibly it will also do
something for its staff now—reckoned about the worst-
treated of all Australian bank staffs. Years ago, when
disaster happened along, a percentage reduction in
salaries was made, and it has prevailed ever since, though
the bank is supposed to have made an extra-good clear-
ance of the pastoral securities which once worried it
most. It is, in fact, said to have not one N.S.W. or
Queensland skeleton of that sort left in its cupboard.
Also, the Royal of Queensland adds another £ per cent,
to a dividend which was already as large as its figures
warranted ; and this is another bank whose staff isn’t
too happy.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend-Tax. Reserves, serves.
June,’ol.. £2424 2J per cent. = £1313 £llll £11,860
Dec., ’Ol.. 2536 2| „ „ 1313 1223 13,083
June,’o2.. 2038 2f „ ~ 1313 725 13,808
Dec., ’02.. 2687 2§ „ „ 1313 1374 15,182
June,’o3.. 2153 2£ ~ „ 1313 840 16,022
Dec., ’03.. 2408 2£ „ „ 1313 1095 17,117
June,’o4.. 2251 24 „ „ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., ’04.. 2421 2| „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June,’os.. 2262 24 „ „ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., ’05.. 2310 2j . „ „ 1326 984 21,084
June,’o6.. 2461 2j „ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., ’06.. 2644 2£ „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
In the foregoing list, which covers six years, only one
half-year shows better profits than the term just ended,
and that was the latter half of 1902, when there was a
recovery of over £6OO on a debt previously written off as
had. The Bank of North Queensland was started at a
time when trouble was hard to dodge, and as a dodger
it was a conspicuous failure. But, after being floored by
its trouble like the rest of them, it put its nose to the
grindstone under new management, wrote off in all £3
per share of the total of £5 paid, stopped dividends, and
steadily wrote down its boom securities. In 1900 divi-
dends were resumed, at the modest rate of 2J per cent. ;
and it has since then resisted the temptation to be any
less modest. Presumably the cautious men inside
know best the size of the trouble they inherited, and
how much of it still remains to be wrestled with. For
some years the spectacle of a bank which only paid 24
per cent, didn’t attract deposits, to say the least of it”;
but in the past 12 months there has been a large propor-
tionate increase ; in the long run, the public recognises
that a bank which only pays 2J per cent, to its share-
holders may be a good deal more worthy of confidence
than one that pays 12£ per cent. So the 12 months have
shown these changes :
Dec., ’O5. Dec., ’O6.
Deposits .. .. £364,335 £474,250 Inc. £109,915
Bills in Circulation, &c. 47,376 40,203 Dec. 7,173
Liquid Assets .. .. 164,154 237,839 Inc. 73,685
Advances .. .. 342,567 372,264 Inc. 29,697
Premises .. .. 27,400 29,209 Inc. 1,809
But apparently this bank suffers like every other in Aus-
tralia from the lack of good securities, so that of the
extra money available last year no less than 72 p.c. is
still held in the shape of liquid assets ; these liquid assets
now represent over 46 p.c. of all debts to the public—
which means good security for depositors, &c., but com-
paratively poor profits for shareholders. Still share-
holders can get this comfort : cash in the till doesn’t
depreciate, while, at present prices of securities
are a good many unsuspected wavs of losing monev
Even with the increase in deposits-lookingat thematw
another way-advances, &c,, have been so little increased
that the whole of the non-hquid assets could be written
d ° w F 31 of shareholders’ funds ; and there
ate few banks id which the public is so well protected .!
tjilat. Naturally, under those circumstances, profits on
the basis of capital and reserves are low n
dune, 1903 ..£3 14 8 p'.c. June, 1905 ..£3 16 Otic
Dec., 1903 .. 4 3 0 „ Dec., 1905 .. 3 16 11
June, 1904 .. 3 16 11 „ June, 1906 .. 4 1 4 ”
Dec., 1904 .. 4 2 0,, Dec., 1906 .. 4 0 7 ’J
The barik had a hard row to hoe, as the Result of youthfnl
indiscretioris, but it attacked the job with a remarkable
amount of patience and perseverance and self-denial (it
puts by just half of its profits for the past half-teat')'
and, though some shareholders may be disappointed
because no increase of dividend is even hinted at the
little concern is gfoirig the right way to cottimdnd tesptet
and confidence, and, in banking; respect and confidence
mean business.
* * « i
SydneV Exchange Co;
—2 ~ ' ’-.j ... ; To Re- Ee-
i Fronts. ‘Pividends. serves, ser^e^
June, 1901 .. £498 7 per cent. =£loso £ls 067
Dec., 1901 .. 1219 7 „ „ 1050, £169 i*W
June, 1902 .. 701 6 „ 900 _
Dec., 1902 .. 1174 6 „ „ 900 274 15 P
June, 1903 .. 837 6 „ 900 is’ora
Dee., 1903 .. 1395 6 „ „ 900 495 15 743
June, 1904 .. 986 6 „ „ 900 86 15 829
Dec., 1904 .. 1269 6 „ „ 900 369 16J9S
June, 1905 .. 881 6 „ „ 900 _ 16 179
Dec., 1905 .. 1069 6 „ „ 900 169 16 348
June, 1906 .. 806 6 „ ~ 900 l6 254
Dec., 1906 .. 1316 6 ~ ~ 900 416 16,670
The capital is £30,000 ; the Exchange Buildings are in the
balance-sheet at £7o,ooo—nothing has been written off
them. The co. carries a debenture debt of £2l 440 and a
temporary loan of £IOOO, and is making practically no
headway in shifting the debt. Five years ago debentures
stood at £21,000. Granted that the net depreciation of
the property is small, still it amounts to something, and
it is doubtful whether the growth of reserves any more
than counterbalances it. At any rate, the reserves have
to be set against depreciation, which is not otherwise
provided for, and to that extent are not true reserves at
all. Still, the Sydney Exchange Go., by its frequent
exhibitions of N.S. Wales’ products, does a good deal
more for the country than many a co. which pavs 10 per
cent.
* • * -t
The Coastal Faemees’ 00-opebativk Society,
Ltd. (N;S.IV.):
Bonus to To Re- Ee-
Mar;, Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves- serves,
1901 ..£3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £2so £256
1902.. 1528 6 „ „104 £1262 162 418
1903.. 2957 6 „ ~253 2583 121 639
1904.. 2778 6 „ „ S2O 2147 311 850
1905 .. 4958 6 „ ~ 368 4188 402 1262
1906.. 4206 6 „■ „ 432 4126 goo
Sept.,
1906 .. 1338 - 1338 2238
The distributions ate made by this co, at the end of the
March term. The half-year was only moderated satis-
factory. Tho Ugh 1906 was Oh the Whole a Very
good year for N.S. Wales, many of the coastal
districts had a bad time. Some HaWkesbufy settle-
ments reported the driest winter for 35 years. Then,
to add to their woes, there was such a heavy
crop of maize in Queensland that prices in Sydney
got down to within speaking distance of nothing
at all after freight had been paid. Between these things
the Coastal Farmers’ Go. had an unexpected set-back,
which must have been felt all the more because of the
prodigal bonus (25 per cent, of the commission in the
dairy section) paid the previous year. That year the
co.’s co-operators did remarkably well, and could in most
cases have comfortably foregone the bonus, or most of it,
in order to put their co. firmly on its feet, and give it
strength to help them more in bad times. The N.S.W.
agricultural co-operator, and especially the dairy-farming
co-operator, is much too greedy a person in most cases ;
and he makes the co-operative co. fight for its very life
against the Private Enterprise dealer. How the’ latter
would treat him if the co-operative concerns were
knocked out he doesn’t stop to think. And yet he ought
to have plenty of time for thinking.
* * * * u
Dear Bulletin, —The following records given
to me by an old digger of much experience may or may
not be the highest for Australasia. Anyhow," they are
interesting in themselves, as hereunder
(1) Best dish of wash dirt (containing 108 oz.) was
obtained by two Cornishmen named Doble, on Good
Woman’s Hill, Back Creek, now Talbot (Vic.).
(2) Best tub of dirt (containing 52 pounds weight gold),
got by “ Scottie” and party on Gum Tree Flat, Ballarat.
(3) Best load of wash dirt (producing 16200 z.), got by
party known as “ Banana Men,” on the Five Mile,
Gympie (Queensland).
(4) Caledonian Mine (Maoriland) holds four records.
(a) Best ton of quartz, producing 52420 z. (6) Heaviest
yield for time, namely, 28,0000 z. for eight days, (c)
Largest amount in dividends for a year, namely £720,000
in i 0 months. ( d ) Largest dividend for one month,
namely, £4O per share on 2400 shares.
(5) Band of Hope, Ballarat, richest alluvial mine in
Australia.
(6) Mount Morgan (Queensland), easy first in quartz,
with total output to a recent date of 112 tons of gold.—
Yours, &c., Blister.
* * » .
Recent records of Westralian gold-mines and
smelting works: —
Gold. Dividends. Divs. per oz.
1901 .. 1,703,4160 z. £1,093,605 £0 12 10
1902 .. 1,871,038,, 1,424,272 0 15 3
1903 .. 2,064,801,, 2,024,152 0 19 7
1904 .. 1,983,230,, 2,050,547 1 0 8
1905 .. 1,955,316,, 2,353,815 1 4 1
1906 .. 1,794,545,, 2,002,063 1 2 4
And still, in spite of the figures in the third column, the
sour Bullstein growls about “labor-ridden Westralia.”
• * * .
In 1905 there were 23 Westralian div.-payers;
last year there were 19, as follows : Oroya-Brown Hill,
£360,000 ; Great Fingall, £275,000 ; Great Boulder,
£262,500; Golden Horseshoe, £240,000; Ivanhoe,£24o,ooo;
Kalgurli, £165,000; Boulder Perseverance, £105,000;
Associated Northern, £87,500 ; Sons of Gwalia, £81,250 ;
Associated, £49,536 ; South Kalgurli, £40,000 ; Black
Range, £22,313 ; Fremantle Smelter, £20,000 ; Lake View
Consols, £17,500; Hainault, £18,864 ; Cumberland, £6OOO ;
Ida H., £5400; Golden Pole, £5000; and Lady Gladys,
£I2OO. The four mines that were in the 1905 list, and are
not in the foregoing, are Queen Margaret, North Feather,
Mikado, and Hidden Secret.
* * * «
January divs. so far declared by W.A. mines
are: Kalgurli, 7s. 6d. and a bonus of 55., payable 7th;
Fingall, 35., payable 10th ; and Hainault. Is., payable
30th.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is going down to 4000 ft. ;
present depth of main shaft is 2050 ft., and 300 ft. will be
blasted out of the bottom of it per year. In the way of
rapid mine exhaustion the London bosses put Westralian
shows about first. It took Bendigo 50 vears to eat its
way down below 4000 ft. ; and Broken Hill,' after 21 years,
is still getting the bulk of its ore from about 800 ft. Kal-
goorlie, on the other hand, has only' just got into its
teens ; it wasn’t till September 1; th, 1893, that Bavley
showed the first Coolgardie gold at Southern Cross, and
Coolgardie didn’t come till later.
* * * *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), has reduced
its div. to 3s. per quarter, or £37,500, as against 7s. 6d.,
or £93,750, for the first quarter of 1905. Even the re-
duced div. is only just being earned, and there is no
margin for contingencies. The developments of the past
year have been very disappointing. For the most part,
the bottom level is in unpayable ore, and, even where
payable, it will hardly leave a margin of £IO,OOO a month,
so that the present div. is in jeopardy. All attempts to
discover parallel pay bodies either east or weft have
proved fruitless. The only hope for the co. appears to be
to sink or bore deeper. There seems some hope in this,
as Great Fingall Southern Blocks reported pay ore in a
drill-hole 21 years ago, but could not raise the money to
test it.
* * * *
For the 100,000 shares in Mount Cattlin,
Ravensthorpe (W.A.), there were 270,000 applications.
Australian applicants are said to have been supplied in
full, hut there were not many of them. The smelter is
now in full blast, the labor troubles having been settled.
It is undoubted that, whatever the ultimate fate of the
co. may be, the early results will be good, and there will


ABSOLUTE SECURITY
for- Trust Management
can only be obtained
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents, <ELc.
2, 4, & 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE.,
Manager.
be a boom in Ravensthorpe ventures. Manager G. 0.
Klug has got such a good name that it is hardly
likely he would smirch it by alleging that there were
21,000 tons of £7 ore in sight unless he felt sure of his
ground. In any case, he is bound to have a large fol-
lowing.
9 . • •
North End, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is under a cloud,
and took advantage of the Xmas exemptions to shut
down. The management of the concern has been very
bad, and collapse on that account has all along been
predicted. Money has been squandered on surface
equipment and on “ silvertails.” Trott and Rodway, the
Adelaide speculators who put up the money to run the
show, are to visit the mine and decide what is to be
done. The Government agreed to provide cash to sink
the shaft another 200 ft., but is hardly likely to do so
under the conditions which prevail. The mine is well
worth testing, but the “silvertails” are too heavy a
burden for it to carry.
<* * * *
Chaffers, Kalgoorlie, closed the financial year
on Sept. 30 with a cash balance of £36,914 —a nice little
sum to play with. In order to show a semblance of doing
something while waiting for a new mine to turn up, the
crosscut is still being driven from the 1700 ft. level of the
Boulder Main Reef to locate an alleged payable lode. The
same thing was tried at the 1400 ft. level, but the lode
failed to materialise, and lodes don’t usually improve
materially in depth. #
Zoroastrian, Bardoc (W. A.), a wild cat that was
foisted on Bull-Cohen in 1897, is to be reconstructed.
The scene of its future operations is Wales, where an
ancient deserted lead mine is to be tackled. Holders of
scrip in the gone-bung show may have a run for their
money by subscribing some more money. Anyone think-
ing of emptying his pockets in order to do this Ought to
be watched anxiously by his friends.
* * » »
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is trying to
rehabilitate itself in the eyes of the speculators by putting
through picked crushings. The last lot of 54 tons
yielded 490 z. of bullion, worth 495. 6d. per oz. over the
plates. Such results must be received with great
caution —more so because the Goodenough, which the co.
is working, was held under option and finally turned
down by “Boulder” Hamilton; and “Boulder”
Hamilton knows his way round.
•* , * * •
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), now in charge
of Jack MacDermott, for years underground boss of the
Ivanhoe, looks like having a fresh run. At the 830 ft.
level the lode is 9ft. wide and worth 995., while at 1270 ft.
the width is Bft. and the value 80s. What this means
can be gauged from the fact that recently costs have
been about 21s. and the grade of ore treated has been
about 30s. MacDermott was “loaned” to 8., M. and Co.
for six months to try and knock things into shape, and
is the best mine manager for such a job since Lonng,
now in Melbourne, put things straight some years ago.
* * • *
Light of Israel, Davyhurst (W. A.), has cleaned
up 160 tons for 78oz. The previous parcels yielded 740 z.
from 150 tons, and 117 oz. from 230 tons, a total of 2690 z.
from 540 tons. Another 100 tons are ready for treat-
ment. The tailings assay 3dwt, to 4dwt. The ore has
been broken out for a width of 10ft. at a vertical depth of
40ft. A syndicate is being formed in Kalgoorlie to work
this show ; 400 shares of £lO each. One of the owners
sold his half interest for £9OO cash and 25 fully-paid
shares, but the other owner takes payment in scrip,
partly paids and partly contribs. The property consists
of 18 acres, and is traversed by two wide schist forma-
tions, one running - east and west, and the other north
and south. This mine is right on the opposite side of the
town from the Golden Pole, Waihi, &c., and in an entirely
different belt of country.
* * * *
The exploded yarn that the B.H. Prop, makes
20s. a ton out of zinc tailings is taken by London
financial papers as an easy basis on which to reckon what
the Zinc Corporation is going to make. As the tailings
cost from 3S. 6d. to 55., it is calculated there is 15s. a ton
profit sticking out. On the B.H. Prop.’s own figures and
the declared value of zinc exports, ss. a ton is nearer the
mark, and that will not leave much after subtracting the
cost of the stuff. The Zinc Corporation has contracted
to supply German smelters; its own works have not
materialised j et.
* * * *
Sulphide Corporation, which owns the Central
mine at Broken Hill and the Cockle Creek smelting
works near Newcastle (N.S.W.), disappointed ordinary
shareholders again this Xmas, and no div. on that class
of shares arrived. But the pref. holders got their 10 p.c.
all right. Ordinaries have gone without anything now
for six years. Net profit for the year (to June 30 last)
was £94,460 ; gross profit, before writing off for deprecia-
tion, was £150,477, after paying debenture interest and
meeting special expenditure on creeps, &c. The writing-
off amounting to over £56,000, is very severe ; and this
is in addition to some special writings-off charged direct
to working accounts. As a rule, cos. don t write off
enough for depreciation ; but when, year after year,
amounts of this size are wiped off, it suggests that there
is probably a good deal of ill-considered expenditure, and
that plant, &c., having being put up only to be proved
useless, has to be got off the balance-sheet. Also it maj
mean that in the good years the writing-down is exces-
sive, so that, in the bad years, writing-down may be
practically suspended in order to allow the preference
shareholders to get their full bite. Australia’s holding was
almost all in ordinary shares ; but, as it looked too much
as though the concern was being run in the interests, of
the preference people, Australia has been steadily passing
its shares on to J. Bull during the last year. Probably a
majority of the ordinary 7, as well as almost nu the pret.
shares, are therefore now held on the other side. The 10
per cent, preference div. absorbs £55,000, and the balance
is carried forward. Down to June 30 last year J h
Sulphide Corporation’s neighbor, the B.H. South, had in
12 months paid £95,000 in dividends ; and the South had
not the supposed advantage of any zinc works. Also its
great developments at the deep level were not returning
it anything up to that time. The Sulphide Corporation
owns one of the very best mines at Broken Hill , but
either the management of the concern or the company’s
luck has been shockingly bad. -
The new Blayney smelting co. is to be called, in
a large way, the N.S. Wales Mines and Smelters, Ltd. It
will be in 150,00 Q shares of 10s. each ; 50,000 paid go for
the Blayney mine and plant; 50,000 to the public ; 50,000
reserved. The underwriters (the Baillieus and Robinson-
Clark) have an option' over the reserved shares at 15s.
Half the present issue goes to London. The idea seems
to be to follow up promising copper-finds and lick off the
cream by providing prompt smelting facilities. There’s
probably, one way and another, more money in that than
in finding mines for yourself.
* * * *
Understood in London that the strong crowd
there behind North Cobar will push it off into a public
co. in March or April. It looks just about as unpromis-
ing a proposition as anything within a mile
Oobar could be ; but the Harmsworth-Newnes crowd 8
strong’ enough to float a tombstone or the Jamous Dor
rowed axe of Elisha—not that Elisha s axe was much to
make a company out of.
* * *
The Carmichael-Bradford desulphurising pro-
cess, owned mostly at Broken Hill, s . een ? s tohaye“‘S
in Australia ; an imported desulphurising _ P . ?
in just ahead of it, and the imported P r °c e ss sticks.
Carmichael, however, writes to his co. that lie is K
ing in both America and Europe ; but itjsapretty
despondent co. nowadays, and needs something more
definite and profitable than negotiations to revive it.
* * * *
Last half-year Mt. Morgan (Q.) made a work-
ing profit of £173,457, of which £24,699 was applied to
writing down plant, &c., leaving
this, £75,000 was paid in divs., and £'3,758 was carrie
forward. The £75,000 ‘‘ temporary advance owing SIX
months ago has now been wiped out. The half-j ear s
gross profit is at the rate of just under 35 p.c. per annum
on the paid capital, and 7f p.c. on present market value
of the mine. To more or less counterbalance the highly
probable fall in the copper market by and bye, the plant
is to be extended : an additional blast furnace with
accompanying extension of converter plant, &c., uiU oe
carried out at a cost of £125,000, and as tins work
will be pushed on and paid for, no large in-
crease in the div. will arrive for a while. As
to ore reserves, the management takes a com-
mon-sense view when it says that it doesn t know
much it has inside the pay limit. Cf low-grade sul-
phides it has probably 6,500,000 tons down to 750 ft., but
how much of.it is payable depends upon price of copper,
treatment plant, and the progress of metallurgy. It is a
vast proposition. The directors add to their repoi
good Australian news that they are turning over in their
minds a proposal to provide themselves with an electro-
lytic refinery, which would cost about £50,000. at;
present Mt. Morgan’s output goes to an American re-
finery.
* * * w
It has been wondered up North whether the
sale of the big Mt. Morgan block of shares to London
speculators would affect the policy and management,
but, as the Hall and Darcy.interest, which has prevailed
hitherto, is still about 400,000 shares strong, no change is
likely. A solid block of 400,000 shares in a total of
1,000,000 takes a deal of arguing with.
* » * *
There is nothing bright about Charters Towers
returns for the last year. In dividends £176,602 was
paid; but calls reached £126,241, leaving a surplus of
£50,361. In 1905 divs. totalled £219,610, and calls £93,469.
The decision at the end of 1905 was in favor of divs. to the
extent of £126,141, against £50,361 for last year. You
get an idea of the beautiful uncertainty of Towers mines
by comparing the dividend lists for the last two years.
Of the 13 cos. that declared divs. in 1905, no less than five
are absent from the 1906 list. Only one,’ Mills’, gives a
better account of itself; it increased its little lot from
£15,000 to £75,000. The Ruby held its own with
£1250 for each year. The other six cos. have
slumped dismally. Queen Cross (whose supporters
used to write Tub BuMiKTIN insulting letters whenever it
called their mine “ the Shooting Star ”) still holds
pride of place as a slumper. In 1904 it paid £220,000 ; in
1905 it got down to £62,500 ; last year it paid nothing.
Heaven and the directors know what the new battery
was erected for. Brilliant Central is struggling in the
Cross’ tracks. Last year it distributed £7500 against
£27,500 for 1905. St. George dropped back from £43,200
to £14,400, Block and Wyndham (£12,460) paid exactly
half of the 1905 dividends ; New Queen fell from £4OOO to
nil ; two years ago the Brilliant Block paid £5OOO, and
last year nothing; Victory did the same ; Ruby United
scraped up £lOOO for 1905, and has been calling ever
since ; Queen Central paid £2250 against £6750; Phcebe
slipped from £14,000 to £1750, without comment.
Golden Alexandra (£6250) was £2500 behind the 1905
total; but its crushing was a bit late, else the co. would
have held its own. Although the shareholders in
this co. don’t stand . around the battery to collect
their dividends, they do the next thing to it.
Recent arrivals in the 1906 list are Extended with
£37,500 in threepenny dividends. Lion P.C. £7OOO,
Kelly’s Block £7200, and Marshall’s Queen £2400.
* * , * *
Charters Towers’ returns for the last two
Decembers about tie. December, 1905 ; Gold from all
sources, £86,512 ; divs., £35,100 ; calls, £6520. December,
1906: Gold, £83,830 ; divs., £32,800 ; calls, £6429.
* * * *
Out of 50 odd mines and holes at Charters
Towers only five can raise over 1000 tons per month for
treatment. Brilliant Extended leads for December with
4291 tons for 14130 z. ; Mills’comes next, with 3521 tons for
13140 z. ; Block and Wyndham, 2055 tons for 10270 z. ; St.
George, 1595 tons for 12470 z. ; Brilliant Central, 1050 tons
for 8260 z. ; and Golden Alexandra, 1102 tons for 12620 z.
(but the Alexandra is a very occasional lady). After
these come D. Dawn P.C., 536 tons, 600 oz. ; Q. Central,
482 tons, 6120 z. ; Marshall’s, 391 tons, 3200 z. ; New Queen,
405 tons, 182 oz. ; School Reserve, 74 tons, soz. ; Phoebe,
193 tons, 3020 z. ; Victory (through Clark’s No. 2 shaft),
132 tons, 750 z. ; Victory (No. 4 shaft), 65 tons, 20oz. ;
Carrington, 569 tons, 6540 z. ; Queen Crops, 518 tons,
3470 z. ; Brilliant Block, 470 tons, 138 oz. (mill gold only).
* • • *
The Queen Cross, Charters Towers, put through
for December 518 tons for 3470 z., worth £llO9. Concen-
trates and residues bring the total value to £1426, equal
to £2 15s. per ton. The underlay on the 1700 ft. body is
down 270 ft., with a wet formation in the sink. No. 2
level going north is in 140 ft. from the underlay, on
stringers. No. 1 north is out 350 ft., with nothing in the
end. Bunches of stone from 6in. to lOin. thick are show-
ing in the stope above this level. A trial parcel of 17
tons from this locality returned £6 10s. per ton, but it
took a month to collect it. In the top ground prospect-
ing has' practically ceased ; anyway, the total driving,
rising and sinking has got down to sft. for two weeks’
work.
* * * *
“Floger” writes:—“Statement (B. 27/12/’O6)
that 20,000 reserved shares in Mt. Molloy (N.Q.) were
placed in London at 275. 6d. at a time when the stock
was quoted in Australia at 40s. is incorrect. The offer
for the shares was made prior to Dec. 6, when shares
were at 31s. Directors did not accept the offer until
Dec. 13, when sales were made in Melbourne at 335. 6d.
It was not until Xmas Eve that the shares touched 40s.
in Melbourne. As things go, it was a square deal, with-
out the slightest suggestion of crookedness on either
side.” Facts are that the deal was announced on Dec.
18 ; same day, sales were made in Sydney at 405., with
best seller at 41s. when the market closed.
Bulletin’s complaint in this, as in a good many
other recent instances (mostly from N.Q.), is that share-
holders ought to have had the right to apply for shares.
This matter has lately been up for discussion in the United
States, where the bosses developed a habit of making
large increases of capital by the simple process of selling
blocks of shares to friends at a price that nearly always
meant a profit. The sale was so generally followed by
the announcement of an improvement in profits or pros-
pects that, as soon as a transaction of the sort was
announced, the market jumped. The swindle was
worked till a shareholder took the business to the U: -ed
States Courts. His co. had put up its capital irom
$5OO 000 to $1,000,000 by selling the new issue to a bank-
ing firm ; and, on appeal, the Court of last resort held
that the shareholder had a right to one share of the new
stock for each share owned by him of the old stock, pro-
vided he was ready to pay the price fixed by the share-
holders, and that the directors had no power to deprive
him of that right. Courts of Britain and Australia are,
of course, not bound by American decisions ; but what is
equity one side of the ocean is equity on the other.
* * * * .
Mt. Cannindah (Q.) issues a report but no
balance-sheet for the first or statutory meeting ; yet a
statement of how it stands financially would be very in-
teresting, seeing that, when it was turned into a co. of
300,000 shares, the public put up no capital. No esti-
mate of ore reserves is furnished either. The ore handled
at the mill so far has averaged 4'9 per cent, copper, and
an average save of 80 per cent, is looked for ; the con-
centrates will go to the furnace now at work, from vyhich
there should be an output of 50 tons a month of
copper, contained in 52 per cent, matte. Suffi-
cient data to forecast profits are not available
Apparently ore is concentrated down from about 5 i tons
to 1 ton, and concentrates are smelted down from about
2*. tons to 1 ton, a total concentration of, say, 14 tons ore
to 1 ton of matte, assaying about 52 p.c. copper. Costs
would be (milling and smelting) about £4 16s. per ton of
matte, according to December pubh shed figures. Add
(at 15s. per ton) £lO 10s. for mining, and £3 10s. for cart-
age to rail; total, £lB 6s. per ton of matte ; and there
seems a comfortable margin in that to cover extras and
provide profits at present prices, even though matte-
buvers do take so big a slice out of profits. Still the
figures are not well enough established to go far upon.
And to pay even 6d. per share per half-year there would
have to be a net profit of £25 per ton of copper, on the
possible output of 50 tons a month from the present plant.
The little North Queensland crowd that made a
following (not to mention cash) out of the very successful
Gilmore Go., and then handled the Dead Finish and the
Lass o’ Gowrie, is now giving Dalziel’s a market pg.
* * * 9
The Wee Macgregor is another of the Moffat-
Linedale North Queensland floats ; and, after what that
party has been able to do with Mt. Elliott, the public
isn’t troubling much about the mine— 1 the crowd is
good enough. Unfortunately, the best of crowds cant
make dividends ; the mine has to do that. Macgregor
belonged to the Leichhardt Syndicate, with which John
Moffat’s party started on Cloncurry. It was understood
that, in the subsequent float-off, Leichhardt shares would
stand in : but Leichhardt shareholders are still waiting.
Some day a shareholder in one of these cos. will kick
against the disposal of his property by directors without
his sanction, and then, if the decision goes the same way
as it went in the United States lately, a whole lot of
people will be in the soup. B
A start has been made to build the nejv copper
furnace at Peak Downs (Q.). #
Ballarat mining division dividend figures for
the past three years:— 1904, £108,9/0 ; 1905, £77,952 ,
1906 £82,386. Ballarat always hugs to its bosom tne
large field of which it is a centre, including Berringa,
Scarsdale, Oreswick and Maryborough. In this it is
different from Bendigo, which, relying on reefing, deals
with an area less than eight miles square. Taking
Ballarat proper, it is in a poor way. Sebastopol I lateau,
which, with the Star of the East and the Loch mines, once
stood high above the horizon, is now do wn to near the setting
plane. Ballarat East provides the best producers, and out
of a return of 54,4210 z. was responsible for 45,4760 z. The
care with which they bottle up all news about the ton-
nage treated, robs these totals of much interest. How-
ever, the omission tells more plainly than if the figures
were published that silence in Ballarat is not all golden.
What keeps Ballarat alive is not the enterprise of its
people in its own district, but the system of contracting
that barely gives a living wage to the hulk of the toilers,
who have to submit to its exaction. Victoria United is
the most consistent producer, and it only gets up to
96670 z. for the year. Berringa and Scarsdale, with six
mines, are rapidly nearing Ballarat, for in 190 b
they produced 37,1250 z., with Jubilee and Birth-
day Tunnel in the lead by themselves. Here, too,
the poverty of the stone is not reassuring. For back-
sliding, however, the alluvial mines carry the cake.
Pitfield sends an occasional currant; Oreswick has lost
its glory, having only the Madame Berry West on the
div? list; and the least said about the big group of mines
at Maryborough just now the better. #
Bendigo has had a little shake-up in the strike
of a big body of quartz at 2000 ft., in the Williams United,
next door south to the Catherine Beef. Stone so far
shows a few colors of gold, and is of “ an inviting appear-
ance.” But a little gold goes a long way in Bendigo, and
evokes much more rapture than in places 100 miles dis-
tant What the strike seems to establish is the con-
tinuity of the shoot from the Catherine Beef into
the Williams United. There remains a but.
This is, that the Catherine Beef make of quartz
appears to be opening up poorly. It may improve,
but those who held that Coakes was too sanguine and
risked the market have had the gamble in their favor.
There is no need, therefore, to take the Williams United
strike on the bound. The second or third hop will be
time enough. Apart from that, Bendigo folk, having
shutout the outside markets, have to depend on them-
selves now to make things hum. This is hard work when
you are carrying a load of scrip. Therefore, in a double
sense, there is no need to hurry to buy.
* * * *
From across the sea comes the prospectus of the
Berry United Deep Leads, a late flutter of Bewick,
Morein", and Co. Directors: Cyril Wanklyn, John
Ballott, T. B. Bewick, and Major B. P. Oobbold. These
are mostly birds of old acquaintance in the West,
and they have little experience in the deep-lead field.
Still that sort of experience may not be essential—lots of
people draw' fees in London without it. The prospectus
says that the Australian Commonwealth Trust interested
itself in the Berry United and the adjoining claims upon
the report of Mr. Waldemar Lindgren, a Yankee geolo-
gist who made a six months’ study of the Vic. deep
leads. So far, how r ever, none of the gold that he
calculated was contained in the leads has been seen.
In the Berry United prospectus the old Madame Berry
yields are trotted out, with the statement that £2,700,000
has been paid in divs. and royalties from the Berry sys-
tem. The most of that gold, though came from the
upper sections of the gutter. Spring Hill Leads, next
door to the Berry United, hasn’t shown divs., and the
total of the Berry Extended is not tempting local invest-
ment to-day. Still, Victoria wants 8., M.' and Co. to
succeed, and if it is necessary, in order to pull the Berry
United through, todell of the deeds of the past—w’ell, let
the recruiting sergeant do his work in his own way.
* * ' * *
The Buchanan crowd is making, a nice dry bit
out of Daylesford (Vic.), which is responsible for a
fever on Ballarat ’Change Ajax, the principal sport with '
the bulls, was quoted last week up to £7, and all the
other shows along the line are reported to be the usual
jewellers’ shops. But Daylesford isn’t making much
directly out of the boom. In that connection a likely
tale is told of one leaseholder, who, one wet night
recently, w'as induced to make a deal. Next day he was
sober and wanted to get out of the net, but found he was
a day late. Heartless chaps, these company mongers,
wheri dealing with the man on the mine; but they are
philanthropists on the prospectuses, now being issued by
the dozen in Melbourne and Ballarat.
« • • •
A dredge has been bought at Bathurst
(N S.W.), and is to work on the Yackandandah Creek
(Vic.) on either the Nil Desperandum or Junction. Mrs.
J. A.’Wallace’s barge has been shut down at Sandy
Creek but is to resume shortly. The Argo cleaned up
one week’s run for 740 z. ; Bowdy Flat gave 4ooz. Tewks-
bury Freehold gives shareholders a New Year’s gift of
£3 a share ; Tewksbury pays 6d. Donald FJetcher has
nearlv completed his dam across the Yackandandah Creek,
and another dam is to go across the creek, near his bucket
dredge, to enable him to cross to richer ground. The
Sludge Abatement Board has recommended a lease for
bucket dredging on the Kiewa Biver ; landholders are
falling’ over each other to protest, and the wail of the
cookies is louder than the cry of a flock of curlews. But
the Board has imposed stringent conditions. The dredge
has to have elevators to put the surface soil back to its
ori<rinal state on top of tailings; and only one lease is to
be granted for two years, to see if any pollution of the river
occurs; • and settling dams are to be made. If these
conditions answer, further leases may be granted in
1909.'
* * * *
A S. Australian resurrection party, with good
backing, has dug up the old Ediacara, about 20 miles
from Blinman, in the far north. There are some very big
lead shows up that way, but freight, and, generally, the
absence of fuel for cheap smelting on the spot, makes
most of them impossible except at the top of the market,
Ediacara is, however, better situated than most, and is to
have a smelter rushed up.
* * * *
Victim : (1) Position of A.J.S. will be reviewed
in about a fortnight. (2) No information procurable about
the Paddington brewery ; accounts ceased to be available
about two years ago Fritz : (1) June ; (2) no reliable
figures available ; (3) about six months Investor :
Better wait till the new crop of balance-sheets is win-
nowed F.P.S. : What did The Bulletin (10/l/’O7) mean
by saying that “itis in its (Mt. Budgery’s) favor that it is
right’ away from Budgery ”? Just this : that, from the
very nature of the Budgery deposit, chances of sur-
rounding blocks are very small, and that a show on
another line probably has better prospects than one
which builds on getting a continuation of the Budgery
pocket.
* * * *
A remarkable improvement has been shown in
the investments of Australian friendly societies during the
past few years—since the State began to take an in-
terest in the “lodges,” which up to then were mostly
insolvent. On the mean the societies’’aggregate funds
in 1905 returned £3 14s. sd. per cent. Of the total of
£960,668, 33'6 percent, is on mortgage, 29'6 per cent, in
savings banks, 11'5 per cent, in buildings, and 6'B per
cent, in public funds. Instead of about 50 per cent., as
of old, only 5 - 8 percent, is now lying uninvested in the
treasurer’s unprofitable stocking, or hidden in the jam
tin at the back of the grate in the treasurer s parlor.
• * * *
A fossicker writes:—“Three years ago I pro-
spected all over the ground where the Poseidon rush now
is. I got colors and felt sure the gold was there. But 1
was too hard-up to stay, and had to return to the Nick-
o’- ime ’ to get a few dwts. for tucker, hoping for a pos-
sible * rise ’so that I could go back. But even ‘ tucker
gold petered out, and I’ve never been able to raise enough
to return. Now they’ve found the bigget nugget Vic-
toria has produced for nearly 40 years, besides smaller
ones galore. Meanwhile I am working for a boss on
wages, and darned small wages, too. And to have to
work for a boss is the fossicker’s anathema. Now every
time the boss carefully counts out my few bob, I have
visions of that IOOOoz. ‘ speck,’ and I curse that vision
because it could not see through a foot of soil, ouch
is life,’ as Tom Collins says.”
9 • *
The Bulletin acknowledges having received
from Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, an illus-
trated catalogue giving an interesting description of the
“Wonder” Air Hammer Rock Drills. These machines
consume only about 25ft. of free air per minute at 801bs.
pressure, and have well established the claims put for-
ward in their favor. There are several types and sizes of
“Wonder” Drills, from the “Little Wonder Hand
Machines to the “ Great Wonder ” Mounted and Water
Drills. The machines may be used with hollow or solid
steel. W. & J. Lempriere claim that the hollow steel
which they supply is superior to any other brands on the
market. This brand of hollow steel is made f rom solid
bars with the centre bored out. On application from
intending customers, W. & J. Lempriere will furnish full
particulars.*
* • » •
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
• * • *
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Go’s new Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision again B ®
any increase in the volume of water now that they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against n
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71-5 per cent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria andhasmetin each with unqualified success. |aj
* * * *
In summarising the figures contained in the
annual report of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited, for the year ended 31st. December, 1905,
The Joint Stock Companies Journal (London), in its issue
of sth September, 1906, wrote :—“ He would be an
ingenious manipulator of facts who could take records
which we have summarised here, and disprove the state-
ment that they show beyond question that the
popularity of The Colonial Mutual is great and growing.
Cobar.—Bor reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.
’’ * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
D_ H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgert.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.
* * * *
“Geo E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbero and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
« » * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
» » * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again, Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriution of cast or wrought iron work.*
TC * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * » »
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine’ have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.* . *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
dS'rke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.* •
*** * .
The Rea veil Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* • * • ,
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* • • 1 *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide-) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with E. B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Besciis Waverley Brewery, Ag’euts.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
MEDICAL MAN IN TOPHET. -THE
LODGE DOCTOR'S PRELIMINARY.
Gr- Mac.” : Be bridle-breaking horses.
Here is a simple and sure cure. Shove Lord
Brumby’s head into any old bridle, lead him to any
old waterhole—one with a bank about 4ft. high
and a 6ft. or 7ft. depth of water preferred, hang
him up to any old post with his tail facing the
dawn—l mean the dam—and let him rip. When
that moke is fished out, the sudden contact with
the water will have proved so effective that he
will afterwards stand tied up with a piece of No
80 cotton.
“Edyson” : How is this for a lamentable
experience of a fat man? It was sale day at
Alfredton —the Ballarat sheep and cattle yards
are located at Alfredton, and a big business in
meat is done there weekly. The cattle pens
were walled with substantial fences about 10ft.
high, and the top of the fence carried a platform
a yard or so wide, where the auctioneer took his
stand, and on which the buyers assembled to
examine the beasts and make their bids. The
man behind the hammer was offering a pen of
Gippsland fat cattle. The pen was small, and the
cattle were large, and the animals were crowded
so closely that it was not possible to get a whip
between them. Bidding was brisk, and competi-
tion keen, when suddenly an excited butcher of
about 18 stone burthen skidded off the platform,
and fell with a muffled flop and an explosive oath
on to the bullocks below. The arrival of the
butcher created a stir in the pen. The cattle
received an impression that something super-
natural was happening, and once a bullock gets
that impression he is the most dunder-headed of
all animals. The beasts surged about, struggling,
mooing, and making loony efforts to climb up out
of the press of prime beef, and the corpulent
butcher rolled about helydessly on their fat backs.
Them was not room to slide down between, which
was mighty good business for him. Strenuous
efforts were made to rescue the tempest-tossed
man of meat, but every time a friendly grab was
made at his whirling limbs, the vortex of beef
took a fresh development, and he went wallowing
across to the opposite side of the pen. He was
like a globular cork on a choppy—or rather
Steaky—sea, and was rolling and tumbling
and scrambling round on the backs of the
maddened cattle for fully 20 minutes before
he succeeded in getting firmly attached to
one of the stockwhips that were thrown to him.
After they landed him on the platform that
tremendous meat salesman suffered a bad break of
sea-sickness as a result of his excursion abroad on
the rolling meat.
* * * *
Up in North Queensland, the Hindu has
developed the same lust for chicken as the coon
of the United States, and nobody’s hen-roost is
safe. But the methods of Ram Dass from India’s
coral strand are ahead of those of Sambo, who is
a crude nigger with large feet and a thick head.
Ram Dass is slim and velvet-footed, and his ways
are ways of silence, and he is shod with speech-
less shoes. Ram drifts like a zephyr into the
fowl-house with a strip of calico which has been
soaked in a solution of sulphur. He lights the
end of this, and holds it under each bird in suc-
cession till the fowls tumble off the roost in a
state of coma. Then Ram departs like a zephyr
even as he came, with the birds in a bag, and they
are subsequently revived in the open air and sold
to somebody from whom they can be easily stolen
again on the next moonless eve. The great
natural silence of Ram’s feet makes him an ideal
hen-stealer.
* * # *
“Parapluie”: Be Chows and their en-
deavors to regulate the rainfall. My Chows hung
out-in a Sydney suburb. They wanted rain, and
wanted it badly. They said so hard, often’ and
plenty to an insignificant Joss that occupied a
contraption somew hat resembling a dog-kennel,
only more so. After a special performance in
saying so, it rained under high pressure for about
10 days, to say nothing of the nights. For the
last three days, the gardens were under feet of
water, and everything in them was spoilt
The first fine day after this lump of weather
I and a mate heard loud voices and great thuds.
In front of the domicile were three Chows, two
axes, one hoe, Joss, plenty chips and splinters, a
dog, and considerable amount of Celestial blas-
phemy ; they all seemed to be in the air at once
touching ground very occasionally, and then only
to get another take-off. The centre of attraction
was Joss. He didn’t seem to enjoy it too
many. He was flying in several directions at
once. Bits of him have not landed yet, and are
not expected to. How those Chows did not
happen to carve the dog and themselves into
chicken food, with the whole atmosphere so f- "
of axes, has still got me dodged. A new Joss ni
a new kennel appeared a few days after the other
got the sack. May he be more careful in the
matter of rain !
“Prawn ” : “F.L.J.” (B. 29/11/’06)) omits
to tell how the actual slaying of the porcupine is
done. Unless the “ porky ”is after ants’ eggs or
similar edibles, he very rarely burrows without
some cause of
alarm. A clever
dog is on to him
before he knows,
and he can then
be turned on his
back by the dogs
without being
able to inflict any
damage worth
mentioning.
Many peopl e
suppose that the
porky—like the
hedgehog can
roll himself into
a ball, but he
can do no more
in that line than
tuck his head
well under his
shoulders, and
hunch himself so
that the spikes
point outwards.
Then he hugs
the ground
tightly with his
claws to protc'*"'
his belly, which
is guiltless of
spines. Once he is turned on his back, he is
defenceless. The dog shoves up the victim's head
and gets him by the throat. Then, if the dog
wants to eat the carcase, he begins on the stomach,
and gradually turns the porky inside-out. Com-
mon to find derelict skins in the bush, and if you
; , rK ] spines domiciled with the dog, you can bet
that he is a young and guileless specimen.
* • * *
“Nyrnsie ” : “Cross Nibs” (B. 20/12/’O6)
says Chinese extract the gall-juice of crows for
physic. All Abo-shine. Crows have no gall—it
goes to gloss their plumage; but the Chows do
soak the croakers—feathers and all-in brandy
and use the spirit as physic.
YET THE EMPTINESS WAS IN THE
CENTRE
REV. CHURCHYONE : “ Ah, my dear man, what
are you!”
M.T. ONE : “A Christian, sir."
REV. CHURCHYONE : “Ah I How do you know ? ”
M.T. ONE : “Because I feel the emptiness of
things below.”
Some disjointed remarks by “ 0.P.” on
“ What to do with our boys” :
Some people say, in a distressed voice, “What shall we
do with our boys ? ” because they don’t know. And they
tell their neighbors he brings their grey hairs to the
cemetery. It is foolish to sing out like that. He is too
big then. It is best to do it when he will lit in a sugar-
bag. You can drown him then if you like, which is the
best thing to do sometimes. It is behind time when he
has got cigarette pictures in his room, and says “ cripes ”
when you tell him to chop the wood. He won’t doit
then. He puts his money on a stick instead, and throws
it up in the air so it will be more when it comes down.
But it comes down less, and then he swears and says
there is a Jonah looking.
Sometimes he is a good boy, and gets the prize with
the yellow on the edges ; but the other ones hit him and
take his marbles, and he cries. And then you say he is
an affectionate child, and give him sixpence to stop. He
wanted the sixpence all the time. And when he glows
up he is not much good either, only to sing to people if
they will gather at the river—where there is no fish. It
is best not to gather there too much either, or you get
wet. It is better to gather at the pub. sometimes for a
change, which is wet too.
Even if your boy doesn’t gather at the river you Want
to watch him, or he reads too much about the bushranger
with the pistol that the police are after, and he gets the
sack because he stops to see if they got him. But he
takes his lunch and doesn’t tell you about the sack, and
you are waiting for the five shillings on Saturday. Then
your grey hairs come to son ow. The landlord is there.
He is sorry to trouble you, he says, but he doesn’t look
like it. Then you burn the book, and say “ Let me catch
him, that’s all.” But the boy won’t do that.
He is a sporting crank next, and he has something
running for him. But it doesn’t run fast enough and the
ether ones run past it, and then he has got to go fast
himself, because you chase him into the dark night with
your hat off, and cry out for the five shillings which fell
off the one he put it on, and no one can find it. And his
mother follows you, and says “ Don’t drive the boy from
home ;heis so young.” Then you state things which the
policeman, who is listening behind the gate-post, says
you ought to be ashamed of, you. ought. . But you ale
not; you are wild, and your grey hairs are coming in
sorrow to the burial place. And after that you write to
the papers and inquire what to do with our boys, and
the papers don’t answer.
* * *
“Spinifex”: Be big ’roo-shooting* (“5.R.,”
B. 20/12/’O6). Figures given for scalps, exclusive
of dingoes, work out at about 50 or 60 scalps
a day per man, allowing seven days a week.
Not extraordinary for one man in one day, but
a remarkable average for six men for five months.
Anyhow, big scalp-tallies, where no skinning is
done, are doubtful records. In Queensland,
some Marsupial Boards pay less than .others ;
and shooters in the well-paid districts “ring in”
thousands of scalps from the cheap localities.
Also, there are split scalps (a large scalp skil-
fully fashioned into two small ones). Only knew
one man to get into trouble over them, and he
got drunk and began splitting them on the re-
ceiver's wood-heap. If “S.R.” thirsts for further
information re split scalps, I am willing to
furnish plans and specifications, and throw in
some useful hints concerning the manufacture
of eagle-hawks’ legs, to say nothing of sundry
other specimens of marsupial exterminators’
villainy.
* * * *
“Jay Esse” : Be tenacity of life in turtles.
Self and mate, whom Ishallcall Dick, wereoncefish-
ing in Queanbeyan River, and after several hours’
patient watching, Dick was rewarded by a “ bob ”
at his float. He at once sprang to attention, and
with bulging eyes awaited developments. When
the float, after bobbing about for a minute or two,
finally disappeared, a mighty heave on Dick’s
part resulted in landing a fine turtle on the bank.
In disgust Dick procured a stout piece of cord,
made a noose, and suspended the creature by the
neck to an oak limb. He had hacked its mouth
considerably in extracting the hook. A week
later we chanced that way, and seeing the turtle
still hanging where Dick had left it, we thought
it a fair thing, and cut the beastie down. A few
minutes later we were amazed to see it feebly
crawling down the bank, and we watched it dis-
appear with a splash in the stream. [ln refer-
ence to which The Bulletin will only say that a
sound horse-whipping would about suit that
brutal and unmanly ruffian, Dick.— Ed. B.]
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
Eerience of millions of people in all quarters of the
abitable globe, during the last quarter of a
century, has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
“Cadgebutt”: An authen-
ticated case of endurance
George Butler, in the early
nineties when seeking medi.
cal aid for his wife, rode an
Arab mare named La Belle
h m u lfl u , in 72 hours
through black soil i n heavy
rain. Leaving Mt. Dousrla,
station (Q.) at noon on a
W eclnesday in pouring rain
Butler, with the mare’
swam the Belyando Ri vp ;
and Mistake Creek
and arrived at a car-
rier’s camp, 10 mii es
from Clermont, and
110 miles from Mt. Douglas at
7 p.m. on Thursday. The carrier
lent him a horse to go into Cler
mont, where he obtained neces-
sary medicines and returned to
the camp about 11 p.m. Saddling
the mare, which had been hobbled
out for four hours, he rode to
Lanark Station, 58 miles,, arriving
at 4 p.m. on Friday. Being nearly
worn-out himself and the mare fagged
he hobbled her out with a bell on'
intending to go on at about 10 o’clock •
but at that hour the mare was camped in
some scrub, and, the bell not ringing, he
was unable to find her till 2 a.m. He
reached Mt. Douglas (52 miles) at noon on
Saturday, having had again to swim the
Belyando River. The mare, landing first,
evaded Butler S efforts to catch her, and
centered up to the station, showing
she still had a trick left in her. Any
one acquainted with the Mt. Douglas-
Clermont road in wet weather can
appreciate the mare’s pluck. She
was never allowed to be saddled again,
but reared some good foals.
* * » *
“ Harry ” says :
About the cocky waking his men up early. Here’s the
original, 1 think :
Cocky comes into stable about daylight, midsummer.
The “ min” are asleep in the loft above. Cocky, to him-
self : “ Shure, it’s great schlapers ye ar-re.” To Billy,
the horse, in a loud voice : “Shtand up, Billy!” Cock-
ing his eye at the loft : “ Don’t let me disturb ye, min.”
To Punch: “SCHTAND OVER, POONCH!!!” Cock-
ing his eye at the ceiling again : “ Don’t let me wake ye
up, min.”
Said of the same selector that he once, in his “strug-
gling days,” had a young man named Barney, who, one
day, made up his mind to see how long the boss would
really let a man work. Barney had started at 5 o’clock
in the morning. He worked on till dark, and the boss
gave no sign. He grubbed on by starlight till the moon
rose, and the boss gave no sign. He worked on till near
midnight and
“ Barney 1 ” (from the hut).
“Yes, sir.”
“Are ye worrikin’ still, Bar-r-ney?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“ Thin, for God’s sake, lave off, Bar-r -ney. A fair thing's
a fair thing betune master and man ! ”
Next morning at 5.15 :
“Bar-r-ney!”
“Yes, sir!”
*• Are ye awake, Barney ? ”
“ Yes, sir!'”
“Thin, for God’s sake git up, Barney, and take the
mate out of the cask and hang it on the fince an’ brush
the maggots off wid a bough, or we won’t be able to
ate it.”
Barney left at the end of the week.
* * * *
Though N.S.W. is only some 600 miles
across, it can show a fine wide diversity of
climate. For 1906 Tweed Heads put up a record
of 12J feet of rain, or at the rate of a foot a month.
Three yards and a little over of moisture isn’t
bad. Milparinka, near the same degree of lati-
tude, received 5| inches. West of Milparinka
they keep beer in the rain-gauge. It lias no other
u«e.
TOO EXPENSIVE.
“ I never eat puddint mum. Fack is, I got
appendiskitis two Chrismusses runnin throo
swallowin' 'alf-sovrins.”
“Barney” : Be asbestos beetle (B. 3/1 /’O7).
Is this the slag beetle 1 At Port Pirie smelting
works, have seen them hold a mass meeting and
pass resolutions on the top of a freshly-filled pot
of molten slag, when the crust on the slag would
scarcely sustain a threepenny piece. First one I
struck fastened on to the back of my neck.
Thought it was a two-bob crayfish—it had such a
number of hard feet. Never heard of the slag
beetle biting anybody.
• * * *
A rather interesting earth subsidence in a
small way is to be seen at the abandoned King-
ston mine, Bolangum Ranges (Vie.), where a
roughly circular bit of Australia, about 65ft. in
diameter, has slipped straight downwards into
old workings beneath, like a gigantic gun-wad ;
its surface, which is quite unruffled, being about
50ft. below that of the surrounding country. The
drives of the old dead mine can be seen abruptly
ending in the sides of the great pit. Had a sound
sleeper been camped on the gun-wad on the night
when it subsided, he would certainly have had
the surprise of his life in the morning.
MURRUMBIDGEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By the winding Murrumbidgee, where the sleepy town-
ship lies,
And the brother bridges, bending, span the valley
sweeping wide;
Where the hills roll in their glory till they seem to reach
the skies,
And the shadows in the gorges like Night’s truant
children hide ;
Where the corn wears golden tassels,
And the oaks to giants grow,
With the sun and rain for vassals
As the seasons come and go.
By the sweet old Murrumbidgee, where in dreams my
spirit strays,
With my brown-eyed love to listen to the mystic melody ;
In the shelter and the shadows of the tow’ring timber
ways
I have scorned life’s Eldorados (what was sordid wealth
to me!);
For the cadence of its crooning,
When its waters were a-roll,
Floated tuning, tuning, tuning
To the music of my soul!
By the long-loved Murrumbidgee, where its mighty
channel veers
Thro’ the aisles of eucalypti shading dim dominions vast;
Where the old town in contentment basks unthinking
thro’ the years,
And its dreams are mem’ry’s blossoms from the Garden
of the Past;
Where the land-winds wail a story,
In a haunting monotone,
Bound the old mill’s ruins hoary,
Where they stand sunburnt, alone.
By the wand’ring Murrumbidgee, where my old bush
sweethearts are,
And my sturdy friends of boyhood hear it nightly as it
sings.
Oh, the walks, and talks, and partings when it mirrored
ev’ry star,
And its ripples broke the silence with low, dreamy
murmurings 1
Oh, the sweetness of the gloaming !
Oh, the rapture of our dream
As we loved and loitered, homing,
By that ever-singing stream !
By the mazy Murrumbidgee, where the wild vine tendrils
creep
Round the moss-grown boulder castles, and the clinging
creepers twine,
Where the grasses wave their spindles, and the rocks old
secrets keep,
Aye, the secrets of the ages —and the secrets that are
mine ;
Where no heart is all-forsaken,
And the humblest spot must please ;
Where one’s throbbing soul is taken
By the nymphs and laid at ease !
By the murmuring Murrumbidgee, by that minstrelsy
divine,
Where the speeding locomotives sound their warnings
far away,
And the rails that bind the townships like two silver
threadlets shine
As thev stretch beyond the ranges looming southward
long and grey ;
Where the gleaming glades of gladness
Each impart a blissful balm,
Till the soul surcharged with sadness
Feels their cool, caressing calm.
O, flow on sweet Murrumbidgee (forit seems you shall not
r est)—
O, flow on for ever, singer, Nature’s favored darling,
flow !
And your images eternal will be stamped within my
breast,
And your music will be with me, aye, wherever I may
g 0...
Though the glinting reed-beds shiver,
And the breezes seem to sigh,
O, I love you, dear old river,
As you wind past Gundagai !
N.S. W.
GEOROR F. BRIEGS.


WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES
RINGS.
Ladies' Ripgs, Engagement Rings, Dress Rings
and every description of Gem Rings. We make
up on the premises.
Why do we trouble to do this ?
Because we save our customers 26 per cent, of
middlemen’s profit and 27J per cent, of
Federal duty.
We buy the gems unset ia quantities, and at
the lowest price.
We have old-world ring makers who do the
finest of fine. work.
Our prices are London prices only.
Exquisite Golden
Sapphire and Blue
Sapphire, with Small
Olivines, 18ct. Setting,
£8 Bs. All Diamonds,
£5O.
ft
Finest quality Dia-
monds, £65.
Marquise Ring:, Dia-
monds and Rubits,
£l5.
:
V' A
Ohoice Diamond,
£35.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS:
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“ Edyson ” : This is the true story of a
Gippsland bush courtship as supplied to me by
Quitter, who is “down with cows,” Quitter
said: “.Remember Beech, don’t 'yeh—’im what
'ad th’ shingle ’ut with th’ tin chimbly ’n’ th’
magpie what whistled th’ Lord’s Prayer on it?
Well, ’e’s married,” “Goon ! ” I said, “He is,
s’elp me,” continued Quitter with enthusiasm;
“ married to er Woman they called Frocks (short
for Freckles) What was sort o’ ’andy man over et
Peatree’s.’’ I said I did not think Beech was the
sort of man who’d marry, “Nobody never thort
et ov ’im,” said Quitter, “’n’ he’d never ’a’ done
it if she ’adn’t put it into his ’ead. ’Twas er bit
suddett. He was sittin’ outside his ’ut on th’
Sendee afternoon, sewin’ er big patch on th’
beam ivhis workin’ trousers, when Frecks comes
along, ’h’ leans Up agin th’ chimbley, ’n’ looks et
him laborin’ ’n’ breathin’ ’ard over this patch.
Presently she sez t’ ’im, ‘Hi, mister, what you
want is er missus.’ ‘Er what ? ’ sez Beech, lookin’
up et’er. ‘Er wife,’she Sez. ‘Maybe ’ tis what
I want,’ sez ’e. ‘ This patch is a ’ell of a trouble,’
’e sez. ‘ Though I never thought iv a missus
afore.’ ‘’Ere,’ sez th’ woman, ‘gimme it.’ She
took the trousers out of his ’and, ’n set t’ work,
sewin’like a machine. Beech looks et ’er fer a
while, ’n’ then he sez, ‘ Will Toosday do fer
yeh?’ ‘Toosday’ll do fer me all right, ’ sez she.
So on Toosday they was married, ’n’ that’s ’ow it
was.”
NO WRESTLER.
HARRIS : “ How came you to let him throw you,
Halligan? ”
HALLIGAN : “Let him! Let him! Be gob, thet
horse ’ud throw Hackenshmidl.”
“ Paul Cupid ” : Would “L. P.” (B.
20/12/’O6) kindly answer ? Was the cattle dog that
the 4ft. tiger snake pursued and “ran rings
round ” alive at the time ? If so, and assuming
that he was going at a semi-ordinary rate, is there
any possible chance of “JL.P.” catching the
reptile that caught the canine? If he can so
catch it, will he admit a partner into the business
of backing that snake for speed against any crea-
ture on earth ? There is unlimited money in a
tiger snake that “springs on its tail like a
kangaroo ” and can outrun a cattle dog, and I
have no doubt we could float the ophidian into a
company, and—well, I must await “L.P.’s”
assurance that the reptile’s public performance is
up to his private form.
ANIMAL SAGACITY ,
CAEMAN (after a lengthy discussion with very stout party respecting fare): “ Well, look 'ere,
I'll take yer fer three boh.” (In hoarse whisper) “ But, for (forsake, jump in quick.
If the ’orse sees yer he'll jib, sure.”
“ Gr. Mac.” : If “ Flagship” (B. 27/12/’O6)
were to examine more closely those “ wild” sheep
behind Wallaby Creek (Vic.), he would find that
they are just plain everyday jumbucks, 1)9 per
cent, of which are marked and branded. Also,
if ‘'Flagship” visits this locality about October,
he will see the same sheep being mustered and
driven over the Divide down on to the King
Parrot and Sunday Creeks, to be shorn by the
small station-owners who use the plateau and
about 20,000 acres of other adjoining State land
for their woolly hordes. After being shorn the
animals are turned back into the bush, to return
to this area and graze at will till next shearing.
“ Janor ” : Be lyre-bird lies. I’ve spent
a good few years on and off working in the gullies
of the Main Divide, right where the bird which
is mostly tail
grows, and I am
as observant as
the next man,
yetvin all that
time, I never
knew a lyre-bird
mimic anything,
except a motor-
car in a violent
hurry when his
privacy was in-
truded on. I was
so anxious to
hear the feath-
ered gramaphone
on the job that
I spent many an
off-day in the
quest—in vain.
That the lyre is
not a mimic is
the opinion, also,
of plenty of men
who have lived
all their lives in
the hills. In fact,
the vocal outfit
of the fowl is not
capable of pro-
ducing the varied
sounds credited
to it, and its
natural cries are
the simplest and
most rudiment-
ary of all the
bird voices of the
bush. It is the
shyest creature
in the continent,
and its habitat
is mostly the
heads of gullies,
where the vege-
tation forms a
dense jungle. It
is hard to ap-
proach, and dis-
appears at the
slightest sound,
so that its habits
are difficult to observe. Yet every newchum one
meets in the bush has heard it mimicking every-
thing, from the squeak of a mouse to the report ot
a 9-inch gun. Most of these perjurers when
cornered say they heard, but did not see, the per-
former ; scrub too thick. I’m open to conviction,
but will only take a lyre-bird’s voice as evidence.
In the meantime, my scalp is ready.
* * * *
“ Barracouta ” : At the back of beyond
the goat is the chief item of consumption, and
without that useful but high-smelling animal, in-
habitants of the Diamantina, Georgina, and
Burke rivers would never have survived the 19UU
drought. Certainly, the galah parrot was a
great stand-by; in fact, on Carcory station the
trough at the soak was filled every day long
after all the stock were dead—to attract the
galahs that came in thousands to drink morning
and night for months, and furnished the only
flesh consumed by the residents. In one town-
ship the butcher, who is an Ishniaelite in the
true sense of the word, only kills a bullock once
every three months in good seasons.
“J. A.F.” : Be stopping a horse with the
throat-lash (B. 27/12/’OG). Once saw a Maori
horsebreaker, on Boongoondoo Station (C.Q.)
replace the bit,- which a striking.colt had managed
to knock out of his mouth. Colt bolted, and the
darkie, a magnificent horseman, managed to get
the bit back somehow, though he’d a lot of luck,
as the colt must have got him had he started
bucking during the performance. For the man
who doesn’t mind a spill, the quickest way
of stopping a bolting neddy, when the bridle
goes, is to grab a fistful of mane with your
right hand, just behind the ears, and pull
the moke’s head up, at the same time
bearing all your weight on your left hand
(thumb off side and fingers near side of neck) just
in front of the wither. Result—pressure on the
spinal cord, and a somersault for all hands. Any
unbeliever can test this by getting plenty of pace
up (no good otherwise), and trying it—m a soft
spot for choice. I was an unbeliever once.
• * * *
“Lot” : “ Caber’s ” par. (B. 8/11/06) on
burning prickly pear gives me the idea that he is
not an expert. With sandalwood timber, or rose-
wood (as it is called by some), more than double
the quantity of pear can be burnt than with any
other wood. Once the juices (?) of it and p.p.
begin to mix, it goes like kerosene. Foxton’s
offersof pear lands werelooked uponwithsuspicion,
like other offers of the Continuous Government.
B.ut “ Caber” should note the amount of prickly-
pear,coXintry taken up under Bell’s administra-
tion. The people from “down south” have
snapped' up every acre from Warra, west as far as
the land is open and within a fair distance of the
lino. Most of these men who have selected are
old hands amongst pear, having been land-owners
oh the Upper Hunter, where the pear presented a
very cultivated appearance m my time, from Mus-
wellbroolc upwards.
” : Be “ Prooshan’s ” failure to
catch echidna (otherwise porky) at breakfast. I
must be a privileged spectator. I placed porky
on an ant-bed. He simply spread himself as flat
as possible, with his nose protruding, and put out
a tongue about three inches long. The ants
swarmed on it, and brother porky hauled it back
again, also the ants. I think he would still be at
the same performance only we cut out that ant-
bed. I believe if every porcupine had an adult
human friend to carry him continuously from one
ant-bed to another, giving him time to eat up the
ant-bed before removal, there would be no lighter-
hearted beast in existence.' Every' school-lesson
on kindness to the brute creation should point put
that it is the duty of all good 'children to carry
porcupines to ant-beds. j
**f * *
“ Kati-Kati ” on Genesis and Revelation :
Have watched the creation and course of a world arid
its destruction —in a dungheap. Freshly thrown together
under a glass roof and covered with a foot of earth, for a
few days,, or aeons, it \}*as cold and ingrt. Within a week
it was hot and life-producing. Patches of black mites
appeared on thq surface—mites sb small and crowded
together that a square foot,might contain the population
of Great Britain.' After about a week their politics and
religion, their- industries,, love-making and marrying,
were over, and the earth that once knew them was
aware of *17116111 no more. In a few more days the
house fly developed from the pupae. ' For about ten days
the house fly was the object of creation. For ten days or
epochs it flourished, and built and pulled down empires,
and held general elections, and had itsSosh and its Anti-
Sosh, and then it, too, passed away.' As the heat declined
again the straw lice emerged, increased, and multiplied.
The straw louse was creation’s special and peculiar care.
It overran the earth ; every grain of soil found footing
for about a dozen—all busy and seemingly full of the joy
of life. They passed. The heat of the bed grew less and
less, until all the millions of creatures that had in their
turn inhabited it had again turned to the dust from
which they sprang. And in their place—void.
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They walk deserted highways with swags upon their
backs,
They woik in squalid corners as uncomplaining hacks,
They delve in worked-out gullies and fish in barren
streams,
Their hearts are not upon their sleeves, those men who
live on dreams.
The Goldbug rears his venous head upon his gouty legs,
And turns a supercilious gaze upon the social dregs,
Yet not the priceless gem that in his wide-spread bosom
gleams,
Gives rays so bright as shine within those men who live
on dreams.
For some have passed the Goldbug stage and some were
always poor,
And some have entered at the front and some the
kitchen door,
For some have driven trotting-mal'es and Others bullock-
teams
Who now recline in poverty and feast on gorgeous
dreams.
The outlines fade into the shade
And nothing real seems,
But idylls fair that fill the air
And make the dreamer’s dreams,
Vic,
W.G.H.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
,Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Subscriber (Mackay): Dear me ! What an in-
furiated and boiling-over person you are! Sunstroke or
ruui ?... .S.A.D. : It'was almost good enough to print by
reason of its picturesque badness. If it had been a shade
worse it would have got in....F.H. : Only moderately
good, and Walhalla has been described so often Tat:
Description of Perth races declined.... Ae : “Vulgar
liich’’just missed the ’bus of publication, and fell into
the gutter of rejection Mark Time : A very good burst
of language, but we’ve pulled the Yellow Pup’s tail
enough for a bit Sans End: Cheer up. The on'/
reasonably good bit of verse was so gloomy that it crept
instinctively into the dark recesses of the VV.P.8,..,.
J. : Thinks, Mr. Webb W'as the cleric we had in mind.
Hardly worth while going back to the subject... .May
K. : Nearly good enough, but not quite. An occasional
commonplace phrase spoils the thing... .Mario : Themes
too trite 6.W. : Images in " Via Crucis” don't always
ring true....A.E.8.: Not a trot in it, much less a gallop
A.P. : You can’t rhyme “image” with “dirge.” Also,
your poem “ froze the tender lymph of glee” in u».,,.
J.E.L. : “ Practical Joke ” idea worn out. Other off our
track.... Bio: Sorry can’t oblige you. If we printed all
the things that men want us to, print about brown eyes
and golden hair, this paper would be all eyes and hair
- E.J. MoK. : “Skewer ” too thin a peg to hang verses on.
And they’re hardly worth hanging, anyhow Ande :
Bulletin didn’t say that the wife-beater should be freed
by divorce of his financial responsibilities. He should
still stand the cost of matrimony without getting its
concessions. And that would be punishment Sandy:
Oorroboree yarn dull ; Pompey yarn is an old-age
pensioner...‘.J.X.P. : The Institute officers assert that
the examiners don’t know where candidates come from.
Can’t trace any complaints in Sydney or Melbourne
Pessimist: Well enough written, but obvious from the
jump... ,L.F. : Subjects hardly worth the satire Rimu-
tulca : Sense ; but sometimes we grow tired of sense
Agnes :We do not know- the author. Probably she is
dead. Judging by the specimen submitted, hers should
have been a violent death.. ..Ande : Last couplet spoils
it o.lt. : Oould have been aptly put in eight lines. ...
B G ' It takes a big poet to write about big things like
mountains.... W.'J.B. : Trite... .Jack B. : A pleasantly
written string of verses, not quite good enough to print;
but as this is your first effort and you are only 20,
you’ve got lots of time ahead... .Rocky Nook : Wrong.
Bracken isn’t dead yet. A poet is only dead when his
works are forgotten... .K.M. : Has a fair share of spirit,
but lacks literary finish....JEneas: You are painfully
literal.... Don Q. : Versification not quite good enough.
No Hope: Hardly enough interest... .Duffy : Too
creepy-crawly' for print... .Dad : True to life, but not of
sufficient importance.... D.H.R.: In pars .always give
date of issue referred to. Story pretty well told, but too
like many other ghost yarns Nym : “ Sky-fishing ”is
rather well imagined, but has many faults of execution.
Bert M. : Not bad, but much too long for us
Henry P. : A children’s story only P. : “Ginger” has
too nianv weak spots... .Bawbie M. : Humorous, but illo-
gical.. .Periwinkle : “ Box-Clump” is badly versified
Printer’s Angel: Curiously enough, we got that same
ioke a few weeks ago. Did you both invent it, or did
vou both annex it, or was it a real episode at which you
both assisted, or are you and the other sender the same
person? .. .G.F. : Paste your pars on sheet of paper with
your name and address, arid send in to Accountant,
Bulletin office. Payment will f0110w... .Freda: A pretty
sort of story, but rather mild and harmless Kalka:
« License ” ioke appeared in Bulletin years ago. Other
not of much account B.S.W. : What is the title of the
matter referred to in yo'ur letter? Poet Scorntr :
“Perpetual Youth” is too like a hair-wash advt
j O A. : Dictionaries sanction both pronunciations...,
jHC ■ Have read “Hope of Heaven.” There is nothing
like it in the Vatican, or the dog-kennel, or the monkey-
shop or any other place that we know of. It is unique.
Words fail 'to express it, and Language totters on its
throne and Vocabulary sits down breathing heavily
through its nose. We have decided to have the
poem framed....J.M.H. : “First Love ”wasnT worth
the 2d. it cost for deficient postage....W H.C. :
Hat and hairpin joke of no account J.Mac:
“George’s Baby” rejected with fury Hamlet:
There doesn’t seem much hope for you as an
article-writer. You only repeat in weaker words ideas
that have been expressed before Cavan: The word
“colony” has acquired by usage an air of inferiority (as
in the “mere colonial” of a supercilious Britisher).
“Province” hasn’t got that bad reputation. So the
“ province ” puts on airs as compared with the colony.
From the philological point of view however, ‘ colony
should be a more dignified word than province. To
the Romans, the colony was an independent settlement
from the mother country ; the prov nee a conquered
territory. In Australia, the whole controversy has been
ended by the Commonwealth Act, which makes all the
“colonies” or “provinces” “ states.”... .P.T.M.: Octo-
pus is not so strictly correct as octopod—plural octopoda
or octopods. Octopus allows two plurals—octopi and
octopuses... .T.J.M. : (1) Will try and trace But if you
put a stamp and your address on contributions you 11
get them back if they’re rejected, (2) Don t judge
1 pearl by the coat of the oyster that holds it ..
Quidlet: Night Cabby’s yarn too squalid... .K.A.H. . One
thunderous line—
“Oh ! drug me deep with drowsy mandagora !
Ixion ■ “ When We Two ” has good lines, but is
weakened by diffuseness... .Tracker : There is something
ffi your theory that you had your drink at the poet’s
fountain at the wrong time-just after some previous
poet had washed his collar there M.S. : Some of jour
poetry reads like a menu :
We’d come down hungry from a glowing heaven
And flushed from fancied flight to mount and town,
To tea of herrings, bread and jam, sit down.
A poet should be able to invest even herrings with a
Rossettian glamor....Tas. : “Transgressor is somewhat
crude and clumsy D. Bolos: Graphic, but too strong
for print.. ..MoOdi: Don’t quite care for either.... Nym. .
Spider-match is rather silly J.D.O’H. : Rather weak.
F EJ L : Not much in “ Carter. Romance is
prettV n-ood, but is out of our line... .Moodiar : Not very
intelligible.... Mario: Rather clever, hut doesn t quite
suit.. ..J.T.K : Could hardly he worse Unsuitable:
Gilbert R.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
NJH ' Are you prepared to swear that “ The First
Washing Day ”is quite original?... .E D.: Neither up to
mirk either as to art or humor... .Unsuitable : M 8.C.,
j!k-S. E " G.s. (Miss), G.J.8.. Cunjeboi, T.M.M., The
Mug, Toby.


”/\t Co*o>no Conferee *jCe HA&«e>
it is V* ande'stood "Hj'in© lowers^"
liftt Kj^ion* l 7
J)isA''*»7&*n««‘^
will »7ot' 'be Ci^'^V’g
(fT /'
W Jj(gHsL
"Sever*', police eff.eers fave
d<s tu SS , l>?e Q*ynl>/(i79 Laws .
They Oeey, or
*\ to do So •
\ 'so«7^ i£
)^\\c# ar i{Jl
/W>‘- %*'•
/Mo Ire fuse y
/ev«v, to*
W Hrjz o£^
wjtb «y©u . ->^.dliBg6
£e n f•- 'y° to 1 1
l?u ^"fo tio ov—- ¥ ¥ J)i ¥¥ '~ •»
.*
2cs *
TTe {)
'to fc-
-fciwtyof A ™l
■j>esA Cl '°f s ”^ e ..
(V<o Us yet
O\«H y-iE
J&dKitfs rrjeVeJ
IfoT of
goo d n7or&l
L [reform] Cycler
koife.,
■ noises f
I [ a $ £ J
W - £fc-
r well— ER— *
US >a
\
1&. .
jUj-r
Prohibition JdsT Peen put up * record of CJ s[r*sh for drunkenness \yj j'wo d*y s
Eloovent/olitcW Spe&Ker—
/ Wi mme*) WorKevs— you,
Will'find S|»eJk/C’i»»o l in bublii difhculk~
At firsts 'birr <Wt -
prtyfice on biythiho — youyftui'b&hd . if. -
- I -
A / Ttws.
y <^eiVC^- 1 -
& "llove-ttje se* -^p r
*i absolutely love it* jkwill fya/e
2\s nrjucl] As beetle 'M®££ v _-Se
Swtuzg new ye\r% r/ork .
'/%?£ LJeorge, i>ucK in ! /
/ Uteres mo« ( ’’
FROM HOBSON’S BAY.


THE JUDICIAL APPEAL BUSINESS.
Young Australia : “ so it's up to five storeys now ! don't think I can look that far for finality without breaking my neck.”


PERSONAL
TEMS
Ex-Defence Minister Playford had a very
good political innings, extending over nearly 40
years, during the greater part of which time he
drew comfortable salaries for various public offices.
Alexander Binning Walker, promoted from
second-class to first-class superi ntendent of N. S. W
Police, was plain trooper on May 25, 1870, when
he tackled bushranger Ward, alias Thunderbolt,
at Uralla, and shot that notorious malefactor
dead.
WISE, who displaced M ' Lean for the
Federal Parliament.—(An old Phil May
caricature.)
The Bulletin, in expressing a proper
amountof regret for the death of softgoodsman
Da Vl d Murray wonid express a great deal more if
Mr Murray had stayed in Australia to die
instead of going to live in Scotland or London’
warehouses. C ° Untry ght thingS ° ut of hl ’ s
“Mary Ann” Gould, who topped the
Senate poll m N.S.W., holds a life pass onN.S W
railways as ex-Minister, holds a pass (or did untii
£SOnoo a « memberof .acopper syndicate paying
mo oo a year in freights, and holds a pass over
all Australian railways as Senator. And yet he
is as likely to miss the train as any other man.
ita r bfhty S co dne Tl co ™ erted info a limited
n Hobart in Em ° U f eT ’ D i IVK J Jo ™> arrived
in nooart in 1834, and opened a drapery busing
in partnership with a Mr. Appleton 4nni *
arid Jones ki* the style of X &
the same original Jones moved on to Sydney and
Hobart title^'Th«‘“V" P J^ street ™der the
18S8 and T 6 T P a, ’ tnersb >P was dissolved in
1838, and Jones removed to the present ~p tu
at Lyons Terrace, aged 80 years.
For sheer, unadulterated good
luck, Henry Weedon, Mel-
bourne’s Gaud Mayor,
takes the palm. Ori-
ginally a decorator
(which is euphemism
for a house-painter),
he got three or four
lucrative contracts
from the State, and
made a few pounds.
Then he went into
the photographic
business, and had
another run of luck,
and he drifted, no
one knows how or
why, into the City
Council, where he
was forgotten ; but
he also drifted into
several mining com-
panies, which also
seemed forgotten.
Apparently, merely
because Weedon was
in them, those com-
panies suddenly blos-
somed, paid divs.,
and boomed. Wee-
don made money and
grew reputedly rich.
Then a Lord Mayor
was wanted. Several
good men applied,
but there was the
certainty of a loud
battle. Weedon was
the only man in the
council who had no
opinions about any-
thing, and the coun-
cillors, to save the
situation, made him
Lord Mayor. A year
passed, and the old
squabbles were still alive,
so once again Weedon was
used as a stop-gap and re-
installed. He by this time firmly believed
m his own transcendent virtues and began
to thirst for Parliamentary honors. Then
came Sammy Gillott’s political death. Sammy
had been twice Lord Mayor. So has Weedon.
He_ was run for the seat, and the only man out
against him was Greybeard Gaunson, the friend of
Wren and Bent—a man whom no constituency
wants. Weedon, of course, won, and, now that
he is in Parliament, there is no knowing what may
not happen to him.
Hugh O’Connor, who used to be reckoned
9P® finest hands with horses in western
JN.o. W., died a painful death in Melbourne the
other day. The “white man’s” reputation he
built up on Kerarbury station followed him into
northern Victoria and then on to the Richmond
(-N. o. W.), where of late years he worked a
property.
Even with the best intentions to give every
knighted person the benefit of his gaud or handle
there are two cases in which the daily press fails
badly. It never says that “ Sir Justice” Barton
took his seat on the bench, and it never alludes
to Frederick Holder, K.C.M.G., as “Sir Speaker”
—they are only “ Mr. Justice Barton ” and “ Mr
Speaker.
The last day of 1906 was a busy one for
Brisbane sheriff, W. H. Carvosso, who assisted at
the execution of .a Chinese murderer in the
morning, and umpired in the North Queensland
v. Brisbane cricket match in the afternoon. As
tar as is known he had the evening to himself
and as hanging is an early-rising function he
probably needed it.
James Marks, ex-M.L.A., died the other
day in Woollalira, Sydney. His brother, John
Marks, was m the M.L.C. line of business, so the
Marks brethren took a turn at every kind of legis-
lation that was going But nobody remembers
anything that either Marks did in politics. Thev
just looked on amiably for a spell—they were verv
amiable men—and then dropped out.
. definitely < claimed by Josiah Symon,
of S.A., that to refer to the fact of a man’s being
p ederai Senator is an insult. At least, when
Pans Nesbit, K.C., said to him “Don’t bring
your Senatona! manners here,” Symon rose
heatedly m Court, and refused to stand the
piece of impertinence.” Considering the bad-
ness of Josiah s Senatorial manners Nesbit’s re-
mark was certainly severe.
Rev. Bernard Vaughan, whose sermons
are creating so much sensation among society’s
fashionables in England, is related by marriage
to the Australian Jennings family. Reginald, a
brother of Father Bernard (as also of Sydney’s
late Archbishop Roger), and Patrick Jennings
for some years N.S.W. Premier, married
daughters of squatter Martin Shanahan. The
squatter was as noted for his good-looking
daughters as his heavy purse.
Died in Adelaide, J. R. Cocking, head of
a great carrying firm, formerly butcher, miller,
1«?0 O f e H r i thmgS --, Mr - ,9 0c H ln J> who landed in
184<k had two vivid recollections of cash dealings
in the long ago. One was paying £2l a bag for
flour whde trying his luck at the Eaglehawk
(Vic.) diggings. The other was working as a boy
team-driver on the Burra mine (S.A.) 12 hours a
W S ‘of fl Week “ eq - U t 1 ’ at prices,
to one bag of flour in eight months.
W. G. Higgs, ex-Senator for Queensland,
writes: — 9
ruT a h ipJf« t ° hed i heS circulated about candidates are cal-
culated to impel a man to keep out of public life. I have
not several cottages in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane I
have but one small house in Gibbon-street New Fa'rm
h tcrestr ,S FooUsh h f r arr - Bowkett . money (Dan without
inuerestj. roolish or generous (according to noinl
view) I paid the owner £l5 more than The pface las
DraDb eC Th e ave e n WaS °T ° f em Pl°3' m ent and fooking
or a job. I have never done anything- uniust illiberal
rno n ,T ISIS A ent 111 C 0n I necti °n with the ownership of this
cTT ay m an who saith otherwise is—to Quote the
Scriptures, I. John 2,4-“ a liar, and the truth L not in
Died recently, Stewart Keightley, for 30
Mfnfn“cT ge w° f tho , New castle (N.S.W.) Coal-
Mimn Co. He was born in Ireland in 1847 his
father being a member of the family to which
actor Keightley and historian Keightley belonged
He reached Sydney with his parents in 1855 Ind
RaflVavCo the , M T bourne and Hobsoh’s Bay
Kail way Co and put m 16 years looking after
m T « mouldy carriages and lame engines
Then the Newcastle C.M. Co. was formed Tn
mamTT n tnrl K b' n 67 was appointed Newcastle
manager, and held the position until his death
He was various consuls and a mayor, and he rt
presented the employers at the conference with
m ttin” th S t l S i? PU , :n i be 1 r ’ and did his share in
1 Jm the tomahawk below ground. He never
pioperly recovered from the effects of a fall from
an upper window a couple of years ago
HIS UNREALISED SAVINGS.
THE JUD: “My dear friend, poverty in this
country is due to the people eating too much
and drinking too much. If the people ate
sparingly thousands of pounds would be saved.
If they drank not at all there would be millions
of pounds in the Savings Banks.”
HIS VICTIM (hungry and thirsty): “ Nell, sir, I
want to know who's got all the money I’ve been
saving lately. ”
Poor old Sarah Smith, of Sydney, rather
broke up her hruo of romance last week. Sarah,
who looks all her 7G years, is a harmless and
indigent crone who hovers about the wharves, and
is obviously the remains of a woman of education.
A legend concerning her—her own legend, in fact
—used to be that she was the wife of ex-Premier
Smith, of 1 asmania, and the report was sufficiently
remarkable to arouse interest. But, last week,
she told the court that she was a maiden lady!
a 2r 4 S m e was 4he dau &hter of a high Customs
official in Tasmania, and there begins to be a haze
of uncertainty about Sarah.
Died in Britain, where he had gone to
spend the money he made out of Australia, David
Murray, head of D. and W. Murray, Ltd.—the big
rag people. David came to South Australia over
50 years ago with a head full of hard Scotch sense
and not much porridge in his stomach. He went
mto the rag business and made heaps of siller,
ihen he went into the S. Australian Parliament
—first the Lower House, afterwards the Upper.
As a Legislative Councillor he was a Tory of the
lories, and was Chief Secretary in one of the
Downer Ministries. When the rag firm was
floated into a limited liability co. David seemed
to regard his life work as over. He went home to
Scotland to spend the broken and affluent frag-
ment of his days, and was 77 vears old at the
finish.
Veteran journalist and ex-M.L.A. John
Gale celebrated his golden wedding at Quean-
beyan (N.S.W.) last week. John still writes
leaders m the Qgeanbeyan Age, or rather he sets
up the type as he mentally composes the matter.
He was brought up to the printing business in
Jungland, and has simultaneously acted as comp ,
editor, newspaper proprietor/book publisher,
alderman, politician, parson, and teetotaller.
Once, in the gay days when Tom Garrett and
Henry Copeland were at their best (or their
worst), and N.S.W. Assembly took the bottle to
bed with it at night, and emptied the python out
of its boots in the morning, some whiskyfied legis-
lators tried to pour alcohol into John by main
force. There was a bitter scrap, but the alcohol
was upset and Satan was routed.
N.S. Wales has had what looks like a stroke
of luck in connection with its new State Land
Bank; for permanent head it has got the man
who (Helped, of course, by the State’s conditions
wi™ t'he Bank of New Zealand out of the mud.
™ j? en Government was bailed up
a forced to back that bank, Alexander
Mclntosh, then general manager of the Royal
Bank of Queensland, was appointed the State s
representative in the concern, and, later on, be-
came general manager. After a while, Seddon,
whose worst offence in his later days was his bor-
rowing craze, wanted the bank to lend the State
more than Mclntosh would stand ; they had a
row, and Mclntosh took three months’ leave of
absence. If Mclntosh had waited till the end of
the three months to resign, he wouldn’t have
resigned at all, for, before it was over, Seddon
had died. It was a bit of luck that a man of
was thus “on the market ” when the
N.S.W. Bank needed a head.
For a monarch alleged to be “King of
Kings, The Shadow of God,” “Centre of the
Universe,’ “Well of Science,” “Footpath of
Heaven and various other sizeable things, the
late Shah of Persia was a remarkably unimposing
person Some authorities declare that he was
physically weak, mentally imbecile, and an im-
practicable and obstinate bigot. However that
may be, he was treated as a child until he suc-
ceeded his assassinated father as Shah, at the age
of 4o years, about ten years ago, and he after-
wards occupied himself mainly with infantile
recreations, such as playing practical jokes on his
courtiers and getting himself photographed in
fancy costumes. Gne photo, displays him as an
Anglican curate ! The Shah assisted the birth-
rate with six sons and 12 daughters. These royal
ladies have the right to confer their young affec-
tions on leading citizens, who are thereby de-
barred from taking any other wives—regarded as
a great hardship in Persia. The chosen husbands
are also forced to give the monarch of the day a
big ready-money present, followed by recurrent
donations. But, after all, that is only another
form of the royal cadge that is common to most
countries.
Died in England, on November 26, aged
7T), Oscar de Satge, a well-known figure in Central
Queensland in the sixties, seventies, and earlv
eighties He struck Australia in 1853, and was
first in the service of the Victorian Government.
T hen he was a N.S. W. and Queensland pastoralist,
and his herds said “moo” around a thousand
waterholes in his palmy days. In 1869 he was
elected member for Clermont in the Queensland
Assembly, and afterwards sat for Normanbv and
Mitchell. The last 20 years of his life he spent as
an absentee in the Cold Country. His experiences
of early squatterdom are recorded in his “Pa°Ts
from the Journal of a Queensland Squatter”
published in 1901. It isn’t a very interesting book.
About a couple that have been talked
about:—
There reached Melbourne last week a couple who have
been wagging the tongues of tens of thousands of Mrs
Grundies. European papers have lately told of the chase
of Russian General Ouchakoff after the man who stole his
wife-how he followed the fleeing pair to Paris, to Lon-
don, to Madeira, through Spain and Prance, across the
Atlantic to New York, almost catching them there ; then
back to Havre, to London—always with a loaded revolver
at hand and a hitter Russian smile on his face. He told
a Paris mtervi ewer; “Sooner or later I shall come up
with them, and I shall shoot him. ... No, my wife will
come back with me to her Russian home, where she will
rest quietly.” But she hasn’t gone home yet. From
London the pair motored to Southampton, then shipped
to the Cape by the Kenilworth Oastle, with two men on
board watching their movements. Prom the Cape
they went to Hobart; from Hobart to Sydney; and
now they dwell incog, in Melbourne and await remit-
tances. Captain Gabriel Essipnff is a rather weak-look-
mg man of 32, half an invalid, with a slightly Jewish face
and not in any way notable. But Madame Ouchakoff, 37
by the lady’s grace, would fix attention anywhere.
It makes The Bulletin rather tired. If spies can
keep up with the half-invalided gentleman and the
lady with a large quantity of luggage, why can’t
the ferocious Russian General ? Also a pair that
hang up at boarding-houses awaiting remittances
don’t seem to have a proper amount of respect for
the ever-loaded revolver that is alleged to be
pursuing them. Still they have been making
gallons of “copy” for some English and Con-
tmtal papers ; it would pay the papers to invent
at least three furious Russian Generals to get half
that much copy. In fact, it would almost pay
them to invent a field marshal and an admiral.
THE BEST-DRESSED MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon Melbourne block at four,
I met the Best-dressed Man.
No other Melbourner wears such clothes,
None hut Londoners, other foreigners, and Walers.
This is the Maginnis,
The Sartor Resartus of the town,
And he is a brainy man.
No clothes-rack like a Flemington dame,
A peacock popinjay from off the lawn,
A machine to carry toque and parasol,
Confections, foulards, and all foolhardiness.
A valet does not fetch a silver salver
Full of cravats at early morn,
And come out bearing all hut one,
Saying, “ Behold our failures I ”
Two valets do not lift our Best-dressed Man
And sink him gently in his trousers.
That he would scorn.
Man does not live by such alone.
A simple maid
May bring hot water to the door,
And that is all.
He dresses well within nine minutes.
Shall the Muse inquire his secret?
What’s the good ?
As with the needy knife-grinder
No story is to tell.
Clothes grow upon this man.
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.
Excuse us, Endymion, but—that coat upon the haunch !
The form of Antinous, Apollo,
If ’cwere not there, of what avail the coat?
And then the perfecture of the waist!
The English language fails us.
Wrap, wrap, the umbrella.
Gods ! can paragon or whalebone thus be squoze ?
How many million angels stand upon a needle’s point ?
Well, go thy ways, our Crichton.
We bind our Wordsworth in nice green morocco.
Where virtue is these are more virtues.
Melbourne sadly needs its clothes,
And human ornament,
The Genius who can furnish both
Most truly is unique.
VIC.
THEORBO.
AT THE TELEPHONE.
A CONFIDENTIAL
CONVERSATION.
HE : That you, sweetheart ?
SHE : Yes, darling ; what is it ?
HE : Oh, I want you to do something for me.
I quite forgot to ask you, before I came awav this
morning, to buy me a bottle of Odol.
SHE : Speak louder ; I can’t hear. A bottle of
what?
HE: Odol; O-d-o-1, Odol. You know the
famous preparation for the teeth.
SHE : All right; I won’t forget. I’ll make a
memorandum at once that you want something
for your teeth. I’ll ask them at the shop to give
me the best powder they have for the teeth.
HE (shouting) : No, no, no ! I don’t want
tooth powder.
SHE : All right; I’ll get you tooth soap.
HE: No, no, no; I don’t want tooth soap
either.
SHE (rather irritably) : Then what do you
want, darling?
HE: Odol, sweetheart. Tooth powders and
tooth soaps are no good. They don’t get into the
crevices and^ between the teeth, so they are useless
for preventing fermentation, which causes the
teeth to decay. Odol gets into every crevice of
the mouth, and washes away everything that may
do harm. It penetrates the interstices of the
teeth and the mucous membrane of the mouth.
It is an antiseptic, and its refreshing effect lasts
for several hours after using it. That is why I
don’t want you to get me anything else but Odol.
All my friends use it now.
SHE : All right, darling; I’ll get you a bottle
of Odol. Good-bye.
HE: Stop a minute ; don’t ring off. Say,
sweetheart ?
SHE: What is.it ?
HE: There are two sizes of Odol—one at
eighteenpence, and one at half-a-crown. Buy the
half-crown bottle, for it is much more economical,
as it contains double the quantity of the other
flask.
SHE : All right. Good-bye.
HE : Just another minute, sweetheart. There
are two flavors—Standard and Sweet Rose. Buy
a bottle of Standard for me—yes, Standard flavor;
and buy a bottle of Sweet Rose for yourself. It
is simply exquisite. Bye-bye, sweetheart. Take
care of yourself, and be very careful how you
cross the road.
SHE: Good-bye, darling
They ring off.


As manufacturers of Fine Furniture, have ever striven to combine Beauty and Utility in
everything produced in their Redfern Cabinet Works, and the illustrations show some
examples of the way Australian Capital and Australian Labor have been united in
converting Australian Timbers into articles of use and ornament for Australian homes.
6Z>e ALLIE DINING ROOM SUITE
s
No. 54
Very Handsome Suite of 9 Pieces
Consisting of full-sized Couch, 2 large and roomy Easy Chairs, and 6
Small Chairs, with upholstered backs, extra heavy frames of best
Tasmanian Walnut, very massively carved, best finish throughout (No. 54)
Upholstered in best Pegamoid, £2l.
Upholstered in Saddle Bags and Utrecht Velvet, £23 1
Upholstered in Morocco, £32 lOs.
15hQ REID DINING ROOM SUITE
fds
No. 48
The Field Dining' Room Suite,
2 large Easy Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, Spring Seats, upholstered
backs, casters to all the chairs, frames of solid Tasmanian Walnut,
richly carved.
Upholstered in Best Saddlebags and Utrecht Velvet, £l7 ss. Upholstered in Best Pegamoid, 32.15 lOs.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS' FURNITURE, CARPET, and BEDSTEAD SHOW ROOMS are acknow-
ledged the finest in Australia, covering an area of nearly fifty thousand superficial feet, well lighted and lofty*
Here are displayed samples of MODERN ART RENAISSANCE, CHIPPENDALE* SHERATON, ROCOCO,
and other styles of Furniture, and while the claims of HIGH ART in MODERN FURNITURE are not forgotten,
neither i$ the necessity for the cheaper, stronger made and more useful kinds ignored* can FURNISH a cottage
or a mansion with equal ease*
Several completely Furnished and Decorated Rooms are arranged in our main Furniture Show Room to assist
customers in making choice of suitable Furnishings, and they can see at a glance the general EFFECT much better
than by selecting the several articles of furniture in different places*
ANTHONY HORDERN Sons,
only universal New Palace Emporium, cVT^IJirV
Brickfield Hill, O I UriiL I •
• • •


£
&
<#
NS?
«
0
Many an Australian, 25 years hence, will
say with pride, “Yes, I took The Bulletin
for over lialf-a-century from its very first number,
and to The Lone Hand I was one of the original
subscribers.’’ Send in your subscription now for
The Lone Hand to The Bulletin office.
A Perfect Complexion. —Not all the silken
fabrics of the East can match the radiant complexion of
a woman with whom Yalaze is a daily habit. That
brilliant smoothness, that delicate skin texture that
follows the use of Valaze is won by alliance with the
workings of nature. Valaze extracts the foreign sub-
stances that clog the activity of the skin pores, and, by
nourishing the exquisite network of tissues that underlie
the skin enable it to bloom with a beauty that seldom
unaided extends beyond the years of childhood. Wrinkles,
crowsfeet, blotches, tan, sallowness, freckles and all such
facial imperfections disappear with the use of Valaze,
giving place to a clear, soft and dainty complexion.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar (containing 3 times as much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap—compounded from almonds and rare
herbs—greatly assists the beautifying action of Valaze—
feeds as well as cleanses, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure —prepared by Dr. Lykuski,
the Russian Skin Specialist as discoverer of Valaze.
Unfailingly cures the most obstinate cases—2s. 6d., posted
3s. Rusmo Hair Killer—a sure remover of superfluous
hairs—will not harm the most sensative skin, 5s. postage
3d. “ Guide to Beauty ” a new edition of this charming
Brochure on the care of the skin and complexion for-
warded anywhere for 3d. in stamps or free with the pur-
chase of any Valaze preparation. Ladies who are visiting
Melbourne or Sydney should make a point of visiting the
Valaze Massage Institute. Here the exquisite processes
of Pace Massage are practised under Mile. Rubinstein’s
personal supervision. Also birth marks, moles, disfiguring
growths, red noses, double chins and such like blemishes
are successfully treated whilst the permanent removal of
superfluous hairs is made a speciality of. All Valaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading chemists or direct from
Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne,
and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.—The best
resolution that can be made for 1907 is to start the year
by subscribing to our circulating library. We offer a
year’s reading of the best books published, whether it be
in fiction, travel, history, biography, or any other depart-
ment of literature, at rates for city and suburban sub-
scribers ranging from one guinea upwards, and for
country subscribers ranging from £2 12s. 6d. ; for this
latter sum we send to any country address a parcel
of eight volumes as often as required. Shorter
periods or larger parcels to suit subscribers are quoted.
All our books are perfectly clean, and are covered in
a neat, distinctive green cloth. Conan Doyle’s “Sir
Nigel,” Gertrude Atherton’s “ Rezanov,” Lucas Malet’s
“Par Horizon,” Mary Cholmondeley’s “Prisoners,”
and thousands other popular works are now available
and are circulating freely. Write for catalogues and
particulars to Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating
Library, 428 George-st., Sydney.*
Constipation Kills.— Nob directly, but by slow
poisoning of the entire system. There should be no delay
in permanently curing it and no mistake in choosing the
remedy. Senior’s Liver Pills cure constipation for good
by restoring proper tone to the liver and bowels.
Senior’s Liver Pills are sold at 13. and 2s. per box, or
Is. Id. and 2s. Id. post free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246
George-street, Sydney.*
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC,
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
dsf
44
TRADE MARK
Dress R\briss
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. »
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 15, 1907.
My Dear Arint.—
Baronet Cecil Broderick (etc.) Hartwell and his
wife have been staying for some time in Sydney
at the Australia sib plain Mr. and Mrs. They
sprang their titles of Sir and Lady on the public
just before leaving here for a cruise amongst the
western Pacific isles. For months the has
been scrutinized with the gaze that says: ‘ You
look very mysterious.” “ Have you been on the
Continental stage?” “That dead-white pallor
and the border of black. around the, eyes is very
alluring—if a man likes that sort of thing.”
“She- is sinuous and graceful and _ looks
as if she could teach the serpent a thing or
two ! ” Lady Hartwell is, if she is the lady men-
tioned in the Beerage, of French parents, and
came from Algiers. The little schooner Stanley
that they and Mr. John Broad wood (who travels
with them) bought lias been turned into a smart
private yacht; and snapshots of Fleurette —that’s
Lady Hartwell’s sweet name, as recorded in the
Beerage—in a river hat, and a blouse and skirt,
seated on the yacht’s deck, with a dog at her
knee, are dandy things to send to Guernsey, where
stands the ancestral home of her husband.
Sale of the (Essie Jenyns) Woods’ household
goods and treasures occurred at Newcastle lately.
The Woods had collected in their prolonged
travels some of the best furniture, rugs, carpets
and china in Australia. The prices these brought
nearly broke the auctioneer’s heart, and if the
Woods weren’t rich would have wholly broken
theirs. But the buyers rejoiced, and sounded the
loud timbrel and blew upon the shawm over their
bargains. The Woods are going to live abroad.
Familiarity with their own climate has bred
indifference to it in Sydneysiders. Most appre-
ciative people are visiting singers and other
musicians. Andrew Black is soaking himself in
sunlight such as, he says, he’d r.ot get anywhere
else. In Rockhampton, lately, he “enjoyed” a
tropical rainstorm. Atmospheric conditions pre-
ceding the fall were quite novel to him. A strong
wind was blowing and clouds were banking up
against it. Then the burst, and in the two seconds
it took him to leap from the shelter of his cab to
the shelter of his concert hall he got as wet as a
whale. Rockhampton’s phenomenal little fiddler,
the small girl Alma Moodie, played at his con-
cert. Black thinks her a wonder, but advised her
people to let her play with her hoop for a couple
of years before sending her abroad for more fiddle
study.
In one thing visiting foreigners, especially the
French, think us backward, and that is lack
of outdoor feeding facilities. Perhaps the de-
mand will be soon supplied. A noted chef is
seeking central rooms for roof garden dining.
Then shall we see the Sydney Gallery picture ‘‘Sur
les Toits ” materialised, and duplicated many times.
One may dine on the roof that is to be for seven-
and-six. A moonlight tableau of four—the man,
the scheming villain, the other fellow’s wife, and
the woman who doesn’t care—can this be achieved
for 30s. !
The engagement is announced of Miss C. H.
Chanter, daughter of Mr. J. M. Chanter, M.H.R.
for • Riverina, and Mr. D. H. Appleby, of the
pretty and. tree-infested town of Warragul (Vic.).
The Miss has something more than her fair share
-of good looks, while the He will bring into the
union a considerable amount of that substance,
the love of which is said to be the root of all evil,
if not the trunk and the branches also. But as
evil is said to have started before there was any
money, and to have been based on a craving for
vegetables. I throw in the above Scriptural quota-
tion with diffidence.
Two old Hawkesburv families were combined
in marriage just before Christmas, when Dora,
daughter of Mr. William Walker, M.L.C., was
united to Frank, only son of Colonel Guest. Mr.
Walker, who is 79 years of age, went with his
father, a teacher, to live at Windsor when a boy.
He was schooled there, served articles as a solicitor
there, was married three times, and has resided
in Windsor all his life. His first wife was a
daughter of Jonathan Hassall, of “Matavi,”
Camden ; his second, a daughter of Robert
Cooper, of “Juniper Hall,” Paddington—now
“Ormond House” ; and the third, a daughter of
Rev. William Wood, of Pitt Town. The Guests
are also of very old standing on the Hawkesbury.
At the Tirrana races a young woman strayed
into the Gibsons’ tent at luncheon hour, found
herself a seat, and ate loudly and steadily through
the “ rekerky ” menu. Then she arose, clutching
a pair of cotton gloves, an umbrella, and a shil-
ling, and asked “Where do they take money?”
And she was»in no sense disconcerted when told
that the luncheon was a private one. The itemette
speaks well for the kindness and courtesy of the
Gibsons. A section of Sydney society—the one
that is shaky as to its bona fides —would have
shooed her out of the tent at sight.
“The Stockman,” words by “Rolf Boldrewood,”
music by W. F. Steele, organist and choirmaster
of Scots’ Church, Collins-street, Melbourne, is on
the melody market. A pleasant composition,
with the crack of the stockwhip in it, and suited
to average baritone range. The composer hopes
to make it the beginning of a series of Australian
songs with Australian words.
Magnus de la Laing (Meason) tells me, all the
way trom an undecipherable Strasse in Berlin,
that he will start his Australian tour this year,
beginning in M.L. in March.
At that enterprising club, the Lyceum, in
London, a lady is holding a show of hand-woven
fabrics, and one of the materials is called “ woven
air.” Exhibitor uses the thread of the silkworm
just as it comes from the cocoon, of the natural
yellow hue, and with the grease in it as left by
the worm. After boiling, the fabric is like
gossamer, and of thistledown lightness. What a
bathing garment it would make !
Names of the four Maoriland girls who were in
the competition organised by Miss Constance
Smedley and the Lyceum Club are Jessie Mackay
(Christchurch), Alice Ferguson, S. Myers, and
Hilda Carr Rolett —these three are of Auckland.
Amongst the judges were Beatrice Harraden,
F. A. Steel and Annie Swan. Report says “it
was the unknown writers we sought, and if
amongst the hundreds of MSS. sent in we found
few of finished quality, at all events we found
many of great promise.”
When you go out without your blinkers don’t
you see things that make you say things ! Say
them hard. A few hours ago I watched a weedy
boy of 11 or 12 drag a bag of meat off the gang-
way of a ferry steamer. A kindly deck-hand and
the boy, with a great effort, lifted the sack on to
a wharf seat, then the lad stooped and the deck-
hand tilted the load on to his back. He staggered
(that’s the word) away, with his face bent almost
as low as his knees. The load would have been
sufficiently heavy for a strong man. Police officers
ought to be instructed to take note of such
matters and get the address of the kind of employer
who helps to ruin a child’s constitution by over-
taxing his strength. The greed that gives the
bearer of the burden a man’s load, but pays him a
child’s wage, needs discouraging.
The three cuddlesome leopard cubs born in
Wonderland City some weeks ago have been eaten
raw by their mother. Mother Leopard’s previous
family was eaten by its father, but, on this occa-
sion, as someone cynically remarked, the lady got
custody of the children.
Rev. Hillhouse Taylor, who adapted “Parsifal*
for Mr. J. O. Williamson’s stage, bears a great
likeness to actor Kingston. He has a cure of
souls down Sans Souci way, and he used to be the
Rev. Carr-Smith’s curate. Report says that he’s
thinking of dramatising “The Cloister and the
Hearth.” It has been done already, but that’s no
reason why it shouldn’t be done again, and Denys
of Burgundy was a fine, clanging, leggy man-at-
arms, anyhow.
Miss Elsie Adams, of Wellington (M.L.), has
put on the market a series of postcards illustrative
of the wild flowers of her streak of native land.
The color printing is just It. You won’t know
how really beautiful the savage blossoms of the
two long islands are till you see them blooming in
all their glory on Miss Adams’ postcards.
From London :
The Austral Club ball at Grafton Galleries on Friday
night was distinguished by a general atmosphere of gum-
leaves. The handsome hostess, the Countess of Darnley,.
who is one of our most ornamental, as well as useful,
Australian grand, dames, looked very fine in a princess
gown of rich crimson chiffon velours, a diamond tiara
gracing ner nut-hrown locks. Lady Brassey was another
hostess, her snow-white hair contrasting admirably with
her black gown agleam with diamonds. Mrs. Coghlan
donned pale blue for this occasion, as also did Mrs. Leslie
Walford, and the only remaining Miss Rundle, who came
with Miss Augusta Hill. Mrs. Harper (one of the Garran
family") was in royal blue spangled chiffon. Committee
included Mrs. Pat Osborne, who chaperoned her daughter
(the latter is to marry Major Maxwell on the 22nd), Miss
Theo Cowan, Miss Baxter, Mrs. Cecil Darley, and Mrs.
Villeneuve Smith. The supper was rather a fiasco, owing
to “ reserved tables ” being allowed to privileged guests,
quite without the sanction of the committee. “ Who are
to blame?” is the question being asked in Australian
circles here, for their scalps are demanded: no Australian
cares to be refused admission to a supper-room by a pow-
dered flunkey, after paying half-a-guinea for a ticket.
Sydney singer Hetty Holroyd is to be married to Mr.
John Tillett early in the year. The bridegroom-elect is a
grandson of late impresario, N. Vert, and nephew of
F. Vert, who conducted Dolores’ tour through Maoriland.
Annette Kellermann’s appearance at the London Hip-
podrome in water pantomime is creating much excite-
ment. A marvellous costume is being prepared for the
plump Annette. It is composed of real fish skin.
There’s really nothing moving in Sydney, save
an unending stream of men visitors calling on the
new Mayor, Alderman Thomas Hughes. Like a
long, uninteresting caterpillar, the procession
goes on to the Town Hall, and- the faithful
Herald records the names, which are like the
long, dusty trail of the genealogies of Israel—that
list which tells you baldly that Ramoth-Gilead
was the son of Kirjath-jearim and the like.
Mrs. T. A. Coghlan may visit Sydney within
the next month or so, but only for a few weeks’
stay here.
Mrs. Cruickshank has taken her mathematical
professor Carslaw over to Melbourne to exhibit
him to her step-mother, Janet Mrs. Clarke.
Returned wanderers up to date are Mrs.
Harry McQuade and her two music-smitten
daughters, Mr. Julian Salomons, Mr. and Mrs.
Alex. Gordon (the Mrs. being once Miss Margaret
Thomas, the stage favorite of a little while ago)
and Mrs. Charlie Deane.
Death of James Marks of “ Arlington,” Wool-
lahra. puts a fair section of Sydney into mourn-
ing. Mrs. James Marks and the mother of Miss
Irene Marks are sisters. Miss Thorne, whose
granddaughter is to marry mummer Waldron, is
another sister. All three ladies had wallets of
money of their own.
A merry crowd of Sydney bowlers, accompanied
by fifteen or sixteen ladies of their respective
families, will leave by the Manuka to-morrow for
Auckland. A brilliant time and full programme
will blaze their tracks through M.L. Mr. H. C.
Evans, whose talent for directing such trips
amounts to inspiration, pilots the Sydneysiders to
Greenstoneland.
A line from London concerning ex-Governors
of ours : “Carrington is looking thin and dour.
Linlithgow is almost constantly in hospital.
Jersey seems the most flourishing and happiest of
the lot. . . . The number of Australian derelicts
here is amazing. Mrs. Coghlan is getting up. an
affair in their aid. Melba would willingly assist,
but is afraid that if a fund were established it
would attract other moneyless Australians. How-
ever, something must be done, at all events for
the women.”
Mr. James Fairfax, his wife and daughter (a
Hongkong correspondent writes me), have just
done Asia. Contact with the colored man hasn’t
hurt the venerable knight physically, but, if truth
could be told, he has nothing good to say
about the dirt and stench that characterise the
Asiatic home. Wherever the monkey-faced man
goes he takes his dirt and his loose morals, and,
remembering this, perhaps Mr. James will, in
future, exhort his Y.M.C.A. young Australians
to keep the Asiatic out of Australia.
Mr. William Anderson’s birthday occurred
yesterday, and his staff presented him with a
panorama of Wonderland and other jokes.
Talking of Wonderland : Wild-beast proprietor
Kilpatrick, who used to be a pressman in New
York, is running loose in Sydney (his animals are
caged at Wonderland), and you’d hat-pin him
anywhere as being not an Australian, although he
is tall, young, and lean. He looks like a high-
class Anarchist of the swift kind that would be
sure to get away after throwing the bomb—a
seven-league Anarchist in fact. And he says
such quaint things.
The marriage of a heavily gilded Sydney girl—
her father is a rich importer, and her mother is
up to her motor veil in works of . charity—to an
officer on the Yankee warship Baltimore will
occur this year.
Reported that an intended marriage between
wo well-known Sydneysiders will not take place
wing to the gentleman’s continuous ill-health.
Pretty Delia Mason, who was here with the
awful Farkoa and his Teeth (or his Teeth and
Farkoa), got married recently very quietly to a
Brazilian named Wysard. A published portrait
of the bride and groom shows him a good looking,
confiding-like youth.
Portrait of Miss Boucicault, the actress, which
had been used by a French matrimonial swindling
agency, shows her with her hair loose and bare
shoulders—an attractive young thing of about
nineteen. A regular cyclone in a jug was raging
over the matter when the mail left. “Female
accused ” confessed that she bought the photo-
graph, cut off the name of the original, and
showed it to a Dr. Herbert as the portrait of
Miss Smith, an American heiress, who had been
visiting Paris. He wilted under the charm of
the hair and shoulders, but had a vexatious wait
before madame presented him to Miss Smith.
Madame meantime had been coaching a maid of
low degree to act the cultured heiress and to look
like the ingenue of Miss Boucicault’s portrait.
The damsel’s hair was dyed, she was instructed in
a limp, and taught to write like the Miss Smith
whose name was in the Society papers. Dr.
Herbert presently married This, and when he was
returning from his Italian honeymoon learnt the
terrible truth—which, after all, was not as terrible
as he deserved. Miss Boucicault’s anger, as
printed in the ha’penny press, is rather comic.
The advt. is better than a' divorce, and more
original than lost diamonds.
From Brisbane: —
The Frailness travelled to Brisbane from Gabbinbaron
Thursday, and addressed himself in words of wisdom to
the Teachers’Conference. He got home on some very
weak spots of the administration, and was specially
severe on the subject of home lessons. Home lessons
were, he said, acknowledged to be a farce, and entirely
overtaxed the brain of the growing boy, who fretted and
fumed until the weary parent had at last to come to the
rescue. It had been said that homework kept young
people off the streets. For his own part, he couldn’t
wonder that they wanted to be on the streets, or any-
where where there was a whiff of air. Even Government
House, he admitted, was a breathless spot these nights,
and his Ex. frankly admitted that a small tin-roofed house
must be Sheol. Minister Barlow and Under-Secretary
Ewart hastened to heartily agree with his Ex. If their
admiration is sincere, they will no doubt make arrange-
ments accordingly.
His Ex. ajso advocated better pay for teachers. Again
the Minister and Under-Secretary seemed to imply that
he spoke words of wisdom.
Bubble, bubble, toil and trouble ! After all, the Fox-
ton-Bright wedding had to be postponed, Sister Bright
getting ill at the critical moment. The pretty little
bride-elect looks very sad these days, and the would-be
bridegroom wears a worried-to-death expression. How-
ever, if sister goes on improving, the coming week should
see the knot safely tied.
Loftus Cardew, Ipswich’s biggest lawyer, and his hand-
some wife, celebrated their silver wedding on Saturday
afternoon last, at a big garden party, and Merton Lodge,
with its sloping emerald lawns, was a pretty picture. .
Some 150 guests were present, and the hostess, in pale
blue glace and chiffon and a blue toque, looked a
ridiculously young grandmother.
Mr. J. M. Campbell, Secretary to the Public Service
Board, was quietly married on Thursday last at ToowOng,
to Miss Olive Whitehouse, daughter of a one-time famous
Ipswich confectioner.
An interesting figure passed out on Wednesday last —
old Alex. Murray. He was the queerest mixture. Ban
a Joyful News Mission, and personally taught the young
women’s private class ; was a high Masonic dignity, with
many letters running before his name as Elijah ran
before Ahab ; and no end of a practical total abstainer.
Also he was for years secretary of the Swan bank Colliery.
His pocket was generally frayed at the edge through his
constantly putting his hand in it to find a contribution.
Chataway, just elected to the Federal Senate, received
last w'eek a wire from England announcing the death of
his father, the Rev. John 0., in his 80thyear. The old
man just lived long enough to read of his son’s success
at the Federal poll. Chataway, late Minister for Agri-
culture, was another son.
An interesting young personality, recently come
to Sydney from Melbourne, is Mr. Isidore Koz-
in insky. For years and years Australians have
been familiar with the name, because the Mel-
bourne metropolitan press always referred to its.
owner all queries relating to out-of-the-way pro-
blems of archaeology, heraldry, ancient coins, and
the like. The new comer is the son of the old
Human Encyclopaedia on antiquities, and he
seems to know quite as much as the old man, and
writes his notes in the same cuneiform characters,
with occasional Sanscrit. Mr. Kozminsky has
the weirdest lair in Elizabeth-street. Skulls
of lost Atlanteans (he doesn’t say so, but
they look old enough), ancient violins, gems,
rare books and prints, weapons, and mummies
form its trimmings and decorations. He has
personally excavated ancient Cave Canems, wea-
pons, Pharaohs, and things, so when he writes in
The Antiquarian Gazette he is pretty accurate.
'Which reminds me that that absorbingly-
interesting and too-little-known monthly, Science
of Man, has taken The Antiquarian Gazette
under its pale-green wing, and the A.G. will be
henceforth incorporated with it.
Dr. Carrol, whom I mentioned last week as the
founder of the Child Study Association, edits and
generally-manages the pale-green paper, Science
of Man, in between salving child derelicts.
He gives the idea of a combination of St. Francis
of Assisi and a modern scientist. But about the
C.S.A. The doctor, in the comprehensive scheme
in which he has outlined the whole duty of the
State towards the child, desires to see a law
similar to that which Dr. Schumacher, of Berlin,
steered into the statute book in 1900. It makes
medical inspection of school children compulsory.
School attendance was, of course, compulsory, but
after medical inspection many children were
excused, and parents made aware of ailments
they had not susnected. Bright, normal children
and their teachers were relieved of the strain
upon them of backward, dull, and ailing chil-
dren. These are drafted to special schools and
well and specially fed by the State if the parents
are unable to meet the extra expense.
German authorities, with an eye to their military
forces and women servants, laborers and workers,
have been wise in their generation. The death-
rate in Germany has decreased, year by year,
since 1900. In London the subject of a mid-day
meal is mooted for the starving children. In
Germany the children of the poor are properly
fed all the time. The system of compulsory
medical examination catches every defective and
ill-nourished child. None can escape. The Child
Study Association is trying, in a totally inadequate
way, to begin a work that should properly devolve
upon the State.
Mrs. Izett, hon. organising sec. for the Child
Study Association, acknowledges contributions of
two guineas from his Excellency Sir Harry Raw-
son, and two guineas from A. Margoschis of
Redfern.
From the M.L. Exhibition :
It is New Year in Christchurch, and the Exhibition is
Scotch ridden. The whole place is full of the skirling of
the bagpipes, which have scarcely ceased since the
beginning of New Year’s Eve. Dunedin came up in a
body—one great solid haggis clan—to a Footin’ at the
Exhibition, to be received by General Manager Munro
Director M'lntyre, and Secretary Right-on—Scotchest
of trios. Munro donned his kilt, and the visitors
wept on his shoulder for pure joy at his beauty
The chief guests went into the committee-rooms
and had the whiskiest of whisky; the overflow
were regaled in the Dome Hall, where they san»
“ Auld Lang Syne ” and embraced the statuary, and wept
tears of mountain dew into the Doulton fountain. The
Maoris dance their wildest hakas, the Fijians their fiercest
war dances ; but for once they are disregarded. The
Highland Dancers Club is here, and the wild leapings and
swirls of the kilt draw the fascinated crowd. There is
“ puttin’the stone” and raw, braw games with Celtic
names and hairy legs in them.
The Fijian Commissioner, who looks after the islanders’
encampment, declares mournfully that his charges
will be good for nothing by the time they reach home.
They are being fussed over to an extent that must pro-
duce aggravated enlargement of the cranium. Fierce as
the fire-walkers and war dancers look on parade, they are
the mildest of “ Wussleans ”in private life. They go to
church regularly and shout the hymns gloriously (they
have tremendous voices, and bellow in good harmony).
Their church gave them a “ social ” recently. After the
Fijians had sung their bass songs and the church choir
had squealed its soprano and tenor effects, coffee and
cake were served. The gentle church maidens were asked
to hand round the buns. They left the white audience
severely to the men and rushed the Fijians.
They fed them boisterously. They sat on the
forms with them and read out of the same
Fijian books. They stroked and patted the black, cocoa-
nut-oily paws, and discussed these brown guests in loud
voices with much shrieking of laughter. The men can’t
understand English, but they have a keen apprecia-
tion of tone and gesture. What were their wondering,
solemn thoughts of those white girls ? And they were
girls who had been brought up in a nice, quiet manner,
who would be horrified at behaving so with a similar assem.
blage of white men. Why is it that the pale, anaemic,
church girl is so attracted by anything colored that she
must go off her head and skip like the wild goat on the
mountains?
Dolores is here, and her dainty w r ays charm the Maori,
landers. I had the good fortune to travel with her one
long train journey. It was roses, roses all the way.
Maoriland roses are wonderful. At every stopping-place
admirers swamped the carriage with roses and clematis.
Towards the end of the journey, “ My roses are dying,”
said mademoiselle in a regretful tone. “Let’s cull the
freshest and make pot-pourri of the others,” in a gleeful,
inspired tone. Everyone set to work plucking rose
petals. Packed in a flat package they were to be dried
and put into a rose cushion. “I shall carry Maoriland
roses weeth me,” smiled the delighted, delightful made-
moiselle.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


M
BOLOGNA
CAMBRIDGE,
OXFORD,
PORK & BEEF
SAUSAGES.
YOU have doubtless tried different
brands of Sausages.
But have you tried Q.M.E. Sausages?
They are made of the very finest
quality, specially selected ingredients,
backed by a guarantee of absolute
purity.
Their flavor is of a character you
have not before experienced in
Sausages. Try them Ask your
grocer.
Il
a
Every Vehicle
To b* Up-10-dlt*
Should bo rittod with
DUNLOP-
KELLY
RubberTyres
They Pay lor themselves
in Twelve Months.
No Vibration. No Repairs,
and double the pleasure of
Driving. TYRES fitted
from £5 and upwards. S^onJunw! 1
THt OUNLOF MUaaCR CO Of RUST. ITO., 101 WMm fc.
M iydmv. aocuuos. rorm, mimmc **+ cw«*TOM*i«a*s m.
DUNLOF
HOSE
N9T
KINK
2R BUKST.
ACCEPT ONLY IDunLOP BRANDS
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING. STORES.
DUNLOP
HOSE
ps
SB
W&
AND
lost'
SALE
IN ALL LEADING STQRLSmhh
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
PD
HULJD
'3dVUCJ" Tr «
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 15, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The matrimonial germ is active thi3 summer.
A man tells me that the act of slipping into an
engagement—given a girl and a summer day and
a fern gully—is almost automatic. “ There’s only
the twitter of a few woodpeckers (probably in the
siren’s employ) and filtered sunshine to break into
the seductive dolce far niente. The man smokes.
The sedative works potently. The girl lounges near
quietly. She’s wise enough not to gabble. A fellow
is happy, lazy—under a spell. The girl is nice.
Her ear, perhaps, looks pink and tempting. He
thinks he’d like to own that ear. And there, the
thing is done. Afterwards ? What matter ? It’s
done. You’ve settled the future of two in a
flash.” But, say, does she never refuse?
Mr. Ned Fitzgerald is likely to be adopted as
the Talbots’ regular or staff playmate before
long. The bush cottage is not counted complete
without the gay bachelor. When weary poli-
ticians are bidden along for a “week end,” Ned,
the eligible, is whistled up to Macedon to save
the Vice-Regals from death by dreariness. When
musty officials are rounded up for a day or two
of Talbottle hospitality, the same bright bachelor
is lassoed in as a life-saver. When Society
breaks bread at the Macedon cottage, once more
he is requisitioned to play parlor games and help
keep the ball of talk bouncing. The secret of his
favor is his Celtic heartiness, combined with a
quaint gravity of manner and a Johnny dignity.
A St. Baida girl, who is an heiress elect, and
still in her teens, eclipsed all New Year
revellers at Queenscliff on the night of a
fancy-rig hop. She borrowed the suit of a
rather wide male friend (being herself some-
what plump), and packing her thatcli under
a Panama, lit a cigarette, and sauntered on the
scene. Florence Young was beaten easily for
sang fvoid and the masculine look of handsome
assurance. With strangers she passed for a
cheeky youth. These she hailed exuberantly
with a blow on the shoulder and an invitation to
“come and see a dog.” Then she sauntered
round the village, ordering ice-creams for “her
girls,” and collecting a crowd of gapers at every
stopping-place. Finally, she lounged into a bar
and ordered herself a night-cap—soda or sarsa-
parilla.
The question when a sea-side holiday-maker
should call for B. and S., agitates the tongues of
the beach gossips. The story goes the rounds
that, at one Sorrento hotel, a rich dame used to
call openly for a morning refresher. Those not-
so-thirsty ones who have their nip at 11 are shocked
at this. The comparatively sober, who start to
irrigate only at lunch, are disgusted. The tem-
perance clan behaves as if it had a fish-bone in
the soul. The argument keeps the weather
warm.
Our hair-pin sex is foolishly inconsistent. The
very type of feminine that argues, on and off the
platform, for equal rights with brute man is the
first to question any big success made by a youth-
ful woman-worker. One I have in mind is paying
the highest taxes of any she-toiler in the Common-
wealth. She is pretty, she is young, she is
generally fetching. And it’s the advanced (?)
type that asks “How many men are at the back
of this flourishing business ? ” I have heard them
discussing the secret of her success with tongues
that scratched at the reasons viciously. The
trouble is that she is too attractive. Had she a
squint, a lop-sided figure, shop teeth and a painted
smirk, they’d forgive her; but for a charmer
making £5OOO a year on her own there’s no for-
giveness. Who’d be a woman from choice ?
Last week Major Appleton and his consort
learned by cable of their daughter’s capture of a
rich planter who grows india-rubber and tea in
Ceylon. He (Mr. Kenneth Saunders) met Miss
Tettie Appleton on her arrival in the spiced Port.
Within a month they were ring-bound. The
Miss is a blithe, pretty girl with a burnt-sienna
tone of thatch and a saintly slimness. Did you
. ever notice the stained-glass-window Cecilia runs
invariably to slender lines ? The fat Saint may
not be as rare as the giddy owl or the dashing
churchwarden, but dimpled plumpness always
appears somewhat wicked in sentiment.
From Macedon came tidings last week of a new
engagement between a lawyer and a Toorak
charmer of diminutive stature, but great cash
account. The heiress, however, has returned to
town with indignant denials of the alleged be-
trothal, so congratulations are suspended for a
time.
The engagement is announced of the last single
chick of Mrs. Tom Smith. The piquant Miss has,
after a few seasons at home and abroad of butter-
fly flutterings, had her golden wings pinioned by
Mr. William M'Culloch, who is an officer in the
Royal Irish Rifles, and youngest son of our
Victorian Rich Landlord. He has lately been on
a visit to dad and the family, and as a result
Toorak will be left minus a gifted darling. Miss
Edith Smith is bearing up against the tide of
felicitations with a saucy grin.
Still another match has been arranged in India
—that Paradise of dames —Miss Grace Mcßean to
Mr. Stanley Ismay, son of a Calcutta Commis-
sioner. The marriage came off m his town a
while ago, but the tidings have only arrived along
now. Bride was a brown-haired lassie who, with
an orphan sister, globe-trotted idly, for many
seasons putting in at Melbourne for intervals of
dhy recreation, It which times Dame Forrest took
her under a spare wing and mothered her
warmly. The Mcßean wealth accrues from the
Windowan estate, Demliqum (N.b.W.).
A dame of 65, who looks exactly half her years,
and has none of the snow of Time on the brown
of her thatch, tells me that it is the heart that
keeps the face young. ‘‘Laughter beats lime
is her sentiment, and at 65 this grandmother is as
joyous as a school-girl.
Why does the sex of Delilah affect to despise
the salute touching the affectionate ? It does,
even to itself, all alone in the dark. I was with a
party of girls who were whiffing Egyptians at the
seaside, last week. All were enjoying themselves
hugely, when one announced that the D°y
would be coming along any minute. Ho. they au
went full steam ahead, and one Lilian finished ott
her butt and then started to crunch boiled candy,
which she always carried about, Yankee-fashion,
in a silver chatelaine case. “I must chew up
something. Bob hates my smoking and the
wretch is sure to want to kiss me. And every
girl present shrugged her shoulders disgustedly,
and one remarked that she hated the beast y
habit.” The whole party was solid on that point.
It sat up as one girl and said it didn’t like to he
kissed. Truly, it’s a gammon sex.
The seamstresses of the State have been given a
thought by the Grey Dame of Stonington, who
asks them to compete for several money prizes
offered in connection with the promised Austra-
lian Exhibition of Woman’s Work. The singers
of “ The Song of the Shirt ” must be earning less
than 255. a week to be eligible for the tussle, and
unfortunately there will be a good many eligibles.
The remnant of the “Cloyne” flock here pre-
pares to strew palms of welcome before the Ghiet
Justice. By the Ist of February he hopes to be
again on the Bench, administering justice with
much pretty loquacity and nice bits of moral
sentiment.
A young dame hereabouts, in the time of
hubby’s misfortune, kept the pot boiling by all
kinds of hard toil, and did it so successfully that
he settled down to doing nothing with great grace,
with a supplv of cigarettes and the latest maga-
zines. Any spare time he filled in admiring his
wife’s energy. At last she awoke to the fact that
she was acting more like a fool than an up-to-
date wife. So she decamped to toil elsewhere for
herself alone. She met with great success, and
the other day she broke into the gloom of the lazy
male’s existence with the postal greeting : “Lm
keeping my head above water; are you ? ” ;He
shows it round to his friends with a rather miser-
able appreciation of its humor.
Miss Rita Kiddle flashed through this city last
week en route to Maoriland. With the station
chick went one or two society rouseabouts.
The Stuart Murrays, who have been lost to
sight ever since the death of Mrs. Oliver (Mrs.
Murray’s mother), are off on a protracted trip.
No one would recognise in the quiet and pallid
young dame the sparkling, mischievous beauty of
a summer or two ago. Grief and a period of
mourning have wrought a depressing change.
Malcolm M'Eacharn still reminds this absent-
minded public that he moved and had his being
here a while back. The latest proclamation in
the press is to the effect that a great cellar of
choice vintages belonging to “Goathlands” goes
under the hammer. After this, we may forget
the aggressive Malcolm in peace. Any more
reminders per auctioneer of the ex-mayor will
make the public mad. It wants to forget Mac.
comfortably.
Mrs. “Plevna” Ryan is shopping at motor-speed
in view of transplanting herself and small daughter
to London. Dr. “ Plevna” remains to look to his
practice, while the wife and daughter go fleeing
over the countenance of the earth. The girl is to
be set down at a French college what time Ma
dawdles around Europe. Then they go to
London for the girl’s Court presentation. I hear
that the preparation for this ordeal is mighty.
Rehearsals and train-practice occupy dreary hours
every day till the moment of the Horizontal Act
before the Throne arrives. After that awful
ordeal comes the perpetual struggle to look amia-
ble, happy, beautiful, aristocratic, correct,
attractive, distinguished, and several other things.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton takes her daughter
a-journeying next month, and Melbourne thereby
loses its foremost hostess. Among the joys pro-
grammed for the heiress is a Court presentation.
Mrs. Emmerton herself bowed to the venerable
Victoria ; and now she superintends her girlie’s
genuflections to King Ned. Thus is the bob-
curtsey handed down from one generation to
another.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide:—
For the last week or so Adelaide has been thickly
strewn with occult individuals each wearing a species of
dog disc, to certify that he is a fit and proper person to
dally with science in the shade. Learned lecturers and
other alliterative marvels have dotted the landscape and
worn profound expressions in the middle of the tram-
track. As a light and gentle recreation, the scientists
were permitted to prance among Governors and concerts
and garden festivities. Mr. Conservatorium Bevan
gathered in all his star-pupils that were not making
holiday afar to provide an evening’s noise for the abstruse
folk, and his Excellency the grass-bachelor quite eclipsed
all previous gubernatorial efforts in the shape of a bun-
and-tea conflict. It was an hilarious little spree that
made one wish for more of its kind, run on the same
bachelor principles. Since her ladyship has been wander-
ing about Britain the she-element rarely gets a look in
at the residence.
The Jim Hacketcs, lately returned from pervading the
globe,.have sold their pretty little red pagoda-like dwel-
ling on South Terrace, and bought a lovely old place
belonging to the Shaws, behind the Children’s Hospital,
North Adelaide. The house has a ball-room and various
other attachments, so one may suppose the new owners,
hitherto inveterate ramblers, have decided to settle
down and give their friends a good time. The two are
enthusiastic curio-chasers, and their house can put any
mere museum in the shade. lam not sure they didn t
bring a bit of the ’Frisco earthquake back with them from
their last wandering. One of the Stocks, of Stock and
Scott, has purchased the Hacketts’ South Terrace place
The floating population is hastening back to ’Roo-land
to escape the snows that are beginning to obliterate
Britain. Last week, by the Commonwealth, a vessel to
which some tone has become attached since Lady
Le Hunte patronised it last year, returned the
Harry Duttons from a billing-and-cooing jaunt in Europe
Thp bride is one of the Gawler machinist Martins, and
and was launched into manhood with a full Oxford eqiup-
freenziedpur h oMashion and Thfer useless
Lloyd, a considerably popular and charming gir een.
The Goodes left this dry State some time in March, and
travelled to the Blessed Isles by way of California and
Canada They iust missed having San Francisco fall on
them by half day. While in London they lost their
youngest daughter, Helen Lloyd, a pretty girl of 21, who
was to have been married during their stay in the city of
5“ Sd ffldi Her H.ncS, Rev. A. M. M.r.h.11, returned
Smith (of the Gadfly) and Will Donald (black-and-white
artist), set off last week to circle the globe and accunm-
late codv They travel first to Japan, then on to
America P and Europe. The result should be something
interesting and remunerative in the book line.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
The Lone Hand approaches publication ;
the work* of laying down special machinery,
type, etc.', has been heavy, and The Bulletin
Newspaper Co. cannot even now fix an exact date
for publication. But it will be some time in
February or early in March. Meanwhile, as will
be seen from an advertisement in another column,
subscriptions may be sent in for the magazine; and
the publishers, to mark the foundation of the new
venture, have decided to give fifty Founders
subscriptions ” for life free.
The new law to prevent juvenile smoking
is now operating in Victoria, and the young
gentleman of 16 is barred from his plug, and the
boy of 12 from his cigarette. Under the Act no
lad of 16 or under can get tobacco in any form
without a written order from his parents. _ Ihe
result is there are no boys under 16 left m .Mel-
bourne, ” said a complaining city tobacconist
to the scribe. “Bits of nippers not more
than 11 come in here for ‘ciggers, and
they were all 16 last birthday. We ve got
to use our own judgment, and how do
the kids perform when they’re turned down!
A hardened old smoker of 12, who was in this
morning, said: * Why, a bloke might lose his
reason havin’ his smoke cut off sudden like this.
I explained that I could not serve him without a
written order from his father. ‘ Written order,
be blowed !’ he said. ‘ The old man 11 have to
fetch my cigarettes fer th’ future. Ive had to
deal with a kid of 13 who came in for a tin of
Blank's mixture with a false moustache on him a
foot long.” By the way, the law applies to
females as well as males, but the female buyer
does not greatly mind the suspicion that she is
not yet 16, and the shopman has no trouble with
her.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report: For our
opening wool sale of the year on Wednesday, 9th inst., we
submitted a catalogue of 4,811 bales, comprising many
useful wools, also a few high-grade clips. All sections of
the trade operated with freedom, and prices generally
may be quoted 2£ to 5 per cent, higher than those ruling-
prior to the Christmas recess, the advance being most
pronounced on merinos suitable for German and French
requirements. Included in the offering was a further in-
stalment of the well-known Kangaroobie/JD/O mark from
Grange, for which we obtained 15|d. for the comeback
ewes, being the record price of the season for greasy wool
in this market. Scoured sold well up to late rates. At
auction and privately we sold 5188 bales. We sell again
on the 17th inst.*
The Victorian Government is following
'General Booth’s example and setting up an Anti-
Suicide Bureau in connection with the Hospital
for the Insane. The principal efforts of the Vic.
institution will be directed to reclaiming those
who have attempted suicide, it being understood
•at length that a heavy rebuke from a J.P., and
-possibly seven days’ gaol, isn’t the proper treat-
ment for a man who has tried to blow out his
brains and merely spoilt his best hat. The in-
tending suicide is also invited to call and be
advised; and it is expected, as a result of the
workings of the bureau, that quite a large number
■of people will be persuaded to remain alive to
vote for Bent at the forthcoming elections. This
conclusion is deduced from a remark of the
Minister—that an endeavor will be made to give
the would-be self-slaughterer a worthy object in
life.
From, an old Indian officer :
The first remarkable thing about the recent “Indian
Congress,” which demanded self-government for Bruce
Smith’s fellow-subjects, was that its president was Da-
■dabhai Naoroji, who once sat in the Commons and repre-
sented part of the Fog. Now, in Calcutta, Naoroji is as
■much a foreigner in language, habits, and ideas as any
Englishman. He is a Bombay Parsi. Most of his life has
been spent in business in London. English is the
language he speaks, and, most likely, the lan-
■guage he thinks in. The Parsi is, and con-
siders himself, a foreigner in India. His ancestors
went there as refugees from Persia some 1200 years ago.
They have kept themselves separate from the people of
the country, as the Jews have in Europe. They live by
trade and nothing else, except law and medicine occa-
sionally. The Bengali Babus, who are making a fuss in
Calcutta, are laughed at everywhere else ; but a Parsi is
quite different. One of Kipling’s stories, “ The Head of
the District,” tells how the European Commissioner of a
trans-Indus district died, and a crochetty Governor-
General sent a B-ibu to succeed him ; but the people
refused to be ruled by a “black Bengali.” They killed
his brother, cut off his head, and sent it, gold spectacles
and all, to the white Assistant Commissioner. Then the
;new black Babu Commissioner fled out of the country.
The long arm of coincidence again. The
ketch Envy, which disappeared in November on
a trip from Darwin to the wrecked Australian,
had on board Captain and Mrs. Strachan. Both
travelled from Sydney by the Australian to
Thursday Island, and there they picked up the
Envy, which had for a twelvemonth waited for
them. On the voyage Mrs. Strachan remarked
to one of the passengers : “ I don’t think I shall
ever see Sydney again ; I feel that I will be
drowned this trip.” During the wait the Envy
had not been docked or overhauled, and was in a
bad state. At one time the Envy was a very
serviceable craft, and occasionally carried Cap-
tain Strachan and his wife to Singapore and
Hongkong.
The offered commissions in the British
navy don’t seem to tempt Australians. Since
1904 six commissions as naval medical officers have
been going a-begging in Australia, and there has
not been a single applicant.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & QO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE
Artistic Design. . . . Durability Guarantied.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
dn the Premises bv Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS,^
dsd
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surgic it s r t s r i ument
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
sd
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Hagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, Bs>C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
The Lone Hand
(Which will be The Bulletin among
magazines) is i
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
Send in Subscriptions now to the Office,
91k GEORGE STREET.
TWELVE SHILLINGS A YEAR, post free.
(When possible, the Magazine will be delivered
through tiie nearest news-agent, but subscrip-
tions may be sent in directly to the office.)
foundation subscribers.
Since The Lone Hand will aim to be to the
magazine world what The Bulletin has been to
weekly journalism, some historic interest will,
no doubt, be attached in the future to the first
subscribers’ list. The publishers have decided to
place the first 50 subscribers —
THE “FOUNDATION ” SUBSCRIBERS—
on the FREE LIST FOR LIFE after
the first year.
To allow everyone in Australia and Maoriland
a chance to be among these Foundation Sub-
scribers, a careful allocation has been made in
proportion to population. Thus, Sydney cannot
have more than five, N.S.W. more than 11 of the
Foundation Subscribers, and the man in the
remotest corner of Westralia or Maoriland will
have an equal opportunity with the man living
next door to the The Lone Hand office, if on
reading this advertisement he. sends in a sub-
scription by the first mail available, endorsed
“ Foundation Subscription.”
Address: THE LONE HAND, 214 George St.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Since the results of the Australian elections
showed how much the Sydney daily papers are
out of touch with public opinion, there is nope so
poor as to do them reverence. Even Joseph
Carruthers, who is abject when faced by Crick
or Willis, gets quite perky and insolent when he
slates the daily press.
It is hard to satisfy an income-tax commis-
sioner. A woman sent anonythously to Vic.
Income-tax office a parcel of £OO 7s. 3d., calling it
conscience-money, and pointing out that it was
unpaid tax. Commissioner Prout Webb’s mind
leaped at once to the chance of filling the conscience-
stricken dame, or charging her double for belated
returns. So he lay low, hoping that tho absence
of acknowledgment in the press would bring the
fly into the Webb. But the fly was a fly fly, and
said miffin’. Wherefore Webb at last regretfully
gave the newspapers the acknowledgment.
Bent’s Juvenile' Smoking Prevention Act
came into force in Victoria on New Year’s Day.
Under it no person may sell, supply, or give
cigarette tobacco or cigarette paper to any person
under the age of 16, though tobacco, other than
cigarettes or cigarette tobacco, may be supplied on
the written order of the parents. Penalty, 20s.
for a first offence; 40s. for second and third ditto,
and on the third conviction the tobacconist’s
license shall ipso facto become void for five years
—which latter is tlie sting in the tail of the Act
that is relied on to make it effective.
“L.” : How primitive, yet effective, were
Bent’s methods in getting the Licensing and
Gambling Acts through the Victorian Parliament!
It was like getting a piece of dead meat through
a pack of very hungry dogs. He dropped each
Bill and let them worry it-, and while they worried
it he gave it a kick, which shifted it a few yards.
He whistled them off to something else, and
before they could get fairly started again, he gave
the meat another kick. Finally, he kept the
members working till they could hardly stand,
and suddenly, when they were nearly asleep with
fatigue, he dealt the meat a mighty kick, which
sent it out of reach. It was a mangled piece of
flesh when they had finished, but he got it past
them, anyhow.
STILL FLOUNDERING IN THE
UNDERTOW.
Mr. Reid wound up a wild'outburst on various alleged
injustices of Kanaka deportation by coollyremarking
“ Of course, I have no special knowledge on the subject.
I would only say that, if it has not alreadv been done,
what I have said should be done.’’
In his own way Irvine, the Ice-cream poli-
tician, is as great a humbug as Reid, and his per-
formance at Warragul (Vic.) was really a finebit of
electioneering of the unscrupulous sort. Warra-
gul, which was reckoned a stronghold of Nichols,
his opponent, was left till the eve of the election.
Then the Ice-cream descended on it with some
leaflets in his hands and tears in his voice. He
called upon the people to witness that lie had
never said a word against his opponents—he being
a high-principled gentleman who travelled only
on his own tremendous merits—and yet they had
said and printed these things about him ! “These
things” were merely old extracts from Hansakd,
showing what Irvine’s somersaults amounted to,
and had no connection with the election at all, but
Irvine wept as if they were a heap of new insults.
Merely remarking that they were garbled, and
offering not the slightest proof of it, the Ice-cream
proceeded to ask (with his artificial glass tear on
his cheek) what they really thought of people who
would descend to such depths. He looked down
upon them from his great moral heights, and
poured pity over them. It was excellent-humbug,
and before Warragul had time to realise it, it had
been to the poll, thrown Nichols over, and voted
for the Ice-cream. And now, when it is cooler,
it is trying vainly to persuade itself that it hasn’t
been an ass.
Law Professor Jethro Brown, of Adelaide
University, at Adelaide Science Congress :
In the course of a single century the Federal form of
government had been embraced by one-half the self-
governing portion of the world, yet some people in Aus-
tralia were disappointed because, despite five years of
Federation, the Millennium was still far distant. Their
attitude was the attitude of a child who placed a plant in
the earth and waited, watch in hand, to see if in five
minutes it should have blossomed into flower. The
answer to the present malcontents could only come in
time, and from the efforts of the citizens who were pre-
pared to make sacrifices. One thing certain was, that it
was not out of the material of parochialism, exaggerated
State rightism, political contradiction, faint-hearted-
ness, or selfish aggrandisement that they could hope to
form the Australian nationhood which people aspired to.
That Protection does reduce prices is'
shown by these quotes from the building
trade : hearths, formerly 255., are now (im-
ported or manufactured) 15s. ; roof tiles are
ss. per square 10ft. cheaper than they were
before the local manufacture brought the im-
porter’s price down.
Victorian inventor, G. Austin, who recently
went to England with his appliance for the
accurate sighting of big guns at a 12-mile range,
had a wakeful voyage by the Mongolia. He
blocked two attempts by plan-stealers to search
himself and his cabin, and astutely sent another
man to keep an appointment he had made at
Marseilles. The deputy was sand-bagged and
searched, which was good for Austin, but very
rough on the deputy. In London strenuous efforts
were made by German and Japanese agents to get
him to give his secret away. “ Our ally ” doesn’t
let any chivalrous notions of friendship count
when a stern business proposition is on the
board.
Gaud Mayor Weedon stood for East Mel-
bourne (and was returned) at last week’s bye-
election, on the strength of his chain of office and
his Protestant persuasion. At a meeting of the
Protestant Electors’ Committee somebody stated
that “he knew Mr. Weedon to be an excellent
Protestant,” which was accepted as an irresistible
recommendation. Subsequently, the Gaud Mayor
informed ‘‘a large gathering of representative
gentlemen ’’ that he was not going to address any
public meeting “ merely to be slangwhanged and
insulted by the rabble.” He would confine his
addresses to select bodies of citizens in frock
coats, and if he was not elected it would be a
disgrace to the community. At least, that is
what Mr. Lormer said to the Protestant com-
mittee. Anyhow, Weedon won by a large majo-
rity, and now he wears the rnautle of his unhappy
friend Sammy Gillott, the victim of Judkins.
“Red Tape, Junior,” writes :
Premier Carruthers is still dangling the vacant billets
on N.S.W. Public Service Board before his tantalised vic-
tims, and beyond a statement that one of the new men
will come from within the service and one from without,
has made no sign. Nothing is said about reconstr'.cting
the manner of appointments to the Board. 1895,
when the Public Service Board was created, it has lost
control of the post office, military, and Customs, three
huge departments. The Harbor Trust has absorbed a
large slice of the Works Department. This year another
slice goes off to the shires, just created. The Govern-
ment Savings Bank has taken with it the Ad-
vances to Settlers’ Board ; and of the Observatory staff
half is gone, and the other half is likely to go. Besides
all these, it is quite possible for the Lands Department
to be placed under Commissioners and outside the
Board’s control; lighthouses, &c., are to go, and, in fact,
so many things are gone or going that the Public Service
Board will soon have little to do save appoint its pwn
floor-washer. To create two new commissioners for a
term of seven years, as provided for in the Act, is absurd.
Pa Delohery has still four years of office, and, of course,
no one dreams of leaving Pa, who is only a Ditto at best,
to run the whole show. In fact, the existence of Pa
makes it necessary to appoint some one for four years to
keep Pa company, but the appointment shouldn ; t be for
longer, Billy Dick or no Billy Dick.
“ Wurrym” : The close run for the Senate
seats in Westralia, the loss of the Fremantle
seat, and Fowler’s narrow majority at Perth for
the Reps, are attributed by the Labor candidates
to deficient organisation. But, the result-was due
largely to yes-no-ness on the fiscal question. Had
all the members of the so-called “ Westrali&n
party” been as steadfast and sincere in their
utterances on Protection as was Hedges, who won
at Fremantle, it is odds on that the Labor men
would have met all-round defeat. But Forrest’s
party was, on the fiscal question, like the Labor
party, a house divided against itself. Hedges Was
handicapped in the conduct of his campaign by
an accident, which laid him up. But ' his
final speech before the election breathed such
sincere Belief in the benefits derivable from a
protective tariff that it brought him many votes
that would otherwise have gone to Labor. Car-
penter, the late member, had expressed himself a
“New Protectionist,” but until the party makes
Protection a plank in its platform the individual
Protectionist Laborite counts for little. There is
al ways the suspicion that one day the caucus will
bid him vote for the destruction of Australia!! in-
dustry, and that he will do it.
The bitter cry of Benjamin James in his
agony throws an interesting light on the inner
workings of Anti-Sosh. Benjamin is hon. sec. to
the Liberal and Reform Association, and he
writes, to Sydney Telegraph to explain why his
tail is down and his howl is up. Anti-Sosh does
not think enough of its cause to shell out on its
behalf, and Benjamin has fallen in badly.
Anxious to put up a strenuous fight for Blayney,
Benjamin sent out 150 circular letters earnestly
crying out for funds. The cash-box was empty,
and Benjamin paid for those letters and the post-
age himself. Now he says bitterly that his re-
sponses number seven, and the amount received is
about one-tenth of what he spent on the circulars.
Benjamin is not disappointed— heisjustmad. The
Socialists believe in themselves, they are out for
business, and they put up their hard-earned cash
bravely and liberally, snorts Benjamin, while
Anti-Sosh allows its hon. secretary, who has
already given the cause three years’ hard gratui-
tous work, to find the money to carry on the fight
—their fight—out of his own trousers receptacle.
Small wonder Benjamin is disgusted; he is" just
beginning to understand Anti-Sosh. It fights all
the time for the opportunity to take down the
community in .general, and, when it is doing
nothing else, keeps its hand in by taking down its
honorary secretary, Benjamin. - .
BLAZES.
The Bush Fires Bill was abandoned in order to close
the Victorian session before Christmas.
Bush-Fire Fiend : “ Victoria will smoke for
this.”
One of the benefits of having foreign
capital invested in Australia was demonstrated
after the death, in London, of Ludwig Loeffler,
whose estate, largely composed of Westralian
mining stocks, paid to the British Treasury
£150,000 in probate duty.
One N.S.W. disappointed wedges a little
ethicsinto the centre of a heart-rending howl about
the glorious victory that Reid didn't get
in N.S .W. He suggests that the names
of the country sheets that barracked for
Reid should be printed and distributed
among the big business men, “who
should advertise in them as a reward
for the support they gave the cause.”
He naively observes that the proprietors
of these papers cannot be expected to
give their support free. Apart from
the dishonesty of the suggestion—which
is bribery pure and simple—doesn’t it
occur to the gentleman that he is
monkeying with a boomerang? If he
sat down, folded' his ears over his head,
and thought hard, wouldn’t it occur
to him that, when the other side saw
those names in cold print, they would
know exactly whom not to deal with ?
Consider how Socialism has been
driving capital out of the country since
the elections—just as AntbSosh said it
would ! First there was the sale in
London of 20,000 shares in Mt- Molloy
for £30,000. Then there was the sale
in London of 80,000 Mt. Morgan shares
for about £350,000. Next there was
the sale of 40,000 Mt. Elliott shares
for £160,000. After that £25,000 was
wanted for a Raveqsthorpe (W.A.)
mine, and the promoters were rushed
with £lOO,OOO. The Anti-Sosh papers
have, in fact, been kept so busy an-
nouncing this rush of capital to Aus-
tralia since Anti-Sosh was knocked out
on December 12 that it has mislaid
the man who was going to invest
£842,619 os. lid. hereabouts, but decided
not to, on account of our Socialistic legislation.
Charles Atkins, commenting on the scurvy
treatment he received from the Age— in being
firstly set up as an ideal Vic. candidate for the
Senate, and finally ignored—remarks that lie
made the mistake of thinking Dawvid Syme was
“rich enough to be honest.” “But,” says
Atkins, “the Labor candidates were served worse
than I. The Age simply dropped me and left
me. My meetings were never reported at all;
whereas it was only the good stuff of the Labor
men that didn’t get into print. Any accidental
remark that smacked of wild Socialism was pub-
lished under a cross heading.”
After two years’ “ negotiations ” Premier
Garruthershas ultimatumed the Peel River Co.
that if it doesn’t sub-divide for sale the whole of
its N.S.W. land grab the Government will enforce
the compulsory clauses of the Closer Settlement
Act. A while ago, when the Federal Labor party
began to talk a little more decisively than before
about a progressive land-tax, the co. supplied the
Tory crowd with evidence that the proposed tax
was superfluous by “voluntarily” selling, at big
prices, about 27,000 acres. Then Carruthers set
Agent-General Coglilan to negotiate for the re-
mainder of the estate—about 258,000 acres. By
this time, however, the Australian Tory press
had proved to the satisfaction of the English
directors of the co. that Reid’s anti-tax crowd was
going to sweep the polls at the elections, so the
directors regained their nerve. They blandly
offered to sell 76,000 acres—at £5 ss. per acre.
Agent-General Coghlan summed up the offer as a
huge bluff, and called attention to the fact that
the estate was assessed for taxation purposes at
only £2 per acre, and that this 76,000 acres was
below the average in point of quality. Then
Carruthers suddenly grew very firm, and ulti-
matumed as aforementioned. It will be interesting
to watch what this land, which is worth only £2
per acre for taxation purposes, costs the public.
Valuations for Probate purposes seem to
come under the heading of robberv. A big estate
on the south coast of N.S.W. was recently valued
■for purposes of this duty at one-quarter of what
other people declare to be its real worth. A law
vigorously executed, allowing the Government to
resume any property at the value put on it for
Probate purposes would either give the State a
lot of cheap land for closer settlement or a
wonderful increase of. Probate revenue.
After all, the revolution has compensations
for the Russian Government. Every house from
which a bomb is thrown is confiscated to the
Imperial Treasury, and the Treasury has acquired
quite a lot of real estate the last few months. It
is a curious law. The landlord is never the person
who throws the bomb ; that is mostly done by
people who have let him in for rent, but he has to
lose the domicile, and probably turns revolutionist
himself when more than two of his houses have
been forfeited in one week.
For the special b nefit of Anti-Sosh, a
Socialistic boot-cleai g department has now
been established at Sydney central railway
station. But the biggest part of Anti-Sosh
won t recognise the monster, even when it
kneels at his feet and polishes his boots.
Squatter Molesworth R. Greene, of Vic-
toria, is just now showing the true squattocratic
spirit towards the small settler and the common
citizen generally. Greene owns some 11,000 acres
near Bacchus Marsh, and the settlers just beyond
Ins domain, likewise the tradespeople who supply
them, have to travel a long seven miles round his
principality because he refuses to open a direct
closed road three miles long. The power to com-
pulsorily open such road lies with the councils
interested; Wyndham shire has already forcibly
opened half, but Bacchus Marsh, which controls
the other half, declines to follow suit, partlv,
perhaps, because Mr. Greene is a Bacchus Marsh
councillor. Not only that, but the latter shire
is moving to get all the 11,000-acre block trans-
ferred to its territory, so that it may close the
open half of the road once more if it wants to. A
Federal land-tax might persuade Mr. Greene
to open that road in a great hurry ; it might also
put a lot of settlers all along the three miles of
idle lands leading to Bacchus Marsh ; and if Mr.
Greene still desired solemn seclusion, he could
buy a block at Arltunga or the M‘Donn<*ll
Ranges, where he could block settlement till he
became Mr. Blacke, if he felt that wav.
UNARMED.
All the great interests of primary production in the
Commonwealth-r-pastoral, agricultural and mining—ai e
in a condition of unexampled prosperity. It only re-
mains for a pat riotic Federal Legislature to recognise the
claims of the important manufacturing industries to
such a measure of Protection as will enable them to make
similar progress. Australia will then have entered fully
upon an era of rapid development of her resources such
as must speedily secure a population commensurate with
her wealth.— Daily Paper.
All these valuables, and no gun to keep away
the rollers!
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers boasts that,
during its two complete financial years, his
Government has spent “only £550,000 more than
it received.” A thing like that passes for political
virtue in N.S.W. There, a Reform Government
is only expected to be like the Salvarmy’s lady
convert who had “to a great extent” given up
going out at night.


THERE’S GREAT DURABILITY IN
CALLAGHAN
.
.
1
mm
i
m
m
:
&
*
II
isOH
BOOTS.
THE WEAR WILL
SURPRISE YOU !
Try tHis
Marvel of
Practical
Cheapness
For Men.
You’ll do
well to
Order a
Pair
To-day,
12/11.
POST FREE ANYWHERE
IN THE COMMONWEALTH,
13/9
In Black Dongola Calf, Lace Boots, full goloshed, fair stitched,'
sewn soles, straight caps, medium pointed toes -
In Black Glace Kid do. do. ’
In Black Glace Kid do. do. with patent Leather caps^
WE EXCHANGE GOODS OR REFUND MONEY.
12/11
CALLAGHAN & SON,
Oeorge Street
Sydney.
SEND FOR OUR POST FREE STYLE-BOOK.
sd
The MODERN
HOSTESS. *
“I give you 'KOOMAH
SPA ’ ! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
S. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water lira,
E. Rowlands,j
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.’
U
. v - -s N
"1
r*
ER
! pp OiH
)MAh
PA WATER)
Sn PuAT SPRING
P^Crr
✓yr/fr
LandS
2 i
OoRNE
dr**
5/^
MALTHOID ROOFING
“If it is not seemly, do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
A roofing that constitutes an ideal roof for the Australian climate will
be found in Malthoid, which in every respect means comfort; being lighter,
cooler, and better than either corrugated iron, slates, or tiles.
When building, remember one word, MALTHOID.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
'CUhZ
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS :
W. S. FRIEND & 00.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
HOLDS WORTH, MaoPHERSON & 00.
JAMES SANDY & 00.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BLACKING
—the superb liquid dressing for boots and
shoes, it not only gives the most approved
deep black polish, but it renders the boots
soft and pliant to the feet.
Crozine does not smut nor rub off on the
clothing; is not affected by dampness. Its
use is the vogue the world over.
Get the genuine HAUTHAWAY’S. At any
high-class Boot Store anywhere the world
around.
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents fob UNtTED Kingdom
T JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, , . _ England
I
ip it
sd
R
B
LIKE
0
es
e
Hil
As a cyclist you know you have to
encounter difficulties “on both sides
the hill ’’ —the
Badie Two=Speed Coaster
enables you to overcome them all
It has been called “ the hub of many
merits"—it embodies IN ONE SHELL
a high gear for the level—a low gear
for the hill—a free-wheel on BOTH
gears—and a back-pedalling brake of
absolute efficiency. It makes hill-
climbing easy and coasting a delight.
Specify it in your next new mount
and have this built of
EHDIE FITTINGS
[Ask your Dealer.]
THE EADIE MTG CO., LD.,
Redd itch, England.
AT LAST !!
WA Standard Typewriter at a
SS
m
m
Weight 121bs.
Reasonable Price.
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Manifolder.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High-Grade Machine.
KEY
ONE SOLID BAR
NOT A JOINT
&o e
Saves 1200 Useless Parts and Over £l2 CasH.
sdfsd
TYPE-BAR
13 AN EXCLUSIVE
PATENT.
Do You Want a Reliable Assistant in your Office or Home
that will do your writing quickly, legibly, and take copies
as you write ?
Write To-Day for our Descriptive Catalogue. We will post you
a list of pleased BRITON users.
GOODS SHIPPED EVERYWHERE ON APPROVAL.
Southern Sales Coy.
6 STREET, SYDNEY.
And at WELLINGTON, N.Z,


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class 0. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade PCXCQI
American . . . I Ei I
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“ IF YOUR DEALER SAYS NOT,
CHANGE YOUR DEALER
If you Cycle or Motor
You should know everything there is to know about
MIRACULUM, the sure puncture stop. When
you do know, you will have it in your tyres. R
seals punctures at once, without deflation. R
makes porous tubes good. It does not lift soun
patches, and your pace is as fast as ever. It pre-
serves the rubber, and when we sell an inner tuDe
charged with
MIRACULUM
we guarantee the tube against perishing. Ca " "' e
do more ? All dealers stock it, and the better sor ,
who have tested it, and KNOW, recommend it
Call and see for yourself, or write for BooKietc,
telling you frankly what MIRACULUM will do a
what it will not do.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS :
266 LATROBE STREET, MELBOURNE.
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’S SELECT
ALE & LAS
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When the Sydney resident goes out to Bondi
or Tamarama beach to take his morning dip in the
breakers, he takes his life in his hand. If the undertow
grips him, there is no appliance by which the onlookers
can even make an attempt to save him, and, unless some
stronger swimmer also takes his life in his hand and
comes to the rescue, the only consolations of the man
struggling in the water are that he is about to die like
Louis the Grand of France, in the presence of a large and
sympathetic audience, and that his drowning will make
fine copy for the evening papers. If he goes to Manly, he
is somewhat better off. First, the shore is not so
dangerous, and Happy Eyre and his lifeline are
on the spot, and there is some slight hope of
rescue. When young Baker was drowned in
the presence Of a huge and helpless crowd at
Tamarama (his death was one of the free side-shows of
Wonderland City that day) he roused popular feeling on
the matter. Waverley Council has done something to
minimise the danger. With a burst of desperate energy
it has decided to draw the Government’s attention to the
danger of surf bathing and the necessity for providing
some life-saving apparatus. It does not propose to do
anything itself in the way of providing rockets or life
lines, on the ground that most of the people who get
drowned are not Waverley ratepayers. Still, it has done
something by drawing Joey Carruthers’ attention to the
matter. Manly Council, on the other hand, seizes
opportunity by the forelock. Since Wonderland City
started at Bondi, Manly has lost some of the crowds that
used to buy soft drinks in the village. So now the
Council has given orders for the building of a boat
capable of riding the breakers, and in this craft Happy
Eyre will patrol the water just outside the bathing limit
and intercept anybody who gets caught in the undertow
and swept out. 'if Manly were not so far away it would
certainly, under the new and improved conditions, draw
all the surf bathers, but its remoteness from the city puts
it out of the running with the men who bathe before
going to work. So Bondi will still get victims.
• * * •
The fact that the Waverley Swimming Club’s
tenth annual carnival at Bondi Baths on Saturday drew
no less than 500 competitors, indicates that the time will
come when the Sydney baby will make for the surf as
soon as its eyes are properly opened. Mosman’s Club,
the Technical College (Sydney), and other clubs, were all
holding competitions of their own, so the Waverley car-
nival, although the largest, was not by . any means the
only pebble on Saturday’s beach. Public interest centred
on the Wonderland 100yds. Handicap, which was open
only to crack swimmers. Five started, their names
being Len Murray, of Manly, Hardwicke, of
Sydney, and Baker, Wickham, and Cecil Healy,
ail of East Sydney. Murray started with four seconds
allowance, Hardwicke with two, and Baker and Wickham
With one. Healy was on scratch. The champion went
off at a tremendous pace, and proceeded to overhaul his
rivals rapidly, and eventually won by 2Jyds. from Baker
(who beat Wickham by a foot), in 51sec. dead. This was
equal to the Australasian record, and 3-ssec. outside the
world’s record put up by C. M. Daniels, of New York.
Curious thing is that Healy has twice made the same time
previously, but never seems to have the extra pound of
steam about him with which to eclipse it. The other
race which attracted attention was the 440yds. champion-
ship of the Eastern Districts of Sydney. Six started, all
representing different clubs. After an exciting race, R.
Garland, of East Sydney, who shore through the water
like a young torpedo and left the others quite exhausted,
won by 10yds. in 6min. 7 3-ssec.
* * • «
David Billington, the English champion swim-
mer, presents a complete show, consisting of ten turns,
and lasting an hour. The champion must have wonder-
ful stamina, as he does all this work after a 1000yds. or
mile exhibition swim, in most cases clipping record
figures. Premier Price, of South Australia, was greatly
impressed with the performance at Adelaide, and gave
the management letters of introduction to Prime Minister
Deakin and Bent. Dave swims at Broken Hill. He is next
booked for Ballarat, and three or four shows in Melbourne,
opening with an invitation display on Wednesday after-
noon (23rd), at the City Baths. Some time back. Billing-
ton’s agent in Melbourne applied to the St. Kilda Baths
Co. for its rental or sharing terms, but he received a reply
from Secretary Mewson stating that they were not pre-
pared to do biz. So between theV.S.A. and the Baths
Co. it looked very like a lock-out. However, the present
outlook is better, as the Melbourne City Council Baths
are booked, and negotiations are pending with the
Melb. S.C. for a display at the club’s carnival on the 26th.
A well-boomed Billington would make a substantial
difference in the receipts at the carnival. The drawback
at Melbourne sea-water carnivals, especially at Hegarty’s
(St. Kilda), is the width of the bath. It is an impossi-
bility for a person not acquainted with the con-
testants to distinguish one from t’other, as they
are so far out in the centre. Till a well-equipped,
protected bath is built, with suitable on-looking
accommodation—and live management—writer cannot
see a chance for the sport to forge ahead. Under present
conditions, popular ignorance of swimming will continue
to be. a great boon to the sharks around the Vic. coast,
for the sharks seem to have the last word in bathing
fatalities of late. The Y.S.A. recently held a test for the
purpose of selecting representatives for the Australasian
Championships in Maoriland. Mason won the half-mile
in 12min. 48sec., and the quarter in 6min. lsec. He also
swam second to Frank Fills in the 100yds., covered in
612-ssee. The funds only allow one rep. (Mason) making
the trip. A swimming enthusiast wrote to the Argus
enclosing a cheque to start a sub. list to assist in getting
the “ two ” away. The application received cold pork,
and was returned. Fills, an expert, capable of beating
60sec., stays at home.
* • * •
Major Taylor, the negro cyclist who said he
could always feel de foot of de Loard a-working his
pedal, is now earning equal to £6 per week as a chauffeur
m Boston. It was said, when he retired a couple of years
ago, that he would spend the rest of his days driving
round Worcester in his single-cylinder run-about, collect-
ing his rents. But it seems poor Taylor’s affluence was
much exaggerated. He had bought three or four humble
cottages but of his savings, but the holy cyclist is not,
and never was, by any means a rich man. He is barely
comfortable. Before'he took to the wheel and found that
he had saving grace in his hind legs he earned a few
shillings per week as washer-up in a New York hotel.
The Westral wheel race-meeting was sadly
interfered with by rain, and the sports were postponed
till the following Saturday afternoon and evening. The
big race, worth £350 in all, was divided among the front-
markers. The winner, H. F. Modra, started from the
290yds., and so did the second man, H. Fraser, while the
third to arrive home started from the 300yds. mark.
Evidently the handicaps were too great.
* •* • *
There is no slump in road-cycling in Australia,
the Sale Prospect contest, and others associated with it,
having drawn no less than 200 entries. The contests will
rage through Gippsland from the 14th td the 20th of
February. The cash prizes are said to be numerous and
liberal.
Maoriland crack cyclist George Sutherland
swept the championship list at the Christchurch Exhibi-
tion meeting. The blue ribbon events were the Half-
mile, the Mile, and the Three and Five Miles. Sutherland
won the lot, with big Jack Arnst, the crack road racer,
second in the Mile and Five Miles. Farley won two
scratch races and three handicaps, and established two
local records. The Australians, 0. H. Brook and George
Farley, did not remain for the championships, which cam*
off last Saturday week. At the A.N! A. sports Farley will
meet Austral wheel race winner H. Thomas, who won the
Ten Miles Australasian Championship and a couple of
other scratch races at the Coolgardie Westral Wheel
Race meeting.
* * * *
That proposed ride of Francis Birtles across the
continent is a dangerous undertaking, and just the sort
of thing that a man of 25 rushes into. He started from
Fremantle on Boxing Day, and will proceed via Kal-
goorlie, Menzies, Laverton, and thence to Alice Springs.
Then, presumably, he turns southward, and makes for
Adelaide along the overland telegraph wire, and thence
to Melbourne. To the best of writer’s belief, M‘Kay did
the Centralian part of this journey some years ago.
Mac. seems to have poked his nose into every corner of Aus-
tralia where a bike might run, and no matter where the
adventurous cyclist may go nowadays he is met by the
statement, “ Yer the first along this way since M‘Kay
was here!” And that sort of thing is annoying. Imme-
diately Birtles announced his crack-brained enterprise
two other madder devils than himself—Lennie and
Warren—swore to ride from Perth to Sydney, right
across the continent. It is all very fine, and it reads
well, but there is no fun in it, and even less money. A
Bulletin contributor has ridden from Adelaide, along
the coast to Albany, thence to the Goldfields, after
which he skirted away to the coast, and duly arrived at
Port Darwin, where he rested. When the rain came, and
made a supply of water reasonably certain, he left Port
Darwin, struck up to Arnheim Land, and thenc* to
Queensland, near the shores of the Gulf.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen has been hiding
its light under a bushel lately, and no one knows what
that body is going to do. On the other hand, the
Cyclists’ Association, which is the seceding body, is
taking time by the front hair, and has announced that it
will start its night racing at Sydney Sports Ground on
the evening of January 21, and after that keep going
every Monday night indefinitely. Electric light has been
installed, anil the League and Sydney Cricket Ground
will both feel the competition keenly.
* * * *
Although he is now supposed to be plugging in
the States, Floyd MacFarland’s name appears in the list
of entries for the A.N.A. meeting, Melbourne, on the
28th. Said that a couple of new Yankee men are coming
out with the ex-handicap king, and it is also stated that
the Danish crack, Christenson, who lately left the amateur
ranks to hunt the elusive lucre On the flying wheel, will
be one of the star attractions of the meeting.
* * * *
The N.S.W. One-Legged Championship, re-
cently inaugurated by the League of Wheelmen, was won
by T. Kift, at Dubbo, the other day. There was only one
other entrant, J. Fletcher, but Kift beat him easily.
* * * *
“Dave”: Curious are some of the devices for
prolonging the life of bike tyres. Basil, cut into lengths,
and laid inside the tyre (between the tyre and the tube),
is a method much favored by bikists in burry country.
Kangaroo, wallaby, ’possum and other skins are also re-
quisitioned. But the most curious hid to longevity of
tyres I saw, the other day, on Lightning Ridge, near
Walgett (N.S.W.). A wheel devotee had carpet-snake
skins on the outside of his tyres. He explained to me
that they were put on so that the scales should be pressed
downwards when the bike went forward. I have seen
bullock-hide put round the outside of tyres, but it runs
too heavily. Bagging is also used by cyclists on the
other side of Nowhere, and sometimes tubes are dispensed
with altogether, and rope is wound round the wheel.
**m . *
One of the wonders of the motor-boat world is
the Tilikum. This is the astounding craft which was
originally dug out of a single log of red cedar, and after
serving 50 years as an Indian war-canoe, was bought from
the red-skin owner by a Canadian journalist named
Luxton. Luxton was anxious to find a Canadian who
would excel the exploits of the Yankee captain Slocum
in the Spray. He found two men willing totake the risk,
and Captain Voss took command. He had the gunwale
built up six inches, added a cabin top, sleeping berths,
and other things, and rigged the vessel as a three-masted
schooner, although its length overall was only 40ft. The
Tilikum left Victoria (British Columbia) in May, 1901, to
break the world’s record, and straightway struck a series
of frightful storms, during one of which the mate and com-
pass were swept overboard. For 1000 miles Captain Voss
steered by the sun and stars, and finally made Sydney on
November 19th the same year, having travelled about
10,000 miles. In Sydney tne boat got injured, but was
successfully repaired, and, being towed out by a naphtha
launch, it started for Maoriland. It went back again
through Torres Straits to Natal, thence by rail to
Johannesburg, then by rail again to Capetown, after
which the voyage to Pernambuco (Brazil) was made
successfully. This won the bet made by Luxton, and the
Tilikum sailed for England via the Azores. Since then
the boat has been exhibited and earned a lot of money.
Now an enterprising navigator has bought it, and in-
stalled a motor made entirely of parts from a number of
broken-up engines, and talks of racing it. But although
the Tilikum has traversed 40,000 miles of ocean, it is
doubt ul if it can be called a cruiser, and with an old-
fashioned German 7-h.p. engine, it is positively not a
speed-boat.
• * * *
A Sydney man has decided to build a hydro-
plane, but at present he is perplexed as to what lines to
build it on. The varieties of hydroplane are simply
bewildering, even as those of mixed drink, and much
more intoxicating. The great majority are little more
than engine-propelled skates, and some of the best results
have been obtained with this type. One of them, mea-
suring only 15ft. and propelled by a 9-h.p. engine, made
over 21 miles per hour on the Seine, and the probability
is that the Sydney boat will be constructed on those
lines. Perhaps the queerest hydroplane up to date is that
of an Italian named Forlandini. In shape it resembles a
Manila cigar, with the pointed nose in front. The pro-
pulsion is obtained by two enormous zero-propellers, one
at each end of the boat. The engine is 70-h.p. Italian,
which pans out usually at half as much ag in as the
Napier (English) computation. This weird craft was
tried on Lake Maggiore, and created a tremendous sensa-
tion. Its owner claimed to have travelled 70 kilometres
per hour, equal roughly to 43 miles. But as the speed
was not checked by any responsible authority, the
record, which is the fastest in the world, is not officially
allowed. This craft has no planes in the ordinary sense
of the word. It is flat-bottomed, and the balance is
maintained by outriggers that look like drain pipes.
When going at full speed the boat just skimmed lightly
over the surface of the water, and, in all probability, had
the angle of the aero-propeller been slightly altered, it
would have left the water and taken to the air.
* * » *
Sydney Sunday Sun is still busy promoting
rowing matches. The latest contest it has arranged is
one between Mrs. E. Woodbridge, of Stockton, and Miss
Gertie Lewis, of Sydney. The race is to take place on
the Parramatta River, over a distance of two miles, for a
stake of £25 a side and the Ladies’ Championship of
N.S.W., in boats equal to 18ft. skiffs. The date is fixed
for February 23. Both these ladies are crack oarswomen
and can be relied upon to give a first-class exhibition, for
the rivalry is very keen.
* * « *
Canadian sculler Durnanis now at work on the
Nepean, and Towns is training hard on the Hunter River.
By rowing on the Nepean, Durnan gains somewhat. He
has all his life been accustomed to sculling in fresh
water, while Towns is a salt water man, and the difference
will be all against the Australian, who, on the fresh
Nepean, will be somewhat out of his element. Towns
saw Durnan afloat on the Parramatta, and professes to
be quite concerned at. the formidable appearance of his
younger rival. Anyhow, that is much better than under-
estimating him, a failing of which his defeat by Stanbury
completely cured Towns.
Dick Arnst crept into public notice again last
week. Richard is still pulling boats to pieces on the
Parramatta, but is apparently not making any startling
progress towards becoming a world’s champion. While
sculling last week he became suddenly aware that he had
an audience. A large and unlovely shark was taking
quite a keen interest in him, and liked Dick’s style so
well that he followed him till the Maorilander left the
boat in disgust. Richard has no love for the part of an
aquatic Orpheus.
* • * *
Grade cricket resumed in Sydney on Saturday.
The light was not the best, and conditions were steamy,
but the wickets were first-rate. Nevertheless, high
scores were conspicuous by their absence, R. B. Minnett,
of University, being the only man to reach the century.
He made 123 against Sydney at Sydney Cricket Ground.
The next highest scorer of the day was Charlie Gregory,
who put up 92 for Waverley against Burwood. After that
the figures dropped to the 79 made by F. Rogers for
University after Minnett had been sent to the pavilion.
W. W. Chapman, of North Sydney, made 72 against
Central Cumberland. As far as the clubs went, Padding-
ton’s 110 for the loss of two wickets and University’s 333
for seven wickets down were the best of the day. Among
bowlers, Shortland’s three for 20 and Macartney’s five for
38, made for Gordon against Balmain, were the first
flighters. M'Oloy’s five for 34 for Paddin ton against
Redfern was also in the same list.
* * * •
N.S.W. retains the Sheffield Shield for 1906-7,
the sixth successive season. Another match has still to
be played between N.S.W. and Victoria, but it will not
affect the destination of the shield. N.S.W. has only
suffered one defeat in six years, while the list of victories
stands at 22. This sort of thing is becoming wearisome,
for the other States. And the moral of it is: “Give
your youngsters more opportunities for practice.”
N.S.W. disqualified cricketers and theirfriends
are still keeping up an agitation for the removal of the
disability to hold office. The humorous part of the
agitation is that the firm resolve of the Cricket
Association to stick to its guns is described as
“ weakness,” and some genius recently wrote to S.M.
Herald that “ to pardon is stronger than to punish.” If
the Association is wise it will ignore all appeals. To
remove the disqualifications now would be to tacitly
admit that the punishment imposed was vindictive and
uncalled for, and the result of panic. It would also
encourage other players to go and do likewise, on the
ground that the Cricket Association would soon abrogate
any sentences passed in the heat of resentment. It. is
just a question of keeping a reputation for much bite and
no bark or acquiring one for much bark and no bite.
• * • *
Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s race for the
Marshall Plate on Port Jackson on Saturday resolved
itself into a struggle between Cutler’s Kukuburra and
Duval’s Herreshoff. Kukuburra was on the Bmin. mark
and its rival on lOmin. R. D. Adams captained Herre-
shoff, and handled his charge beautifully. At Manly,
Herreshoff was 42sec. in front of Kukuburra. , At Shark
Island Cutler had picked up 39see.; but Herreshoff again
broke away, and was leading by 17sec. at the fort. At
the Pile Light, Kukuburra went to the front, and led
with 30see. in hand. At Shark Island, Herreshoff was
once more in front with I7sec. to spare. Then, with a
failing wind, Kukuburra secured the weather berth, and
once more crept in front, finishing over the line with
9sec. in hand. The rest of the fleet was away to glory,
fully smin. behind, fighting for third place, and after
some pretty navigation Fleetwing secured it. This was
about the most exciting duel P.A.Y.C. boats have put up
for a long time.
* * * •
Violet’s double win in Sydney Flying Squadron’s
Handicap came as a considerable surprise, for after its
d&but Violet fell off, and was regarded as anything but a
champion. Starting in the second heat on Saturday
with an allowance of 4min. if bowled away under ■ a
ballooner, leaving Alert 27sec. behind at the mark.
Donnelly sailed well, but was only third at Shark Island.
On the run home Zena came very fast, running past
Stella and closing on the winner, but the distance was
too short, and Violet finished with 15sec. to spare. In
the final Violet had the same allowance, and on the reach
to Taylor Bay got a 27sec. lead. Near Shark Island Stella
closed up, getting within 43sec. of the leader, and then
Zena came walking through the water like a thing of life
into second place, with Violet a winner by 30sec. Skipper
Pont handled his boat beautifully in the windward work.
It is a new craft, and it took him some time to find out
its idiosyncrasies.
* * • •
The deceased W. W. Bead was one of England’s
best batsmen of the eighties, and figured in 17 test
matches. He was for many years champion bat of
County Surrey. W.W. visited Australia twice, with Ivo
Bligh.and Lord Hawke, and was an amateur with “Mr.”
before his name. He was often confused with Maurice
Read, the professional, who wasn’t “ Mr.,” but just plain.
W. W. Read always wore a cap in the field. The other
Read, of the common herd, used to cricket bare-headed.
* * * 4
The Christchurch Exhibition tennis tournament
concluded in favor of the Maorilanders, who just walked
over the Australians. Australians declare that they were
only a dragged-together team, and Miss Baird (sister to
director Baird, of Melbourne Princes Court), a Sydney
girl, says she has never been anything but a moderately
good player, but was chosen because she was on the spot.
The men were not a representative team. Heath, from
Melbourne, and Dunlop and Wilding, from Sydney, put
in excellent work. Miss Lindemann, a Sydney player,
strained her back half-way through the play.
* » ■* *
This is a copy of a bookmaker’s ticket issued
by a Brown Man’s racing club in Maoriland
No. 6 ORAKEI RACING CLUB.
Xmas Day, 1906.
BOOKMAKER’S LICENSE
to Bet on the Course of the above Club, Fee 21s.
For one Day Only.
Conditions. —A stand for each Bookmaker, with a
radius of 6 feet will be pegged out, and he is not to
quit his stand while betting or paying out. In case
of protest or other trouble, he must not leave his
ground. Any person neglecting this Rule will be
fined 55.. and his betting rights will also be cancelled.
Otene Paora, Sec.
If “ protest or other trouble ” culminates in a fight, the
* miserable bookie hasn’t room for much brilliant footwork
inside his 4yds. of ground, and if he leaps out of it to
attack his enemy it will cost him 265.
• • * *
It is always hard for a novice to score a win on
points over a good boxer with a long record and a repu-
tation, otherwise young Ted M'Gibbon would have
secured a verdict over Lyn Truscott at Melbourne Cyclo-
rama the other night. This looked an absurd match on
paper, as Sydneysider Truscott is a light weight who has
figured creditably with the best, whereas the Melbourne
lad is a youngster with no record. In fact, this was
practically his debut as a pro. M'Gibbon was expected
to be accounted for in about three rounds, yet in the 20th
he was still going, and had put up so good a fight that a
referee with nerve enough would have given him first
place. He put Truscott down once with a lovely cross on
the chin, and in scarcely an instance when Truscott led
on to him did he fail to counter with good effect. The
boy fought so well at close quarters that it was a pity he
did not get in to his man late in the scrap. He had the
strength to do it, and the capacity. When M'Gibbon and
Truscott meet again the chances are that the former will
come out on top with sufficient emphasis to convince
anybody —even a referee.
« « • •
This is the story of Amurkan bruiser Jeffries,
whose reputation rests upon a record of 20 fights, of
which three were drawn, nine won in four or less rounds,
and the rest won variously. Having wiped out Van
Burskirk in two and Richard Baker in nine rounds, he
met Ruhlin and later on Joseph Choynski, the Jew. Both
men made drawn battles after 20 rounds.of awful fighting.
Goddard endured four rounds of battering, Peter Jackson
hree and P. Everett the same number. Then Tom
gharkey lasted 20 rounds, but was beaten, and Armstrong
fought 10 before being 1 outed. Fitzsimmons vanished
at the end of 11, after which Tom Sharkey was walloped
in a 25-round mill. Finnegan went out the first time
Jeffries hit him, but Jim Corbett lasted 23 rounds
Then Griffen, Kennedy, and Ruhlin were disposed
of in four, two and five rounds each. J. Munroe struggled
so strenuously that after 25 rounds it was declared a draw
After that, Fitzsimmons came along for more trouble
and got it in eight divisions of bashing ; Corbett got wab
loped again in 10, and Munroe, who had made the draw
once more tried his luck. But hurled himself
at him in the second round, struck him, and all was o’er
as the poets used to say. Jeffries fights like a shark does
with an octopus. There is no long range business about
him. At the first opening, he just hurls his 2101 b. of
hard bone, meat and muscle at the other fellow’s point
or stomach, and, if he arrives, the other fellow leaves—
with assistance. Mrs. Jeffries’ reason for striving to keep
her husband out of the ring is not fear that he may get
hurt, but a dread of seeing him arraigned on a charge of
having killed and feloniously slain a fe low creature by
striking him with all himself. Mrs. Jeffries’ idea that,
when Jim is feeling too fresh, he should let it out on the
woodheap is decidedly good, as being more conducive to
home comfort, and safer for other people who go down to
fight in the roped square.
* * • *
“H.”: The failure of James Jeffries to come
up to the scratch is ascribed to the refining influence
of a woman. As usual with the American pug., who has
cold feet, the wife won’t hear of it in Jim’s case, and al-
though Jim admits he is fairly aching to get at Squires, he
is going to bow to the missus, and stick to chicken-breed-
ing and other bucolic pursuits. The writer knew a half,
t' nepug. once who ostensibly wouldn’t fight because his
wife objected, but who was subsequently sent to gaol for
hitting the lady with a jug when she declined to fetch
and carry beer for him. This may not be a case in point,
however. It does not follow that Jeffries’ reluctance
stops Squires’ chance of an American match. The under-
taking was to provide the Australian with, a rival in a
30,000-dollar scrap, and Jeffries was not the essence of the
contract. Possibly O’Brien or Burns will be substituted,
which should mean a much softer thing for little Willie
from Newcastle. Squires’ latest statement, however, is
that unless some decent match is arranged for him in
the States he will not leave Australia, but stay here and
meet the colored champion, Jack Johnson, who is ex-
pected to arrive next week in Sydney. That is, of
course, if someone puts up a decent purse.
* * * *
“The Captain” : Mike Williams had a boxing
academy once in Prinsloo-street, Pretoria. Being de-
sirous of learning the dreadful art, I went and saw Mike
(not that Mike was nice to look upon), and arranged
terms with him. The night came for my first lesson, and
I beamed on Mr. Williams at the appointed hour. Telling
me to take off my coat and shirt, he fixed the gloves on
for me, and told me sharply to “put ’em up.” I did so,
expecting to receive a lesson on how to hold my hands
in position, instead of which I received Mike’s animated
carpet-bag of a list on the nose, and was laid flat on the
premises. Getting on my feet again, I danced gracefully
round the room to the accompaniment of Mike’s hefty
blows on my body. I thought it time to end this sort of
thing after 10 minutes had gone past, and notified him
of my intention. He said, while I was putting my coat
on my carcase, that he always thought it best to teach in
this manner ; it allowed chaps to find their weak points
quickly. I didn’t answer. I was too sore. As I was
leaving, he told me to be there for my next lesson in a
couple of nights. I said I would, which statenient is the
one blot on an otherwise blameless career. My intention
at the moment was not to re-enter the bu lding, but to
shoot Mike with a gun through the window. Urgent
business prevented me, else it would have been done.
* * * *
A Melbourne man has invented a new game
which he calls Boxing Fives. It is to be played in an
ordinary fives court (consisting of a hard floor and three
walls), but it differs from the old game, in the fact that
the weapon is of the size of a punching ball. This is
struck with the clenched fist instead, of the open hand.
Athletic experts agree that fives itself is one of the
finest exercises possible ; but, with the larger ball and
the harder punch, an ideal game should be provided.
The inventor considers that its greatest value will be as
a training for boxers. He contends that it embodies all
the advantages of ball-punching, but calls for greater
footwork, and develops the faculty for meeting the un-
expected. This isn’t the case with the punching ball.
After a man has become accustomed to its idiosyncrasies,
it becomes to him almost as regular in its habits as
dinner-time or the income-tax.
* » * *
Hackenschmidt has just been delivering him-
self of some pearls of wisdom. “Exercise easily if you
want to increase your strength—the other way merely
strains your heart! ” And these are the truest words
Hack, ever spoke. Easy exercise assists nature, violent
effort exhausts it. And in Australia and Maoriland, at
any rate, athletes certainly do what they call develop
their muscles at the expense of their constitutions; which
is merely another way of saying that they overdo the
training. Then a few years later a nice, fat, old gentle-
man, who was a well-known athlete in his younger days,
dies suddenly of heart failure, or some other cardiac affec-
tion. Quite a number of deaths of that sort have happened
lately 7 in Maoriland, all ascribed by medical men to strain
upon the heart in the young days.
Lord Belmore, ex-G-ov. of N.S.W., had,
on the sth May, 1870, a son and heir born to him
in Sydney. That son, Lord Corry, standing well
over six feet in height, and wearing about 13 s
in boots, is a familiar figure nowadays in the
North of Ireland. His favorite amusements are
drinking innumerable cups of tea, and presiding
as a magistrate at petty sessions.


BARNEY ALLEN
Turf Colossus
of Australian
m
m
K
THE GOLDEN KING
Address—-
BARNEY ALLEN, Melbourne.
Business Commissions executed! on the most Liberal Terms.
30 Years before the public, never found wanting.
I guarantee clients the highest market price obtainable.
Intending Investors are invited to consult me before doing business elsewhere.
I do not boom myself, but leave that to others who have done business with me.
Bankers : VICTORIA and ROYAL BANKS.
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFORMATION will be found in
•• Ttie King of Sport ” Newspaper, published weekly,
and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
«< King of Sport ” Office, 294 Collins St., Melbourne
Eveny
Tuesday and
Wednesday*
LITTLE SNAP
wins riding
his favorite • • •
hobby
Magic Prices
beating easily**
** * fake Old Price*
tr Bonus Bargain
follow Litt/e Snap daily tip in you
morning papers look for his message
to Children in the Ado/. column. ‘
Lasscftens, Cheapside.


WEDDING
QUALITY COUNTS FIRST in the selection of
Wedding Gifts. Perfect in taste, and of the newest
designs, combined with that enduring quality that
assures lifelong service. Onr prices are the lowest con-
sistent with the quality.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed
A. SAUNDERS.
4-CUP EGG FRAME and SPOONS,
pure Silver-plated, Gilt-lined Cups
and Spoons, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, SOs, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut
Glass Bottles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
■ 15s 4 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, pure Silver-
plated. Al quality. Tinted or clear
Glass Tube, 15s 6d. Other Styles,
4s 3d, 5s 3d, 7s 9d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
PRESENTS.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.—Patrons will
find this book illustrated with helpful suggestions in
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and
Optical Goods. Write for a copy. We send it post free
on request. All goods sent carriage free to any address
in Australasia. Mail Orders receive prompt attention.
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL, pure Silver-
plated, solid Silver
Handle, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE or BREAD SERVER, pure Silver-plated, Pearl
handle, 7in long, 12s 6d. Other styles,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, richly embossed, Sheffield Steel Knife, 255.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
sd
sdf
sdf
SUGAR and
SPOONS
embossed,
Other Styles
CREAM SERVICE and 4 O’CLOCK TEA
and TONGS, Solid Silver, handsomely
Gilt Lined, in Silk-lined Case, £4 15s
, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure Silver-plated, richly Embossed
and Engraved, hand finished,
size 9Jin x 9Jin, £2.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 quality, hand embossed, 3s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s Gd, 7s 6d, 8s Od, 10s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISI-1, pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Bead design, highly burnished, llin, £2.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O’CLOCK CAKE FORKS, solid silver
handles, richly embossed,
in silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 6s 6d. 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
ft
.
tun
W^SSSBW’
I
I, A
»I 1
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream
Pure silver-plated on white metal, hand-engraved gilt-lined with rovers pr
EXPRESSLY FOR US BY JAS. DIXON AND SONS, ’ SHEFFIELD 1
Other Styles, £1 Is, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 lOsf £lO, to £5O.
J£sa
A. SAUNDERS.
Luncheon CRUET, pure sil-
crystal glass bottles, 255.
cut crystal glass bottles, 255.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Amber
or Ruby tinted Glass, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CREAM JUG, pure sil-
ver-plated, A 1 quality, gilt
lined, hand-engraved, 255.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR, Cut Glass, pure Silver
Mounts and Solid Silver Spoons, in
Case, 12s 6d, Other Styles,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, pure
Silver-plated, Nickel Silver, Satin
Glass Linin.tr, 12s 6u.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
/ A - SAUNDERS.
&% w&
A. SAUNDERS.
MUSTARD POT and
SPOON, pure Silver
Mounted, fine Hobnail
Out Glass, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and
TONGS, pure silver-
plated, gilt-lined,
10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver RATTLE and WHISTLE, Xylonite Teethina-
Ring, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
SAUNDERS.
pure silver-
plated, pierced leaf base 6s 6d
Other styles, 7s 6d, 9s Sd, lf s6d .
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, hand-
embossed, crystal glass, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 quality, fine hob-
nail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
PRESENTATION INKSTANDS A SPECIALITY.
'■WIT giW'i'i
KSgsS-5
'
«
J
*«fl
.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
Servers, pure silver-plated on nickel silver, A 1 quality,
Batin glass lining, £3.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, finest embossed shaded
china, pure silver-plated mounts and servers, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 3Cs, 40s, 50s, 60s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDERS
( 809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
) opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


' ' . .
. \ lilt
ht' ■ '
vl.n
y/l f
%?/:>; ■;
;f>„ *
*
M
. vSS
~ to
A
‘S ’* tm, f;
c$
> v
§f ;^P
&V''
-v/r
\ V/
CAPiTAN
&
>;
WIUT!
*+ Cimtttijj
W' !»*• |
\
I
rf9 l
lit m
n
V'V\<vs¥i
'
vja
m
Y, p /
;1?f
,
Xf*s«•»*# I t os. I •****■
If he were dead He would still
CAPSTANS!”


Do you wish to be one of the “Founders”
of The Lone Hand magazine. If so send in a
year’s subscription at once. Particulars in our
advertising columns.
Missing Friends.
mOM STEWART, native of Victoria, 45
years, on Oxley, TJlonga, and Nap Nap
Stations, in the early eighties. Any information
will be thankfully received by his brother,
JOHN H. STEWART,
Swan Hill, Victoria.
Re ARCHIBALD KENNEDY, deceased.
IF this should meet the eye of Mart MacDonald
and Archibald MacDonald they will hear
of something to their advantage by communicat-
ing with the undersigned. Any information con-
cerning their whereabouts will be thankfully
received. J. W. ALEXANDER, Solicitor,
Flinders Street,
Townsville, Queensland.
£YDNEY KINDERGARTEN TRAINING COLLEGE.
40 Roslyn Gardens, Darling hurst.
Elizabeth Jenkins, Principal. Margaret Wells
Arnold, Vice-Principal.
College opens February 20th, 1907, at 3 p.m.
Entrance exams, held at college 12th and 13th
February, 9.30 a.in.
Special Lecture Courses : Primary Methods—Miss Arnold
History, Literature, Art : Miss Edith Gray.
Number of resident students limited. For further
particulars apply Secretary.
Associated Workers’ Union,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
APPLICATIONS areinvited for the position of
Secretary and Organiser to the above Union.
Applications close with the undersigned up to
Saturday, 26th January, 1907. Salary, £4 per
week.
W. J. WELLINGTON, Secretary.
WHAT DO YOU THINK OF OUR
BEAUTIFUL HARBOR ?
Every visitor and new chum is asked the same
question. There can only be the one answer—
THERE’S NOTHING FINER IN THE WORLD.
Something to be a bit conceited about, isn’t it?
Yet very few of our residents appreciate it—as they
might—simply because they do not possess a pair of
our Wonderful New Prismatic Field and Marine
Binoculars —that enable you to sit comfortably on
yoirr verandah, or at your window, and view the
charms of the harbor, with all its changing lights
and shades, and passing of ships and white-winged
yachts, ferries and launches, and all the continuous
life and movement that go to make a living picture.
Although you may be one of the fortunate ones
w'hose home is so situated that you have a harbor
view—you are missing the greatest of its pleasures
unless you possess a pair of powerful glasses that
enable you to see objects clearly many miles away, or
to pick out any object and bring apparently under
your very nose.
We are offering our New Prismatic Classes at
£4- 158. a pair, and they are equal to any £lO 10s.
glass on the market. But note —this is only for the
first twenty pairs—as we wish to introduce them —
and realise that this is the best way to do so. Just
come along and inspect them ; we are sure you will be
amazed at their power and value. Our only address—
SWAIN & GO., 16 Moore St., City.
We will allow country customers a seven days’
trial, ah I will refund the purchase money if they are
not more than satisfied.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY COMPANY, including'
MISS GRACE PALOTTA, the Famous Beauty Actress, in
THE NEW CLOWN.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
the Celebrated Young American Tragedienne, Miss
TITTELL BRUNE,
in the Romantic-Mystery Drama, entitled,
PARSIFAL ;
or, THE REDEMPTION OF KUNDRY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. Williamson.
EVERY AFTERNOON, at 2 o’clock,
Mr. Williamson presents the charming Fairy Panto-
mime, founded on Lewis Carroll’s Popular Stories, “Alice
in Wonderland” and “Through the Looking-glass,” by
Saville Clarke. Music by Walter Slaughter, entitled
“ALICE IN WONDERLAND,”
and interpreted entirely by Australian Children.
PRICES AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT and his Established Combination of
Australian Dramatic Favorites, in
A PATH OF THORNS,
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JAN. 19—REVENGE !
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
I"HE LYCEUM, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Director and Manager .. .. C. SPENCER.
TO-MORROW and EVERY EVENING.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE COY.
IN THEIR THIRD NEW PROGRAMME,
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
SW MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Prices as Usual. Day Sale, White Rose. Plan at Paling's.
Amusements.
National amphitheatre,
CASTLEREAGH ST. (leave Tram King St.).
JAMES BRENNAN Sole Proprietor.
H. BRENNAN, Private Secretary and Treasurer.
CHAS. and WILL BOVIS .. .. General Managers.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
RENOWNED ENTERTAINERS. FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Skilled and Graceful Performers. Marvellous Feats.
MUSIC, MELODY, and MOTION.
Star Novelties, Innovations, and Sensations.
25 STAR ARTISTS. 25
FULL BALLET, CHORUS, AND ORCHESTRA.
LAUDED BY THE PRESS.
WELCOMED BY THE PEOPLE.
CHAS. BOVIS BROS. WILL.
BOVIS BROS.
MAMMOTH VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS AND PRICES FOR
AUSTRALIAN PEOPLE.
FAMILY CIRCLE, 6d.
tST STALLS, Is. ORCHESTRAL STALLS, Is. 6d.
NO EARLY DOORS.
Box Plan at Theatre. No Extra Charge for Booking.
PEARSON CORELLI, Business Manager.
Highland society of new south
WALES.
BURNS’ ANNIVERSARY CONCERT.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26.
Special Engagement of
MR. ANDREW BLACK,
who achieved such Remarkable Success at the New
Year’s Concert.
Reserved Seats, 3s. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Galleries, 2s ; Back Seats, Is.
J. CURRIE ELLES, Hon. Sec.
lA/ ONDERLAND CITY
(The Coney Island of Australia).
FUN DAY AND NIGHT.
CHEFALO AND SENORITA CHEFALO,
TWICE DAILY.
LOOPING THE LOOP & LEAPING THE FIERY CHASM.
Two Death-Deriding Feats of Sensationalism.
BAKER AND KILPATRICK’S SPECIALTY CIRCUS.
Twelve World’s Feature Acts.
TIVOLI THEATRE, S Y L> 1 i Y
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rick ah ns.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Last Week of Mr. CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER.
FRED. CURRAN, Singer of Quaint Songs & Parodies.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. Miss EMMIE MORRISON.
Miss CORA CASELLI.
Great Success of Mr. LARRY LEWIS, Comedian.
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, CHARLES HOWARD,
VIOLET STOCKELLE, BELLA PERMAN,
MISS LEONIE DIXON, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
STEWART & LORRAINE, THE ROSE SISTERS.
OPERA 'HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
KELLY & AGNES, Comic Entertainers.
CASSIE WALMER in Latest Songs and Dances.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
THE ALASKAS, French Acrobats.
KING AND BENSON, Sketch Artists.
CASSELLI & JAMES, Greatest Exponents of the Banjo.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
Plan at Allan’s. £2T PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FOURTH WEEK.
An Unapproachable Record Achieved by
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in a
Great Christmas Carnival Attraction,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
For First Time in Australia.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
ALSO, ON TOUR.
Under the Direction of .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST DRAMA,
The Story of the
KELLY GAiNG,
By BIOGRAPH.
Messrs. J. and N. Tait wish to state that this moving
picture is the longest and practically the first and most
successful picture taken in Australia ; it is over 2000
feet in length ; and that we hold the negative and only
copies taken.
F. S. STETSON, Manager.
CIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
" WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to il p.m. l-W~ ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
Beautiful Home Decorations
r*
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OUR F.AVOIHTK” COI.II KAAMKL (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real sold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel, inexpensive; easily applied.
“BAI*OM\ RSIAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOMN” BATH TUB EMMEL. In White, Hose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Alio makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, " SAPOLIN ” FLOOR ,
STAINS, "SAPOUN" ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Eto.
During the last week of January, Messrs.
Geo. Robertson and Co. will publish a volume of
Edward Dyson’s humorous city stories under the
title “Fact’ry ’Ands.” Many of the stories are
already well known, but about one-third of the
book is now printed for the first time. “Fact’ry
’Ands” is to be profusely illustrated by Will
Dyson and produced in the best style.
That Dapto (N.S.W.) farm, with which Bill
Beach has been connected since his retirement
from champion sculling, has again changed hands
This time it goes to J. A. Brown, of Candelo
schoolmaster. Dr. Tarrant, the Sydney medico’
one time M.L.A., owned it before Beach. The
farm seems to have a fascination for men who are
not farmers.
THEJERDAN
MELT CAN
§
ft
ff £t-
' ■ Jf- 4
k®m3BL "** . jr-
1/
'M
We’ve &ot'env!
§£
Tbc JER-DAN
BILLY CAN.
It holds six pints.
It has a corkscrew —a tin-opener—a
tea strainer—a handle —is a
kettle, a billy all combined.
The quickest and easiest Billy Can
to use ever devised.
You’ll never burn your fingers or get
black tea with the Jhr-dan
Billy.
Obtainable at all Stores
Throughout Australasia.
THE
Jer-Dan Billy Can Co*
BOX 415, G.P.0., SYDNEY
. . WEAR . .
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
sd
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14|6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Don’t be Shocked!
Two entirely different
Illustrations seen simply
by gazing at our
MYSTIC
Hr Picture Card Puzzle
9.1
Only
K3T Post-free. V
Dozens of other equally
Astonishing Contrasts.
One
picture
changes
into
the
other
before
the eye
like
Magic 1
4
-F we could show you these WONDERFUL MYSTIC PICTURE CARD PUZZLES in our shop you
would want half-a-dozen of them. They are certainly the cleverest and mostingemou.
zles that have ever been brought out. Nothing like them has been seen before. The uius ‘ '
on the Card actually changes before your very eyes in a most astonishing and apparel„„ +v.o loft
i your very eyes m a most asiouisuuiß Wt
sible fashion. For instance, on one Card you are gazing at the picture as shewn above on. •
In a twinkle it has gone, and you are looking at the same girl in an entirely new occupat . j
as you see on the right. Where the first illustration has disappeared to is a puzzle we uey. j
one to find out. You may spend weeks and weeks thinking over it. There is no na\ e
about it. T ust order one and try it for yourself. You’ll want more. PRICE, ® • '
post free, or three different ones for 2s ; six different for 3s. 9d, post free anywhere. *
back if you don’t think they're worth four times what you gave. To be haa omy iro
A. J. SMITH (Bb CO., 14 HUNTER. STREET, SYDNEY.


sd
Handsome
Manilla
8(11
When you buy a hat like this, you
want lightness—comfort and dura-
bility, And you’ll get them in
this new Manilla.
lt weighs only 1| ounces.
lt is lined and unlined.
Bleached and unbleached.
lt will fold up and go into
the pocket.
lt’s a long wearer, and is in 3^
to 3f in. Brims.
Price, Bs. 1 Id., post free.
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK ST., SYDNEY.
“ Where the Good Hats are.**
THinKer’s
Thoughts
If you are a thinker your brain wears
away in proportion as you use it, and this
waste must be rebuilt by food (there’s no
other way), else the brain grows dull and
is a poor instrument. I
In Grape-Nuts food all the elements
required for this brain building are
found in the most liberal proportions, the
parts of grains that supply the Phosphate
of Potash and Albumen being especially
selected in making.
Grape-
Nuts
food and trial 10 days will show any
brain-weary or nervous wreck a great
improvement.
There’s a reason, as trial proves,
Made by Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle
Creek, Mich., U.S.A.
A FORTUNE IS CERTAIN
sf
If only, the exact oppor-
tunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means
of Astrology. Send date
of birth, postal note or
stamps for //- and post-
age, for
A TEST .. .
HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by
R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to
the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and
thousands of others;
Money -BeturnmCif
HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R, HERSCHELL (o f London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA.
Private Address—Wool, ville, Mr. Albert.
Fill in, Cut Out and Sbnd this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth ...
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist lor its hißtory—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
GENERALLY USED ....
UNIVERSALLY LIKED.
V\
77
THE & &
BROWNIE
Family World-Wide
Favorites.
No. 1 Brownie, for
Time Exposures at will.
Snapshots or
Pictures
square, crisp to the
edges, stand con-
siderable enlarge-
ment.
price j
The No. 2, similar, but larger, has two finders
and set of stops. Takes pictures 3| x2| inches.
Excellent finish. Good in every respect.
PRICE
12 1-
%'HAiiS Sa
ICli
The
Folding
‘Brownie*
KodaK
• • •
Folds up into small compass and stows
easily in any pocket. Good for hand
or tripod work.
PRICE 24/-
Sole Australian Agents for KODAK LIMITED,
BAKER & ROUSE P™p£v
“THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
78-80 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
37 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE
375-377 George St.,
SYDNEY.
sf
HAVE YOU A
PHONOGRAPH ?
If so—What do you pay for your RECORDS ?
THE COLUMBIA
GOLD nOULDED
“LYRIC”
Records
“I a are hy all dealers for
IS" Each. Remember, Each
The ** LYRIC** Record is the same we have previously sold at One
Shilling and Sixpence, made from the same matrices, of the same grade of
materials, and with the same degree of care and expert knowledge.
The only change is that of PRICE.
Wherever Talking Machines are known, COLUMBIA RECORDS are
also known and recognised as superior in every point for which Records
are valued. They are clear and loud in tone, brilliant in execution and
reproduction, and have the wearing quality of steel.
If you have not heard a COLUMBIA “LYRIC” RECORD, HERE
IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY—
ONE FREE SAMPLE RECORD
will be forwarded to each Phonograph
user on receipt of Gd. to cover postage
and packing. Name and number of
machine used must be stated when apply-
ing for this Free Sample.
Careful and repeated tests prove that
Columbia Records retain their musical
and wearing qualities
TWICE AS LONG
AS OTHERS &
d
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.,Gen'l
255 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
OVER 100 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
The Bulletin
csfo
f POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
fio. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
j^ o . V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. 11.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street, Sydney.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and ail the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOUNCE ST., MELBOURNE
sfd
MedlcaUr, «lz«
3i Incites Sony.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post, free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
RUPTURE
EASILY, QUICKLY,
AND PERMANENTLY
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease, comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial letters from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write to-day.
DR. LANGSTON’S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED 1887,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yank,e<
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the cast
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, sue
chiefly, forcibly. No Australian should be with
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
I.ONDON . .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN, and NATAL ... £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON'& CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
BimsbaNe Agents: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0 ‘
Capital Paid Up .. ... .. 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt.Stock,£43,43s) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and tlirougriouc Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and t he East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; Joint Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Tke Colonial fljutuai [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innas. Deepwater
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LOND3N & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of [jeiii Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
fID A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
U lifts ■ w land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS
|ank of Dew Zealand
(Incorporated by Act of General Assembly, July 29,1861)
Bankers to New Zealand Government.
Four per cent, guaranteed Stock .. .. £1,000,000
75,000 Preference Shares of £6 13s. 4d. issued
to New Zealand Government
150,000 Ordinary Shares (at £6 13s. 4d.),
£1,000,000 of which amount called up
£3 6s. Bd. per Share ..
Uncalled £3 6s. Bd. per Share
Reserve Fund
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
An Interim Dividend of Five Per Cent. (3s. 4d. per
share) upon the Ordinary Share Capital of the Bank has
been declared, and will be payable on 14th January, 1907,
to all Shareholders upon the Register on 21st 'Decem-
ber, 1906.
The Warrants for the Dividends of Shareholders on the
Local Register may be obtained on 14th January at the
Sydney Branch, 350 George-street, and those on the
New Zealand Register will be payable on receipt of the
Warrants.
500,000
500,000
500,000
81,294
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITfeto.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishops gate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne. ’
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
, This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agencv’
business. & J 1
Shipping.
KT. 13. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egjpt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving- MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE.
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
SANDAKAN 12th FEBRUARY.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 9th APRIL.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOU MANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tiießogal Rank offlaeesslaii
IjIMITKI >. ”
Capital Paid-up £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,737 io 0
Reserve Fu.vD(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
„ , __ £700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
1J Blanches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
C ri P-" A f\J Accident and Guarantee
V/L-niH Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade
M.L.C. ’
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
sďs
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBA'i.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUE VIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about.2lth JANUARY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
AFRIC to follow.
FARES—< Japetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation’
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A pplication.
LUGGAGE deceived Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalfjetu and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
I.on,don.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
•fMILTIADES
. lA. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, Feb. 2
.. H. A. Schleman .. Noon, March 2
.. IT. F. Spalding .. Noon, Mar. 20
•Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £o2 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fec., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and, Company, Lid.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FIIEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fs
CRUISES. *
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHtLP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
SI Days to Auckland 81 Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 2l“ Days to ’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, Twin-screw, sails JAN. 28,1 p.m.
R.M;.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 18, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&>
&
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
5 (Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAI
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Most
Interesting Route
to
Canada,
United States
and
England.
NEXT SAILINGS-
Jan. 21, Feb. 18, March 18.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. USk
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF H.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Hail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet postal to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT ...
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH j r ou could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from ,£1 Is. per annum upwards.
mr SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS .
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL £1,900,000. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
v Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
«f\^V stra^an ’ ® ou th Australian.
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North West&rn Ports
HOPETOUN, W.A.. Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, L„ . • . T
And Ports North to Cairns. ' Innamlnck a, Jan. 25.
Clwyxsst llouUi to. Goldfield*
ser. ues abject to conditions, which can be asecri *»in» l
on.application at the Company's office asce.Umed
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
FrenH , "^ SOf <>: ’° ' to " s ’ ""‘ ,Pr Postal Contract with t,he
AIDE EmAVV C! ! ‘i"" at MELBOURNE, ADE-
POPTSAi •nV ' < ' UU,MI! °> BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will he dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
S. S Grantala, Wednesday,
January 23.
[ S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), January 30.
i • -
| S.S. Marloo, January 19.
Steamer
NERA ..
dumbea
SYDNEY
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
1907.
Eeb. 2
Mar. 2
Mgr. 30
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais *
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney. ‘ ’
J. LOTH. Acting Pri nciual Agent
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MR&. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacons field Para da
ST. HILDA.
rpHi. Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Jieacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Citv, i-liour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERfIS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IA#IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda liai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Business Announcements.
tt ARARIO »» TILE - LIKE COATING.
*“ ** ° ■ COOLS Best ! Lasts Best!
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTAm Note Spelling:
Chief Ironmongers and “ A—R —A —B —l—C,”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark.
JOHN BRUSH, ;
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKrBY.
SoId >
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle //(
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2\G
dśdf
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PfIMPA’
POCKET
KNiVES
are the
BEST.


A UNIVERSAL BONUS
of2^6inthe£
The selling off of this Summers Goods
will incluae a universal reduction
of 2/6 in the £.
2/6 in the SL will be taken off the original
price of everything bought, as well as off
the reduced price of Sale Goods.
Write for our Sale List, it is fully illustra-
ted and gives full particulars.
The Sale starts on Monday January 21^_
Goods ordered from the Tailoring and Dress
making Departments during Sale Time will
be included in the reduction.
All goods bought are sent Carriage Paid.
(excepting Furniture and Floor Covering)
I DAVID JONES L T - D ?Ba
STOMACH TROUBLES EASILY REMOVED
THE
LONDON LANCET
says :
“ It is now recognised as a
valuable addition to natural
aperient medicines.”
HOWTO STIMULATE THE LIVER AND PROMOTE DIGESTION.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the digestive processes so perfectly that errors of diet are neutralised
thereby. It enables you to eat heartily without the dread of overfulness, flatulency, or acidity.
People of sedentary occupation require periodical stimulation of the liver, which plays a most important
part in digestion. The bile should be discharged into the intestine to mix with the food from the
stomach, otherwise constipation will be very pronounced. Perfect digestion means perfect action of
the stomach, liver, and bowels. Kutnow’s Powder acts concurrently on each of these forces of
digestion; hence its value in ensuring regularity. Another point of merit is its beneficial cleansing
properties ; a dose of Kutnow’s Powder cleanses the Stomach, rouses the Liver, frees the bile, and sets
the machinery in perfect working order.
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
says :
“It is gentle, effervescent,
and is a very efficient and
agreeable- aperient.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane,
“ Highfield, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publish-
ing my testimony concerning the excellent properties
of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it
years ago. In my case it has proved to be an agree-
able and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and
kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain
or discomfort, and regulating generally the whole
organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN/
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD
The Genuine and Original Xutnow's Powder
can be had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and the registered
trademark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’B POWDER
A POPULAR NOVELIST
WHITES :
“ 31, Gatton-road, Bristol,
“August 14th, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —For a considerable period I suffered
from severe headache and mental depression, no
. Vi*''
doubt accentuated by my sedentary occupation as a
novelist, but I now always fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent, which never fails
to afford instant and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efficacious remedy, and .Ido not
wonder at its enormous sale.—Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW”
WELL-KNOWN
BARONESS
WHITES :
“Albion House, Send-hill,
Gibraltar South,
“ 12th Jan., 1906.
“The Baroness von Gausauge
begs to inform Messrs. Kut-
now that she is entirely satis-
fied with their excellent Kut-
now’s Powder, and has recom-
mended the same to many of
her friends.”
REV. E. LANCASTER
WRITES :
“ The Parsonage, Tsomo, Transkei, Cape Colony,
“January 22nd, 1906.
“Sirs,—l am most pleased and perfectly satisfied with
the results of using Kutnow’s Powder, and shall in future
never be without it. My little children, too, have also bene-
fited by using it, and, being so pleasant to the taste, they
quite enjoy it. —I remain, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) EDGAR LANCASTER.”
NURSE BOGLE
WHITES :
“37, Hill Top Mount, Leeds,
“ Yorkshire.
“Dear Sirs, —Before I ever heard of Kutnow’s Powder I
suffered horribly with biliousness and indigestion, but since
taking the Powder regularly I can eat anything and enjoy it.
I have tried several medicines, but they have all proved
useless. —Yours faithfully,
“(Nurse) JANET BOGLE.”
BRITISH
VICE-CONSUL
WRITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate,
Tarragona,
March 12, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using
Kutnow’s Powder, and find
same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised
to do.—l remain, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES,
“British Vice-Consul.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH. u


== Britisb=JTus(ralasian
K Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d P°^ T FREE * £i year,
- 1 ILC UU* m advance, all. over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may; be addressed care of
the British-Austhalasian during the first
two fnontbs of a visit to threat Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper
No fees. A little patch; of Australia in
London. ■
Note the Address— ,
115 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
Two Doors from Southampton Row
and King sway.
Managing Director - - - J. E. SOANTLEBURY.
s
“Songeuse " Asti,
folio size, at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE OF
PARISIAN ART
PHOTOS
Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 216 in
Money Order or Stamps of any
country! Sample Collections of
Photos, and Post Cards at 51-
10/~, 20!-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 R|JE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
Consumption
Can Be Cured.
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, whoso
discovery of a Cure for
Consumption has startled
the World.
Marvellous as it may seem after the centuries
of failure, a cure for consumption has at last
been found. After twenty years of almost
ceaseless research and experiment in his
laboratory, the now renowned specialist, Derk
P. Yonkerman, has discovered a specific which
has cured the deadly Consumption even in its
far advanced stages. In many cases, thouo-h
all other remedies tried had failed and changes
of climate were unable to check the progress of
the disease, this wonderful specific has conclu-
sively proved its power to cure.
Whatever your position in life may be
if you are in consumption, or suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, catarrh, or any throat or
lung trouble, this cure is within your reach,
for it is a home treatment and need not
interfere in any way with your daily occupa-
tion. Prove for yourself its healing power
ABSOLUTELY FREE
Simply send your name and address
to the. Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd..
56 Dixson Buildings, Sydney, and they will
post to you a free trial treatment of this
remarkable remedy.
Don’t hesitate or delay if you have any of
the symptoms of consumption. If you have
chronic catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, pains in
your chest, a cold on your lungs, or any throat
or lung trouble, write to-day for the free trial
treatment and full instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
kllJld I ;
BITTERS
THE BEST AND
Purest Medicine
EVER MADE.
Don’t be-without a bottle. You
will not regret it. Try it to-day.
What makes you tremble so ?
Your Nerves are all unstrung, and
NEED a gentle, soothing TONIC
to assist nature to repair the damage
which your excesses have caused-
Sulphur Bitters
IS NOT A
CHEAP
RUM OR
WHISKY
DRINK
to be taken by the glass like other
preparations which stimulate onlv to
DESTROY. If you have FAILED
to receive any benefit from other
medicines or doctors, do not despair.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
In all cases of stubborn, deep seated
diseases, Sulphur Bitters is the best
medicine to use. Don’t wait until
to-morrow, try a bottle to-day. ;
£lOOO
FOR A GOOD..
HEAD OF HAIR!
Would you give £lOOO for a good head of hair ?
Would you give fifteen shillings (155.) ? willingly.
Now read my proposition.
Have you a “down” on “That Bald Spot”?
MAKE SURE OF IT !
Place yourself in a strong light before a mirror. Any there ?
I WILL GIVE YOU £lOOO IF
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
eV6ry partide of that “ down ” ? row into strong, healthy hair
I KNOW what my preparation can do. “ CAPILLA ” will force the dormant
hair bulb supporting that down into new life—stronger life—will give it the
power—the nourishment to produce a better hair—a stronger hair. lam not
asking you £1 a bottle for “ CAPILLA.” It can be bought at any Chemist’s
or Store m Australia for Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle. IF it fails to do what I
claim, PUT m YOUR claim for that £lOOO. I AM LIABLE. If YOU want
to get every particle of hair you have lost back buy a bottle or send to me direct
for a full course (15s——six bottles) and add 2s 3d for postage ; Inter-State, 4s 2d
Write me NOW ! You have everything to gain. Nothing to lose.
W. Oliver Richards
131 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
INVENTOR OF
“CAPILLA” HAIR TONIC
tfk&mtag f»
Assurance Company of London
n 7 PITT SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers)* robert Walter MARtiK^Manaffer.
tt LEMON WHISKY
(REGISTERED).
A most wholesome and delicious beverage, intended for strictly temperate people, who ar
not teetotallers. It is scientifically prepared from the juice of fresh, ripe lemons, refined
cane sugar, and the best whisky. It is free from any adulterant. It is regularly used in
our leading hospitals. It is at once a stimulant, a food, a luxury and a medicine. It can
be taken plain as a liqueur. With iced soda water it makes the finest summer drink
extant. It can be obtained at all leading hotels throughout the Commonwealth. Whole-
sale from any wine and spirit merchant. Protected by Royal Letters Patent. Lucas.
jjOCK & Co., 24-| Pitt Street, Sydney.
sd
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s *
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
sf
THE POCKET ROTOSCOPE
An evening’s entertainment in your vest pocket. Folds
up like a small book, and is one of the most compact and
interesting novelties to be found in our varied stock.
“ Photography has the charm of ‘ fidelity’
in the minutest detail, but the stereoscope
adds its astounding illusion of ‘ solidity,’ and .
thus completes the effect which so entrances
theimagination. Oliver Wendelp Homes.
The hook; and Latig'h Glass.
See the Passing Show
Your friends grotes
quely photographed—
stout people look thir
—thin people loot
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, eto., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. II
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Laughing Camera.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & <ioke Novelties.
, Write for Price List B.
Tine Demon Rattle Box Ti-iclf.
Price complete, with one dozen stereograms,
real photographs, 1/6, post free anywhere. Views
can be supplied in the following subjects View's
of London, Views of the River Thames, Comic
Views, Children Subjects, Lovely Faces, and
Famous Actresses. Extra views, 9d. per dozen,
post free anywhere. 4
PUZZLE PURSES.— Superior quality leather and
strong nickel frames. Price, post free anywhere.
1/9 and 2/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. - Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Rings,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
MEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
s
H f BO;K 3 ’ P '°‘ HAYMARKET,
AA * nv 7lO GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 New Zealand Lean & Mercantile Agency Co.
Unite!.
SYDNB "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MAB.SUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the MoMally Steel Patent “SKIP DKOPFEK.”
The Inky Way.
The crowd ol reporters at the hearing of Caruso’s
“ disorderly-oonduct ” case in New York was altogether
too much for the press accommodation, so one of them
made use of defendant’s back as a writing-desk. If that
pressman lands in Heaven without a supply of paper he
will probably start to pencil notes of the proceedings
on one of the legs of the Great White Throne.
* * * *
Serious riotingjmay be expected shortly among parties
of North Queensland mine tributors and small contrac-
tors. At one time when trouble arose in dividing up the
boodle, the practice was to ask the local school teacher
to work out each man’s share. But civilisation is
advancing even in the North, and the correct thing now
around Charters Towers is to write to the press for guid-
ance. The editor guilefully submits it to mathematical
readers, and next issue prints about a page of solutions,
most of them different, and several succeeding issues
contain algebraical, geometrical, and mathematical argu-
ments from great minds who can’t agree. When a
tributor who thinks he got 3d. too lit tie finds that x —y,
divided by the length of the crosscut, multiplied by the
time wasted by Brown and Smith, entitles him to 4‘006d.
extra, bloodshed is almost inevitable.
* * » *
That mighty obliterator, the Press, is responsible for
the light of one of the finest athletes m Australia—Jimmy
Bull, of the Sydney D.T.—being hidden under a bushel of
copy paper for the past 10 years. Those who know Bull’s
wonderful skill in boxing and his powers of hard-hitting
recognise that he might have long held the Australian
middleweight amateur championship; and, indeed,
would have been close up to professional championship
form had he chosen to enter the cash arena. It was Bull
who was responsible for the appearance of Snowy Baker as
a P u fT> and the white-headed representative of Australia,
now on his way to wallop out England’s best amateurs,
admits freely that he owes all he knows of the game to
the tuition of Bull. While the latter has been writing
paragraphs about the lost dog, he might have been win-
mng fame and fortune fighting for 20,000-dollar purses in
the land of the Wooden Ham.
* * * *
*' Hamer” : Ah, the sweet pains of Literature—you find
them in unexpected holes. I chanced upon a country
family at a time when a cow had died from swallowing a
snake, or something, and the family was endeavoring to
immortalise the event in a paragraph for the Brindle
Banner, The proposed paragraph had been revised 2134
times, when it was given to me for an opinion. I didn’t
express my opinion, but I said something that flattered
~f^ e anc * then it all and severally told me
that the literary faculty was strong amongst it. To prove
it, mother showed me a book that was kept in the place
of honor in front of a glass case of wax fruit, and on
t°P the family Bible. In the book were three old
and faded paragraphs. They had written them all-
in that very house.” Now there were hopes of a fourth
paragraph, and the thought of it left old Strawberry
unmourned. When, a fortnight later, I returned to
their bosoms, the family were in a state of anger and
rebellion because their paragraph had been cut down to
three lines; but they were proud of the three lines all
the same.
* * * *
Penang and Straits Chronicle (30/11/’O6) is gloomy
about the Anglo-Chinese newspapers circulating in the
South-Eastern corner of Asia. Such papers (owned by
wealthy Chinese) generally start with a smart English
editor who, in “decent English,” advocates the cause of
the masses, serving a useful purpose. The paper doesn’t
pay, the promoters sell out at a loss, and the con-
cern, with a high-sounding motto hanging on, generallv
* a S vi in k° hands of the opium-grower and the
gambler. Then the paper, with the motto still hanging
13 subjected to a sadden change of policy. The
English editor now finds himself forced to advo-
oate t.ie interests of his proprietors. An editor
repute usually “bucks” and afterwards retires
Then the paper either becomes frankly and openlv a
native organ, or else is handed over to some amenable
European journalistic hack. Subject to all kinds of ex-
terior influences, incapable of giving his readers an inde-
pendent opinion on any controversial subject, powerless
to put forward his own views, the slave and the tool of
a !'® n J? la,sters > the position of such an unfortunate man is
pitiable and well-nigh untenable ”
* « » •
Dear Bulletin.— You annoy me very much with your
remarks about the prodigal manner in which William
Randolph Hearst, of the New York Journal, lavishes his
wealth about on the people who write for his papers.
Some months ago, I sent a character sketch about
Champion Bill Squires to the Journal, amass of copy
which would have run to a couple of columns of The
Bulletin, together with a photograph of the subject.
Hearst, or his myrmidons, published the stuff as the
star story of the day, providing drawings which made the
whole occupy a full page. It was scoop stuff. No other
paper in America contained a word about Squires, and
this was just at the time when the match with O’Brien had
been arranged. But no money came from Willie. I waited
for a couple of mails, and then wrote, remarking that
1 wasn tin the newspaper business for my health. After
a long delay a letter arrived containing an order for five
dollars £1 Os. 7d. in Australian money ! At the rates of
payment current here, the matter should have brought
at least twice the,amount, and ss. would have been paid
for the photograph. (Bulletin rates would be, of course
higher.) According to Yankee journalistic practice,
scoop stuff is always paid double rates, and considering
the way the copy was splashed up, and the stories I was
told by men in the game who knew New York methods I
anticipated receiving fully £5 for the work. I believe
now that, had I entrusted it to an agent, I would have got
that amount, and the sole reason I was underpaid by
this professor of Socialism and practiser of sweating is
that I was too far away to kick. I contented myself by
sending along an insulting receipt for my five dollars,
and warning all Australian writers who look Yankee-
wards to steer clear of WiHiam Randolph.—G F


Compulsory WlncHng-u/3 or the Insolvent
Stock In the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
. to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding- of same, ana%eg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price ... .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price. £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
;Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE BALLET GIRL
śď
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
Letter from a Little Girl—
FATHER
GOMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
I So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Remedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is now cured, and the child is happy.
A Home Cure which Never Fails. May be
Given Secretly. Write for Treatise No. 5.
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
5*
W 1
ns
An IMPROMPTU
DANCE
fT.
V*
r A
THE
Edison Phonograph
plays long and loud enough for dancing, in addition to its
wonderful powers as an entertainer.
It keeps perfect time, and you can have your impromptu
dance on the lawn, in your house, in the camp—in fact
anywhere with the Edison.
Edison G. M. Records are correct in style and tempo,
and are fine for dancing or teaching others to dance.
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS & RECORDS are Sold at all Talking Machine Dealers’ Everywhere.
Catalogues and Lists of Records Free for the asking.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. of AUSTRALIA.
LIMITED,
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet ot TEN, lOd.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden
E.C.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALOPERMA-SOAP * KALdPERMA-JELLY * KALOPERMA-POWPER
a
S»
€
■
kL'JL.-.M',
• if :
mm
KALODERWA F WOLFF &50HN
Gcsefzlich qeschutzh
Karls ruhe.
&ole Agents:
LOHMANN & CO.,
.Melbourne (CL Sydney.
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S
sfd
sd
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. - For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time. j.
s>
V
>v
Jv
&
C
S>
sfd
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King of
Briar Pipes
Obtainable
from all Tobacconfsts
VI/'ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
▼▼ BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cola’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SK FOR
AKD
REFUSE
§UBSTITOTE
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY
Consign
sfd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
in allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
Models £2-10 to £8
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, In-verted Lever Bun
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
I Packed and Delivered free
to any port in the world. We guarantee Bale
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £1 to £2.10
Great factory* clearance sale at half. factory P™***
ph n >i « nun Ir* taking orders from sample
FARM A CYCLE machine. Active Agents
wanted in eachdistrict. Large profits
tree catalogues and our special of er, using sufficient poatag
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &cu. half pri .
MEAD CYCLE CO. Depf*
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
sdsd
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
tor the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafnee*
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE L. R. VERNON CO. a
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
sd
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEPY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


sfd
HUTCHISON'S INVENTIONS FOR THE DEAF.
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the only Gold Medal awarded by the International Jury at the World’s
Fair, St. Louis (U.S.A.), to any exhibit
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
and for which the Inventor has received asimilar medal from Her Most Gracious Majesty
yueen Alexandra (a photograph of which maybe seen at the undermentioned addresses!
. m MAY BE INSPECTED FREE OF CHARGE,
OFFIOES OF THE “ ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,”
OataW,,,. o *• . EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Catalogue No. 2, containing all particulars, will be forwarded Free by Post on application.
C. POLLOCK, Sydney Manager.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
ffl nil Pnlirafn - _ . /
Specialist
lM a Se V nLn?wl U n S ; S M n * nd Bl ° od leases, and all Specific Complaints
Men and Women. No Mercupy. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Ilf a alt Unn BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weakjen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Wili C u ro the Nerves, Debility, boat Power, ReatoreLoat
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and NeWea
Tliey secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Desnalr
Boxes; 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6*d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS. Bl ° 6d an * Skin Diseases.
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 >!. SMaißl'pow , ’oi.?u'rDo l uW “2oJrif‘-So
BLOODCAPSULES. 6.. ™= U„,ve„., P,„. C u.e
Weak Women iS» I^.Sa a SSS§r.?S;S,. 6 &s. c & u “«'
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure Boxes 6s cooma 00/r
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 63°
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
The Fuel of Life
—ELECTRICITY!
Why You go on Suffering when You can be Cured Without Risk is a Marvel I
You are one of the many thousand sufferers who should have been well and strong long ago if
Ifidnevf W na f and rat !° nal remed Y your troubles. Weakness in the Stomach,
mrts 7 Nerve T iS°t rfc T?l B ? m ° th f r ? rgans indlcates onl y a lack of Nerve Life in those
Wn™ f?! ■ 8 P ec t ricl ty, and when you are weak you have only to assist Nature to
restore the missing electrical energy, and, once this is done, you are well again. True > it does
X n l S T^ enOU f’ b^^ itre i lly , takeS ii me ’ and is a del&rte matter. However no matter
n^nw°^ edy r t 0 s frjromNervousness, General or Factional
the Bladder and Kidneys), Kidney
I* Rheumatism, Lumbago,
I n ? 0, f n ‘ a , Sunstroke, Weak Back, Varicocele or
Electriclt y offers a certain and lasting cure. So often have we demonstrated
this fact that we are now prepared to do what has never been done before. We are willing to
g'ive you a written guarantee to refund your money if
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC RELT
SwoT e y r if w ! accepfc case as cura ble. (We reserve the right to refuse any case
MoT J ° > n °T> care , to guarantee.) As we said before, you require only Electricity, and Dr.
fives Electricity to you in such quantities that your tissues and organs are
reconstiucted faster than they are destroyed by everyday wear and tear ; in this way your strength
is restored. Worn while you sleep, this Belt performs cures which a few years ago would have been accepted as miracles
sfd
SEND THIS COUPON FOR FREE BOOK
FREE BOOK!
Our Book carefully describes
our Belt in every detail. Write
for it or call for Free Consulta-
tion and advice. Hours—9
a.m. to 6 p.m. daily, including Saturdays. When writing to us
tell us what ails you, how you feel, and to what cause you
attribute your ill-health. We will carefully diagnose your case and
if we assure you that our Belt will cure you, we will back our
assertions with a “cast-iron guarantee.” You need take no risks.
A writteh opinion costs you nothing ; write to us to-day. Delays
in the matter of health are always fraught with great danger.
Free Consultation. Free Advice.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
BUL., 17‘l-’O7. WIUIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
READ THIS LETTER.
Nervo-Vital Loss of Power and
Lumbago.
The Dr, McLaughlin Co. DULAOOA STATION, Q.
D e ai> Sirs,—l am pleased to acknowledge receipt of your letter and
am glad to. be able to inform you that your Belt has entirely ra
and as several different people have requested me to relate 7 my experi-
ences in the.use of your Belt, you may be interested to know that I have
strongly advised all of them to write to you and have you diagnose their
cases. I always m,ake a point of relating my experience with the Brisbane
me the , Belt would be absolutely useless, and to purchase
one was equal to throwing my money into the street. It is reallv sur
prising when an ordinary layman wakes up to what a little doctors know
fh-nllfK ve f y prejudiced they are against, and willing to condemn, some-
thinjg they have never taken the trouble to investigate
Thanking- you for all past favors, I remain,
Yours very truly, p. H. VAUGHAN.
You are not asked to take
any Risk. You are assured
by WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
, The Best ,
.Summer Drink
on Earth*
KJced
askyour Stationer for aS/wpieotl
Mitchell’s^
esN
WTT.T.IAVf
MITCHEUZ3
HICLASS SHOUI_C€R
N? 9. First Class Shoulder Penl
the Original Qlwuiv ByThe OragKAL Makfri
A
natural
/ preparation.'*
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice
is not a concoction of arti- \
ficially made chemical crystals. \
Montserrat
is the pure juice of the famous West ;
*. Indian Lime Fruit, specially /
\ cultivated for that purpose in /
\ the Island of Montserrat /
\ The Lancet counsels the.*
to drink.*
‘VMontserrat’/
’» /
Sold by all i
\ Chemists, •*
•Grocers, .*
4 etc. *
THE LIQUOR CURSE.
WHY NOT SAVE YOUR FRIENDS?
EUHRASV is a safe and guaranteed cure for
CUURrtOI DRUNKENNESS. We will post you
a free sample of this valuable remedy during: the next
30 days with full instructions, on receipt of Gd. to
defray postage.
_THE_EUCRASY_COY., 62 Hunter Btreet, BYDNEY,
FREE WEAK
NERVOUS «nd DEBILITATED.
Dr. Langston’s Medical Work, “ Mens
m Gorpore Sano,” written after an experience
SO/ears as an Expert Specialist In
DISEASES OF MEN. You can have the
benefit of all this vast experience for the
asking. Write for the Book to-day, it is Free.
Posted, 2 Stamps,
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
Established 1887.
129 Collins St., Melbourne.
Mention this Paper. Consultation Free.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pnrsae
your ordinary avocation, indorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. CR A I G & CO.,
261 Coluns Street, Melbourne.
A
POLICY FOR THE
Price, 6d.
COMMONWEALTH
9
ANTI-
BILIOUS
G ‘ F ' CoLUEMnlhaPh ""^“ f *- College of of Londl
AT* MEP AS * FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family, m
PILLS.
3~h* Xaijcet describes it as —
“ Mr. Benger’s admirably
preparation.”
British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
<~OLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION. LONDON.
i
sd
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
«" dthe AGED.
Benoer’s fooD is sold in Tins i
by Chemists, fitc. everywhere. 3
Perth (W.A.) gets from its city analyst
a tragio report) about the things it eats: —
About 70 samples of milk have been analysed, and a
great many of tinned meat, fish, and other goods, also
impure ice creams, pickles, etc., water and sewage.
[Sewage appears to be included among articles of food ;
probably it is a Perth delicacy.] The tinned foods were
found to be invariably bad or inferior from decomposi-
tion, or from an abundance of preservatives and metallic
contamination. I conclude that this State is one of
the dumping grounds for a good deal of inferior material,
such as worked butter;
And a lot of these things come not from abroad,
but from other Australian States ! It shows the
growth of the Federal feeling.
A musical enthusiast, invited to a Sydney
public school break-up, where good chorus-singing
was promised as a speciality, declared 1 the prac-
tices followed in the class would kill 90 per cent, of
the best voices in Europe. Boys and girls uni-
formly forced their voioes. All sang too l'oudly.
At present,- in the Continental and most of the
English schools, the teachers’ chief concern is to
teach young singers restraint—always to hold
themselves well under their strength. The voice
is like a house—built bit by bit, and each part
made solid before the higher step is reached.
“ Cyclops,” from Maoriland :—
We hear but.little of Yankee brag and bounce nowa-
days, simply because we have contracted the trouble
ourselves, and a fellow feeling has made us wond’rous
kind. The microbe of blatherskite has infected us, and
beneath its influence we have shifted the location of
the trade-mark, “ God’s Own Country,” from America to
Maoriland. Our babes and sucklings are taught to lisp
superlatives in praise of our home-made scenery, our
butter, pur politics, our snow, and our meat. They learn
at school that the Sutherland Palls drop further than any
other drops of moisture making a splash in this world
and that Waimangu fires its dampness higher into the
startled heavens than the proudest geyser working over-
time under any foreign yoke. We absorb conscious-
ness of our all-round superiority with our daily bread
and never pause to doubt but that in the ages to come
the Maori lander will alone give the law in things
terrestrial. The claims of our competitors to anything
approaching equality with us, wei-egord with the green-
stone stare of insular contempt.


Doctors and Hospitals Called It
Chronic Eczema and Said Sores
Never Could Be Healed Child
Was Getting So Bad Mother
Didn’t Know What To Do,
CURED BY CUTICURA
AT A SMALL EXPENSE
“Words cannot express my grati-
tude for what Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment. and Resolvent have done for my
son, who when two
years old had ec-
zema as bad as any
child could have it.
I had several doc-
tors, but when they
stopped treating
him his head would
begin to get sore
again, almost the
next day. It got so
bad I really didn’t
know what to do. At last we took him
to the hospital, where the doctors said
he had chronic eczema. They gave
me a wash for it, but said it was fool-
ish to think of it ever being cured.
“ The child was failing so I thought
I must do something, and reading
about Cuticura, I went to the nearest
drug store and purchased a set of Cuti-
cura Remedies. I used half of them and
found some relief and improvement,
but thought the change for the better
was only temporary, as it had been
with all the other medicines ordered
by the doctors. But by the time I had
used one cake of Soap, one and a half
boxes of Ointment, and one small
bottle of Resolvent, the cure was
complete and permanent, with not a
sign of a sore from that day to this, —
over two years. I shall never be with-
out Cuticura Soap* Mrs. J. Schepperle,
Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb. 9, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co.,Merchants, Sydney,N.S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, ■ and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem*
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
tt-sf Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Every Humour."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
i
-*s»
IS THE
UnderwooD
Cold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE DCCX }
TYPEWRITER ♦
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLATTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT for its STERLING QUALITIES.
FILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS : Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to. remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT'S
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
Henry Skinner,
Glarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10kS.
Jlr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball 3
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
100 000 “™E WAYBACK SERIES.”
iUU,UUU HO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
MOTHER
CEI GEL'S
SYRUP
THE WORLD’S
SUPREME REMEDY
FOR DYSPEPSIA,
BILIOUSNESS and
ALL DIGESTIVE
TROUBLES.
When your digestion
is wrong ALL is
wrong. It is impossible to
have sound health without
sound digestion; and in these
strenuous days it is practically
impossible to maintain a sound
digestion without the aid of a
digestive tonic. Mother Seigel’s
Syrup is the unfailing remedy
for ALL digestive trouble.
TAKE IT!!
and you will be convinced.
sd
“I was almost a total wreck, and
all out of order. If I was not
suffering from terrible pains in my
kidneys I was in agony with my
head. Biliousness and indiges-
tion added to my misery and I
scarcely ate sufficient to keep
body and soul together. But
though everything else had
failed, Mother Seigel’s
Syrup restored me to
the splendid health I
new enjoy.”
From Mr. DAVID LESLIE,
115, Bourhc St., fVoolloomcoloo,
Sydney. Mo'ch 2, 1906.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IS MADE OF THE
EXTRACTS of ROOTS,
BARKS and LEAVES,
AND IS A PURELY
VEGETABLE
PREPARATION.
nnn*
nnnai
annnn^
nnnflan
INDIGESTION
TAKE IT DAILY, AFTER MEALS.
may have been suffering, even for years, from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Ancemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
and you will continue to suffer unless the disorder is treated, as it ought to be treated, by'striking
direct at the cause. All the disorders mentioned are due to one cause and one cause alone; namely,
the inability of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
to perforin the work allotted to them in Nature’s Scheme. Nature will tolerate no irregularity.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from any
of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following description
of the work performed by those vital organs is given :
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric,acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result. ;
' \
The Liver.— ln the liver various, substances are actually made from the blood. Twp'or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,"converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived, their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner's
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a
curative agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many dis-
appointments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at-length
discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by
restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels,
of the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Amemia, Indigestion,
Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility.'
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the,
reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures effected, even when
hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. [l3]
Government Notice.
FARM
| aborers !
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
will be glad to hear from farmers who have
VACANCIES for FARM HARPS
Full particulars should be given as: to
whether experienced hands or beginners
are required, and also as to wages offered.
A large number of CAPABLE MEN are
reaching New South Wales weekly from
the agricultural districts of Great Britain.
H. C. L. ANDERSON,
Director Intelligence Department,
2i55. Phillip and Bridge Streets,-Syd , .
BULLETIN POST CARDS
°ACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Some cow cheques on the Richmond (N.S.W.),
for November—£364, £l7B, £144, £142, £139, £134.
*■ * » *
The up-to-date condensing machinery of the
Byron Bay (N.S.W.) Butter Factory—one of the biggest
concerns in Australia —was put in by the Sydney firm of
Waugh and Josephson against the competition of eight
English and Yankee firms.
• * * *
Curious items from the published agreement
between the N.S.W. Master Butchers and Slaughtermen’s
Unions: “At Riverstone the rate for killing sheep for
local consumption shall be 225. per 100. Rams, stags
and hoggets double rates. Sheep for preserving 12s. Od.
per 100.” What becomes of the rams and stags 1 Private
Enterprise doesn’t pay double rates for the slaughtering
of Zoo fodder. Surely they don’t Chicago them !
* * * *
“ F.H.R.” : I am no barracker for the landlord,
but the wanton way in which property is knocked to
pieces by Sydney larrikins is a standing rebuke to the
police. In some suburbs whole terraces are turned into
eyesores by their gaping window-panes, missing fences,
and nailed-up doors. Children can be seen furtively
throwing stones about public thoroughfares ; and if they
do this in daylight, what won’t they do in gaslight ?
♦ * • *
Recently, at Bundaberg (Q.), Messrs. R. Miller -
Angus and P. H. Moller conducted successful experiments
in wireless telegraphy with an instrument of their own
invention. Previous successful experiments had been
made by them .at Adelaide, and the Bundaberg
tests were for the purpose of discovering whether
the hotter climate of Queensland would affect the energy
of the messages by dissipation. The inventors claim that
their receiver has taken messages over a distance of 3000
miles on land and sea, and that their transmitter can
send messages over 1200 miles.
» * * •
A consular report from the Bahamas mentions a
new industry in the form of a turtle nursery. The eggs
are carefully collected and placed in tubs deposited in
sheltered creeks, where they are hatched. After a time,
the infants are permitted to disport themselves in the
water, but always under the watchful eye of the nurse,
who only relinquishes his charges that they may make a
debut at some Lord Mayor’s dinner.
• * • «
' Australian gee-gees are likely to go in large num-
bers to the Philippines, to which half-conquered islands
Uncle Sam has sent over 3000 soldiers, who prance on
fiery steeds. The voyage across the Pacific —long and sub-
; ject to violent storm—has proved bad for horse passengers.
In one shipment of 500 horses only half a horse reached
Manila alive. He was a mule. He went ashore at
Manila, and perished, probably from loneliness. Now a
Major Brown (he is the first American officer yet known
who has failed to become a Colonel) is travelling in
Australia, which is handier to Manila than America, and
a more sheltered track. Uncle Sam will require about
400 horses a year for this troublesome colony, and is likely
hereafter to get most of them from Australia.
• * • •
A man who ought to know predicts it rocky time
ahead for either the Yankee International Harvester
Trust or its Australian competitors. Says he: “ Despite
the duty, the Yankees are fighting hard to kill Australian
makers, and something’s bound to happen inside two
years. They are spending money like water—they have
five men along the track to our one—and the latest dodge j
is to let farmers practically write their own settlement
dates. We are not afraid of either their machinery or
their men, and can afford to wait a couple of years for
our money ; but, when it comes to waiting five, six, and,
in some cases, seven years, as the Yankees have con-
tracted to do—well, it pits us where we live. We haven’t
the Trust’s millions behind us. Yes, a drought would
make ’em sit up and howl, but, like the gentle dew, a
drought would fall on Trust and just alike, worst luck ! ”
* * * *
“H. 8.” : “A beautiful sentiment, sir, and only
one penny each,” greeted me at the door as I answered
a bold knock. “ Peace, perfect peace,” stood before my
eyes, but failed to find a resting-place in my feelings at
the time. My neighbor had just “ called me names”
over the fence, bedause I hurled spontaneous epithets at
her children for throwing stones. But there stood the
man of sentiment. What was Itodo ? I felt like kicking
him out, in reality-,-but-a penny for “ Perfect peace ” was
cheap. While I was considering, my dog, disliking the
man’s appearance, went for him, and created consterna-
tion. “ You miserable antiquated boneshaker! ”he ejacu-
lated. I resented the allusion, and explained that a
“boneshaker ” was an old-fashioned bike. “Not it,” said
he, “it is a very modern tyke,” and he trembled
judiciously. He was a bony creature enough, but was
clearly educated. He told me subsequently that he was
“ broke,” and also that, though he had served in the
army, he was still master of his passions, and was willing
to transfer “ Peace ” to every house in the street on the
merely nominal payment mentioned. “Ah!” said he,
when the dog had retired ashamed and disappointed into
the back yard, “I admire your splendid physique, sir.
Your standing? An-officer, I presume. You may have
wielded the sword in many a good cause.” This with a
deferential bow; then, with a loving look at the
harmless text, “But the penny’s mightier than
the sword.” He was a wit, truly. “I willingly
salute my superiors,” said he, “ though sometimes with
a ‘ militant’salute.” “ Military,” I inserted. “Ibegyour
pardon, the word was right. I sometimes adjust my
state to my circumstances, though sentiment wins every
time. There is no sentiment in ‘amilitary salute,’ but
a ‘ militant.’ Well, it restores peace almost as quickly as
a penny.” I had had enough for a time, bought his text,
and flung it over the fence into my neighbor’s territory.
• • « «
“Shaston” : Fremantle (W.A.) has its muni-
cipalised tramways and electric light system—the only
municipal service of the combined sort in Australia.
Nice cars, good service, only 12 months going ; rattling
good property. Profit, after paying interest and sinking
fund, put at £llOB for 10 months. Tram's are doing it;
electric light system not fully in operation at the be-
ginning. But the concern is over-officered. Chairman at
£2OO ; four Boardnien at £l5O each ; manager, £650 ; two
sub-managers (electric and traffic); accountant, and sub-
arcountant. Under these, inspectors and working staff.
Board, very nice ; oh, very nice men ! But very eco-
nomical—in the Lower branches. Noyes Bros., Sydney,
carried the whole concern through, put it in working
order, and handed it over to the Board. Policy of Board :
never buy anything you can make the men do without.
Uniforms tattered and torn till public; complained.
Conductors’ pay, llid. an hour; motor-mem Is. per
hour; no extras. Average earnings not enough to go
.round in the expensive West, vlf conductor loses a
penny-halfpenny ticket he is charged 2£d4-“ must make
’em careful.” “Spotters” innumerable. Where two or
three men are gathered together there is a spy in the midst
of them. Consequently no union. But so economical !
Board stopped supply of rubber bands for securing-
tickets ; string good enough. Bought one dozen punches
for 24 men ; some of them went cronk, and Board couldn’t
buy any more. : Wire nails pushed through corks now
largely used to mark tickets. Recently a conference was
held between the councils which provide capital and the
Board. Some whisky bottles opened. No harm in that.
But next morning notice appeared on blackboard —“In
future conductors must buy their own lead pencils.”
TWO HUMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a hum that a calico man gently hummed to him-
self at the close of the day :
“Thirty-three inch is a yard long enough,
Linen’s half cotton, and cotton’s half fluff,
Silk loaded with tin is the genuine stuff,
Oh, there’s money in business if you’re not a muff.
H’m 1 ”
And having completed his business hum, he withdrew to
his private apartment to pray.
And this is the hum that the counter-girl hummed when
the wearisome day had completed its span :
“ I strive to look straight, but the legions of lies
That face me each day bring the tears to my eyes, —
Lies about all things from garters to ties —
Lies that the boss has a share in the skies—
H’m ! ”
And she went to her bed with a sore, aching head, and
she dreamed that Old Nick was a Oalico Man.
Y.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS*!! Melbourne^ 2
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
Hay S* Perm HI
QUEENSLAND jf.V
Queen & Edward Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
H6SI4S Queen S*. Auckland
IS-3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 £235 High S';
Princess DowlingS'? Dunedin.
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
I
If it's from
Stewart Dawsons
its aood.
Write the
|| store nearesA
you
STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.*’ Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
str°
Q
W T,»
m
t r ,
9ct. Gold, Amethyst Heart Drop,
Bird and Scroll Brooch, 14s 6d.
Extra Strong Beaded Close Curb
Brooch, 14s 6d.
“ Dearest ” Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
15s 6d. '
Oval Amethyst and 9ct. Gold
i Brooch, 18s 6d.
Pearl Set Spray and New Moon
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
15ct. Gold Leaf Centre Brooch,
£1 Is.
9ct. Gold .Twin Bar Rose and
Ruby Set Brooch, £1 2s Cd.
Pearl Set Double Heart Brooch,
9ct. Gold, £1 10s.
15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Sham-
rock Brooch, £1 10s.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Ruby
Brooch, £1 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold and Opal Set Scroll
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Bird
Brooch, £1 17s 6d.
15ct. Gold Twin Bar and Pearl
Set Brooch, £2.
Fine Pearl Set 15ct, Gold Brooch,
£2.
Pearl and Sapphire Set 15ct.
Gold Brooch, £2 ss.
Ruby and Diamond Butterfly
Brooch, Silver Settings on Gold,
£3 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, 15s 6d.
Diamond and Ruby Set Fine Gold
Daisy Brooch, £6 6s.
Fine Gold Brooch Set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, Pearl
Centre, £l3 10s.
9ct. Gold Bar Knot and Heart Brooch,
6s 6d.
lSct. Gold Pearl Set or Pearl and.
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant,
£3 10s.
9ct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Set
Safety Pin, 10s 6d.
15et. Gold Brooch, set Diamond, Ruby
and Sapphire, 32s 6d.
9ct. Gold, Pearl Set Daisy Brooch, 22s 6d
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set or Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant.
£5 15s.
9et. Gold, Pearl Set Lyre Brooch, 21s.
Fine Pearl and Turquoise and 9cG
Gold New Art Brooch, £1 15s.
15ct. Gold and Pearl Orescent Brooch
85s. ’
15ct. Gold and Fine Opal Trefoil or
Shamrock Brooch, £3 6s.
Greenstone and 9ct. Gold Brooch,
17s 6d.
Carved Greenstone and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 14s 6d.
Diamond and Ruby Set 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 22s 6d.
Amethyst and Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst Centre 9ct. Gold Bell,
Bar and Chain Brooch,'2ss.
9ct. Gold Fancy Pearl Set Deaf
, and Bar, Brooch, 255.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Scroll and!
Twin Bar Brooch, very strong,
‘27s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby and Sapphire Set
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, 255.
Massive 9ct. Gold Twin Bamboo-
Bar, Bell, Leaf and Chain Brooch,
27s 6d.
Strong 9ct. Gold Polished Bar
Brooch, Opal Heart Set, 30s.
15ct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise
Brooch, 30s.
9ct. Gold, New Moon, Bird and!
Bower Brooch, Set Pearls all over,
£2 15s.
15ct. Gold, 4 Opals in Diamond!
Setting, Twin Bar Brooch,
£2 12s 6d.
Fine Pearl Set Scroll Twin Bare
15ct. Gold Brooch, £2 12s Gd.
Pearl Set New Moon.and Robim
Brooch, 15ct. Gold,' £3 15s.
Fine Opal and Diamond Set 15ct.
Gold Scroll Brooch, £l6 10s.
Fine Opal Heart and Lover’s Knot •
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 6s.
‘Lily of the Valley" 15ct. Gold,,
Pearl and Fine Opal Set Brooch,
£5 10s.
05»
o_
a_o_o
3
rO


I
m
mi
***
m
■
y ■ - •'
- m
MOTHER LIKES IT.
There is nothing affects the health of a babe more so than the
skin. Throughout the period of infancy the skin is frequently at-
tacked with nasty itching rash, chafing, milk crust, and other skin
affections. These troubles, although not of a dangerous nature, cause
torment and pain to the little one. Moreover, the child’s health is
very often affected by the visitation of skin ailments, which, unless
the utmost care is exercised, serious consequences ensue. Some skin
troubles occur with almost every infant, and are unavoidable, but care
should be taken by using the purest ingredients in the bath so that the
skin is not irritated. There are other causes of disorders of the skin in
infants,which bring about loathsome and disfiguringrasliand pimples on
the face and body, and which may be prevented at all times by the use or
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL TOILET SOAP
and the avoidance of common gritty powders and so-called medicated
toilet soaps, highly perfumed, and elaborately got up, that outwardly
hide the injurious character of the ingredients they contain, and which
have a most harmful effect on the skin of adults, let alone the tender
sensitive skin of a young child. I heir use aggravates the skin to an
alar mi no 1 extent. -Better health in every way is to be had by using
the right soap containing the right medicines for softening, soothing,
and giving healthy action to the skin’s functions.
BUK SOAP can be obtained from Chemists and Stores at V'Per tablet, or a dainty
ioxof three tablets for 2/10, or for same price direct from THE ZAM-BUK M’F's, CO.,
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON
and forward it to us with your
name and address attached, also
Id. stamp to pay postage, and we
will send you a Free Sample
Test Tablet of Zam-Bulc Soap
by return post. Address all appli-
cations to the Zam-Bulc Mfg. Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bulletin, Jan. 17th, 1907.
S'
ill<l:)t>it!|i
la/urewrJkin-Health
Bella Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WOMAN’S sphere in'the bush is de-
fined according to the size of the old
man’s purse. On squattages, and on
the better class selections, she has time to bang
the old piano into a tuneless horror ; to play
tennis —with a rabbit-proof fence across the
centre of the “ lawn ” ; to spin into town behind a
pair of good trotters to get the mail; to attend
the flower show, the hospital ball, or the grassfed
races; to discuss the latest books and the prevail-
ing fashions. Among her less fortunate sisters,
the change of fashion means remodelling the old
dress. The cream decoration that was a feature
of last year’s ball will be resurrected for this year’s
whirl as a beautiful blush-pink, or some delicate
shade of blue, subsequently turning saffron for the
races. Whatever her station, Bella is an adept
at “ making a do of things.”
It is no novelty to come upon her in the deep
forests and trackless hills of big runs at muster-
ing times, well-mounted, and her pretty sun-
kissed face glowing through the tunnel of a
plain bonnet or a big straw hat tied down
over her ears with a pink ribbon. She
slides down into steep gorges and leaps
over gullies and logs with easy seat and
graceful movement ; and she shoots round the
wings of half-wild cattle with stockwhip in full
blast. Her whip is a pearl, being mostly pre-
sented by some admiring Greenhide .Tack J and
when Jack makes anything for the pet creations
you can bet your bottom Oobar he will put all his
ingenuity into it,
At many baokblock stations the mustering
troupe, riding off in the early morning, is delight-
fully picturesque, being composed of white men
and black men, of black girls and white girls. On
some Bulloo River runs I have seen the girls wear-
ing trousers, and riding astraddle on men’s
saddles; but Bella Bush, though she may use a
man’s saddle, sits in conventional fashion when
the opposite sex is present. Otherwise she is
capable of throwing her leer over, and riding with
the gay abandonment of her black sisters. If you
meet her on the run she will probably pass you in
frigid silence, but with the steady scrutiny of a
tracker. When the cattle are in the yards, Bella
loves to perch on a cap and handle a drafting gate.
At one time in the bush it was the ambition of
every girl and woman to have a horse and side-
saddle. When Jim went to see the girl, she
expected to be taken for a ride, and if she didn’t
possess the means herself, he had to bring it with
him. He is still met on many tracks on Sunday,
leading a saddled horse for the girl; and when
they are engaged, the riding outfit is one of the
most cherished presents. They ride to the races,
to the show, and to the dance ; and occasionally
one is reminded of old days by seeing mother on
a horse, with baby on her knee. She goes shop-
ping on horseback then, with a white pillow-slip
strapped in front of her, and she takes Bills
dinner to him likewise when he is splitting or
fencing two or three miles from the house.
Nowadays the desideratum is a horse and trap,
and there is more driving than riding, except
among the young folk in the backblocks. lie
vehicle is often a heavy dray, with father perchet
on the front rail, pipe in mouth, and armed with
a waddy; mother sitting midway on a backless
seat; the progeny strewn about the deck, and a
couple of dogspacing with the shape underneath.
The incursion of town-bred people into the closoi-
settled areas-has wrought many changes, includ-
ing, with the concomitant shortening of distances,
the decadence of the equestrienne, Ihe town
person regards the wild nature-moods ot Bella
Bush as improper; but Bella is more broad-
minded, and though she may be as free in her
speech as in her actions, she is likely to be a bettei
girl than many of those who are shocked by her
wanton wiles. . .
I was one morning waiting at a station store with
some stockmen, when a slip of a girl in a tweet
cap and satin shoes, and some diaphanous material
between, came out of the house with a double-
barrelled breach-loader in her hands. A hundred
hawks were circling overhead. Standing in the
garden, she put the gun to her shoulder, and
brought down two in quick succession. I had
seen many a smart girl behind a gun ; one was a
governess in the north-west, who used to go
rabbit-shooting with me among the rocks, carry-
ing her own artillery ; and in many homes there
is a special light gun hanging on the wall tor
Bella’s use when hawks, crows, or goannas make a
raid on the poultry and eggs ; but the vision in
satin shoes surprised me. . , . .
With the. poorer classes, life in the bush is
generally a compound of hard work and isolation.
Here Celia has to perform many tasks that a city
woman would rebel against. If she is able to
plough, she ploughs ; and if she can chop wood,
there is no reason why Bill should waste Ins time
doing it. She has often to carry the wood home
in her arms ; or she carts it, or draws it home on
a slide with a horse or a couple of bullocks. It is
not a question there as to what is or is not a
woman’s work, but of what she is able to do. Un
agricultural farms it is common to see men and
bare-legged girls working side by side—hoeing,
harrowing, bullock-driving, harvesting, and at
night husking corn in the barn ; and, on dairy
farms, milking, churning, pig and poddy feeding,
reaping and mowing, chaff-cutting, cracking corn
for chickens, mustering, and running the milk-
cart to the factory. Yet they are always cheerful,
always ready for a joke. After a long day s work,
in and out of doors, they will walk or ride miles
to a dance at night, returning about daylight to
set to work again. In places, when Bella Bush
has to walk to the dance, she goes rough-shod
carrying her dancing shoes in a handkerchief, but
she changes when near the place of entertainment,
and leaves the rough foot-gear tucked under a log.
Once, in a drought time, I saw a woman and
two girls lopping trees to keep a few sheep alive,
climbing aloft and straddling the limbs like men ;
while another was drawing water with slide and
cask from a lagoon three miles away. Many
carry water for domestic use in buckets, sometimes
using a yoke or an iron hoop to keep the buckets
clear of their skirts. A part of their laundry is a
small bench on the bank of the creek, whither the
clothes are carried on washing day. They seldom
have a washing board, never a wringer ; and they
stand, barefooted, for hours on a sloppy bank.
An ordinary boiler, or a kerosene tin, takes the
place of the usual copper; and fuel is collected in
the favorite haunt of snakes, scorpions, centi-
pedes, and other inimical livestock. Most of the
wardrobe is spread out on the grass and bushes, on
loors and along the fence. There is no mangling ;
there is no mangle; but Bella can tell you
precisely the merits of different woods for heating
.ltt-irons, and which is the best for baking ; a|s°
the most suitable to burn a white ash for white-
washing the fireplace, the hearthstone and the
front doorstep. Likewise, she is familiar with the
composition of tea-trees, the soft-leaf one pro-
viding the gigantic broom with which she sweeps
the bare patches round the domicile, and assaults
the poultry when they hang around.
Some of her can use a cross-cut saw as well as
in axe ; and patching a fence is as easy to her as
hiking a batch of bread, or making her own
clothes. It is the exception to find a bush girl
who cannot bake; it is the exception to find a
town girl who can. In times of emergencies, in
ilood and fire, she shows her grit* She is doctor
ind nurse when sickness comes and accidents
happen; many a long night journey she has
ridden for the doctor ; many a flooded stream she
has swum to save the stock J and when the bUstl
.ire is threatening home and crops and fences,
you Will find her, with skirts tied up behind, and
not infrequently wearing pants for safety, tiait
blinded with smoke, scorched and blackened)
jghting the flames side by side with Bill and ♦Jim;
°As wife of the poorer digger on small alluvial
fields she does a good deal of hard graft with pick
and shovel, turning at the windlass, androcking
che golden cradle or the dry-blower. Her sun-
browned progeny, who are too young to work,
amuse themselves meanwhile aniong the gullies and
in tile busli; or else tftey are tethered like poddy
cilves near by the residence to keep them from
rambling ; and the baby is left to roll on a bag in
the shade of a tree. At smoke-o time she gives
baby a drink, while the old man pulls at his pipe.
Her lot is a hard one, and yet she is happy in a
way if there are <- couple of ’weights to . c \ e ‘ ln “ ut
of the black sand by the slush lamp at night, btie
has to sit there, too, long hours into the night,
patching the children’s clothes, and doing other
home duties that have been neglected in the
interests of the more important work at the
claim. She seldom has a sewing machine to
lighten her labors; nearly all the clothing, in-
cluding Bill’s flannels, and sometimes the family
head-gear—as cabbage-tree hats, holland hats and
bonnets—are laboriously made and mended by
hand. In many instances the husband does the
baking, and helps in other ways to equalise things.
At times, too, to supplement the inadequate
earnings of the bread-winner, and to save the
meat bill, she takes a hand at parrot-trapping,
rabbit-catching and ’possum-snaring ; and, in tier
spare time—if she has any—she trudges off to
favorite fishing holes, carrying rod and line and
pickle bottle, and catching grasshoppers and
crickets on the way for bait. It falls to her lot
also, in dry times when the men are on the roads
with teams, shearing, or rouseabouting oil
stations, to cut scrub for the stock, and to pull
out bogged sheep and cattle. Once or twice a
week she takes eggs and butter into town, carry-
ing them in a bucket on horseback, or in a two-
wheeled trap that has strong claims to indivi-
duality.
In juxtaposition to this many farmers and
selectors, as on the Richmond River, start on
their new holdings in model houses that cost MUU
and over, and are even provided with a callers
bell on the front door, and set in a garden plot as
pretty as one could look upon. Ihe callers bell
does not ring very often. In many parts of the
bush there is a casual visitor once a week, or once
a month, according to the state of remoteness
and his approach is announced by the familiar
sound of the sliprails, as they are let down or put
up. If there are no sliprails to act asknockei,
there is bound to be a canine bell lying about the
verandah somewhere, which considers it his duty
to bark at everybody who comes in sight, l his
brings the inmates to the door, but in many cases
the stranger is studied through a telescope before
he has got within coo-ee. By the time he arrives
the place is ready for inspection. Bella Bush has
hitched up her stockings and put on a clean a P™“>
the ragged urchins have been called in and stowed
away in the skillion, and the others have washed
their faces. .
Some of her travel about, and live in tents, as
wives of tank-sinkers, fencers, and teamsters. She
hasn’t much to do beyond cooking—under diffi-
culties ; but she misses the companionship of her
own sex, and at night, when the men foregather
ort the grass or open fire, she sits by, listening,
with her chin resting on her palm, occasionally
taking a modest part in the conversation.
When her lot is cast with drovers and shearers,
who are absent for many months in the year, she
bears the responsibility of homestead manager,
and has a lonely time. She is at the mercy of
every alien hawker, and of every evil tramp, who
look's upon her as good prey—until the inevitable
gun is produced. She acquires a habit, that
becomes almost irresistible, of staring up the track
that winds away into the bush, and of searching
the usual approaches for a moving Object. Even
after years df Usage she feels tierVouS and utterly
lonely kt times when flight OilVblopS her. I ben
the call of the mopoke, the howl of the dingo, and
the cry of the curlew find responsive chords that
quicken at the sounds. She pegs the doors
securely at dusk, and retires early to sleep away
those lonely hours, never forgetting to search the
room and to look carefully under the bed and
among the clothes for snakes. A stout stick
stands in readiness at the head of the bed for any
reptile that may intrude during the night, in
these still hours there is an occasional possum
fight on the roof, which is startling if nothing else.
A woman on the Richmond River, on opening
the door one morning, was horrified to see 6) or
40 blacks standing still and silent. All were
armed with boomerangs and spears, and in a state
of semi-nudity. They only wanted to be rowed
across the river, knowing she had a punt moored
to the bank below. To get rid of them, and fear-
ing to give offence, she Went down to the river and
ferried them over in five trips. , The last one to
step ashore said, “ Tank yer, mithus ; you berry
good woman. Mine get it yo’ sugarbag byneby.
In her average home, which is neat, clean and
comfortable, Bella Bush is a full-bosomed, broad-
hipped, plump specimen of femininity of the
sort that makes good mothers. She is plainly
dressed, but her healthy surroundings have given
her such a charm and beauty that anything be-
comes her. She is a little shy at first
but she is more at ease with men than Bill is with
women ; and no one can take a rise out of a man
quicker than Bella Bush. You see mischief in
her eyes, humor in the smile on her kissable lips.
She is jolly, big-hearted, and constant; and no-
where is she prettier than on the tablelands of
New England and on the Richmond River.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
NOW
(George Ad&mSj Hobart) Tasmania.)
OPEN nirpTs ,^.° bart M Febru f a ,7 6 > 1907 “• 50,000 at 5 2 each.
HAWmrAp a w " lnS + Launceston - Tas -February 13,1907, 50,000 at 5 2 each.
AUSTRALIA W Pm! ’ Vic., March 2, 1907 100,000 at 10/4 each.
ALLAN CUP, Flemmgton, Vic., March 5, 1907 100,000 at 5/2 each-
5Sa
TMPORTAKfT NOTICE,
Ticket, and Vrf. R on C< eaoK 8 10s r 7 " aS aTff rtftl ” Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENThafIuTHORSEnthe TT *°
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same mfnSfment Is f Estate ° £ the late GEOEGB ADAMS to carry on the
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOB*** in aS‘l,2 * “ e<l ‘ h '° ,, « h pIrOEM
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St t, MELBOURNE.
98 King William StADELAIDE ,
f Booking Fee,
j 3d.
I per Parcel.
IF YOU DON’T
LIKE THE HEAT
WEAR
Aertex Giiuiar
. . . AND KEEP COOL.
“ AERTEX " ventilates the body—lets out the heat
and keeps the skin dry and cool.
It prevents that uncomfortable warm feeling- caused
°y, t0 ° ° los ?, l f "’oven underwear. It is beautifully
soft and will not irritate the most sensitive skin
Doctors recommend it as the most healthy fabric
ever invented.
SHIRTS from 4s. ; SINGLETS from 2s. 6d.
Full Illustrated Price Lists and Samples Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
Mis» KELLERMANN
{the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer ) writing of
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE- _
*,* m ° r f . aoarishia * staining than any other.’
r your « VA
workshop, home,
food.
S liqu?d r food < s, t Cl&.Sßl^llY^S t^OCoJL, f^f^;s o^i^^;^Jfy^o^o^'<
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food."— Health.
on getting CADBURY’S. .—«g
i
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. Packet of 12.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. _
——■ io«i. ~ 10.
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRAGRANT,
NOai-POISSNOUS. Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Slok Rooms.
Also 1/- TlhS Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemist! and Storekeeper!.
The “SAHITAS” CO.,
Ltd., Llmeh.ouse,
London.
sfd
BRONCHITIS
CURE
Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Breathing, Hoarseness, or Soreness in thTchSt*'VxpeTtenc? ddighSStnd Ymmediatl^olis'- i iS?to* 1 h >,IS ' ? Uoerers f l rom an y form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation’in a„d2vini f ° are 5 ub j ect t 0 C ° lds on the Chest il is invaluable, as it
s C L r n^ C he° r ptIO “ d «velop. Consumption has never been known to £fat whX«KL” hatZT’ 14 n f her aII ° WS a Cou 8 h or Asthma to become
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Sis certlin wUh thiS medi=ine - No house
beware of Imitations ! The great success or hearne’s bronchitis cure h - „ H
or unprincipled persons to make Imitations, each calling his medicine « r L*° ’ haS ,nduced a number
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an Lifetin u u Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has Unr wh,c h has none or the beneficial effects that
and to request you your own i^tHo L T atte " tio " *> th *
TO asK * or HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6: Large Size 4/6 eu - .
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. ’ Forwarded toanvAdd . Mecllcine V®"*®***. and by the
NOTICE.-”— Bronchi.,. Cure No. ,A .... nor eon.s.n on, p.i.on „ ithi „ t J ll™ 0 '
the youngest child and the most a«rod person. A *' * eqUal,y beneficial for
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
Vf F^tS ATURE and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tines Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
I Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
1 Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybogk, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is: post Is 3d
Georgette Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post!
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
A Sr ST ’ Minb ? s ’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)
3s od. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisles Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
IE ’m 6d \, 11 / STORY 0F THR Ron (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest Woman
and THE Confessional, Is Od. The Art of Jui-.Jitsu
9d and Is 6d. God and My'Neighbo'r, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1/3
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d ’new
Tricks with- Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Paperwg Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth ls6d
ds
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURTTY, &c„ with full
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brassing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From S.vowy River., 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man liis Own Builder, Is. Every
A nT^L OWN n° ARPENTER ’ ls3d ’ Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
™ P° st ® d - Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pa-es.
NAtiire'asit' 'TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
sand mi-Mtin™ Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
which they feel • ° the m , in - ds of youn ° andold . but al| out
are devoted to imn S k!” consulting their physician. Chapters
riage which makesmerable foresting subjects concerning mar-
women S s . u P® nor guide to fche action of men an d
anticipates a t ‘ ° f T™ a * e - No mai > or woman who
fullest sense earf-mlf J J lr ®!. and Wlshes to enjoy married life inits
in its covers!
clotlccovered"edition of^i^re^vvork°°^ , unabl j d f ed .
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE? t 0
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handtbook, Is 3d Mac-
£" S Trainino, is Elements ofSocial
A 3 6d ’ 0w OuR Nrw Selection, 6s 6d.
Jl C ™ vhA ™™> I 8 6d - French Self Taught,
**?£ A ™ AN ® Enginb Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood 5s
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gat
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be tooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IST- Established, SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A snALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
• ♦
Write for my
B>9 Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d oosfc. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wipes Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
oappho, is. Bread- and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilkrs Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2a posted. Fruits Of Philosophy Is post. Howto
bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
RECBTATTONS AND READmGS, IS 3d. NERVOUSNESS AND
its cure, is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. DVn'a-
ac!,« ND Elec ™ c Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE MECHANIC, 1016 pages, Cloth
.““"J 10 * P oste d- The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
Pjf/A 6d posted. The AGE or Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 24 WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


4/.
4ne,
*6
A
sd
shaving
Soap
produces a lather that differs from all others.
First, in body. It is thick and close and profuse.
Second, in lasting qualities. It holds its moisture and remains on the
face, thick and creamy, without the drying and smarting effects of othc: Kinds.
Third, in its action. It softens the beard and soothes the face as no
other lather does.
Fourth, in its after effect. Unlike the lather of other
soaps, it always leaves the face coolj comfortable and
refreshed.
“The only kind that won’t smart or dry on the face.”
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and periumers all over the
world, or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
' Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets,
Is.; Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, (id. (Trial size) of
Williams’ Shaving Stick, 2d.
sfd
The j. B. Williams Company
65 Qt. Russell St., London, W. C.; 4 Rne Chauveaux
Lagarde, Paris; 161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South
Wales. Head office and factories, Glastonbury, Conn.,
TJ. S. A.
sfd
By Royal Warrant to
sfd
His Majesty The King.
BOVRIL
contains the whole of the valuable stimulating and nourishing
properties of beef and is therefore of great value after acute
illnesses of all kinds.
Whenever appetite is poor try a cup of Bovril.
The Spirit of the Waves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AN evanescent spirit,
Companion of the waves,
Half-mermaid and half-siren,
Haunts sunken margin-caves,
No eye hath truly seen her,
No ear hath surely heard,
She comes like summer love-light,
And goes like hope deferred.
She comes with cold-grey morning,
Pale as the driven foam,
With never plea nor warning,
When heavy rollers comb,
And when all else is sleeping
She sobs without surcease ;
Her eyes must ache with weeping,
Her heart must ache for peace.
When great seas roll in greenly,
Invasive, in their curves,
Her body glistens sheenly
An instant, then she swerves
As wind-wliipt breakers thunder
And shout rock sentinels,
She dives serenely under
The seething white-topped swells.
I’ve watched —none could mistake her
Flame-flashed amorphous hues ;
Dived underneath the breaker,
A search in gemmed purlieus,
Seen but a lambent vision,
Gulfed in the dark-mouthed caves,
Heard but her shrill derision—
Or wail—above the waves.
Is she a foresworn spirit,
Sm-sodden, doomed for e’er
To seek release, but near it
Suspire with pale despair,
For when in sight of freedom
Sea-daemons pluck her gown,
And she makes lamentation,
For spirits may not drown ?
From distant Isles of Ocean,
Unknown of mortal aoul,
Comes she o’er moon-led waters
To where white breakers roll ?
Or from the dream-dark sea-bed,
Deep down where dead men lie.
Brings word of sooth and presage?—
No mortal may reply.
N.s.w,
W. M. WHINTNEY.
The Kid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
babe was dead.
The Kid stood and gazed at him. It
had been raining heavily. Her thin
slurts were drenched with rain; her hair, all wet,
knotted and lank, hung over her face. She had
been taking cows to the paddocks. Her bare
feet were mud-splashed, red and blue with cold.
The Kid was the child of a small dairy-farmer
in the southern hills. Her mother was dead.
She had worked slavishly in the rough wooden
house in the light-wood clearing. She was
barely 12, and her hands were hard and Worn
as a woman’s.
M‘Donald Was an ill-natured fellow. He came
home in the twilight, one day. A woman was
with him. It was Leeze, the publican’s
daughter.
When night came, the Kid was turned out
of doors. There were no stars. The grinding
harshness of her life had drugged the child-
heart of its capacity to feel. In the darkness,
where she lay, her bruised limbs ached. She
worked for the man’s new wife, a big, slatternly
woman, with a ooarse face.
A baby came, a small, colorless thing, With
bright eyes and a mat of downy hair. The Kid
watohed him grow, with the curiosity one sees a
new-born calf stagger to its legs. Bye-and-bye,
the small face puckered into smiles. The Kid
learned how to make him chuckle and crow,
make his eyes twinkle up and the soft cheeks
dimple. She often stole him away when she
was minding cows on the hills. Hours long,
they frolicked together in the bush of the hills
and in the long meadowy paddocks. She crooned
him to sleep with wild unmusical lulling
tones, lavishing love and tenderness on the
neglected thing—the love and tenderness, savage
and untaught, that is instinct.
But the babe was dead. He lay naked on the red
flannel shawl. Out in the cow-yard Leeze and
the man were quarrelling about the burying of
him. The Kid did not understand at all, but her
eyes glinted. She distrusted them both,
“What did they mean to do with her baby ?’*
She listened a moment, then quickly wrapped
clothes around the stiff little body, tied the red
shawl about it, and fled.
* * * »
In an alley of the back wood hills a man was
felling timber. The Kid sat on some fallen logs
among the blue-grey gum saplings, the red shawl
in her arms. The man was young arid strong,
“ Ben!” she said, watching the rhythmic swing
and clang of the axe. She was holding the red
bundle tightly, and rocking it in her arms.
“Ben!” she said again to the nervy young
wood-cutter. She was an elfish little figure, with
wide, staring eyes, and ragged locks hanging
knotted and loose over her face.
“ W’at happens when yer die ? ”
“Nothin’,” said the axeman, like a heathen.
With vigorous strokes he slogged at his logs.
His fine frame was sweating. The forest re-echoed
with the clang, clang of his axe.
“ W’at’s God ? ” said the child. “ W’atfer does
’e want yer, Ben? Is’t the skin? Does’e sell
’em ? ”
The Kid’s acquaintance with death had been
among her father’s cattle. M‘Donald sold his
dead beasts for the price of their hides.
“ Say, Ben,” she whispered, “’E ain’t goin’t’
git the baby.”
The wood-cutter out of his hearty lungs
laughed, a mellow, rollicking shower of whole-
some sound.
“ Y’re a pag’n, Kid ! ” he said. “ ’E don’t want
yer babe till he’s dead. Folks have been stuffin’
yer with bogey-yarns—ter scare yer, I reck’n.”
He paused in the afternoon sunshine, sat on his
leg a moment, and swept the heavy sweat from
his forehead.
“ When a man’s dead, something that was him
goes. The outside’s the same. Something inside
of him is taken away. The rest’s most-ways
what’s called a mystery ! That’s a bit to scare
yer, too. It’s like gettin’ bushed in a fog, Kid, to
think about. You go along with the first man
that says ’e cen put yer ou the right track. Ih e
red-haired parson says, when a man dies, if e
sings ’ii’ prays, ’e goes straight to is happy home
in ’eaven. Father Shaunessy says ’e camps a bit,
this side in Purgat’ry. His friends mostly say e
goes to Hell straight. There’s another gent what
says ’e don’t go ’t all, says ’e stays in the earth n
rots, ’n’ that’s all. Go fast, go slow, go anyhow,
’n’ don’t go’t all—there’s some as says that s what
happens when yer die.” . . ~
The Kid kept her arm tight clasped about the
red-flannel shawl. She pressed it to her. Her
thought of it was too intense to follow Ben s
theological preamble.
“I sefe’d the red-haired parson, she said. E
says God gets’em.” .
Then she paused, looking down at the little
bundle. , ,
‘‘lt’s dead!” she gasped with short, sharp
breath—“the baby, Ben! but’e ain’t goin’t’ git
it. Leeze ’n’ fether wanted to bury ’mi, but 1
brung ’im here. He’s just like asleep, n white,
like them there white things in the grass !
Knots of pale wild flowers were scattered through
the glen. The Kid’s eyes in hot eagerness drank
in their whiteness.
“ But I say, Kid, when folks die they ve got to
be buried, whether they go to heaven or where,
said Ben with dawning comprehension in his
“If y’ babe’s dead,” he said slowly and with
many stoppings. He was rough and simple, this
youth of the backwoods. His eyes covered the
waif with a clear glance of fellowship and sympa-
thy. They divined the pitiful love and ignorance,
the unreasoning human, passionate pain through
which the child was laboring. “If y’ babes
dead,” he said, slowly, “ likely they’ll be good to
’im. ’E was a little ’un, yer know, ’n’ ’n most
people’s good to little ’uns.” . , ~
“They deaded him!” said the obsti-
nately; “’n’ if his inside’s gone away, sos there
ain’t only the outside of ’im left, ’e can’t go rollin
in the grass when the daisies is out. ’E can t
pluck the gold-tops, or go after the ceows with
me ;’n’he liked it! ” . . ,
“Oh !” she wailed, bitterly, “ n e liked it.
’E pulled me ’air, ’n’ I seed the peepin’ black eyes
of ’im in the grass ! We’d be squallin’ ’nd yellm
all the day ; ’n’ I’d t%ke ’im home poddy-back.
They sha’n’t put ’im in a hole ‘n’ cover ’im up
with dirt.”
“ Oh ! my baby, my baby ! ” she wailed, incon-
solably, rocking her body over the red shawl.
“ ’Tain’t no good, Kid,” said Ben, a great throb
of tenderness in his throat, and moved towards
her.
But the Kid was alert and apprehensive, She
was off in an instant. Ben saw the ragged little
figure, with its scarlet burden, streaking far away
among the trees. He watched it disappear with
grave eyes. Then he slung up his axe again, and
its clang on the green wood rang through the
timbered hills. .
Three or four days later Ben was ring-barlang
further down the hill side. The blood-sap was
oozing on the columns of his trees. A rustling
movement of undergrowth surprised him. It
was the quick, shy movement of a wild creature.
Bending sharply,’as a flower-laden mimosa shook,
he saw bare legs and tattered petticoats, a pallid
child face in a tangle of hair, and wild, burning
eyes. It was a pathetic child face, wan and
horror-stricken—with haunted eyes of fear. The
figure was crouched among the ferns and
mossy undergrowth, ready to spring and dart off
at a" moment. The eyes regarded him with
glaring fearsomeness, Ben dropped his arm in
the swihg of the axe.
“ Kid !*’ he said, with a kindly note., “ What’s
up, young ’Un, you look clean scared ?”
Warily the child crept from her lair in the
mimosa thicket. Her thin, brown body was bare
of all save the tattered, grey petticoat. Her
hungry eyes fixed themselves mistrustfully on the
wood-cutter’s face.
“It’s bad, Ben!” she whispered, hoarsely,
“ ’n’ the worms came. I held on to ’im all night.
The moonlight came, ’n’ there was ghosts in tli’
shadows iv th’ trees. I seed cat’s-eyes in tli’
darkness, They spit at us, ’n’ fought in tli’
bushes. Dingoes came sneaking round, ’n’ I flung
sticks at them. It was cold, ’n’ I put all my
things but this on the baby. I thought God
meant to come and take ’im away, Ben. I
watched all the night ’n’ days.”
The hoarse little voice was dull with its
misery.
“I ’eld ’im tight. There was nothin to eat
’cept a bit of wattle-gum. God never came,”
Her eyes Were distended with horror and
agony.
“ I lay the shawl in th’ grass Under the big gum-
tree in the ceoW track. It’s covered up with
Wild flowers, Ben—heath, bits of pink and white
heath, supple-jack ’n’ red-bells and wattle-
blossom. I left it fer God ter find in th’ red
shawl—by th’ ceow track, Ben.”
The child was shivering and sobbing sound-
lessly.
“The ceoWs is out. I cen hear the ceow-
bells on the range. Me fether ’ll beat me if I
bring ’em in late ! ” A cry of fear was in her
voice. She ran away among the trees.
* »
“ Say, Parson !” yelled Ben from the hill-side.
The red-haired parson was swinging down the
spur on his rough pony. He Was an enthusiast.
His coat was green with weather, many storms
and suns. He rode loose and easy, like a bush-
man. He was singing with mighty lungs a“ Te
Deurn ” that made the hills tingle,
“ I say,” said Ben, crossing the fallen timber of
his clearing to the road-side, “ seen anything of
that kid er M‘Donald’s lately ? ”
“No,” said the parson.
Ben told him about the baby, how the Kid
loved him, and of all the endurance and daring and
ignorant passion of her fight for his dead baby-
body.
The backwoodsman’s face was troubled.
“ It’s a derned black shame, anyhow,” he said.
“I’ve seen that kid driving cows on the range in
every weather —storms, mists, snow—barefoot,
and red an’ blue with cold, drenched and hungry.
I used to give her a feed when I was on this side
of the hills. M‘Donald’s a brute. Leeze hates ’er.
Sometimes she’d come to me when they’d beaten
her and turned her out —just crawl out of the
darkness and lay down by me camp-fire. It was
uncanny ; the Kid never cried, like children do.
She’d just gasp there, with sobs of breath, and
rub her limbs where the pain tingled. M‘Donald
beat her an’ kicked her out the doorway that
night she went back.”
“ Them still hills is weird on a man, Parson,’
said Ben. “At night, in the moonlight, the dead
trees are ghostly. Shadows come creepin’ and
crawlin’ round yer, the wild dogs start howling,
and the wind pants up the cold earth. I hev’nt
seen th’ Kid fer a day or two. Thought yer
might hev come across her somewheres.”
Ben’s honest eyes were anxious, his voice rough.
“No,” said the red-haired parson. “Where
did she put the baby, Ben ? ”
“ Near the big white gum-tree, by the track.
“Let’s go and see,” said the parson, breaking
through the clearing’s fringe of trees.
Like a column of stainless marble, the white
gum clove the green depths of the forest and
touched the blue sky. A wreathing tendril ot
clematis clung to its base. There were withered
flowers scattered near where a sodden heap lay, at
the foot of the great tree, a grey, tattered petti-
coat, and a tangle of rain-drenched hair.
“The Kid!” gasped Ben. .
The red-haired parson, with reverential, manly
tenderness, lifted the fallen head, and arranged
the clothes on the bare, bruised limbs. A red
shawl was clinched in the bony arms. Ben
stood away. His throat held tightly over the
rushing breath. That one gust ot bitterest pain
had swept the child beyond her sobbing sleep
and life’s cruel joylessness. The red-haired
parson spread a branch of starry blossom where
they lay—the Kid and, close-held, her red
bundle. He bared his head to the hill-breezes.
KATHARINE PRICHARD.
Partly Fantasy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’M Barefoot Jimmie, Key-Piece of See-
Saw—just off the chain, having a roam
around, loose.
No more corn-beef and damper, no more roll-
ing the windlass, or whacking in long, hard
holes, or fooling with lumps of lead. No more
nothing! , . ~
Good-bye, you little lizards, doing valiant
battle with stray scorpions in my gunyali at
the claim, at crib-time! Good-bye, you little
black devils, foraging in my tucker-bag ! Sing
awav, you mating leather-heads, nesting in that
mistletoe, with your “ Six o’clock, neow.
Sing away ! And bite, you little black devils .
Barefoot Jimmie’s going for a ramble.
I’m just going down to The Bulletin office for
a “pitch.” ,
Now I’m in Georgetown: the eamp lies 40
miles sou’ east. Things are looking up. It sniffs
a bit railway-like just now ; for Cobb has lost
the mail contract for ’O7, and Gallagher talks of
running opposition to Love, the successful ten-
derer. Almaden to Georgetown and Croydon ;
155 miles is Almaden : fare to be ten bob. Old
price, £3lss. , ,
Good-bye, Georgetown. Im in the coach now ;
for Almaden—lss miles of burnt grass ; oceans of
sand and dust. Almaden ! Supper, breakfast,
train ; rushing through space—five miles per hour.
Cairns now. Ah ! that’s better. Smell the
breeze? After four years of dynamite smoke
and h—l generally ! Night-time : Chinatown.
“Comeinsi!” No, better not.
Steamer and me on the way south; morning.
Porpoise school for’ard. How they play ! One
turns over, looks up, says: “I know you, Bare-
foot Jimmie : saw you four years ago ...
Townsville, a day or so ; Sydney safely. In
Bulletin office now, introducing myself through
the door into the middle of things. A mazy look
from counter clerk. “Ha ! Mr. Editor.’ Dubiety.
Explanations. General knock down all round!
Any chance of “going in off you,” Mr. Editor.
You don’t keep it ? No-o-o-o ?
Where’s Norman Lindsay, and Vincent i Busy,
you say ? Where’s all the rest of you ? Tiyphena,
Afini, Akenehi ? Best respects to you, Mesdames.
Come on, Hop ! Have a prowl with me up
King-street —and a wet. Now drink my toast,
Here’s to Our Country, every time! *
What a heap of trams. What are they all
staring atmc for ? #
Good-night, you little willy-willies; staying,
flirting, on my door-sill; or scurrying through,
doorway tp doorway; dropping leafy bambino
visitors. Good night, you chirpy old locust m the
creek, vibrant, insistent; dinning your lone y
requiem at the rising moon for another dead day.
Din away ! You will stop soon, foi hancv
wrecks upon a knob of Fact. Sou -easters blusuei
up red dust on the grave ; then lower, Renter,
seem to whisper, “Brave Hearts, the Lush .s
always best! Good-night.”
Adieu "V". J.D. ! Bohemia still lives. _
N.Q.
BABRFOOT JINMIE.


dost NEGLECT yodr KIDNEYS.
Thsy Filter and Purify the Blood.
But be sure you get the Genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
like your Neighbour had.
[See Below).
■ Mi.
<r
& ;
//r, SY
// l, '-J 4
iin
c r !
<?*> _ C
£-, .1 V I
> v »!
€ 6
£
Hi
m *
r
: J#'
c
rnmutn
i
P;.
y
o
a>
O)
KGr.
nS
m
-3Sv
/- r'
A.
( “ Every Picture telh
a Story."
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills cure Inflammation of
the Kidneys and Bladder, Pain or Dull Ache
in the Back, Joints and Muscles; cure
Gravel, Weak Heart, Nervousness,
and all Urinary Troubles. .
If you have any form of Kidney Trouble, would it not
be well to follow the advice of a neighbor—someone you
may know ? Head the case given below—perhaps you
may know Mr. Boyd. Doan’s Backache Kidney Tills heal
and tone up the kidneys, and help them to keep the body
healthy, and free from kidney poisons. This medicine is
for men and women, old and young, and is always safe
and reliable.
A LASTING SYDNEY CURE.
TOLD IN 1902. PROVED IN 1905.
Mr. 9. Boyd, 17 9t. Andrew’s-street, Balmain, this city, says :—“Bor
twenty years I have suffered more or less with my back. I think it was
caused by the kidneys. A little over two years ago I seemed to collapse
altogether. It was the worst bout of backache that I ever had. The strike
was on at the time, so it happened that I was not working. I would not
have been able to work in any case ; I was too bad—in fact I was completely
done up. I began taking everything I was advised to take, but got no
relief. At last a friend advised me to try Doan’s Backache Kidney 1 ills.
I got this remedy, and ten boxes made a permanent cure in my case. It
was a real good cure in my case. I had been bad for so long. lam quite
satisfied Doan s Backache Kidney Pills will d« as much for others suffering
with backache.”
Mrs. Boyd confirms the above in Feb., ’O5 “My husband has had no
return of the backache since Doan’s Backache Kidnev Pills cured him. He
w three years cured now. He used the Pills thoroughly at the time. He is
60 year* old now, and can do a day’s work as well as anyone.”
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers a
2s, 9d. per box (six boxes, los. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price b’
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PHIS
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
It Mat Lead to Serious Results.
When people generally understand that
all such fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the
rectum, fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of trouble in this quarter.
Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure every
form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have
been saved by using this cheap but effective
remedy right at the start, because at such
times a single pot will effect a cure, while in
the old, deep-seated, chronic cases several
pots are sometimes required before a cure is
effected. Here is a case in point:—
Mr. William Gilliver, of Gilliver and
Curtis, General Contractors, whose private
address is “ Avoca,” Bankstown, writes us,
December 10, 1900 :
“ I wrote you February 14, 1899, advising
you that Doan’s Ointment had cured me of
itching piles, after twenty-two years’ afflict
ition. I had let six months go by before I
wrote that letter, as I wished to see whether
the cure was a permanent one. I had used
many remedies ip these twenty-two years’
trouble, and cpuld scarcely believe that only
half a poit of ointment could work such a
cure. Since I wrote that last letter I have
had more lasting proof of the durability of
the good this preparation has done me. I
have not had occasion to use the pintment
since. It was a permanent cure. Many
people wrote to me about the value of loan’s
Ointment, and I advised them .to give it a
trial, and then let me know the results. In
consequence I have received many letters
telling me of cures,effected by Ppan’s Oint-
ment.”
I cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will
cure them absolutely. But do not take our
word for it. Write to Mr. Qilliver and ask
him. He knows. It is for sale by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d), or will be posted on receipt
of the price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
The Influence of Gaol.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gaol Is a great reforming influence.— Popular super-
stition.
YE tramp the paths of virtue, ye pale souls
in the street;
What can ye know of gaol, then —that lair
of doom effete ?
Ye prate upon the platform, and in the daily press,
And puff the “reformations” effected by duress.
What can ye know about it, ye saints unsmirched
by crime ?
Room for some observations by one who has
“ done time ” !
Gaol’s influence is rotten—a stew of living death,
With “lifers” on the top-tier, and “shorties”
underneath.
Come, plait the straw with me now, within the
living tomb—
Ha ! “separate treatment” beckons—nine months
of silent doom !
Try hominy and water ; lift up a “ kit ” of soup ;
In Darlinghurst, or Pentridge, or Goulburn’s
sombre coop.
Avert your heads, ye praters, ye smug saints pure
and pale,
While I sing that dismal influence —the Influence
of Gaol!
The “grey-coats” crouch in hundreds, within
their grey-stone cells.
No hope here for improvement, hid in these six-
foot Hells !
A maniac in the dark cells is beating on the wall;
The warders cuff and curse him in tones of Chris-
tian gall.
A “lifer” on the top floor is praying dismally—
Twelve years of gaol have slain him forever men-
tally.
He thinks the gallows claims him—in his dis-
ordered brain
Walk phantom shapes and shadows that writhe
and twist with pain.
The warders joke and tell such to wait till they
are fat;
Then Nosey Bob will deck them with his fresh-
oiled cravat !
I'liere’s a hanging on the morrow; another soul
sets sail—
A splendid object lesson on the Influence of Gaol.
Corpse-watchers guard the doom-cell in “B”
wing all the night;
The sleepless “ grey-coats ” mumble and start in
sudden fright.
The grim gatekeeper’s daughter strums far piano-
keys,
The notes of “Annie Laurie ” ride towards us on
the breeze.
The gallows on the landing is waiting, black and
stark— •
Gaol s influence is powerful on weak minds in the
dark !
Imagine that you see It —the white cap on Its
head—
Ho, hear the hangman whisper above the crumpled
dead !
The rope is dangling downward—each “ grey-
coat ” in his mind
Sees that black, oily serpent in fatal coils un-
wind.
What wonder if some brains snap—what wonder
if wits fail,
Exposed to that blest Influence—the Influence of
Gaol!
It s “lights-out” at eight-thirty; at nine they go
the rounds;
A ghostly “ tap-tap-tapping ” from cell to cell
resounds.
The Influence is working—a “lifer” screams
aloft ;
He dreamed that he was strangling in an oily
noose and soft!
There’s dread within the guard-room, and dread
within the wards ;
With shaking hands the hangman’s mate essays
to cut the cards.
The hangman plays the Joker—the “ bloke in fifty-
six”
Stares at his bunch of roses, he spurns the cruci-
fix.
“No gods for me !” he shouted, “curse all your
holy crew;
I want no canting Methodist nor priest to see me
through! ”
No gods for him, no mumbling—no prating will
avail
A man beneath the Influence—the Influence of
Gaol!
vie.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Donkey in Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is not generally known that the
donkey is now much used in the Austra-
lian interior. The droughts have demon-
strated his good qualities.
The donk.’s constitution is of iron, and he will
work and keep fat when e ven the township goat
■gets poor. He is also long-lived. A dead ass is
rarely seen, and when he does peg-out, it is
mostly by misadventure. When thoroughly
broken-in, the donk. is very staunch in the collar,
and requires no more driving 'than a horse. His
average hauling power may be put at 4cwt. on
ordinary bush roads. In sand, however, the
donk is somewhat of a failure, as his small feet
smkm too deep, and get below the draught, thus
'puHing the load down instead of forward.
. , e 1? a splendid camper, generally feeding in a
circle from where he is let go ; and when feed is
good yon can rely on him being within cooee in
the morning. That is, providing there is only
one jack in the mob. If there are two, each will
take his own harem, and put a fair distance be-
tween them and the other fellow.
1 he breaking-in, with most teamslters, is a verv
primitive operation. You rope your donk. and
drag him into Ins place in the team, and there he
is—broken-in. Side-lines and hopples have, of
course, to be kept on him for some weeks, until he
gets quiet enough to catch without. Mouthing is
not thought of in connection with breaking-in.
Although driven in winkers the ass is guided by
the whip and voice like the bullock. It is the
want of mouthing mostly that gets the animal a
reputation for stubbornness. If properly mouthed
he will lead, turn, and back as well as any horse.
He makes a splendid pack-animal; does not
jolt a pack as a horse does, and can carry a sur-
prising weight. Met a 12-stone Afghan once,
perched on a big pack and swag, beneath which
an ordinary-looking donk. was ambling along
cheerfully. Remonstrated with Chunder Sen for
overloading the beast. He was quite indignant,
and informed me that he had sold a bag of
flour off his pack that morning. Reckoned he
was light-loaded.
I had a gelding donk. that was so fond of
horses that the musterers always took him around
on their trips. The boys, when in camp, used to
play leap-frog over jack’s back, and he enjoyed the
fun as much as they did. He was taught to
come to the camp early in the morning for bread,
and was then used to round-up the horses. When
feed was good he wasn’t very punctual, but on a
bad camp you could rely on John’s prompt appear-
ance at daylight.
Honks, are bred extensively in the north of
S.A. Some years ago a big pastoral firm found
its donkeys (which were breeding wild) getting
too numerous, and started shooting all the culls
and undersizes, and using the flesh for dog-baits.
A little while after this, however, some S.A.
wanderers, who had gone West, bethought them-
selves of the donk.’s drought-resisting qualities,
and imported a few teams from S.A. They
turned out such a good investment that there has
been a steady demand for them ever since. And
prices have consequently risen 75 to 100 per cent.
Indeed at present it is hard to procure a team at
any price. Not long ago I offered £ll a head for
a team (harness and waggon given in), and could
not buy. The firm before referred to has sold all
it has available, and is now giving men from £1 to
£2 a head (according to size and sex) to procure
them from the Flinders Ranges, where they are
running wild on leased country. The catching is
done with the lasso; and both men and horses
require to be expert. A good horse will pick up
a donkey in 100yds. on level country, but in the
ranges it’s odds on the donk.; and the rider has to
chance his luck every time.
S.A.
C.X.G.
Cop Edwards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRUMBY was vindictive, morose,
savage. Most Woolloomooloo nigh thirds
knew and feared him.
He was just out of Darlinghurst gaol. He sat
at a rickety table with a jug of beer, a glass, and
a half loaf of bread before him. His wife watched
him with silent admiration from a stool at the
fireplace. Her father, a little, wiry old man,
apparently half asleep in a chair in the corner,
peeped furtively at him now and again.
“Blime,” “gorblime’’ and similar words,
like gorilla grunts, broke involuntarily from
Brumby while he ate and drank. His passion
whipped him even while devouring food.
“ I’ll kill Cop Edwards ! ” he suddenly ex-
claimed, smashing the glass upon the table.
“I’ll kill him afore I go to sleep!”
The old man jumped out of his half-doze, and,
eyeing Brumby a moment, picked up a reel of
fishing line and a small hammer from a shelf
behind and shambled out of the door.
“ I’ll kill Cop Edwards ! ” Brumby repeated.
“’E perjured hisself,” said the wife.
“Swore away me liberty,” snarled Brumby.
“I stayed awake nights on nights in chokv
plannin’ ter git even. I can do it to-night.”
“’Ow?”
“’lt him wit a rock as ’e turns up the corner
from the pier. ’E’s on beat to-night down at the
water. I told yer father about it. ’E sez it’s
alright.”
The wife considered the matter.
“Just afore shuttin’ up time I'll be on the
steps above the gateway, an’ ’ll plant it on ’is
bloomin’ napper ’ard an’ suddent. There’ll be no
more Cop Edwards.”
“ If yer miss ?”
“ Miss ! No fear. Wot yer take me for? ”
“ Want me to help ? ”
“ Naw. I’m man enough for me own graft.”
“’Ope ye’ll kill’im,’’sheadded heartily, coming
over and patting Brumby’s back. “Coppers like
him has no right to live.”
It was considerably after midnight when
Brumby returned.
“ Did yer kill him ? ” asked the wife,
“ Naw. Me luck were out.”
“ Missed’m ?”
“Naw. Me luck were out.”
“Didn’t git there?”
“Was there. Don’t I tell yer me luck were
out?”
“’Ow then?”
“ Drownded.”
“ Drownded—’ow?”
“Father fishin’ on the pier fell in. Cop
jumped ter save’m. Cop drownded.”
“ An’ father ? ”
“Father’s safe. ’E’s tuck to hospital wit
shock. But Cop Edwards’s drownded.”
“But that comes to the same thing,” said the
wife.
“ Naw.”
“ ’Ow ? ”
“Hadn’t ther joy o’ killin’ ’m. Didn’t want
the help o’ no bloomin’ haccident. Oh, me luck’s
been cruel hard.”
The old man shambled into the room and
dropped on his chair in the corner.
“Kep’ me ter dry me clothes,” he explained.
“ Cop Edwards’s drownded,” said the wife.
Although the candle burnt dimly, the old
man’s eyes could be seen glittering as he turned
them from daughter to son-in-law.
“Yes,” he said, softly, “w’en he were beside
me on the pier I slipped in. I knoo ’e’d jump
after—’e’s got two medals for life savin’. But I’m
better ’n him in water. I ’it ’m wit me ’arnmer
in the water an’ drownded’m.”
Brumby’s jaw fell, and the wife stared. The
silence meant that further explanation was
needed.
“ Brumby couldn’t ’a’ done the rock biz without
bem found out an’ ’anged, so I put Cop Edwards
away guiet. But I lost me ’ammer.”
“Didn’t I tell yer,” said the wife, “that
father s rale grit ? ”
“Blime, gorblime, so ’e are. Put it ’ere, dad.
Ye meant well, I see, but ye’ve deprived me o’
me best joy.”
But it s all in the fambly, ’’ said the wife
'exultingly.
•Brumby gave a hand to each and grunted •
“ Blime, but yer both grit. I’ll find ye another
ammer, ole man.”
O.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
sfdf
{£ l used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DE. J. O. AYEE & GO., Lowell, Mass., U. 8. A.
There are many imitation “ Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER'S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glass bottles.
FREE
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. \\ hen you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any pie.ent
you may choose from thedist of jewellery which we send you. By contanuinglbne sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
- ' .st dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
•. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
with any other firm,
could not make you
seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
FREE TRIALII
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEGTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and St tnach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use of
0S RICO RO's
rsS^ cE °y \Xf
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOE YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDIsTEY.
How A
are f
you m
Everyone is familiar with this expression. It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for “How are you?” Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all sickness comes directly from
indigestion, or a torpid condition of the liver and bowels.
tßeechomti
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
up and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
Natures warnings of disorder. BEECHAM’S PILLS keep people
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for gfving strength to the stomach, correcting the digestion and
regulating the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
Keep You Fit -
M Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/11 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
sfd
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
On the
Trail *
Of the
Trusts
Powerful
Illustrations
by Hop.,
Vincent,
N. Lindsay,
and Weston.
Price
Post Free
from The
Bulletin
Office,
1/3
A Practical
WorK on Protection
Puts the case for National Industry
—from all points of view with
rare cogency and brightness.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYHE
Caution- —genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNS
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP EELP-CUKE, will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
“aSSmss'a. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
f
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
venience
m)
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. MARTIN,
151 Elizabeth St.,
sydktey.
The old-established, Reliable Phy-
sician and Surgeon may be consulted on
All Diseases of e*DE?ET 4Mg
Men and Women FREE,
Age and Experience Important—Avoid Unskilful Pretenders—Both Sexes Consult
Confidently—No Experiments. If you are afflicted and Wish to Recover your Lost
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE FOR
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OP MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE.”
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent medical work contains 602 Pages
Crown Bvo., over SOO Prescriptions, SO Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate.
The most interesting, up-to-date and reliable medical
work published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free to the public. It
is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity, afflicted with long-standing chronic,
nervous, exhausting or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FneC a 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
rltCB giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
CONSULT THE AUTHORa AII Correspondence Confidential. CONSULT THE AUTHOR.


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sena for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Rerdriau Rubber Co . Ltd .
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
c
LARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
HARDY’S
śd
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER lIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill fn,
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS: |tf a I ICUpDIEDE 606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
WT * 06 U * fcElwrniCllC| And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
wMsm
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex * Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. w-
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of* & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings,
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
mmrnmmmtmmm
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
Motor Car
Tyres<&?
LE PERSAN
Made by TH£
Silvertoivn Rubber go.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
The Improved
CARD ORE
CONCENTRATOR.
NEW PATENTS.
Self-Lubricating Head motion,
giving greater differential
movement.
Self-Lubricating Track Rods.
Progressively Sizing Pulp
Feeder.
80LE MANUFACTURERS!
N. GUTHRIDGE, L™-
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ďs
THE TWO-PLANE
ADJUSTABLEDECK
Is the Greatest
Discovery of the
last 20 years
made in the
Concentrating:
Art.
