

FOR
PARTICULAR PEOPLE
r. <3r. && 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOE— . ~
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
IPS
is?
HOBART.
xm
jjadley’s Orient fjotel
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Sob Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
Kirchner’s SAWINfi and WOODWORKING MACHINERY
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL BANDMILLS hold the worlds record.
Grand Prix Paris 1900 (Highest Possible Award) ~m Send for Ulu ' ,rl,u '' l Descriptive Lists.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO,, Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, H.S.W.
\
Pine Apple Brand
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
LINOLITE
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating 1 Current.
Sole Agents for Australia:
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
all ;
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckeft St. } Melbourne.
i-
BECKS LAGER
As supplied to the I P. & O.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers.
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
riPEjS>
O
a
i
Trade Mark.
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark.
P E ft
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, Ac., Ac
(Wholesale anti Retail).
o
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON
SPA.
f A Bottle every morning before breakfast. }
[ RESULT: The eye is bright and skin clear. J
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1420.]
[Thursday, May 2, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST
SYDNEY.
•1
Mark Twain, Christian Science, 6s, postage Bd.
Villiers, Peaceful Personalities, l‘2s 6d, postage Is 3d.
Hyatt, The Pocket Charles Kingsley, leather 3s 6d,
cloth 2s (id, postage 3d.
Menpes (Dorothy), Paris, 7s 6d, postage 9d.
George and Mathew, Engines of Social Progress, os, p. Bd.
Redfern, Wisdom of Sir VV. Scott, 6s, postage Bd.'
Dalton, Church and State in France, 15s, postage Is od.
Bernard Nautical Telegraph Code. 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Roosevelt, Cood 11 nilting, 3s (id , postage (id
Benson, Religion of a Plain Man, 3s, pbstage 4d
a, rV ioi? Da ; ry 0f S . vno, Cvms, Is 3d, postage 3d
Lawson, Friday 13th, 4s, postage 6d. h
Brear, Vocal Faults and their Remedies, 4s, postage Cd
Hocking (S.K.), The Silent Man, 2s 6d &3s Od postae-eMd
Sims (C.R.), His Wife’s Revenge, 3s (id, 6d *
HAZELL’S ANNUAL FOR 1907, 4s, postage 8d extra.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
1 J UJQftFz
G.v^udso/v.
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OB OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR HUDSON’S-TaKe no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6,
May be taken daily by old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the sole
Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. P»
The RED PAGE
THE MAORI AT HOME
IN a previous article we traced the history
of the alleged White Maori, the Moriori,
and the Maori races, bringing our brief
survey down to historic times—more
precisely, the fourteenth century, the date of
the first Maori hegira from Rarotonga to
Maoriland. In his new home the Maori
quickly acclimatised himself, cultivating with
some difficulty his introduced tropical plants,
such as the taro and the kumara, abandoning
his tappa clothing for mats made from the
native flax, and gradually intermarrying with
—or eating—the less warlike autochthons.
For a description of the habits of the
domiciled Maori at the time of the arrival of
the Pakeha we have to go carefully over a
somewhat limited field. Among the many
early white settlers there were few that com-
bined a knowledge of the Maori mind with a
gift of adequate literary expression. Thus,
Judge Wilson’s Story of Te Waharoa,
originally published forty years ago, and now
re-issued by Whitcombe and Tombs, bears
the impress of truth, but is as discursive and
tedious as a Maori tale ; and the impression
left is that of a confused series of tribal
fights, much sound and fury, signifying
nothing. Yet, incidentally, it flashes
light upon the Maori character ; for Wilson
knew the Maori. The reader might perhaps
question why, when such a chief as Te
Waharoa appeared in Maoriland—subtle,
politic, brave, a great leader of men—he did
not manage to make himself king of the
whole North Island. One answer is that
the conditions of Maori warfare militated
against the rise of a brown Napoleon. The
Maori chief had to risk his own life too
often, he had to lead his storming party
against the palisades of a hostile pa ; and
the chances of battle usually cut short the
long life necessary to consolidate his power.
As an example of Maoi'i warfare we may
note Ivotorerua’s masterly strategy against
the strongly fortified pa of Maunganui,
which covered one hundred acres on the top
of a hill overlooking the sea. The fortifica-
tions were so strong, and the garrison so
numerous, that the pa seemed impregnable
to Maori weapons. But Kotorerua fought
with his brain as well as with his arm, and
he devised a daring and extraordinary
scheme. But first, like the Roman, he had
to see if the omens were favorable.
On his way to a war-council with an allied
chief named Putangimaru, travelling through
the forest to avoid his enemies, he found, a
guide left for him by Putangi. This man,
Ika, showed him the track, and emerging
from the bush, pointed out his road.
Kotorerua, having got this information, killed
Ika unawares, because he wanted some portions
of his body to divine with before he met Putangi.
Having performed this office, he pursued his
journey, taking Ika’s head with him. Putangi
received Kotorerua with distinction, and asked if
lie had seen Ika.
“Yes.” said Kotorerua, “he brought me
through the forest, and I then was able to find my
way by myself; so I killed Ika, as I had to divine
before I met you.”
“You acted very wisely,” said Putangi.
“I have brought Ika’s head for us both to
divine upon,” said Kotorerua. This also received
the approval of Putangi. Then they divined
carefully and found the auguries fayorahle, and
they took counsel together and formed the plan
of campaign.
The plan depended upon the capture of a
hill, 850 feet high, which was the key to the
pa. A handful of defenders could hold the
hill against any number, the attackers having
to enter a narrow pass, flanked by walls of rock,
the approach from below being exceedingly
steep. That point secured, however, the pa
must fall. It could be taken only by
strategy. Kotorerua determined to enter the
pa under the guise of friendship, bearing a
handsome present as token of his amity. It
was necessary that this visit should take
place on a dark and stormy night, as only
under these conditions could the desper-
ate plan be carried out. Accordingly, one
evening Kotorerua, with 140 armed followers,
unexpectedly presented himself before the
fortifications of Maunganui, bearing a present
to Kinonuf, the chief of the pa, of one hun-
dred baskets of kokpwai (red ochre). This
much-prized color, Kotorerua explained, had
been obtained with much labor from the
streams. The rain had overtaken them on
the road, delaying them while they sheltered
the kokpwai from the wet.
As it was too late to go through the formalities
of presentation, the baskets were stacked at the
quarters assigned to the visitors. Thus an in-
spection of the present was avoided, which was
just as well, seeing that each was only a basket of
earth, with a layer pf kohnwai &t the top. Koto-
rerua and such of his followers as he desired to
accompany him were taken to the larger meeting-
house in the pa, where the distinguished men of
the pa met them. . . . Then ensued between the
host and his guest a scene, sustained for
hours, of courtly urbanity and matchless dis-
simulation, covering a substratum of deadly
hate; each, with unparalleled ability, was play-
ing for the almost immediate destruction of
the other, and all who were with him. On the
one hand, Kotorerua had to appear at ease, and
without a trace of anxiety, conversing about any-
thing or nothing, to gain time and disarm
suspicion—and this, notwithstanding that his men
might be discovered at any moment tampering
with the canoes on the beach below the pa, and
notwithstanding the safety of all concerned
depended upon the arrival m time of his own
canoes through the storm. On the other hand,
Kmonui had at all hazards to keep his guest
interested until daylight, when his people would
be able to see what they were doing, for it was
intended that Kotorerua ancf all his party should
then be killed ; they could not kill them in the
dark without accident and confusion, and some
might escape. Meanwhile, Kotorerua was not to
be allowed to rejoin his men ; but to kill him now
would alarm them ; therefore the conversation
was kept up between these two great actors.
... Now and then an attendant of one of the
chiefs would come in or go out, seemingly
about nothing in particular, but really keeping
communication open with their respective parties
outside. .
J*
At length Kotorerua was made aware that
his storming party had occupied the pass. He
leapt out of the meeting-house, shut the slid-
ing-door in Kinonui’s astonished face, applied
a torch to the raupo wall, and in the illumina-
tion thus provided saw a human avalanche of
his own warriors sweeping down from the
captured pass. Then the killing began. The
few occupants of the pa who escaped in the
canoes found them already wrecked, and
were drowned. Kotorerua had staked all
upon this desperate ruse ; but it must be re-
membered that—with the kind assistance of
Ika’s head—the auguries had been favorable.
Such was Maori warfare in the olden days,
calling for qualities of resource, subtlety,
generalship and courage, tempered with
no pusillanimous feelings of gratitude or
compassion. A kindlier view of the Maori
is given in that delightful book, Old New
Zealand , by a Pakeha Maori (Judge Maning),
which W hitcombe and Tombs have just
re-issued. Frederick E. Maning’s work
is a classic ; it is written by a shrewd and
humorous observer who practically embraced
the Maori point of view. His work, even in a
greater degree than J udge Wilson’s—but with
a humorous deliberateness—has the discur-
siveness of a Maori narrative. But Maning
has the literary touch. Pleasant is his descrip-
tion of the death of the old rangitira who
had made him his pakeha. The old cannibal’s
death was of good omen, for after ordering
his two old wives to hang themselves—a
reasonable request to which the two -aged
individuals most concerned gave an enthusi-
astic howl of assent, his last "words had been,.
“ How sweet is man’s flesh ! ”
&
Maning’s colloquial style may be illustrated
by his account of an annoying contretemps
that occurred to the same rangitira. By a
mistake, two parties of a friendly tribe
attacked each other in the dark, and the
rangitira had the great happiness of shout-
ing that he had once again killed the mataika,
or first man, in battle!
A few more blows, the parties recognise each
other : they are friends !—men of the same tribe !
V h<> is the lust nidt(iik<.i slftin by this fiinious war-
rior ? Quick, bring a flaming brand ; here he lies
dead ! Ha ! It, is his father !
Now an ancient knight of romance, under simi-
lar awkward circumstances, would probably have
retired from public life, sought out some" forest
cave, hung up his armor, let his beard grow,
flogged himself twice “regular,” and lived on
“pulse,’’ which 1 suppose means pea-soup, for
the rest of his life. But my old rangitira and his
companions had not a morsel of that sort of
romance about them. The killing of my friend’s
father was looked upon as a very clever "exploit in
itself, though a very unlucky one. So. . ..they
all held a tangi or lamentation for the old warrior
who had just received his mittimus'; and then,
killing a prisoner, whom they had brought in
tbeir canoe for fresh provisions, they had a good
feast; after which they returned all together to
their own country, taking the body of their
lamented relative along with them.
This Maori rangitira had passed his whole life
in scenes of battle, murder, and blood-thirsty
atrocities .of the most terrific description, mixed
with actions of the most heroic courage self-
sacrifice, and chivalric daring—one day doing acts
which, had they been performed in ancient
Hreece, would have immortalised the actors, and
the next committing barbarities too horrible for
relation. ... He was utterly devoid of what weak
mortals call “ compassion.” He seemed to have
no more feeling for the pain, tortures, or death of
others than a stone. Should one of his family be
dying or wounded, he merely felt it as the loss of
one fighting man. . . . Indeed, I have seen him
scolding severely a young man, his near relative
when actually expiring, for being such a fool as to
blow himself up, by accident, and deprive his
family of a fighting man,. The last words the
dymg man heard were these: “It serves you right.
I here you are, looking very like a burnt stick ' ”
It really was ■ vexatious. A fine, stout young
fellow to be wasted in that way.
That is the, Maori before the impact of
our white civilisation. And considering the
present day billiard-playing Maori, we may
sympathise with Maning’s regret that such
a civilisation, whose barbarities may be
offset by its heroisms, should inevitably
pass away. J
NORDAU ON THE ARTIST
Since Max Nordau startled the world with his
Degeneration he has degenerated. His latest
book, On Art and Artists (Unwin, per the Lockley
Library), tends toward dullness. With some-
thing of his old frenzy he savagely handles Puvis
de G’havannes and Rodin; but Nordau has little
fresh to say about a department of the social
organism which he does not seem specially fitted
to criticise. His opening thesis that art has a
social mission i@, however, well argued. Nordau
finds that “art for art’s sake” exists only in the
cave-man of the quaternary period and in the
modern child. It is only these two who are com-
pelled to find relief for their overmastering
emotions by artistic creation. The average man
laughs for joy, or in anger says “Damn,” and is
at once at peace with himself. His emotion has
spent itself, and his physical life once more flows
in its ( accustomed channels. But the artist and
the criminal—creatures of exceptional sensitive-
ness—require other means to free themselves from
their dominating emotions. Swayed by the ex-
cessive emotion of anger, the larrikin “ biffs” his
“donah,” and glows with the consciousness of a
good deed well done: the artist relieves his dis-
tressed nervous system by discoloring canvas.
But Nordau insists that this purely subjective
mission of art is met with only in the earliest
stages of mankind. The cave man, temporarily
confined to his cavern as the result of an error in
his estimate of the apparent affability of an
auroeh, peopled his darkness with the monsters
of the forest, and in imagination took his revenge
on the aurooh that had already taken some of his
flesh. To unbottle his excitement, he scratched
on tusks and elephants’ teeth pictures of his re-
membered triumphs, and, carried away by his feel-
ings, invented apocryphal aurochs whom he had
slain with contemptuous ease. But he did not
draw these pictures to please his wife, or wives ;
nor did he mean to hold an exhibition, nor to ask
his chief’s opinion of his perspective. He did it
solely because he had to. So his art fulfilled its
mission of relieving his overwrought soul, his art
was its own reward. That other primitive being,
the modern child, also draws only to please
himself. x
But with advancing civilisation and advancing
age the artist notices that he differs from the
average man ; his art becomes self-conscious in
its aim, though unconscious (Nordau would
surely admit) in its impulse. Other men find
aesthetic pleasure in the artist s creations and the
artist “ becomes his own imitator. ... He ceases
to confine himself to satisfying himself in reliev-
ing himself; he also seeks to please others....
Then the artist has his eyes continually fixed
upon his tribunal— viz., Society. In the moment
bis work of art is germinating it is strongly in-
fluenced by consideration of the known, or sup-
posed, taste of the society whose applause the
artist courts, and the work undergoes a develop-
ment more or less remote from the form it would
have acquired under the pure influence of emotion,
its primary source. Society sees. .. how im-
portant to him its verdict is. . . . It takes
possession of the artist, foroes its tastes on him,
and insists on him working, not for himself, but
for it. Henceforth it has in him a paid servant»
he has to conform his special energy to the general
plan of the society organism, of which he is a
part, and in this way, a manifestation which was
originally a purely subjective performance be-
comes a social performance,”
Which means, of course, nothing more than
that artists are, like the rest of us, parts of the
social organism, and, to exist at all, must in some
degree make themselves useful to the whole. As
Nordau justly observes: “The whole work of
civilisation consists in making itself master of
individual emotibns, diverting them from their
natural goals, applying them to the good of the
whole body.” The modern artist has merely
changed his patrons; for always art lias had a
patron. Ancient art was dedicated to the glori-
fication of the gods, of kings, of heroes,
or, as in Greece, wf the commonwealth. In
the Christian epoch art takes new masters.
Now the artist works for the church and the
palace. The Italian Renaissance put the patron
in the place of the pope; yet in every age the
artist had no other customer for his works but
the power’s that (>e. He was paid by the church,
the king, the republic, the city, the ruler. And
these purchasers wanted good value for their
money, and got it. The artist, like the execu-
tioner and the scullion, had to serve his master.
“Medheval art preached the fear of God and his
servants, submission to the king and the State,
respect for nobles and officials The artist
was the main prop of priestly and monarehial-
aristocratic society. The common herd, the
million, found none of their human emotions
satisfied in art; the voices that rang out of these
works only cried to them : ‘ Pray, obey,
tremble!”’
From this servitude to religion, monarchy, the
State, the dominant castes, the artist has at last
emancipated himself—by transferring Ill's alle-
giance to another master. It was in the
Netherlands that art first dared to be un-
traditional. Art has now enlisted beneath the
banner of the democracy ; its final court of appeal
is public criticism. And that public control of
the artist is suggested to the multitude by pro-
fessional criticism. This does not mean that art
is appealing to a lower taste; for the many
critics, in the place of the one, pass a vei'dict
upon the artist “with perceptions, with taste and
spiritual prepossessions that very seldom are
those of bishops and great men.” ’The multitude
is now the artist’s only patron. Even in the ease
of a public commission given to an artist, that
artist is pointed out by public opinion, “i.e., the
democratic crowd acting under the suggestion of
;he critics, who also belong to the crowd.” And
;he new Maecenas, the multitude, demands, too,
ts money’s worth. It demands pleasure, satis-
action, the means of attaining a fuller life.
“The mission of art in society present and
uture is, in short, to liberate the prisoner of sub-
hvided labor, to restore the dignity of manhood
;o the being degraded into a little wheel of a
nachine.... In the work of art that is to attract
the people, they must find themselves again, but,
as formerly the priest and king did, magnified and
ennobled. Ihe work of art must show man his
own likeness, but a beautiful one; it must raise
the people in their own eyes, and teach them to
respect themselves.”
So, though the artist, like the plumber—
Leonardo was both—is merely a paid servant of
his employers, the public, he need be no more
ashamed of his employment than is the plumber.
The mender of lead pipes must no longer look
down upon the mere smudger of canvas; each is
equal in the guild of labor. Each, in a greater or
a smaller degree, earns his keep.
«
The Australian author may haply dimly discern
a living wage in the near future. T. C. Lothian
has offered £lOO for an Australian novel, and
now A. 0. Rowlandson (the N.S.W. Bookstall
Company, which has already brought some of our
writers into the purview of a grateful public)
offers various prizes, totalling £4B, for Austral-
asian writers. For the three best short stories
three prizes of £l5, £lO, and £5 are offered, and
for a “jingle verse competition” prizes amount-
ing to £lB will be awarded. Mr. Rowlandson
will supply the conditions of the competition on
request.
Being out of literature, the other day (writes
“Mallet”), I went to a neighboring cocky to
borrow something to read. He lent me a book
which he described as a “turble good yarn,”
entitled A Bush Girl's Romance, a story of
W.A., by Hume Nisbet. Near the beginning
the author is describing the general happiness of
the people, and the reasons for such happiness
are given as follows : —“ The warm sun generally
shone throughout the greater portion of the year.
Springtime was delicious with its flowers and
bush heaths. The fruits in their season seldom
disappointed. The sheep and cattle throve and
multiplied; and only the Worley gave them any
discomfort, or an occasional bush fire made them
apprehensive.” “Warm sun”! It was about
105° in the shade yesterday, and is as bad to-day.
“Occasional bush fires”! “ Only the Wurlev
caused any discomforts ” ! I would like to
give that author twelve months’ work in the
W.A. bush, and I will guarantee that the “warm
sun ” will gladden his heart by shining most of
the year, and as there are no Wurleys here, he
would presumably have no discomforts. Flies,
etc., evidently don’t count. But, then, what can
one expect from an author who makes his principal
character (the villain) feel it a “ sacred duty,” to
go in and cook a meal for a tribe of blacks, before
his gang wiped them out of existence, and who
comes along, and is appointed chief of police
in a large district (he being a notorious
bushranger), and allowed to enroll a gang of
twenty-four men, absolutely without credentials.
[But is it necessary to “slate” an industrious
tradesman for supplying an article continually
asked for? There still survives a belief that
everything that appears between paper covers is
Literature, and, as Literature, can be criticised.
Nisbet writes with a shovel, and he is not to be
darned for giving Slush to a public that clamors
’or Slush. As Slush, Nisbet’s shovelfuls are well-
leaped. He would be the last to imagine that he
was shovelling opals.]
MERELY AN ADVERTISMENT
,4 MAGAZINE should be like a good
dinner,” said the Editor of The
' Lone Hand. * * The menu should
be artistically composed and care-
fully varied. It must not give its readers
indigestion.
“No; it’s n<5t another Bulletin ; but the
aim of The Lone Hand is to be The Bulletin
among the world’s magazines. The Bulletin,
unfortunately, is not an indiarubber paper,
and more contributions, and contributions of
a wider scope, are being offered to The Bul-
letin than it could find room for if it was
published twice a day. Hence the genesis of
The Lane Hand. But from its first number
the magazine will stand alone. It simply
comes to this : there are now two paddocks
in which the Australasian writer (or artist)
may put his Pegasus out to grass. But there
will be no room in The Lone Hand paddock
for the painful, the sordid, the grim ; and
to that paddock no drought will come.
In fact, the drought is hereby officially
abolished ; The Lone Hand may occasionally
mention it, but the cheerful character of the
magazine forbids the permanent intrusion of
a mere temporary topic. The Lone Hand
has discovered that there are other things
than droughts in Australia—pink parasols,
for instance.
‘ ‘ But while we have pink -parasols for the
general reader, no serious student of letters
can afford to overlook the literary features of
The Lone Hand. For instance, in. our first
issue—yes, May 1st: no possible doubt
about the date—there are articles by Henri
Verne and v Louis Blin, two celebrated
Parisian journalists, upon modern French
literature and drama ; and month by month
these and other equally competent writers
will deal with the literary and dramatic life
of Paris, Berlin, London, and New York.
Australian literature will not be neglected,
nor such books published outside the Com-
monwealth that have a world interest.
“Yes, we can only see now whether Aus-
tralia regards the first number—did I men-
tion that it is the worst we mean to publish '
—as a good shilling’s-worth. Yes, May 1st.
Sorry I can’t give you another moment;
these are the proofs of the second issue....”


We cannot praise too hig'hly EASSETTER’S " DUCHESS
DEWING MACHINES. They are the Best ever made.
‘DUCHESS’
DROPHEAD
SEWING
MACHINE
PRICE-
Three-Drawer
(as shown),
£5 10s.
Five-Drawer,
£5 15s.
m
■
THE ‘DUCHESS’ DROPHEAD SEWING MACHINE
FOR TREADLE , ON POLISHED STAND.
The machines are ball bearing, are fixed on a walnut stand, handsomely polished, and being
finished in the best possible manner, make them the easiest running, and most perfect and
cheapest ever offered to the public.
An Ideal Sewing Machine, and, when not in use, an Artistic Table.
.
-SOl**:
“Duchess” Hand Sewing Machine and Cover.
_ . r? Q o „ « SIMILAR. IN EVERY RESPECT
Frice XO OS. v to the treadle.
This page is taken from F. Lassetter & Co* Ltd/s
New Illustrated General Catalogue, 1000 Pages,
The Buyer's Encyclopaedia, sent free on application*
IF YOU WANT A
MACHINE——^
(1) That will wear a lifetime and do
all kinds of work in a first-class
manner ;
(2) That will sew anything without
the attention of a special expert
to keep it in order;
(3) That will not drop stitches, break
thread, or refuse to work ;
(4) That will do as wide a variety
and range of practical every-
day family sewing as all other
machines combined ;
(5) That runs easily and quietly, and
excels all others in beauty,
design and finish ;
THEN BUY THE
‘ DUCHESS/
the World’s Ideal
Sewing; Machine.
LASSETTER'S “DUCHESS SEWING MACHINE is a first-class high-grade,beautifully-finished Machine, and is superior
to anything that has ever been shown in New South Wales, The prices, combined with the quality, make the
“DUCHESS SEWING MACHINE in every respect worthy of figuring in the vast stock of L ASSET TER* S, the
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS “OF NOTED GOOD VALUES,” Avoid the extravagant prices when you pay for a
name, avoid the advertised low prices when you get rubbish,
F. LASSETTER & Co. Ltd., The Universal Providers
of noted Good Values, and Propagators
of the Do&rine of Quality,
Cheapside,
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
S YDKTE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to HiTHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
bend ns your name and address and you will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK.
I the w3l e .:T r £ Ubl . lBh , ed i.“ is ., o£ , intfrCßt to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Pho o
jangraymga, including beautiful country scenes; h, describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
grad-* Bieyclc with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THF FfiFF ART RflflK you wiU receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
* ll inurnttnill DUUlXever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years.
pacKed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we can sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices : how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest yon
Write to-day, using sufficient postage
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
THE fIOOORPEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, Jewellery, Etc, 210 Queen St., Brisbane
HEINDORFF BROS.
YiUuUUj
CREATE STRENGTH, ENERCYand VIGOR.
JpOR some time now these PILLS have been restoring- to HEALTH
REMEDIES an d METHODS OP TREATMENT
YOUNG, OLD and WEAK MEN and WOMEN
who are suffering from Weakness, Want of Strength and Vigor
Y. ar ! C “ , ? e ' e ’ due fco some to«ns of INDISCRETION DISSIPATION*
MENTAL ANXIETY, or the RESULT OF OLD AGE. ’
10/6 a Bottle.
COMPLETE
Two Bottles, £1
COURSE.
POSTED FREE IN
PLAIN WRAPPER.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY CIVE
STRENGTH, VITALITY, VIGOR.
Sole Agent—
NO HUMBUG
or QUACKERY.
S. H. HENSHALL, chemist, 246 Clarendon St., South Melbourne.
I
, ViCi
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
£lOO
a WeeH
Given
Away
m
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulas printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
\\*e are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
DEFY COMPETITION-.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
tt
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
sizE4e
DS
THE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
The Finest Dressing.
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 S 96, High Holborn, London, w.c. 1!
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, GAS FITTINGS, &c. for Catalogs
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
salt:
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked END'S ‘ FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTH LESS IMITATION.
Froparad only by J. <J. IDNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, NNGh, '
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
CARTER*
- BILL*
no WILE
powl:
For
For
For
For
For
For
TORPID LIVER,
CONSTIPATION,
INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know F n ’'
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples .and ‘ LIvE jf ■
Remove the cause by using CARTER S U i . at .
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constip.4 l 15 E iver
once with CARTER’S LITTLE P
Complaints never have and never can lesist the
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that (fenulna
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


Don’t neglect your cough. Stop it
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as pos-j
sible—the sooner the better—to take
filler's
'Cherrif federal
the most effective remedy for coughs
and colds of every kind and in every
stage.
One of the most annoying coughs
is a throat cough, where you have
that constant tick-
ling in your throat.
It comes on worse
at night, keeps you
awake, and makes
you have that
smothered feeling
in the chest. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
quiets the cough,
makes breathing
easy, and heals the
lungs. There is no other remedy so
surely to be relied on.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
<%■
Jn consequence of'
the great demand, the
Samples of Creme
.Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
fresh supplies arrive
we will post a full-
size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/6, or
White,Cream or. Pink
Powder for 2/6.
CLAUDE HEALY. & Co*
*3 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
INFLUENZA
SCOTT’S EMULSION
The Evidence
from Amphitheatre, Victoria,
July27th, 1906. “Ihadavery
distressing attack of influenza
and decided to give Scott’s
Emulsion atrial. After taking
one bottle I noticed a great
improvement, so I got
another bottle, and when I
had finished that I was com-
pletely cured. I found Scott’s
Emulsion very soothing and
easy to take.”
(Mrs.) Josephine Dromey.
oCfi)
The Reason Why
Tbis Lady was Cured
Scott’s Emulsion helps grown
men and women just as sure-
ly, just as rapidly and signally
as it helps children, because
Scott’s is nourishment in its
most forceful, digestible,
wholesome form. You see
the point: Scott’s is gentle
enough for the most delicate,
yet it is vigorous enough for
the strongest—the dose is
different, that is all. The
reason is, of course, that
Scott’s is made
of the purest,
fin es t, most
virile Lofoten
oil, by the
renowned Scott
process of manu-
facture.
Remember
“Best is
Cheapest.”
" The Ashman
■with the fish ’•
on every pack-
age assures the
true SCOTT’S.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and Dealers
in Medicines.
IRISH
3
MOSS
ITT Tl ITT IT I I I I II I I I I I i I i i ' • ' ' 1 ' '
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, «*
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza &
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure —
CIRCULATION.” '
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., Ij6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
" A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE,
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOI R’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“ Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
QUAY. [2
I It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
, Calvert’s
j Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its (
> pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
> freshness left in the moulh, and of 1
course you will soon see how J
splendidly, how easily, and how
thoroughly it cleans. t
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. l
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
Y The name
Plasmon
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteid, which Is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
m
Foods mixed with
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man, the Hunter.
Oh, men were always hunters,
Right from primordial times ;
And they haye got the instinct still,
For some are chasing dimes.
And some they hunt the emu,
And some the kangaroo,
And some pursue the elephant,
Or chase the horned gnu.
But the sport of kings is nothing
To hunting female man !
She always flaunts her beauty,
And you catch her how you can.
She’s more cruel than a tiger,
She’s cunning as a fox,
She’s like agleam of sunlight yet,
As sullen as an ox.
Oh, it’s rare to go and stalk her,
She’ll slay you if she can.
But, oh ! the sweet surrender when
You dare her like a man.
She’s the commonest of fauna
In every age and clime ;
Yet she’s fooled the greatest hunters from
The very dawn of time.
Colin G-. Bubnacki.
Star-Seekers.
Fools are ye with your vain star-questing,
Young and golden or old and grey;
Always distant the dream-goal glimmers,
Though climb ye ever and ever and aye.
Fools are ye with your vain endeavors —
Preachings and teachings, hopes and prayers;
Still remote in the high skies over
The star of your seeking coldly stares.
' \ \
Why would you climb the gods’ way ever ?
The clod’s way better would suit your feet;
The earth is good, and its joys are many,
And toil is bitter, and rest is sweet.
Cheek by jowl at the feast they gather—
The swine-men turning your dreams to mirth ;
Theirs the fruit of the world grown golden,
The land’s best spoil and the fat of earth.
Make no boast of your quest, vain seekers,
Lest they who wallow should mock and mar,
And name ye loud for the world’s derision
As fools that follow a far-off star.
Wise were ye if a nearer vision
Won your gaze from the heights sublime—
An earthly light in a cottage window,
Set on a slope not steep to climb.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Alone.
N.S.W.
The billows swirl
And break and curl
Upon the sea-beach white—
The ringed moon
With pearl-clouds strewn
Is mistress of the night.
The moonbeams swim
’Mid shadows dim
Above the sleeping sea—
The glow is cold,
As love of old
To fading memory.
The wind is still—
Sea-murmurs fill
The rocky ocean-caves—
The clouds flee West,
Nor pause, nor rest,
As spectres seeking graves.
And I sink deep
Towards dreamless sleep
That turns the heart to stone—
For youth is fled
And love is dead,
And age is left —alone !
THE BUD.
The Star (Pump Song).
Six nights without no obserwation,
Six weary nights, and ne’er a star,
Nor sign of ship of any nation,
An’ only God knows where we are, . ..
But, Hope ... she’s allers smilin’, Johnny,
An’ the mate, . . . the mate . . . he’s bound to
find a star.
Hark at them pump-brakes, Johnny,
Clank—clank—clankin’,
The rush an’ rouse o’ water on them decks.
Hark, Johnny, to them brakes,
Them pump-brakes clankin’,
We’re gainin’ on the leak, so I expex ;
For Hope, she’s allers... allers smilin’, Johnny,
O’er flyin’-taups’l craft an’ rollin’ wrecks—
Sez our skipper, sez our skipper to the mate ...
sez ’e,
“ Try ’long that cross-tree by the mast; ”
“ Aye, aye, sir ! ” sharply sez the mate, sez ’e,
My ! there she rolls ! An’ see the star at last!
For hope. .. she’s allers . . . allers smilin’, Johnny,
An’ the mate e’s bin an’ found it by the mast—
Six nights without no obserwation,
Six weary nights an’ ne’er a star ;
But soon they’ll tell us, gaily tell us, Johnny,
Yes, soon they’ll gaily tell us where we are.
For hope . . . brave hope herself, she’s allers
smilin’—
And tlie blessed sextant’s bin an’ shot a star.
VIO.
G. G. McCRAE.


Mist KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY'S
COCOA
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says “I find if more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent, in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
idurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place •
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food."— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
g
‘BRUNSWICK” K€ MACHINE.
//^
NOT ICE-CREAM Machine please
notice, but a genuine household
REFRIGERATOR, that will preserve
all your vegetables, meat, butter, milk,
etc., etc., and give you Ice as well, and
—CHEAPLY, much more cheaply
than getting Ice from the Ice Factory.
A half horse-power is all that is
required to drive this little machine, and
it will save its cost the first year.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue and full
particulars.
So/e Agents?
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 £ 9 Market St., Sydney,
C B- t oo""' e m t T CB
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance hold sway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
. Obtainable in all styles from all
£ Progressive stores in Australasia*
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to .*-
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., Flinders Lane,
A. E. Wittey, York Street, Sydney. Melbourne.
J. Bunting, Hobson Street, Auckland.
BH
I I
r i tIGI
a
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
iriciu imiiiuH
Scotch whisky
zmv)
Wfimfw/i
/
warn
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty The King,
BOVRIL
contains the whole of the valuable stimulating and nourishing
properties of beef and is therefore of great value after acute
illnesses of all kinds.
Whenever appetite is poor try a cup of Bovril.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOLISi” FLOOR STAIVS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOLUV” AHJJIIWUHI EXAM El, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot' metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. .Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAISIT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and sat isfactory. i
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations. I
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTEXDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A. !
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH |
TUB ENAMEL, Etc. I
%MS
$
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
fc* 9
'Baa
o no
*9e 3
19 5'
1892
s
AOTHE
HAHS
m
Estate
175 a
VBEROID
Roofing
\A
hi
Li K .W.V,‘T
v ■•>
V
.vtfw.y.y.Mags
'lf
YOU recognise the value of improvements when selecting your farm implements— why
not exercise a little thought in the comfort of your home ? The roofing of your
house, for instance. Why will you put up with the inconvenience of an iron roof when
for less money you can secure a RUBEROID ROOF? Many of the finest country homes
in Australia are roofed with RUBEROID—not because of its cheapness, but because of
its goodness. It takes a plumber to fix an iron roof ; a handy man can lay a RUBEROID ROOF.
RUBEROID may be obtained from all General Storekeepers.
Wholesale: £. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney &, Brisbane*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1420.
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1907.
Pbiob 6d.
THE PROJECTED DISCOVERY OF AUSTRALIA.
Periodically Sydney is troubled with a clamor and visitation of literature in its two morning
papers about the grievous wrong done to N.S.W. because its State Parliament isn’t allowed, quite
contrary to the Constitution, to select the capital of Australia, all on its own. One such literary
spasm has just petered out, and among all the dozens of letters written by crazy and parish-
minded loons who wore themselves to rags about the “ wrongs ” of the Ma State, it is a solemn fact
that not one letter and not one loon made an allusion to the interests of Australia. There was
not . a single suggestion, amid all the ravings of all the Huies and Johnsons and Gillieses
and the rest, that Australia had any claims to be considered in the selection of a capital, or in
any other wa,y. ihe “rights of N.S.W.” were talked off ad nauseam, and backed up with garbled
history and imaginary facts. The “claims ofLyndhurst” were discoursed upon at vast length;
liyndhurst isn t even mentioned in the Constitution as having any claims at all, but the hamlet
has made so much row that it almost begins to seem larger than the Northern Territory. The “in-
terests ot Sydney (also not mentioned in the Constitution) loomed large; and the “opinions of
Mr. .L in don Biddulpii ” were much heard of, though Biddulph didn’t even secure the job of
cleaner-up in the building where the Convention sat to draft the Australian Constitution. And
yet, ot the interests of Australia or the rights of Australia there wasn’t a word. Apparently
Australia is the one place of which the petty, squalid little group of Sydney Anti-
H ederahsts has never heard. These people know about Chili, and they have heard
ot dartory, and they can locate Timbuctoo, but their own country they do not know,
it would be a great and noble thing if some new Columbus were to arise from among
the Anti-h ederal push of Sydney, and fit out a caravel or a galley—these vessels
would be eminently suited to the antiquated turn of the Anti-Federal intelli-
?u nC A~)® a d forth an expedition to discover Australia, the one continent
the Anti-federalist and his friends haven’t heard of. Australia is a fair
country and worth discovering. The seeing of it would enlarge the mind
“ JOHNSON and give CARRUTHERSa wider outlook, and utterly flabbergast
the o.iVl. Herald and Telegraph, which would doubtless open
branch offices there when they had got over their surprise, and
Mart selling their papers to the inhabitants. Even Mr. Lin don
Biddulph, of Lyndburst, struggling, as a naturalist struggles
with a cockroach, to stick a pin through the bit of ground in his
own backyard which is the only possible site for a Federal
capital, might become a brighter and a better
Biddulph if he went away in that galley with the
other argonauts, and found Australia along with
them. There are thousands and millions of
square miles of Australia. It has possibilities which
may yet make it the greatest land on earth. It isn’t
all a backyard with an insect in it cursing
about his imaginary injuries. It is large enough
for great men, and great thoughts, and for a great
continental patriotism. And when the caravel
came back from finding Australia, and sailed up
the penny tram-line in Pitt-street, Sydney, and
cast anchor at the corner of King-street, it might
disgorge a crowd which had got out of its Chinese
habit of mind, and had found that the world is
wide and that some men are very narrow. And
then the Herald and Telegraph would come out
with huge headings, “Discovery of a New
Continent." And W. E. Johnson, who is in-
curable, and so would naturally decline to
join the expedition, would write indignantly
to say that there couldn’t be any such
place, and would ask, in impassioned tones,
what was being done about fixing up a Federal
capital on the breezy tableland of Redfern, so
that the “claims” of Macdonald town might be
properly recognised, and Balmain might be com-
pensated for the sacrifices it had made in joining
the Federation, when it might have wrecked
things by standing out along with Pyrmont and
Five Dock.
COLUMBUS AND CO.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A u.vtrulin Jor the. .4 iishii/ians.”
I’rinted and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Mow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (tvith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy .” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may noi oe there; the official
always is.
Sjtecial 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forivarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateur* in lllaefe and White*
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
.4 gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6'§in. x lldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
«£s iT^xzlle&Ti'
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1907.
THE SUGAR INDUSTRY.
The future of the Queensland sugar industry is
now being discussed with much vigorous assertion
by two hostile sides, and with very little con-
sideration from either for the Australian side of
the case. The Bulletin,puts in a word from that
Australian point of vjpw.
* W * *
Hitherto the Queensland sugar industry has
been carried on with the help of black labor—not
indigenous black labor with a right to work on its
own soil, but by imported Kanakas, whose
employment represented a wrong done to
them, inasmuch as they were persuaded—some-
times enticed, or even kidnapped—away from their
own homes to work for the development of a
foreign land ; and another wrong to the Australian
whose national ideals and economic aspirations
were deeply prejudiced by the influx of an alien
element, which necessarily hindered the growth of
a free democracy. That influx, Australia says,
must end. Sugar industry or no sugar industry,
there is to be for the future no importation of a
servile population, at the cost of deep wrong to
the imported coolie and deep injury to the country
into .which he was imported. Against that de-
cision there is no reasonable ground for.appeal.
The White Australia principle must be preserved
inviolate. From all quarters and from all races
comes indisputable evidence of the impossibility
of employing an alien race in a white man’s
country without deep national degradation. Every
appalling lynching incident in the United States—
to urge but one example—is an argument to Aus-
tralia to keep white. The writhing negro at the
stake cries to Heaven against the iniquity which,
for the gratification of rich men’s greed, brought
on America its “ race problem,” and warns Aus-
tralia against following the same course. A White
Australia we must have, even if that means
turning North Queensland into a wilderness.
Accepting that as a first principle, it is possible
to admit that Australia should make all human
effort to preserve for itself the riches of
that great territory, and more especially to
preserve the sugar industry. Sugar must be
made in Australia, if not of cane in the
North, of beets in the South. To be a self-
contained nation, the Commonwealth must pro-
duce for itself that great essential of civilised life.
Economically, it is far preferable to make it of
6tigar-cane than of beets, for that means the utili-
sation of lands best fitted for that sort of produc-
tion, leaving the temperate Southern fields for
grain and dairy herds. Short of allowing black
labor, or any other form of servile labor, Aus-
tralia should be willing to make any reasonable
effort to preserve the sugar industry. The
ground of argument being so far cleared,
the direct issue comes forward : What steps, if
any, are advisable to help the sugar-planter
at the present time when his black labor has been
taken away from him ? For himself, the sugar
planter asks for the immediate importation of
labor from abroad. If he is candid, he will
admit that he wants this labor to be as cheap as
possible, and as servile as possible ; and how
ignorant, dirty, and otherwise objectionable it
may be, he doesn’t care. Against this, Labor
advocates put forward the plea that there
is no necessity for the importation of any
labor, that there are sufficient unemployed
available throughout Australia to fill all
the requirements of the planters. Another
section occupies a middle position, and urges that
the planters should make every possible effort, to
get the labor they want in Australia, and if the
effort fails, then they should be allowed to import
workers under contract.
* * * *
In discussion of an issue of this sort, statements
and opinions are usually so colored by prejudice—
sometimes quite unconscious prejudice—that it is
difficult to arrive at an exact knowledge of the
real state of affairs even after hearing the state-
ments on both sides. The employers would like
a surplus of labor, believing that to be in their
interests. The workers would like a scarcity of
labor, believing that to be in their interests. But
Australia wants neither. It wants to see the
sugar industry preserved as a white-labor bulwark
to Australian prosperity, as a source of national
wealth, and as a means of maintaining a large
white population which can fill the fighting ranks
when the Asiatic invader appears on the sky-line.
* * * *
Looking at the question impartially, from an
Australian view-point, it must be admitted, in the
first place, that just now there is not a great
amount of unemployment in Australia. The
mining, agricultural and pastoral industries are
all fairly prosperous. Manufactures begin to
show their heads, encouraged by the promise of
an effective tariff. There is probably a smaller
proportion of genuine unemployed who are
employable in the Commonwealth to-day than
at any other time since the bursting of the land
boom. It has also to be admitted that the com-
pulsory departure of some 5000 Kanakas from the
Queensland sugar-fields must open up a new
avenue of employment. Those Kanakas must
have worked whilst they were in Queensland.
They were not dragged from their native
islands by benevolent planters so that they could
indulge in dolce far niente in a foreign land. The
work they once did must now be done by other
hands. So the question narrows itself down to
this: Can the unemployed of Australia find suffi-
cient suitable men to take the places of the
deported Kanakas? The planters say, vigorously,
“No.” Some labor advocates say, with more,
vigor, “Yes” ; yet others, “We’ll wait and see.”
Of these three answers, the third, though it looks
reasonable enough, may be dismissed on demurrer.
It will not do to wait until the last moment to see
for an absolute certainty if the sugar crop can be
cut with the labor now available in Australia ;,for
by the time it becomes absolutely certain that the
labor on hand is insufficient, it will be too late to
import men, and if the crop is not cut it will be
lost, and many planters ruined, and many others
induced to abandon the industry. The question
must be decided now. Shall labor be imported or
not ?
* * * •
The Bulletin is inclined to sink its general
objection to imported labor, and to say, “Let the
planters have their labor, provided it is white and
a desirable kind of white.” All the balance of
evidence seems to favor their plea that the Aus-
tralian unemployed won’t find enough employable
men. In all the States growing prosperity absorbs
the labor supply, so that it is difficult to get
workers for some occupations more pleasant than
cane cutting. And the loss of 5000 Kanakas
must mean some diminution in the available
labor, however sluggish a worker Tommy
Tanna may have been. If the planters
are in a big conspiracy to deceive Australia
on that point, Australia, on finding it has
been “had,” can take effective measures of
retaliation, and the surplus labor it has imported
on false pretences can be easily absorbed, provided
that it is of the right class. It only requires a
very slight improvement of the tariff and a very
slight diminution of imports to absorb in manu-
factures all the labor the planters propose to
import, and to absorb it twice over. The Com-
monwealth, according to all present appearances,
may fairly take the risk of believing the planters
and giving them the facilities they ask for
the importation of labor, provided always that
it is a type which is capable of quick absorption in
our free population, and that it will in no way de-
teriorate that population. The planter, it is safe to
assume, would prefer to study only the suitability
of the labor for cane-cutting. The Common-
wealth Government must see to the more im-
portant matter of its suitability for Australian
citizenship. Further, the Government should
see that the conditions of employment and
accommodation are such as white men can accept
without coming down to the level of the nigger or
making any progress downwards towards nigger-
dom. The sugar planter must “play fair.” If
Australia makes some concessions in order to
secure his industry from interruption he should
reciprocate in a friendly spirit, and do all in his
power to make sugar-plantation work real
“white” work —not “mean white” work. And
having got this moral platitude off its chest, it is
safest for Australia to assume that he won’t “ play
fair” if he can help it, and to keep a sleepless eye
upon him accordingly.
THE OWE’SULLIVAN IN DEFENCE
AND A REPLY.
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A, writes:—
From time to time The Bulletin has published com-
ments upon the awful amount of public money wasted
by me whilst N.S.W. Minister for Works. It is only fair
therefore, that a little daylight should be let into those
strong accusations, and with your permission I will pro-
ceed to do so.
About £21,000,000 were borrowed by the Lyne and See
Governments, of which I was a member, but part of this
was for the purchase of the Darling Harbor wharves and
the properties around the Rocks, the rents for which are
paying more than the interest upon the money thus
invested. Another portion of the £21,000,000 went to
the Railway Commissioners for improvements to existing
lines (by which the profits of those lines were materially
increased) and the electrification of the tram lines, which
also increased the profits, as will be seen directly. ’ About
three and a-half millions of the twenty-one were paid
away to redeem old loans, but the interest on the old
loans was reduced to 3J or 4 per cent., and thus the State
gained considerably. All that I spent in my five years’
tenure of office was about £10,000,000, or an average of
£2,000,000 per year (and less than some of my pre-
decessors). For this money I gave the following
public works to the people of New South Wales :
29 new tram lines (the most up-to-date system in the
world), 17 new railways, 110 harbor and river works,
etc., 135 sewerage works, 382 water conservation works,
artesian bores and public watering-places, 55 water sup-
plies to country towns, 11 telephone tunnels, seven
Sydney water supply improvements, 11 flood channels, 12
clearings of Crown lands for settlement and other works,
making a total of 14,993.
Now let us see what has been the effect of these works.
According to a recent report of the Railway Commis-
sioners, when I took office in 1899 the 50 miles of tram-
way we then owned were paying a little more than 2£ per
cent. I added 133 miles more to the tramway system, at
a cost of two million pounds, for which the State is pay-
ing 3J per cent, interest. Our entire tramway system is
now paying 6 per cent. Is that a wicked extravagance,
or is it good business for the State? Most of
my sewerage works are paying more than the
interest on the money paid for their construction.
And as population increases in the suburbs they will per-
haps pay up to 6 or 7 per cent. Is that good busi-
ness or bad ? The S.M. Herald has admitted that in one
year during my administration (1903) no less a sum than
three million pounds was spent upon new build-
ings in Sydney and suburbs. This was mainly
owing to my tramway policy, which is still enlarg-
ing or creating more suburbs. Many of the water
conservation works and artesian wells were carried out
under my Water and Sewerage Acts, which provide that
4 per cent, must go to the working expenses, and 2 per
cent, to the sinking fund to wipe out the capital. What
sort of business is that —good or bad ? The 16 railways I
constructed were all carried out in prosperous pastoral,
agricultural, or mining districts, and if they are not
paying now they soon will be. My Central Railway
Station may now be safely left to speak for itself. The
change of opinion with regard to it is truly remarkable.
The much-abused Manly tram is simply the first section
of a large system that was intended to serve both Pitt-
water and the Spit, and it will yet be one of the most
useful and profitable in the State.
* * * *
Among the chief features of my public works policy
were the following: —A provision against the effects of
drought by the construction of light lines of railway
carry off the starving stock, or take fodder to those that
could not be removed, and by means of that policy, and
other incidental assistance, more than half of the ewes
and other stock were saved, with the result that we have
now nearly 60,000,000 sheep again. At the back of this
were artesian wells and water conservation works, which
materially helped to keep the stock alive. For months
during the drought I paid £5OO per week to take water
to Broken Hill, to keep the mines going ; I paid £4O per
day to do the same for White Cliffs ; and £26 per day for
Cobar. If I had not spent that money, and thus saved
the miners from pauperism by keeping the mines going,
the State would have had to keep thousands of men,
women, and children in concentration camps, or by the
banks of the Darling, or elsewhere. Yet these are among
my awful extravagances !
One curious result of my public works policy is this :
The party now in power, after getting office by slander-
ing my proposals, has been compelled to adopt them,
and is being applauded for doing so by the morning
papers which condemned me ! The chief public works of
the Carruthers Government, such as the North Coast
Railway, Barren Jack Reservoir, the Manilla to Barraba,
Temora to Barellan. Bogan Gate to Bulbodney, and Wal-
gett railways were first proposed by me. The same re-
mark vvill apply to all their tramway works. What
better justification for my schemes could I have ? The
late Mr. Seddon once told me that Julius Vogel’s public
works policy put Maoriland 25 years ahead. It is now'
admitted by bankers, merchants, shopkeepers, and the
working classes that my public works policy, carried out
in the middle of a severe drought, saved New South
Wales from a financial, industrial and commercial panic,
one worse than that of 1593. In addition to that, it has
been the means of helping to restore our finances to a
sound basis, for much of the surplus now in our Treasury
has come from the profits of the tramways and other
public works proposed and carried out by myself.
This is a dazzling list of loans and works, and
in a way it is very interesting, but it mainly goes,
after all, to show Mr. Owe’Sullivan’s utter in-
ability to understand what he is charged
with. The boomer can’t get away from his
boom, and Owe’Sullivan the borrower approves
of Owe’Sullivan the borrower, just as Seddon
the borrower approved of Vogel the borrower. In
1899, just before the Owe’Sullivan took office,
the N.S.W. revenue stood at about £9,600,000.
Then Federation came along and brought good
luck with it. The revenue boomed up to close on
£1.0,000,000 in the year which ended on 30th June,
1900; to £10,600,000 in 1901; nearly £11,200,000
in 1902 ; over £11,500,000 in 1903; and £11,250,000
in 1904. And with all this gorgeous increase
—with nearly £2,000,000 more to spend in
1903 than in 1899—these Governments of
which the Owe’Sullivan was the moving spirit
were just as unable to do without loans as before
the rise took place. Apparently if the N.S.W.
revenue had been £15,000,000 or £20,000,000 they
would have spent it in the same happy old way,
and borrowed money for all their public works
just the same. The Owe’Sullivan and his friends
were the people to whom there came the Great
Opportunity. Without the responsibility (and the
obloquy) of putting on fresh taxes there came
their way an immense increase of revenue. They
had only to keep the ordinary expenses of govern-
ment at about the scale on which they found
them, and they could, with the balance, have
inaugurated a Public Works Fund, supplied out
of revenue instead of loans, and rid N.S.W.
of the borrowing curse. It was the cheapest
opportunity for reform that ever happened to a
Government (for the great drought year didn’t
arrive till three years after the Owe’Sullivan
and his friends took office), and they fooled it
away. Apparently they didn’t see any need to
leave off borrowing. Apparently they considered
that they had two sacred duties to perform : (1)
to find ways of spending all the revenue without
using any part of it for new public works ; and
(2) to borrow, and borrow hard, for all new public
works in the lamentable old way. Borrowing was
a religion with them. Rather than not borrow
they invented the great art of increasing ordinary
expenses by something not far short of £2,000,000
a year. And to make dead sure of spending
everything they managed, with an immensely
increased revenue and big loans, to have deficits
in 1901, 1902, 1903, and 1904.
* « * *
The Owe’Sullivan is proud because one of his
borrowings—only one—had a sinking fund at-
tached. And in this isolated case it was the
other fellows—the people who constructed works
under the Water and Sewerage Acts, which the
Owe’Sullivan quotes—who were to find the
money for the sinking fund. The Owe’Sullivan
apparently knew, that a sinking fund was the
correct thing, but he didn’t apply it to his own
works. The only visible reason why he didn’t
was that he was Owe’Sullivan—always Owe’Sul-
livan. And now the best that can be said for the
public works system, which is so largely Owe’Sul-
livan, is that the N.S.W. works, as a whole, are
not quite paying interest, are not paying sinking
fund, and are making no provision for writing
down the capital value on account of depreciation
—this in about the best seasons N.S.W. ever had,
when the accounts are still under suspicion of
being made to look unduly favorable by the
charging of maintenance items to loans, and when
the boom (which helps to make these works pay)
is still being fed with loan money, and still being
boosted up by the expenditure of the proceeds of
land sales as revenue. Also, it is still difficult to
find a single public work in N.S.W. which isn’t
mortgaged up to the neck. And in these con-
ditions Mr. Owe’Sullivan is satisfied. More than
that, he is proud and uplifted, and strikes atti-
tudes like his own unbuilt statue facing the dawn.
MAORILAND’S COLORED POPULATION
QUESTION.
Maoriland has a Native Commission, presided
over by Chief Justice Stoot, and it is trying to
find out how to make the native lands yield some
wealth. The Maori population of the isles num-
bers, roughly, 43,000. It has passed through the
first stage of a conquered people, and has started
to become considerably civilised, with all the
requirements of civilisation without the means of
paying for them. Schools are wanted, hospitals
are required, and the Maori councils are asking
that doctors should be stationed in their districts
to do something towards mitigating the awful
sacrifice of infant life. Then the brown men have
grown accustomed to good roads, and the old
bush tracks no longer suffice, and they want many
other things. Also, they have no means of paying
for all these things; and an army of beggars,
43,000 strong, is an appalling problem to have on
the Government doorstep.
In the past, the Maori could always raise money
by selling his land, or, at the worst, he could lease
it to a white man, and provide himself with a cer-
tain amount of loafing and beer out of the rents.
But the passing of the “ Maori Lands Adminis-
tration Act ” of 1900 cut him off from the simple
process of providing for himself to-day by selling
his means of subsistence in future years. Neither
could he any longer lease his land; a sanguine
Government wanted him to cultivate it. Work,
except at shearing, or galloping after cattle, or
something else where there is plenty of shouting,
rushing, and pandemonium generally, he abhors.
Also, the white employer doesn’t want him, on
account of his all-round genius for unreliability.
It was hoped in the past that some day he
would individualise his land, and settle down as a
family man and a farmer ; but that was only a
dream. In the mass the Maori will not work,
and the great bulk of the nation to-day is in a
state of deplorable poverty, although it possesses,
roughly, about 5,000,000 acres of land among its
40,000 people. Beyond raising a few sheep, and
growing some maize and vegetables for home
consumption, the Maori has, with one bright,
solitary exception, done nothing. Up the Wanga-
nui River he grows a little wool, and the proceeds
of it, and the little crayfish and big eels in the
river, just keep him alive. In the Lakes district,
he and his womankind and girlkind turn a dis-
honest coin by bleeding the tourist; but away
from the tourist spots the Maori is mostly a
pauper, always crying out for something to be
done for him. And the cry is getting on the
Pakeha Government’s nerves.
» * * *
So the Government is casting a thoughtful eye
on those 5,000,000 acres, and wondering how to
make a shiftless race well off. One proposal is
that, in view of the increasing demand for good
land in the North Island where those acres are,
the Government should lease the whole of the
lands from the natives and re-let them at an in-
creased rental to white farmers. From the stand-
point of the white man seeking land it is an ideal
solution, but it would be utterly disastrous to the
Maori. Already, in spite of his financial straits,
he is to be found in increasing numbers in the
white man’s bar and the white man’s slums, with
the white man’s riff-raff. The soft-fibred Maori
can’t stand the contact ; it breaks him up and
kills him off ; and to make the whole race a State
pensioner, with nothing to do, would be to send
it to perdition in one act. Another proposal is
that the land should be surveyed, and each Maori
of each tribe given his share according to native
rights, by which the men and women of dis-
tinguished parentage would receive the lion’s
share. But many of the tribes do not own enough
land to go all round ; and if the whole of the
tribal rights were wiped out, and the land divided
equally, it would produce a native revolt and
about 115 acres to each individual, or 460 acres for
a family of four. That would be abundant for a
white family, but shiftless Jack Maoki would
starve on it, wherefore the probable revolt. So
the idea of subdivision goes overboard as worth-
less.
* * * nc
The real and only solution seems to have been
indicated by George Parker Donnelly, the
white man who married “Princess ’’ Arini in the
Hawkes Bay district. Her tribal lands lie close
to Napier, and her husband made his subjects-by-
marriage work. No other Maoris in the Islands
work like his. They grow great crops, they raise
sheep, cattle, and Angora goats. They reap their
own crops, thresh them, shear their own
sheep, make their own flour, and whenever a
pleasant-spoken native in the private bar of a
Napier hotel politely asks you to have a drink,
and incidentally pulls out a few sovereigns with
the price of the drink, you can bet your life he is
one of George Parker Donnelly’s “ sub-
jects.” The children are all decently edu-
cated, and the tribe rides good horses,
wears tailor-made clothes, and is a bright and
elegant monument to the advantages of a benevo-
lent despotism when the despot has brains as well
as benevolence. What G.P.D. did in Hawkes
Bay can possibly be done elsewhere, and the
solution of the trouble seems to lie in the exten-
sion of his system to the rest of the tribes. The
Maoris are already ruled by elective councils, and
these councils should undertake, by means of
white managers, to direct the operations of their
fellow subjects, and make them undertake the
proper cultivation and working of their vast
estates. This would make the brutes toil, sup-
ply the money for their needs, keep them healthy
and out of mischief. It would also close up a big
drain on the Treasury. But where is the sufficient
supply of capable and benevolent despots ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Imperial Conference.
Ip Prime Minister Deakin, whose personality
so largely overshadowed the Imperial Conference,
has not quite succeeded in liis purposes he
has at least done some big things, and he has
tried to do some others. Incidentally he has
done great honor to Australia, which stands out,
because of him, as the country which has produced
the commanding intellect of the Conference; but
that is by the way. What Alfred Deakin
chiefly aimed at, when he battled for the establish-
ment of a secretariat, connected with the depart-
ment of the British Prime Minister, to represent
the self-governing dependencies—a secretariat
composed of men who really know these depend-
encies—meant a great deal more than appears on
the surface. Hitherto, when Australia or Canada
desired to speak in the ear of the British
Government, it had to communicate with the
Colonial Office. The Colonial Office looks after and
bosses dozens of dependencies of the Crown Colony
order, hands them down its high-handed ukase,


acts the benevolent or tired or ignorant despot to
innumerable niggers, and is to a great extent a
law unto itself. At occasional intervals, in
between the multiplicity of its nigger-driving,
it has to deal, as a casual side issue, with the
concerns of great self-governing territories like
Australia, Canada, Maoriland and Cape Colony,
and autocratic nigger-driving has made it exceed-
ingly unfit for the work. When these places,
which are semi-independent States, negotiating
with their suzerain on terms of semi-equality,
present their views on any subject to the Colonial
Office, it utterly fails to understand. Nine-tenths
of its work consists in handing out its ukase to
purely servile dependencies, and to it a self-
governing dependency is either an impertinence
or an incomprehensibility. The self-governing
dependencies do so much of their own work that
they don’t meet the Colonial Office often enough
for the parties to become acquainted. Amid the
rush of its daily nigger that office is apt to regard
a place like Australia as just an occasional nigger,
heard of at longer intervals than some other
niggers. When they meet, the Colonial Office is
apt to try, from sheer force of habit, to hand
down its ukase in the usual imperative way ;
when it finds it can’t do that, it is apt to grow
huffy and ignore the question altogether. Prime
Minister Deakin’s proposals in the matter were
these
(1) That the affairs of the self-governing dependencies,
so far as the British 0 v eminent has to deal with them,
should be manage., uy a small department which would
deal with self-governing dependencies only. By sticking
to that class of work it would gradually learn what this
peculiar form of semi-independence means, and wouldn’t
mix up its methods with the methods suitable for (say)
the Gold Coast, whence the train starts through the
primeval forest for Ashantee. Dealing only with places
run by white men and mostly occupied by white men, it
might even come in time to comprehend the reason of
a White Australia policy or an anti-Japanese Canadian
policy. These are things never likely to be understood by a
department which is mainly concerned with dependencies
where there are a few white bosses and an innumerable
host of cheap nigger laborers, and which has come to
regard that sort of thing as the natural condition of a
British dependency.
(2) That the new department should deal with the
British Prime Minister direct, and not with the Chief
Benevolent Nigger-Driver at the Colonial Office.
Deakin carried his point about the establishment
of a new' department, but owing to the defection
of the Canadian Premier (rumor says he is to be
rewarded for his apostacy with a peerage) he has
not succeeded in cutting off the connection with
the department of the Chief Benevolent Nigger-
Driver. Still that will almost certainly come
later. The new department, when it gets away
from the Colonial Office, should amount to some-
thing in the way of a league of the self-governing
dependencies, and that will be a very different
thing from being merely four or five white items
lost in the drove of niggers which is rounded up
promiscuously by the British Colonial Secretary.
Unfortunately the most capable, eloquent and
diplomatic department, however good it may be
in time of peace, doesn’t amount to any form of
active and visible defence in time of war. When
questions arise affecting the control and safety of
the Pacific, Australian misgivings as to the growth
of Asiatic power will still have but scant con-
sideration if they come from an Australia un-
armed, defenceless, weakly clinging to its mother’s
skirts whilst yapping insults to the yellow man
next door. We must have a Fighting Australia as
well as a White Australia.
The Federal Capital: Is it a Privilege or an
Injury?
Australia may yet be confronted with the neces-
sity for appointing a Commission to find out
whether the fixing of the Federal capital site in
N.S.W. is a privilege granted to N.S.W. or
another wrong done to the unfortunate Ma State
which Carruthers and his friends reckon is
always being trodden upon. The attitude of the
Aggrieved Ma State party is very indefinite on
the point—in fact, the party roars with equal
fury either way. In the first place, it is alleged,
with a fine disregard for the history of the first
referendum, that N.S.W. would never have
joined the Federation if the capital had not
been fixed in its territory as some compen-
sation for the sacrifices it was to make.
Leaving out the impossibility of defining the
sacrifices, that statement distinctly implies that
the right to supply the land for the capital,
and to lose an undefined bit of territory in
the process, was a privilege and a blessing and an
advantage and a compensation, or something good
of that sort. But then there is another aspect of
the Aggrieved Ma State crowd—quite a different
aspect. When the Ma Grief horde comes to the
question of fixing the site of the Federal capital
and the area of the Federal territory, it calls out
loudly that N.S.W. should have a voice which no
other State has, and a voice which will even over-
rule that of the Australian Parliament, in deciding
these matters, because N.S. W. has to sacrifice the
territory. Here the grant of the Federal capital to
N.S.W. suddenlybecomesagrievanceand an injury
which has to be compensated by giving N.S.W.
special privileges in the selection of the site. It is
made to appear that N.S.W. first demanded the
blessing of surrendering the site for the Federal
capital as compensation for its “sacrifices” in
joining the Commonwealth, and now it demands
the right to fix the site and area as compensation
for the wrong of having to surrender that hi t of
territory. According to the 111-used Ma State
party, N.S.W. received compensation, and then
it has to be compensated for the compensation.
The other States first pacified the N.S. Wales
Government by allowing every inch of Westralia,
S.A., Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria to be
disqualified as possible Federal capital sites, and
now it is alleged that they should give N.S.W.
the right to fix the capital site, not even as a
further concession, which would be cheeky
enough, but as something justly due to N.S.W. to
make up for the concession it has already
received. Naturally, the Commonwealth replies
that if the N.S.W. Parliament or Govern-
ment feels so bad about the State being
dismembered to create a Federal territory, it
shouldn’t have demanded so truculently to
be dismembered, and it shouldn’t say in the same
breath that if it hadn’t been for the agreement
that N.S.W. should be dismembered that State
would have kept entirely out of the union. The
other States didn’t want to dismember N.S.W.;
it was that State’s own Premier who demanded
it. If N.S.W. feels so bad about parting with
the Federal territory that nothing short of the
right to dictate the situation, area, and all the
other circumstances of the territory will make it
feel good again, the other States are quite willing
to let it off the painful sacrifice. But the trouble
with the Ma State Misery party is that, even if
such an offer is made when it is in the middle of
its bitterest, dampest weep about the “ sacrifice
of the Federal territory,” it immediately goes
mad about the attempt to deprive it of “ the right
to possess the Federal capital.” If it were pos-
sible to find out whether that Federal capital is
the rightful privilege of Ma State, or another
dashed wrong done to Ma State, it would
clear things up quite a lot. A Commission ought
really to be appointed.
+
Joe’s Hill.
With customary slimness, N.S.W. Premier Car-
ruthers dragged the stnellful red herring, of
provincialism across the trail of the Observatory
Hill controversy, and bade vainly for the support
of the Little Sydneyites by throwing out hints
that, if the Imperial authorities did not get
Observatory Hill for their new Mint, they would
probably shift the whole coining business to Mel-
bourne—hated Melbourne, where everybody is
vile, and the Devil sits on Yarra bank. Unfor-
tunately for Joe’s narrative, an interview with
Deputy Mint Master Yon Arnheim, published in
the Herald a few weeks ago, indicated dis-
tinctly the views held on the matter by the
Imperial officers. Yon Arnheim stated that,
during all the negotiations which took place
regarding the selection of a new site for
a Mint, he had never heard Observatory
Hill mentioned until the Sydney press issued
the announcement that Premier Carruthers had
decided to grant it. Being questioned as to
whether he regarded it as a suitable site for a
Mint, Von Arnheim very significantly declined
to express an opinion. All of which went to
strengthen the persistent rumor that the Imperial
authorities are just as strongly opposed to Observ-
atory Hill as the venue of the new Mint as are
the citizens of Sydney. At the meeting of pro-
test at Sydney Town Hall last week, Senator
Neild said he had it on unquestionable authority
that the Imperial potentates, after having a
number of sites reported upon, had chosen
General Finn’s house at Dawes Point —a
site that would not necessitate the stealing of
a square inch of park lands. This statement,
coupled with that of the Deputy Mint Master,
showed that, although the Imperial authorities
had made a full investigation of all the sites likely
to suit their purpose, Observatory Hill was so un-
like the thing they wanted that it never entered
into their calculations. Therefore people begin
to ask three questions in a very nasty tone of
voice : (1) Was the shifting of the Observatory
devised in the first place just by way of being
nasty to the Commonwealth authorities (Joe
always is nasty to the Commonwealth authorities)
lest they should acquire the site for a Federal
meteorological station ? (2) Was an attempt made
to force the site on the British Government for a
Mint, when the British Government didn’t want
it, as an excuse for being beastly to the Common-
wealth authorities ? And (3) was the story that
the British Government might get angry and shut
up the Sydney Mint if it didn’t get the Observa-
tory site a sheer invention devised to supply fur-
ther excuse for Joe’s consistent policy of being a
hog towards the Commonwealth authorities ? As
for the other sites suggested by Premier Carru-
thers, it is a striking fact that every one of them is
situated in the middle of park lands. This idiocy
of regarding parks as vacant land, to be seized
upon every time space is wanted for public
buildings, is one that needs to be suppressed in
the interests of Sydney. Carruthers seems to
have an anxious eye on quite a lot of parks just
now, his hungriest eye being on Hyde Park,
a strip of which it is proposed to steal in order
to widen Elizabeth-street, and incidentally, by
that widening, to greatly increase the value of
private property on the west side of the street. All
through, the policy of Premier Carruthers con-
sists of the same robbery of the park lands, the
protection of which is nobody’s business because it
is everybody’s business. But in his ill-timed pre-
tence that Britain wanted the Observatory Hill,
and was liable to pack up its bag and quit if the
finest site in Sydney wasn’t delivered to it, Car-
ruthers seems to have failed badly for want of
corroboration. Corroboration is a handy thing to
have about the premises, and many big schemes
have failed for want of it.
♦
“The Backbone” and “The Bulletin.”
Charles Oliver, the good Australian who, be-
cause he is an Australian and because of his stiff
spine, has just been relieved of the Chief Com-
missionership of N.S.W. Railways, has taken a
reporter for a quick run over Australian railway
policy, and shown him where the jolts and dangers
are. Mostly they are places over which The
Bulletin has been waving its red cover for many
years past. There is the question of aid from
land revenue, for instance. Says Oliver
It is a matter for regret that nothing from the land
revenue has ever been appropriated towards a reduction
in the capital cost of the railways. Had this been done it
would have been possible to cheapen the cost of carriage
to the users of the railways. In the early days of the
Eddy Commission this course was urged upon the Govern-
ment, but was not adopted.
“It would have been possible to cheapen the
cost.” That is a point which The Bulletin has
urged so many times in the last 15 years that it
has nearly worn out the alphabet; yet because it
has scoffed at special freights and freight reduc-
tions for farmers, which could never bring per-
manent relief, it has been called unfriendly to the
great “backbone of the country.” Now, The
Bulletin reckons it is about the only real friend
“ the backbone” has in the city. It has, before
all things, implored the country to give up having
the borrowing disease, and stai’t to pay off what
it has borrowed. As the country pays back it can
write down the capital value of the railways, as
Oliver suggests. For a start, it sells something
over a million’s worth of land a year. That money
should be used to repay Cohen. If it can’t tyll be
used for the purpose, anyhow not a penny of it
should be used for any other purpose except to
pay for reproductive works —railways for choice.
Every pound of that money put into railways will
provide a pound’s worth of railway that will be
free from debt for all time and will never have to
provide a ha’penny by way of interest. Last
year the expenditure on the N.S. Wales railways
was £3,849,811, and of that £2,308,384 went in
working expenses and £1,541,427 in interest.
That means that of every £1 which it was neces-
sary for “ the backbone” and other railway users
to pay in order to keep the finances square, Bs. Id.
was absorbed by interest. Had there been no in-
terest to pay, freights of every sort could have
been reduced from £1 to 11s. lid., or at that rate
throughout. As shown just now, it cost
£3,849,811 to run the N.S.W. railways last year.
Therefore every £1,000,000 of non-borrowed
money put into railways, supposing it earns a
fraction over 3| per cent, above working expenses,
will provide one-hundredth part of the whole cost
of working the existing lines. Therefore, just a
single million pounds of this sort of money-less
than N.S.W. gets for the land it sells every
year —would allow of an all-round freight reduc-
tion of 1 per cent. A further 1 per cent, could
come off with the next year’s million. (The same
argument applies if a million is spent in reducing
the existing railway debt instead of building new
lines.) And there is no reason why the reduction
should stop there. The million pounds spent on
a railway would add probably that much or more
to the value of the land in the neighborhood, just
as the millions spent already have put millions on
to the value of the lands which the present rail-
ways have served. Some of those millions of
unearned increment —millions which, by every
principle of equity, belong to the State that
created them —ought to be recovered to the State
in the shape of a land-tax. If only this £1,000,000
a year were put to the purpose of wiping out the
railway debt, by buying up the State’s IO U’s, in
26 years the entire railway debt would be provided
for, and the one thing that prevents “ the back-
bone of the country” from ever getting vastly
cheaper freights would be wiped out of existence
for all time. “ The backbone of the country ” lias
allowed the idea to get into his head—if a back-
bone can be said to have a head—that it is a
mighty fine thing to have a railway, and mostly
he doesn’t care two clods where the money comes
from. But until he does care, he will have to go
on paying a needless Bs. or more in the £ to an
unnecessary Cohen who is there even if the
foolish backbone has overlooked him. Ho can
get rid of Cohen, and eventually have his goods
and himself carried for 12s. instead of £1 if he
likes, but he will in the first place have to insist
on keeping land sales money out of revenue, and
in the second place a good many of him will have
to change some very foolish ideas about land-
taxation.
The Liberal and Deform Caucus.
If there is one objection to the Labor caucus
system which stands out more conspicuously than
another —the Labor caucus system which, accord-
ing to the Tory press, manacles its members and
makes them slaves, and-puppets, and hide-bound
votaries, and other unpleasant things—it is the
provision that a sitting Labor member, when
Parliament dissolves, has no prescriptive right to
his seat, no matter how faithfully he has served
the constituency. He must go up for selection
again by the Labor League, and stand the
chance of being ousted as its candidate by
some aspiring novice, who may have been dwell-
ing persuasively on the door-mat of the joint
and several elector, and undermining the
member while the latter, busy with his Parlia-
mentary duties, couldn’t keep an eye on the con-
stituency. The practical effect is that a member
is tempted to keep more than one eye on the
League instead of devoting his whole attention
to the adequate representation of his constituents ;
and for that reason the practice is objectionable,
or at any rate is open to criticism. It is amusing,
therefore, to find the N.S.W. Liberal and Deform
party, which has for the chief reason of its exist-
ence its antagonism to the caucus-enslaved Labor
party, adopting this objectionable system, hair,
hide and bristles. It is still more amusing to find
the Sydney Telegraph, which never wearies of
railing at the Labor party’s caucus tyranny,
warmly approving of such methods as these :
Of course, the central executive of the Liberal and
Reform Association can only recognise those candidates
who receive the imprimatur of the local leagues.
Before a candidate can be accepted as being in the
anti-Socialist interest, he must agree to loyally abide by
the decision of the leagues, the association fully observ-
ing in this matter the all-important principle of local
selection.
The choice of the leagues may fall on any of the candi-
dates dfferingi’and the sitting member has no prescript-
ive right to be elected. He submits his name along with
others who may choose to stand against him for the
league nomination.
This is the caucus in full blast, and its bosses are
Josepu Carruthers and G. Reid, who are now
openly joined in unholy wedlock to promote their
mutual anti-Australian interests.
4
Some Effects of the Tariff.
The Foreign-trade papers, noticing the issue of
the ‘‘lndustrial Wages” section of the N.S.W.
Statistical Register, have, of course, pointed
out the increase of “hoy and girl labor” since
the Commonwealth tariff arrived. They, off-hand,
always represent that as a curse, though why it
should be a curse to find employment for the lads
and young women of the community isn’t clear.
It is true that most of the young women would be
better employed, if they were learning how to
cook dinner and tidy up for the Bill that will
come along presently; yet the fact that they
prefer to work in the factories shows at least that
factory life isn’t the frightfully gloomy thing that
the Foreign trade papers represent it to be.
But, apart from that, there are a few
other things in the Register that ought to
have been worth pointing out. In 1901 the
average wage in the saddlery and harness trade
was £1 12s. 5d.; in 1905, helped by a 20 per
cent, duty, it was £ll6s. lid. In the manufac-
ture of bedsteads, along with an increase in num-
bers, the average wage has moved up from £1
7s. 6d. to £llos. Id. In woollen mills, in which
employment for adult males has doubled, their
average wage has advanced from £1 Bs. lid. to
£ll2s. 3d. The boot factories are specially men-
tioned as having absorbed hundreds more girls.
The fact, according to the returns, is that in 1901
for every 100 adult males (18 years of age or over)
there were 58 females employed ; now there are
about 70. But meantime the number of adult
males embraced by the return has increased from
1796 to 1923, and the average wage from £1
15s. 4d. to £2 Is. 7d. In the same way, though
in slop-clothing factories there has unques-
tionably been a large increase of female labor,
there has been a considerable increase also of
adult male labor, whose wages have moved on
from £2 4s. sd. to £2 ss. lOd. Also, while there
is a tendency in almost every trade for the average
pay of the female operatives to come down, that
is wholly due to the increase in the proportion of
unskilled girls between 16 and 18; to them the
work calling for little or no skill is passed on,
which allows of the more skilled men and women
earning higher pay at the other sort of work—in
the slop-clothing factories, for instance, where the
men’s pay has moved up as mentioned before, and
the women’s average pay has risen from 17s. 9d.
to 19s. Id. All the same, the returns are strewn
with proofs of the inadequacy of the tariff. In
rope and twine making, whe:e there is no
question of cheap girl labor, the industry barely
holds its own in the matter of numbers, and
doesn’t hold its own in the matter of wages;
the average for male operatives has moved
steadily down towards destruction like this :
1901, £ll7s. Bd. ; 1902, £1 17s. sd. ; 1903, £ll7s. ;
1904, £1 14s. 9d. ; 1905, £1 13s. 4d. In the almost
unprotected distilling business it is the same;
step by step the average has come down from
£2 10s. 9d. to £2 os. Bd., and it is doubtful
whether last year’s tariff revision is strenuous
enough to arrest the movement. In the glass and
bottle industry, in the manufacture of agricul-
tural implements, in brass and copper work-
ing, and in practically every operation in connec-
tion with ship-building, the same thing has hap-
pened conspicuously. And these are not industries
with which cheap female labor has anything to
do. It is not the girl within our gates that is the
trouble; she may, to some extent, prevent a
larger increase of male employment, but in nearly
every case where she is employed adult male
wages have advanced. The most unsatisfactory
movements have occurred where she does not
come into the matter at all, or to any extent
worth mentioning. Not the local girl, but the
foreign competitor is to blame; and from the
foreign competitor, at any rate, a high tariff can
protect us, however ineffective it may be against
the local girl.
♦
No Room in Sydney.
An alarming head-line in last week’s S.M.
Herald read, “No Room in Sydney.” The
trouble is a railway one. The policy of dragging
everything to Sydney has been carried so far
that the goods traffic, especially that from the
southern and western lines, has congested the
city railway and the city goods termini till
they can hardly bear the strain, and with
the increase of population and traffic something
must break. Sydney lies on a narrow peninsula,
and is practically a bottle-neck, and the effort to
bring practically all the foreign trade of a great
State on to this little peninsula has produced
results which are fast driving the Railway De-
partment to insanity. Something, it is said,
must be done to divert part of the trade to other
ports, else the delays on the Sydney wharves and
the congestion on the Sydney goods lines will re-
duce things to chaos. This is one aspect of the
case. Another aspect is that the same morning
papers which publish this statement shriek and
clamor for an Australian capital at Lyndhurst on
the N.S.W. western line, so that the trade of the
new city must also come to Sydney, and be
crowded into the congested bottle-neck, the con-
dition whereof is said to be dreadful already.
And when the Australian Parliament proposes a
capital on Monaro with a new Federal port on the
South Coast, the very suggestion of a new port is
described as an outrage and a fair excuse for
secession. These things are shockingly incongru-
ous, and it is up to the morning papers to recon-
sider their attitude.
<v
An Interesting Old Citizen.
That quaint and humorous Sydney citizen,
George Pile, came up, last week, before the
N.S.W. Public Works Committee on some
matter connected with a tramway, and acci-
dentally got off on a side issue :
Witness instanced the progressive spirit of Americans
in this connection.
Mr. Eddf.n : You don't intend to put this country against
America, do you? /
Witness : There are live men there.
Mr. Edden : But what about the difference in popula-
tion ?
Witness : Whose fault is it that we have not got popu-
lation ?
Mr. Eddkn : Not mine ; I have 10 children.
It is the misfortune of Freetraders like G. Pile
that, when they want to indicate a country that
is conspicuously going ahead, and to bid Australia
do likewise, they are always compelled to point to
the Protei tionist United States, or to Protectionist
Canada, or to Protectionist Germany, or Protec-
tionist Argentina, or Protectionist Japan. There
isn’t in all the earth a single Freetrade country of
the kind G. Pile advocates which is making a
sudden or conspicuous rise. As for G. Pile s
craving to know why Australia hasn’.t.xnore popu-
lation, The Bulletin respectfully suggests soii.e
few causes
(1) Freetraders like G. Pike, who have done so much
to regard the growth of manufactures. The United
Imported.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On every Sydney board
We're all exhorted
To hail one sign—Good Lord 1
“Imported."
In Fad and Fashion's lairs,
Where Trade is courted,
Each thing this placard bears ,
“ Imported.”
Here, all goods 'cross the seas
Have been transported,
For Sydney's sesame's
“ Imported."
No matter, soap or scents,
Boots, hams, axe-handles,
Musical instruments,
Cakes, candles,
New costly frills and frocks,
Foods, foreign dish-ups,
Posters, or fine art socks,
Rats, bishops,
Guv’nor, Commissioner,
Theatric body—
Mons., Signor, Senor, Herr,
Or Shoddy,—
With labels frank and free,
Their worth is snorted;
They’re all declared to be
“ Imported."
This hat’s from Rotten Row,
Its color’s murky.
And this from Jericho
Or Turkey.
From Paris, Cork, Berlin,
The card's disported,
“ Our latest stock's now in, —
Imported."
We weary of this wrenched
Old emotion,
That goods should all be drenched
In Ocean;
That fish is fresher which
With rats consorted ;
That cheese grows ripe and rich
Imported.
That foreign industries
Should be supported,
And debt, drink, and disease
Imported.
’Tis time to fumigate
This view distorted,
That men and goods be straight
Imported.
Let’s curse with might and main ■
This commerce alien,
Till all things be but plain
AUSTRALIAN.
N.S.W.
LOUIS ESSON.


For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living picture
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 390
George-street, Sydney, wholesale jobbers for
Edison’s phonographs and products.*
States has labor unions and immigration restriction laws
in a far more vigorous form than Australia has, but in the
complete absence of a Freetrade policy like Q. Pile’s it
booms tremendously.
_ (2) The Stinking Fish party, largely composed of men
like G. Pile, who tell the world that Australia is ruined
by progressive legislation.
(3) The Anti-Federal party like G. Pile, whose frenzied
denunciations of the other States have tended to create
an impression that by far the greater part of Australia is
a drunken region fiill of devils.
(4) Hopeless Tories like G. Pile, whose opposition to
all measures tending to break up great estates and pro-
vide land for settlement has made the growth of a large
agricultural population almost impossible.
(5) The fact that much too small a proportion of our
population consists of producers, while much too large a
proportion consists of mere traders and middlemen like
G. Pile.
(6) The want of a sufficiently vigorous public sentiment
to shift persons like G. Pile.
These are the principal reasons why Australia
hasn’t more population, but when one considers
the country’s growing disregard for the advice of
persons like G. Pile there is no reason to give up
hope.
+
An old military man writes :
An Australian rifle—and a good one at that, they say—
has been invented by Sergeant Matthews, of a N.S.W.
Volunteer regiment. But it has been sent to England to
the gradual old War Office—the Australian Defence De-
partment, not having any visible mind of its own, sent it
there. Consequently we find this in a Sydney paper :
“ The future of the new weapon depends upon the War
Office, so far as the British Empire is concerned. If the
War Office adopts the invention, the 20,000 or 30,000 rifles
now needed by the Commonwealth will be made after the
•Matthews pattern. The Japanese Government is anxious
to secure the rifle, and has already approached the
inventor and his financial backers.”
But if this Matthews rifle is really an improvement on
the regulation gun, why shouldn’t the Commonwealth
adopt it? Australia wants its own rifle, because it can-
not go on for ever importing British-made weapons,
which only last some two years or so, and then have to be
replaced with new ones. Australia ought to be able to
put 250,000 armed men into the field in case of need, and
to arm them and keep them armed would involve the
yearly turn-out of at least 30,000 rifles—quite enough to
keep a factory going.
The War Office funks at the idea that the Common-
wealth forces might not be armed uniformly with its
own if they happened to be acting together. It wouldn’t
matter provided both rifles would take the same cartridge ;
and in any case it is not so very long since there were at
lease half-a-dozen different service rifles in usein the British
army, all with different bores. There was no difficulty in
distributing the cartridges to the proper corps, nor was
there any difficulty in giving out projectiles for the
different patterns of field-guns then in vogue. Providence,
it maybe, was very good in those days to a muddling
War Office, and took care of it, as it does of drunken men
and children.
♦
That coalition between the Waddellers and the
Deformers in N.S.W. still hangs fire m some
mysterious way—or it was hanging when this
sheet went to press. Carruthebs is willing. Wad-
dell is ready to start drawing Ministerial screw
at the earliest possible date. But there is a
rumor that a strong faction in the Deform crowd
strenuously opposes anything like a coalition, on
the grounds that, as the Waddellers have consis-
tently supported the Carruthers Government,
the bargain is all on one side, and the Government
is giving a big price for what it has already got
for nothing. Also, it is said, quite a number of
the Deformers do not regard immunity from
Waddellite opposition at the elections as worth
anything to them, while the corresponding im-
munity to the Waddellers is worth a lot. The
only seats the Laborites have any chance
of capturing are held by Waddellers, and if
theie is no coalition, straight-out Deformers
may be run for those seats. And as the
Labor and Waddell candidates will divide
the Democratic vote, the Deformers will have
a good chance of snatching the seats. This
possible gain will be thrown away if the coalition
is brought into being ; the Democratic vote won’t
be split between Labor and Waddell, and Labor
will get practically all of it. There is a good deal
of sense in the objection. Anyhow, Labor can
make up its mind that, whether the coalition
comes off or not, it has to play a lone hand in the
next Parliament, and the sooner the party gets
into the field with a decent programme that will
put the Waddellers and the Deformers both on
the defensive, the better for its chances of doing
some good. At present it is absolutely powerless.
While it is at it, it might hunt round for some men
with ideas and energy, both of which seem to be
very scarce in the present crowd.
4
An interesting little publication called “Aus-
tralia Reflected ” comes to hand from Melbourne.
It is issued under the auspices of the Australian
National Party, and is the work of Charles
Atkins, ex-President of the Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures. It is a breezy and enthusiastic
publication, representing the views of a party
which believes that Australia has a great future if
it will only grasp its opportunities by the forelock
and keep its courage high. As an antidote to the
lamentations of the Stinking Fish gang and the
miserable dissensions of the State Frights push,
“ Australia Reflected ”is admirable. Though it
is published in Melbourne, it is a loud burst of
applause for Australia in general, and it doesn’t
contain a single miserable moan to the effect that
“ our State ” has been defrauded of tuppence by
the other States, or that “we” are not being
properly treated by “them.” In fact it is the
cheerful shout of a party that really knows there
is such a place as Australia, and which is for all
Australia, and for it all the time. Heaven knows,
some sections of this country are badly in need of
such a party. The burden of the tale of the State
Frights party isn’t “Australia Reflected” but
“Australia Distorted.”
-4
N.S.W. Lands Minister Ashton’s pet scheme
for clearing the Pilliga scrub (Narrabri, N.S.W.),
and making theland available for settlement has not
turned up trumps so far. His idea was that contrac-
tors should yard up some traction engines, coupled
together with ropes, a little distance apart, and
allow tu?m to stagger across the landscape. The
result was to be the violent ejectment of the inter-
vening bush. But the rates quoted for these
drastic proceedings are more than the Pilliga
scrub is worth, so Ashton is doing another think.
The Minister is wasting his time. Like other
northern towns, Narrabri is surrounded and
blocked by large, privately-held estates. A
wholesale breaking-up process, aided by a heavy
graduated land-tax, would lead to the scrub being
hemmed in and besieged by a multitude of small
settlers. That would prevent the blamed vege-
table spreading. Then there would arise through
increase of population a demand for more land,
and the small settler would eat his way into the
scrub by degrees. The wild vegetable and the
wild animal are very similar. There was a time
when the African lion roared just outside Cape
Town, but it doesn’t roar there now. Nobody
scpiashed the lion tribe wholesale by running trac-
tion engines over it. The animal wassimply shoved
back bv settlement, and it will doubtless continue
to be shoved back till the last specimen is shoved
over the edge into the next world. The cases are
the same. The reason why the scrub which is
eating up the land near Narrabri is not alsoeating
up Parramatta is just one word—settlement.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal. “ Brigadier Gerard.”
Criterion “ Honor Thy Father.”
Palace “ What Would a Gentleman Do? ”
Tivoli Rickards' Co.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “Sunday.”
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Cook’s Pictures and the All
Blacks.
4.
“Brigadier Gerard,” staged on Saturday
at Sydney Royal, as a play does not trammel
itself with any too faithful adherence either to
the story or the characterisation of Conan Doyle’s
hook. It takes its own lines and presents a pic-
ture, which is bright if not faithful, of a typical
Gascon—unless the typical Gascon is a literary
invention, like the stage Irishman and the works
of Mr. Teufelsdrockh—brave, and accustomed to
advertise his bravery ; stupid, but, through good
luck, scoring over cleverer men. The Gascon has
always been a favorite type for fiction from the
days of Dumas to the wonderfully humorous
“Tartarin de Tarascon” of Daudet, who satirised
his own provincials so effectively therein that
Gascony wasn’t a safe place for him afterwards.
It is a type, too, very suitable for dramatic
presentation, because the Gascon is essentially a
theatrical character, playing to the gallery always,
and a picturesque whale for limelight. Brigadier
Gerard is effectively presented in this play as the
brave Gasconader; the situations are well de-
signed ; at times the dramatic interest is intense ;
and if some of the tricks of the playwright are
hackneyed or stolen—one palpably comes direct
from “Sweet Nell”—that can be forgiven. In
the present stage of the drama, ideas are blessed
things, even stolen ideas.
* « * *
Julius Knight’s Brigadier Gerard, on
the opening night, was much marred by a
heavy cold, which prevented the actor from
using his fine voice to any advantage. No
Gascon should have a cold. But he cuts a dash-
ing figure, and acts always in a way that shows
intelligent study of the character. With his
throat in good working order, it is safe to foretell
that Knight will make Gerard one of the finest of
his impersonations. The star has, in some
quarters, rather indifferent support. A notable
exception is Miss Marion Grey, who plays with
dainty grace, and has the right atmosphere of the
piece. Australian audiences are accustomed to
a more “ downright ” style in these drawing-room
melodramas ; but Miss Grey’s artistic work will
establish itself in time, especially if she imparts a
shade more warmth to it. Harry Plimmer is a
fine Major Olivier, and Hubert Willis gives a
good picture of Napoleon—a little too statuesque,
but dignified and impressive. Excepting the
youngsters, who fill the stage well, the rest of
the support isn’t worth any favorable mention.
The Talleyrand of Leslie Victor is a very poor
figure, and two military dignitaries, a general and
a colonel, are most forlorn wearers of fine feathers.
“ Brigadier Gerard ” runs until further notice.
** * *
“Mother Goose,” at Her Majesty’s, is
now just approaching its half-hundredth Sydney
performance, and the golden eggs are getting
dented from being laid so often. Apart from that,
everything is better than new, and the claim
doesn’t yet seem to be half worked out.
* * ifc *
“ What Would a Gentleman Do ? ” intro-
duced by the Brough-Flemming Co. at Sydney
Palace on Saturday, is a jolly little play that had
a good run in Melbourne some five or six months
ago. Its name hangs on a little book, called the
“Complete Gentleman,” which a rough diamond
from Australia consults when he needs hints on
etiquette. As was said in Melbourne, at the time
when “What Would,” &c., was produced, Mr.
Flemming would be a more convincing Dickie
Hook, the rough gem with the book of eti-
quette in his pocket, than the present incum-
bent of the job. As it is, Mr. Gregan
McMahon fathers the part, and plays it in
the jocular, light-hearted fashion of an under-
graduate at a Uni. dramatic show—with the
saving clause, of course, that he doesn’t play it
amateurishly. McMahon is the best of the
young Australian actors just now before the
public, and when he’s working in his proper vein
his methods are not to be sniffed at by the best of
the imported stock. Dickie Hook is too, too
generous in the story. He blasts his own character
for love of A girl, and gives away thousand pound
cheques also for love of a girl—the same girl.
That he gets his reward and marries the nicest
girl in the story—not the one for whom he became
such a mush of concession—is only fair. Miss Gor-
don Lee plays Madge Kederby, the daughter of the
aristocratic country house where Dickie is a
paying guest on the sly—that is to say, he is a
guest publicly and pays on the sly—and she
plays it acceptably. Miss Beatrice Day is the
Dolly Banter who bestows her slang and
beauty on Dickie. But Miss Day’s peaches
and cream voice would take the vulgarity
out of any slang. Mr. John Forde, as Sergeant
Rodd, an old servant at “The Grange,”is de-
lightfully humorous with his stiff leg ’and his
brogue. Mr. Edgar Payne, Mr. Carter Pickford,
and Mr. Winter Hall do the real gentlemen
who don’t need books on etiquette, but have
it dyed in their christening robes. Miss Bessie
Major, as a crotchety old rich aunt, draws most of
the laughs that the piece gets. The public ought to
see “ What Would a Gentleman Do?” if it’s only
to know what may happen to a rich Australian
who is a paying guest at a grange.
** * *
The Bulletin last week turned a bright,
fresh intellect on to Sydney Criterion, where
“The Village Blacksmith” still hammers out a
living, and these comments are the result:—
The amount of information which can be gathered, in
an odd way, from the Bilandersonian yellowdrama is sur-
prising. I dropped in to see “ The Village Blacksmith,”
the other night, and learned a great deal about the
manner in which London music halls are conducted. It
appears that the stage is free of access to anybody, and
the performers do much of their business outside in the
street. Any casual person can wander on, and hold an
altercation with the manager as to whether he shall or
shall not “ oblige the audience.” And he proves his case
for he does “oblige.” Also, an injured heroine,
otherwise unconnected with the establishment can
rush on wildly, and fervently “thank Gawd” that
an undesirable party has come to a violent end.
Of course, there is nothing out of the way in
an underground cellar having a convenient window (they
always have), or in the moonbeams following the leading
lady all round the stage (they always do). Nor is there
anything surprising in the sudden transformation of the
man who has been looking the public-house in the face
steadily for months, and is in an advanced stage of “ jim-
jams,” into an athlete in the pink of condition. In a
brief hour or so he gets himself “ fit ” enough to wipe the
floor with the champion strong man. One accepts these
incidents meekly. The scenery is beyond praise, and
many thing's are forgiven on its acoount, even the skurry-
ing moonlight and the shattered drunk who rubs the face
of the earth with the professional Samson.
* * * *
Cross, the sturdy shoer of horses in
Anderson’s “ Village Blacksmith,” apparently
found the work of being an injured hero, hammer-
ing hot iron, and coming victorious out of a three-
bout wrestle witli the villain, too heavy for him,
and when a cold gripped him last week he had to
pass the other trouble on to Campbell, his under-
study. All through the long “Village Black-
smith ” season in Melbourne and Sydney the
public has only had a faint suspicion that the
villain in the wrestling bout isn’t Dunbar, who
plays the villain’s part, but a substitute. As a
matter of fact, Cross’s antagonist on the mat
has been M. P. Adams, a Melbourne sporting
journalist, with a penchant for arranging athletic
scenes on the stage —Musgrove called him in to
help with the circus scene in “ Pretty Peggy.”
* * * *
“Honor Thy Father” will follow “The
Village Blacksmith,” at Sydney Criterion, on
Saturday. It is advertised as an “interesting
domestic production,” and presumably, therefore,
contains something less than a score of sensational
murders.
MISS MARION GREY JULIUS KNIGHT as
as Comtesse de Roquelaure Brigadier Gerard.
(“Brigadier Gerard”).
Andrew Black and violinist Premyslav
have been drawing the musical elect of Sydney
as strongly as Beauty is said to draw with a
single hair. At the opening concert the baritone
(who has more up his sleeve than his hanky) sang
the prologue to “ Pagliacci ” in fine style, though
it lost something by being given in English. A
severe cold hampered the singer in “Oh ! Ruddier
than the Cherry, 15 but Massenet’s “Vision Fugi-
tive” and •“ Gia la Luna ” (Rossini) were finely
sung. Premyslav’s best efforts were Bach’s air
on the G string, and the encore “Traumerie.”
Probably, when he lets his hair grow, Premyslav
will be a fine player. Samson was, no doubt, a
fair performer on the sackbut until his hair was
unfortunately mislaid. After that his only re-
corded public performance was when he brought
down the house at Gaza.
The advts. begin to whisper of the de-
parture of the King and Benson couple from the
Tivoli, and when they sail the show will be the
poorer by two people who know how to arrange
an artistic “turn.” King’s light tenor is one of
the best heard at the house for a long while, and
Miss Benson has the “ magnetism ” that counts
for two recalls at least. The only newcomer in
the bill is a lady “ coon,” and she can stand over
for later inspection. There is never any hurry
about coons.
** * *
Gounod’s “Faust,” as given at the Prin-
cess’s by a German Co., in the language of Goethe,
can’t escape comparison with one or other or
several of the loud Italian performances
which have helped to popularise grand opera in
Melbourne. Every visiting company has sung
“ Faust,” and many mighty fine voices have let
themselves go in it. The Musgrove Co. has no
such voices. Of five principals who sang on
Saturday night the Valentine (Ruj p) and the
Mephistopheles (Greder) were less incapable than
the others of supporting a strong orchestra] strain,
butin the treatmentof individual items—the items
which are ordinarily expected to “knock” the
audience and win an undeniable encore—the per-
formance was weak everywhere, and, the voices
being weak, the accompaniment was necessarily
thin. All the same, the £4OO or £5OO worth of
people who rushed the theatre were seemingly
well satisfied with what they got. It was
“Faust” intelligently sung and acted—a tame,
German rendering of the work with an
unusual allowance of the Flesh and the Devil in
it. Greder, being a stage-managing Mepuisto,
introduced a forgotten fifth act, where he
took the penitent Faust to the top of
the Brocken mountain, and showed him a large
collection of pink girls in raiment scanty or trans-
parent. There could be no occasion for the Devil
to offer any more temptation to Faust, seeing that
the young man was already damned. Greder, how-
ever, was obviously proud of having restored this
Brocken scene to the operatic stage, and
for some strange German reason he added,
on the first night, an inhuman hoof to one
of the Devil’s feet, and made him a hop-
and-carry-one person, whose appearance would
get him six months without the option of a fine in
any Christian city. (The hoof only ran for one
consecutive night.) As for the choice assortment
of girls, they were grouped in the crudest way upon
a platform (which was covered with red cloth), and
their attitudes of endearment were positively
pathetic. Greder has some bright ideas in stage-
business, but h ; s giddy fleshly novelties in “Tann-
hauser ’’ and “Faust ” were puerile in design.
Rossini’s “Barber of Seville,” shrouded
in the mystery of two foreign tongues, was an
amazing experience for the Strictly Australian
majority of the audience. At times, when the
old-fashioned humor of the musical comedy was
punctuated by almost helpless laughter among
the conspirators on the stage, the house was
hushed to what the new-comer at Rickards’
would call “shrieks of silence.” The German
and the learned elements laughed some, but thev
gave no real pointers to the others. Their most
uproarious merriment was excited by panto-
mimic expressions of wit—when, f’rinstance, a
man’s nose was tickled with a feather, or the
music-master of the play wagged a prolonged
gloved finger with great solemnity. The first act
and part of the second act could be easily admired,
inasmuch as the performance travelled on musical
lines, but when there came a long interlude of
German patter things dragged considerably. Miss
Stoller, as Kosina, sang as she had never
warbled before, and in her two big songs
she made handsome amends for the compara-
tive dullness of her Juliet, three weeks ago.
Greder, as Dr. Bartolo, worked quietly up to
some big notes. Music-master Mohwinkel held
his melodious basso much in reserve, but little
Massini—the Count Almaviva —with the excep-
tion of a nervous break in the first act, sang with
Italian spirit all through. Rupp, whose bright,
genial baritone voice suited the name part, was in
dress and action just the Toreador over again,
and he waved his towel of office as though he
were inviting the indignation of a phantom bull.
* * * *
On Saturday the first Australian per-
formance of “The Valkyrie” will transpire.
This is a relentlessly Wagnerian opera, which
requires its devoted students to take their places
at seven o’clock, or thereabouts, with the earnest
intention of staying for about five hours.
sfc * *
The inkpot explosion in “Revenge” (at
Melb. Royal) went near to blinding Walter Baker
in all seriousness the other night. The require-
ments of dramatic fiction demand that the alleged
ink, having been doctored with a mysterious
chemical, shall remain harmless until Baker dips
his steel pen into it, whereupon the internal fire-
work ordinarily goes off. and Baker, for the next
hour or two, is a sightless hero, wandering help-
lessly around without even the guidance of a little
dawg. When he goes to visit his beloved Queen
he would walk into a foaming torrent and get
drowned did not her Majesty observe his peril
from a far-off window and send Mrs. Holt to steer
him away from the wet. And when he reaches
the royal presence he knocks his poor blind legs
against the furniture and fittings—all for want of
a dawg to keep him out of mischief. But this
is a. digression. On the night in question the
squib in the inkpot exploded on its own whilst
Baker was looking at it, and the unexpected
sparks flew into his face and struck him speech-
less. He was too dazed to say “O my God!
Where are my eyes ?” or words to that effect. He
could only walk up the stage and wonder what had
happened, consequently the end of the first act was
more sudden than usual. A violent attack of fire-
works is the last thing that Walter Baker requires
for his health these times. The trusty hero of a
hundred Blandoltian melodramas is suffering from
neurasthenia in a painful form, and the doctor tells
him he needs twelve months’ holiday. Doubtless
he would feel all the better for a complimentary
benefit in the meantime, and if Bland Holt were
to write out the prescription the Melbourne public
would take care that it was properly made up.
Bland Holt’s revival of ‘ ‘ The White
Heather,” at Melbourne Royal, differs from
previous presentations of that handsome pano-
drama in the casting of two chief characters.
Walter Baker formerly played Lord Angus
Cameron, the would-be bigamist, but Baker is
sick, and his place in the forefront of the narra-
tive is taken by Styan, who stiffens
his knees somewhat for the occasion,
and repudiates his Scotch marriage contract
with a sufficiently subtle suggestion of seeming to
be ashamed of himself. Lord Angus is the nearest
approach to a stage villain that “ The White
Heather ” permits, Lady Hermione (Miss Ross)
being mainly responsible for his unprincipled
conduct. Their sinfulness arises naturally from
the situation. His lor’ship went yachting in the
company of a highly attractive girl (Miss Ireland)
of no social importance, who took the risk of an
informal-looking marriage aboard ship, and con-
sented to be rocked in the cradle of the
deep in his lordship’s cabin. They both
thought his intentions were strictly honorable at
the time. A man naturally believes the vows he
murmurs to a reciprocative young woman at sea
(unless he’s a hardened ship’s officah), and she in-
variably reckons herself artful enough to maintain
any sort of hold she can get upon him. But if
Lord Angus ever intended to tie himself to Miss
Hume on terra firma , he was lured from his
respectable resolution by Lady Hermione Ross
aforesaid, who wanted him partly for his own sake
and partly on account of the other cat’s prior
claim. So the question as to whether Angus had
lawfully married the auburn-haired syren on the
White Heather yacht becomes a matter of strong
personal interest to everybody concerned in the
drama, barring Bland Holt.
* * • *
Bland, in the character of a theatrical
manager, frivolling on the outskirts of high
society, is a humorous irrelevancy. He teaches
the daughters of dul-cs and earls the difference
between “ wigettey ” and “ jiggety,” and when he
goes into the members’ room at the London Stock
Exchange the brokers evince their fine taste in
true British horseplay by smashing his hat. Max
Maxwell takes the part that was Styan’s of yore,
whilst Mrs. Bland Holt, Albert Norman, Brown,
and numerous other people appear again in their
old places. Also Brunton’s scenery is repeated
with vast success, and a number of animated
spectacles happen as usual.
* * *
The many-headed admirers of Miss Tifctell
Brune, who mostly failed to be impressed by her
appearance as Kundrv, will get several oppor-
tunities to recover their faith in her during the
next few weeks. On Saturday, when she hustled
for Melbourne’s plaudits as Dorothy Vernon, her
method of representing a historical heroine in a
series of fictitious adventures was as generally
effective as it looked last year. Kingston, Miss
Vaughan, Athol wood, and Maurice Dudley are
perhaps better than before, a remark which might
apply to Gaston Mervale if he were not supplanted
in the billet of Dorothy’s rejected suitor by Vivian
Edwards. The picturesque disturbances at
Haddon Hall will be continued for two more
nights, and on Saturday a brief good-bye season
of “Sunday ” will get going at Her Majesty’s.
# *• * *
Things are about to happen at Melbourne
Town Hall. A few nights of “ Cook’s Pictures
and the All Blacks,” a show from Maoriland, will
start on Monday next. The Blacks are a musical
family who tickle the ears of the audience what
time its eyes are not being ravished and flicked
by moving pictures on the screen.


Alfred Deakin’s oratory seems to have lit
the murk of the British political atmosphere like a
burst of Australian sunshine. In which respect
Alfred resembles that liquid sunshine, D.C.L.
Whisky, which imparts brightness of thought to
any occasion. D.O.L. Whisky is the enemy of
mental dulness and the despair of pessimists.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
An artistic display of the new monthly,
The Lone Hand, is being made a.t E. W. Cole’s
Book Arcade, George-street, Sydney, and by A.
C. Rowlandson in his numerous bookshops in
Sydney. The Lone Hand is a land-mark in the
history of Australian journalism ! The wise will
buy a copy to-day—to-morrow may be too late.
Dear Sir, — Father started out last week lectur-
ing- on the Tyree Spray. His first lecture was on “ Insect
Life in Sydney.” My word, the old man is coming out
all right as a Scientist. . . . I shouldn’t be surprised to
see him on the University Council before long. The room
was crowded, and the old man lost no ti-me in
getting to work. He started the lecture on “Fleas.”
He explained that almost every human being was
liable at any moment to be bitten by fleas, as they did
not seem to be particular what sort of meat they tackled,
rich or poor, fat or thin, young or old. No one could
escape the lively flea. The mere fact of a fleabite was
nothing, the danger being in the microbe of disease that
the fleabite left behind. All sorts of diseases were propa-
gated by fleas, notably plague. At this point the
old’un produced a whisky bottle. “ Here, ladies and
gentlemen,” says he, “is a bottle full of fleas, and
here is a Tyree Spray charged with Tyree’s mixture.
Now I am going to let these insects out and turn
on the Spray, and immediately the mixture reaches
these, the lot will be instantly killed.” There was some
delay at this point, as some of the ladies sitting in the
front row decided to move to the back of the hall. The
old man begged them to keep their seats, as not one flea
would escape. One old lady swore she had some of them
on her already, but, as the old man had not taken out the
cork, the audience decided the fleas belonged to her.
However, after things had been fixed up, the Spray was
set going, the fleas released, and their dead carcases
handed round for inspection. (Great applause.) “ Now,
ladies and gentlemen,” says father, “here is another
insect well known in hotels, boarding-houses, and houses
generally. This bottle contains bugs. Every other
house in Sydney is infested with bugs. They are noc-
turnal insects, and very active. They are very partial to
human blood. Scientists reckon that one healthy
pair of bugs will breed about 1,000,000 offspring
per annum. They also spread disease in the
same way as fleas.” With that he turned
the lot out, and in less than a second they were all killed
with the Spray. Then he produced another bottle full of
cockroaches. “These insects,” says father, “ are very
fond of soup. In some houses it is almost impossible to
make soup without finding half-a-dozen in the pot. But
for the fact that cockroaches will commit suicide in the
soup the world would be covered with them. Some
people object to cockroaches in the soup, therefore the
cooks carefully fish them out of the tureen before it goes
to the table, but in thick soup that is almost impossible,
and, therefore, it is a very common thing in Sydney to
find two or three cockroaches in the bottom, of your
soup-plate.” After killing these, the old man implored
every householder to get a Tyree Spray, and rid them-
selves for ever of these noxious insects. Father pointed
out that if the use of the Tyree Spray were compulsory,
the death-rate would be lowered one-half.—Yours, Bill
Williams.*
On May 18th the famous pianiste,
Madame Teresa Carreno, makes her first appear-
ance, the importance of which musical event will
be emphasised by the re-appearance on the plat-
form of Marshall Hall and his orchestra for con-
certo purposes. The lately returned Benno
Scherek has the management of Madame Carreno’s
tour, and on the word of that clever Australian
entertainer, the lady is expected to thrill this
country to its very soul.
** * *
The manager of the Glaciarium announces
the formal opening of Melbourne’s winter season
on Saturday (4th). At time of writing the rink
floor of the Glaciarium was being converted into a
sheet of ice, where a lady professor of skating
will be in readiness to teach her sisters how not to
fall.
** * *
The programme at the Opera House con-
tinues to be gladdened by a transitory streak of
Carlton, and saddened by the melodrama sketch
artist, who introduces himself in an afternoon
tea-party tone of voice. And in all other respects
it is the same list of well-assorted “ turns ” that
did duty last week with results gratifying to the
management.
** * *
“ T.” muses about opera :
Melbourne considers that the murdered English of the
German opera singers is “rather pretty,” and “so
quaint 1 ” In no Latin country would ouch bad art be
permitted. It would be preferred that artists should
sing in their native tongue, rather than they should be
allowed to mutilate the euphonies of local language.
F'rinstance, when Margaret Macintyre, a Scawtch song-
stress in the first rank, appeared in Milan, and tried to
foist poor Italian upon the audience —she did it in spite
of wise warnings—she was hissed off the stage in the first
act. Neither voice nor acting could shield her from con-
demnation. But those who “know” in Smelbourne
think it’s “ quaint.” .
Miss Suburbia has a high old time in “ Tannhauser.
When she appears as a nymph of the Venusberg she
wears only fleshings and a wreath of roses. Miss Subur-
bia’s ma and pa take a fatted stall for the performance,
and the memory of what Bessie looks like in skin tights
makes them seriously disposed to forbid her a chorus
career. But Wagner and chorus will be an emotional
education for Bessie Suburbia.
Germans are much too unromantic for Gounod s
“Romeo and Juliet.” In the beautiful scene of the
bridal couple’s parting, Oeser sits upon the divan and
stretcheshis arms, with an eloquent early-morning expres-
sion on his haggard face, while Miss Stoiler yawns liredly,
and struggles deeper beneath her coverings. Then the
Dsutsch Romeo leaps up from the couch, and, after
staring out of the casement, goes out—apparently to see
if the Argus has come—while the lady makes a musical
awakening. Neither Shakspeare nor Gounod ever con-
ceived a honeymoon like that.
** * *
“ K ” : Went to see L. Bayer’s cow opera,
at Warrnamhool (Vic.) the other night, and I now
hereby implore him, on my bended feet, bo get a
librettist, even if he has to kidnap one. Com-
plete books of the libretto were distributed
through the hall, so that its awfulness had plenty
of time to soak into the audience. The author, in
his previous vindication, accused me of dragging
a couplet out of its context. Well, here is the
first verse of “ the factory manager’s song,” from
“ The Golden West” :
Of Gracemere factory I am manager,
My screw’s about three poun’ ten.
Free house, with plenty wood, furniture,
Some butter now and again.
In the market my brand stands high,
A good one to beat me it takes,
Please notice in addition that I
Have put up a record in eggs.
I hereby claim for the author a record in rhyme.
I admit that Mr. Bayer is a genius, A man that
can rhyme “manager” with “ furniture’’—and
drag in the latter word specially for the purpose—
and can then go one better by rhyming “takes ’
with “ eggs,” is no common mortal. And, just m
case this may not be considered a fair sample,
here are four lines more :
I’ve shares in all three named fact’ries,
And chairman of one, understand ;
These men, likewise their secretaries,
Are the very best men in the land.
I was interested particularly in this verse, as I
never heard of a poet having attempted to find a
rhyme for “secretaries”before; butL.B. hasdone
it. All the rhymes are on the same principle.
The author seems, with malice aforethought, to
have wasted hours inventing impossible a,nd
barbarous line-terminations. From the Indian
hawker’s song :
Next morning when my chooks I fed
Old Rainmee sidled up ;
A parcel in his hand he had,
And slowly thus he spoke :
“This powder mixee twice a week
With food for fowl and duck,
Your eggs will be, my word, so big
And bring at least two bob ! ”
No music that was ever composed deserved words
like these ; and, as Bayer’s music is much above
the average, it is a thousand pities that he let it
go out in such awful company. Therefore, I say
to him again : “ Get thee to a librettist, and get
at once.” By the way, there is a tenor song,
“ There’s a star in the sky to-night, my love,”
in the opera which is really first-class.
*****
Probably the most notable feature of the
comic opera season in Adelaide has been the in-
creasing popularity of Fred Leslie, who now
attracts that personal interest which spells success
for an actor. The management made an apparent
mistake in not giving to him—especially with
Lauri out of the cast—the lead in “ the Belle ot
New York.” Of course, a comedian so capable
as Bantock could hardly go wrong as Ichabod
Bronson, but the part might have been written
expressly for Leslie’s harsh voice and quaint
mannerisms. Meanwhile, he was working hard
and successfully as Blinky Bill, and little W. b.
Percy made one of the best Courteous Maniacs in
the local history of the play. With “The Little
Michus,” Lauri and Miss Clara Clifton have come
back into the strong company of principals. Slim
Miss Connie Milne finds it somewhat easier to
pretend that she can ever have been hopelessly
“ mixed up ” with Miss Alma Barber than did the
generously-proportioned Florence Young last
year. The rest of the cast is much the same as
then.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Tittell Brune has been unbosoming her emotions re the
Ada Ward crusade, and, oh ! she is so sad about it —so
sad and worried that when she is not professionally em-
ployed she simply sits round and sheds tears because of
the sorrow Miss Ward has caused her. “ There is no
doubt,” says Miss Brune, between sobs, “that she has
turned some of my girls from me, girls I love as much as
she does, and more.” It seems some of Miss Brune’s g As
have written to her, saying they have hearkened to Ada,
and can no longer adore their Tittell as they used to,
because it is wicked to be an actress. “ I have been
proud of their trust,” wails the emotional actress, “ and
oh 1 it has hurt to feel that some have been taught that
to love and trust me is wrong. I have shed many tears
over it. It is so dreadful to think lor my portrait could
harm anyone.” Here the actress becomes so emotional
as to be quite inarticulate. The Bulletin is now waiting
for'some lovely actor to weep copiously in public over
the sweet, dear girls of whose love and trust he has been
ruthlessly robbed by the cruel aspersions of A. Ward.
“ GRANNY ” SWATS THE CARRUTHERS
KID.
He indulges in the utterly preposterous threat that the
Imperial authorities may shift the Mint to “that centre
of Federation—Melbourne.” The day has gone by when
caprice and the fleeting fads of any Premier could be
allowed to rule in this matter.—S.M. Herald on Oar-
ruthers.
“ G. Elburg ”: I move that actors be put under the
heading of prohibited immigrants, or, at least, be securely
muzzled when off the stage. Ernest Leicester, who has
been imported for Australian star and sugar parts, has
been interviewed in Westralia, with nauseous results.
Ernest (whois—haw— a product of Oxford, and has played
football, dammit) gibbers of the women who have loved
him on and off the stage. Olga Nethersole’s “ business”
loving is his ideal. A Yankee critic described Olga’s kiss
as “ a cow pulling its hoof out of the mud ” ; but Ernie
thinks her kissing sublime. He describes how his
beauteousness so worked upon her that, in an impassioned
love-scene, she bit a piece out of his hand ; and he
carries the mark —not the piece—until this day.
“Stony ” : Lately I met a maid who played the accom-
paniments at a succession of suburban musical-and-such
competitions. She was accomplished, and knew her
business. A number of weird things happened. One
long bloke, about to sing, gave her a considerable list of
instructions before commencing. She was to “follow
him as he went fast or slow”; and “f” meant loud
and “ p ” meant soft. Another greengrocer-looking
young man came upon the platform with the words of one
song, and the music of another, and became violently
aggrieved when the wrong melody was played. Com-
petitors of both sexes were, in many cases, horribly
nervous. They would approach the pianist after-
wards and ask, “How did I sing it?” and
“ D’ you think I’ll get a prize?” in frightened
accents, as though roping in the guinea were a matter of
life and death. One girl came up after the prizes had
been allotted, and said, half-weeping, “ Y’ told me I
oughter get a prize, an’ I didn’t ! ” And a man-insect told
some of the authorities that “he’d’ve got first if she (the
accompanist) hadn’t put ’irn off.” But the most surprising
person in the crowd was the touzle-headed dan sel with
the large ears and the Chinese rouge on her cheeks, who
bent down and whispered to the piano-player, “ P’raps
y> might be able to say a word for me when y’ see Mr.
Blank ! ”
“Melb.” writes, mostly in shouts and capitals :-Mus-
grove’s trump card is “ The Barber of Seville.” The dear
old Barber I Grand Music has been otherwise excruci-
ated, with people gammoning to be delighted, under
musical platinum long-drawn-out, wheezes, gulps, bangs,
crashes, and rubbing the cat’s back the wrong way.
Then comes Rossini, “O my Jehoshaphat 1 This <8
Music!” shouts the Amphitheatre. He comes like the
fresh young Yarra, rippling and purling from the War-
burton Ranges The genius who composes because he
must. Otherwise, like Elihu, the son of Barachel the
Buzite, of the kindred of Ram, he would burst as new
bottles. The Versailles Fountains start playing (in
Seville). Little Stoller—O sweet little Stoller, a Sewing
Machine-looking girl, with a stitchy back, and Yarmun
bit of a face, warbles “ Una Voce Poco Fa ” —Te diddly
iddly ido, Te doodle-oodle! Then Rupp as Figaro.
Glorious Fritz ! Figaro here—Figaro there, turned into
Frankfort Sausage. And Mohwi nkel —Don Basilio with the
hat a yard long—“ Bona sera ! Bona sera !” from his boots.
I tell you what. A Rossini tramples on ’em. It s like
G. V. Brooke coming along, and a crowd of Wilson
Barretts are petarded. Well, we had a funny polyglot
“ Carmen ” the other night. Spanish opera, French com-
poser, sung in Italian, German and English. A little sum
up after seeing the current productions. “Lohengrin :
Good Fust Act. The rest Agony—only speaking of
Wagner, not of the carpenters and carpentresses. “ Romeo
and Juliet”: Pretty, without an ounce of inspiration,
except where Lawrence gives the potion to Juliet.
“ Tannhauser ” Overture is one of the top flights of Opera.
The March beats Meyerbeer’s, in “Le Prophkte,” by a
nose, or tongue—a horse once stuck out his tongue, and
won. “Carmen” is Cayenne pepper music. Be not
deceived, it has never been so well done, all round, m
Australia, as by this company ; but Carmen is a brazen
hussy, with a broad brick-dust visage like a lb. of steak,
aiid 'black hair like the Pantomime Giant. Yet she
sings—oh, she sings ! Unsophisticated Mia Barckow, as
Micaela, reminds me that Melba sang it for her friend
CalvA
The arrival in Ballarat of the Kelly Gang pictures was
followed by the uprising of five Ballarat kids not yet m
their teens, who broke into a photo studio and stole a
cash box containing £8 10s. in money and nearly twice
as much in postal notes and scrip. Thej r had a dark lan-
tern and the rest of the outfit, and they had plainly read
up their subject, for they carefully destroyed all the
paper money and other documentary evidence before
dividing the cash. Next day two of them, armed with
loaded "revolvers, bailed up some school kids in the best
Ned Kelly style while the other comic opera desperadoes
went through the kids’ pockets. The Children’s Court
will consequently have before it five infant burglars, who
are sorry they did it. Nobody has suggested arresting
the Kelly Gang pictures for inciting to a felony.
Bushranger Ned Nelly is brought closer by the
announcement that the Victorian Government will not
allow the Kelly biograph to show in Benalla, Wangaratta,
and other towns in the “ Kelly country.” Many relatives
of Edward and Daniel still live in those parts, and Chief-
Secretary Peacock reckons that their glorified deceased
relatives' should not be thrown up at them.
“ San ” : Re Ada Ward’s remarks anent actors disliking
that their sons and daughters should take up the grease-
paint profession. It is the same with nearly all profes-
sions.! , I heard a chemist say once he would sooner see
his boy a road-man than make him a chemist. A tailor
will declare that his trade is the worst in the world for a
boy to learn, and, as a rule, all the trades are replenished
by other people’s children. You seldom find a parson’s
son take orders, unless they are grocery orders, and
missionaries are horrified if it is suggested that their sons
or daughters should go to the naked heathen. _ But all
this does not prove that these are dreadfully immoral
callings which should be avoided ’ y decent people. Rather
it proves that each man seesthe disadvantages of his own
good job from the inside, and views the blessings of the
other fellow’s bad job from the outside. The distant ill
looks green.
“S.” : The many open-air shows in Melbourne —Prince’s
Court, Dreamland, the biograph, Pierrots, and concert
shows on the sands at St. liilda, and the like —have killed
most of the peripatetic suburban dramatic companies.
What was probably the last of them I came across on a
large building lot in a southern suburb the other night.
It had rigged a small platform on barrels, had an eight-
by-ten tent at the back, and a flare light at each corner
of the stage, and was giving a thrilling melodrama in the
open. Admission to the ground was 3d., but the larger
part of the audience was peering through the paling
fence, and only dispersed when the heroine attempted to
get at it with a collection plate.
“A. Freeman ” : There were two girls behind me at
the theatre last night, and Bella was describing the Pan-
tomime to Lucy and Clara. This was Bella : “On 1 it’s
BEW-tiful. There’s such lots of things. There’s a hall of
gold, and the moon rising up in the sky, and LOVE-ly
dresses, and flowers and trees and that. Oh ! it’s bew-
tiful, and fairies, all in wings and spangles, that sing like
canaries, and they throw the most LOVB-ly limelights—
red and green and blue and orange and all colors. Oh!
it’s BEW-tiful, and they’ve got one of those things—you
know—that go up—you know—something like stairs—
that everybodv thinks they know how they're made, but
they can’t explain it, neither can anyone else—it’s WON-
derful. And they’ve got a sor . of—you know—a thing
made of gauze, and you’re quite CER-tain it’s a cloud,
only you know it isn’t. Oh ! it’s BEW-tiful, and two
angels or fairies or something sitting on the—you know—
a bent thing—what do y’ call it?—the CRES-eent of the
moon —it’s most LOVE-ly, but of course it’s only two girls,
and you can see they’re propped up by wires that you
can’t see—it’s WON-derful —and the one that plays Mother
Goose, he is so good, he’s just one of those like
George Glory—oh ! he’s sPLEN-did. Laugh ! I thought
I’d do a fit. He says such fool’s things, and the ballets !
they’re too lovely for anything, they look like I don’t
know what to compare them to, such crowds of them,
and they throw the most lovely lights on them, and they
dance and march, and everyone goes under each other’s
arms, and twine in and out and do all sorts of revolutions.
Oh ! it’s BEW-tiful, and Florrie Young, she’s so sweet.
Hasn’t she got a lovely voice, and little devils with tails
that rush across the stage and dash their heads against
the solid walls, it’s wox-derful, only there’s some of those
things—you know—with bolts and hinges and things that
everybody thinks they’ll break all their legs when they
fall through, but there’s a bed underneath for you to fall
on, and so you don’t — trap-doors, that’s what they call
them, and the little devils dash through them back on to
the stage, and turn—what do y’ call them—it ends with
‘salts’—not Epsom salts, sUMMER-salts—and climb up
and jump down, and everybody gets on each other’s backs
and two men dressed up like donkeys. Oh ! it’s so good,
just like real donkeys, you’re quite sure it’s donkeys,
only you can see it’s two men, by the way they move
their legs and frisk their tails, but you’d never think men
could look such donkeys unless you saw it, oh! it’s
woN-derful! ”
Two remarkable women met recently behind the scenes
of a Paris theatre—Alexandra, Queen of Great Britain and
Ireland, and Sara Bernhardt, Queen of Drama. They are
both old—one 63 and the other 62 ; and they both defy
Time to collect the bad debt they owe him. They are
alike tall and slim—they would be called bony if they
were not queens. They wear high collars to disguise the
scragginess of necks that were once beautiful. They are
both painted, more or less. One is paid by the year and
the other by the performance, but they both perform,
and each has got a fairly “ stiddy job.”
“Philo”: Passing along Pitt-street (Sydney) recently,
I noticed a place built to represent a railway station,
with a portion of a carriage showing. A loquacious
young man, clothed like a guard, was explaining
passers by that the express was leaving right then for
Ireland and some of the most picturesque spots in the
world, &c. And this wonderful trip to Ireland,
and the beautiful scenery, and all the etceteras could
be had for sixpence. I was so impressed that I
paid my half-bob and took my seat in a rather cheap
imitation of a railway carriage. After a while a bell rang
and a whistle sounded. Then the lights went out, the
front portion of the carriage was drawn up like a curtain,
and a nasty, iriitating, continuous noise set up, and, while
the sides of the bogus carriage remained stationary, my
seat heaved up and down, in a mam er that greatly
agitated my fourpenny dinner. Finally the noise and
the rocking ceased and the lights went. up. That was
all. Oh, yes, by-the-bye; a number ol indistinct ani-
mated pictures appeared at the end of the car—of a lot
of railroad, some hills, one or two stations, a few tunnels,
and a quantity of water running over some rocks, but
they didn’t interfere with the noise, or the rocking
sensation, or the disturbance of my fourpenny dinner.
Calv 6, the tempestuous prima donna, during her New
York season was besieged by Yale students anxious to
appear as supers in “Carmen.” The waiting crowd of
young bucks became so riotous that the stage carpenter
turned the hose on them. At that moment up drove
Galv6 herself, and the jet caught her as she stepped out
of the carriage. Her subsequent remarks were made in
French.
Ada Ward, evangelist, drew J. 0. Williamson into print
by calling “ Parsifal ” a pernicious and unhealthy play.
J.O.W. in turn called Miss Ward “The Escaped Actress,"
which, from its suggestion of the methods of the Escaped
Nun, was rather neat.
THE UNEMPLOYED.
THE POLITICAL DEAELICT : “ Deakin! Deakin
and froth. And to think that but for an un-
grateful people it would have been Reid and
substance.”
JULIUS PLUVIUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Julius Superbus Knight told a Sydney Maid Inter-
viewer that he is often moved to tears during pathetic
passages.
In days when drama’s mostly sham,
And shape is mostly pad,
The thought that Julius cannot dam
His eyes is not so sad.
We’ve praised his legs, his strut, his stand ;
To-day we praise his heart,
And raise our hats to Julius and
His irrigated art.
The actors wear goloshes thick
When he is in the cast,
Lest influenza germs should stick ;
Nor reckon danger’s past,
Until, before they leave the show,
Their sturdy dressers toil
And rub them down from top to toe
With eucalyptus oil.
So, if the drama we would boost,
Some novel features might
Be picturesquely introduced
By making Mr. Knight
Weep hard until a tank is filled,
And then the turn complete
With some bright tart of shapely build
To do a diving feat.
If he were out Wilcannia way
In periods of drought,
He’d moisten all the dust and clay
And make the harvest sprout.
Australia’s stocks would bump ahead,
Its prospects all be bright,
When fifty points of tears were shed
By Mr. Julius Knight.
But we’ll admit we never see
Those torrents on his nose,
Nor realise his tendency
To actions lachrymose.
To no great depths that lie in us
His soggy pathos delves,
For when we’re watching Julius
We always weep ourselves.
N.S.W.
A.B.
BUCKLEY, MA WILD WHITE MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Meant to fill the demand for coon songs, giving the
gin of our native land a show.)
Years ago, when the Melbourne Club
Was wood with teeth of sharks,
And used by residents to rub
On those who made remarks,
There was one white man,
In the whole black clan —
Bill Buckley was his name—
He didn’t shave
And he lived in a cave,
Where a dusky damsel came.
And every morning, before that cave,
This is the way that girl would rave :
“ Buckley, ma wild white man,
I love you better than
’Possum cooked in a fricassee,
Snakes on toast, or wallaby ;
Come and tell me how you love me,
Ma wild white man 1 ”
Years went by, and, upon the shore,
That gin would rave and dance,
In such a dress as the ballet wore,
But she hadn’t Buckley’s chance.
For more of the white men came along,
And Buckley joined their camp ;
Still, naught could silence that black girl’s song,
And naught her love could damp,
For right at the door of Batman’s tent
She’d raise her voice in this sad lament:
“ Buckley, ma wild white man,” etc.
Now Buckley died, and the girl as well
Has long been obsolete ;
And it’s fifty years since the gum-trees fell
That grew in Collins-street.
But a phantom clings
To the cave and sings
Of th* man who filled her heart—
And even if ~,
You’re at Queenscliff,
'Twill wake you with a start.
For, while the midnight curlew cries,
You’ll hear the ghostly voice arise :
“ Buckley, ma wild white man,” etc.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


Deafness, Head Doises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention from your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statements :
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes: “I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried; all complications
have entirely disappeared.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
One day’s trial will convince you of the
soothing, cough-allaying, lung-healing power of
Angier’s Emulsion. It is pleasant to take and
aids digestion. Send 4d. postage for a free
sample bottle. The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.,
7 Barrack-street, Sydney.*
THE
VICTOR
CAMERA
RIGHT
AT THE
TOP-
Victor”^.
camera
Is a Universal
Favorite.^
It TaKes Good, Clear Photos
The “ VICTOR ” NO. O HAND CAMERA is fitted with a Rapid Rectilinear
Lens. The Magazine carries 12 Plati s4|x 3J (J-Plate). It has a divided back door
for removing' exposed plates, ihe Lens is extra Rapid. Three Magnifiers are supplied,
for taking near objects. Two Real Brilliant finders and a simple and reliable changing’
arrangement. Altogether this Camera is thoroughly reliable and takes excellent
pictures.
PRICE
30/-
POSTAGE—N.S.W., 1/3;
Inter-State and N.Z., 2/2.
Instruction Book FREE.
DEVELOPING & PRINTING OUTFIT, A. Price 10/6.
We carry a Large Stock of Cameras and Photo Supplies.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SOCIETY
If it be true that Rockefeller has given
£10,000,000 for the conversion of the Chinese he
should be able to christianise half the nation
in one act. Things are bad just now in Chow-
land, and a shilling should buy a Rice Christian
there any day.
* * * *
Melbourne is to have its “Suicide Bureau,”
and Salvarmy Commissioner M‘Kie is busy organ-
ising. The Bureau is not an institution for the
convenience of men and women who seek an easy
way out of the world—not a happy dispatch office
—but an institution to which would-be suicides,
who want to be persuaded out of it, will repair,
and be urged not to. The Commissioner claims
that in two weeks the London Bureau persuaded
600 people not to kill themselves. If all these
people had killed themselves, suicides in London
would have been at the rate of 156,000 a year,
allowing nothing for suicides who didn’t call at
the Bureau, and, on the same scale, the suicides
for the British Isles would have been about
1,082,000 per annum. These improbable figures
suggest that the same person was sometimes per-
suaded not to kill himself three or four times in one
day, and never meant to in any case. Possibly the
Bureau may yet become a fashionable fad, and it
may grow into a habit with languid fashionables to
stop the motor-“cah” outside the place, and be per-
suaded not to hang themselves by the neck in the
boudoir. The business may even boom so much
that the Salvarmy will be able to open a bureau
to which the push may repair and ask to be per-
suaded not to yell and do stoush in the street, and
where the man who means to mash his neighbor’s
pretty wife may go and ask the proper official to
urge him not to. This bureau business is full of
possibilities.
SAVED.
SAINT : “ There are certain difficulties
connected with the entrance of a rich
man into the Kingdom.”
SINNER : "They don’t affect me. For years my property has all been in my wife's name.”
There are lots of ways of getting killed,
but an eight-year-old boy at Nackara (S.A.) found
an almost original method the other day. He
was playing with a roller towel, got his head in
the bight of it, and then swung round on his heel.
He swung just one time too many ; and he fell
forward, helpless, strangled, dead.
• * * *
A George-street (Sydney) undertaker
exhibits in his shop a specimen of a fire escape.
Somehow the association doesn’t give us con-
fidence in that fire escape. If a parson had it on
view, now
For sublime impudence, The Bulletin
gives the bun to the British Attorney-General,
who, the other day (as per cable), stated
reciprocity between the English and colonial Bars
would be difficult until the colonies adopted the same
qualifications as England.
The inference is that “ colonial ” barristers are of
inferior training to British wiggers. The truth is
that in Britain you mostly qualify for the Bar on
your stomach. If you can eat and pay for a cer-
tain number of dinners, and don’t mind the com-
pany of the niggers who infest the “Inns of
Court’’and qualify for the British Bar in hun-
dreds yearly, you can become an English barrister
with the minimum of intellectual energy. In
Australia, qualification is a matter of literary,
not stomachic, digestion, and the Australian
barrister is accordingly far better equipped men-
tally than the Baboo or the Britisher, who gets
through at one of the “Inns” after three years’
dinner-eating and six months’ cramming with a
professional “coach.”
* * * ■»
“Bosheen” writes from Bendigo re that
Easter Fair sectarian disagreement which broke
a good old charitable movement into three
pieces :
In describing the Protestant Alliance turnout in the
Easter Fair procession The Bulletin (11/4/07) refers to
it as being a lorry. The Melbourne dailies made the same
mistake. As a matter of fact, the vehicle was a Chow’s
vegetable cart, borrowed for the occasion. Sling Muck’s
perambulating ‘ ‘ gleen pea ” warehouse was tastefully
decorated with orange-colored sateen. Seated on each
side of the cart were three of Worrall’s Sabbath-school
children holding open Bibles in their hands, and on the
top was perched another kiddy with a three-pronged stick
and a crown, presumably to represent Britannia ruling
the Bible. This inspiring tableau was drawn by a worn-
out neddy, and was driven by A. N. Collier, secretary to
the Open Convent movement, and was followed by some
15 or 20 Orangemen, with Andrews, Boss Booster of the
Bendigo L.0.L., in the lead. It was not the open Bible
that the Hibernians took exception to, but the spectacle
of Collier, the Rome-curser, pervading- the Good Book
under a canopy of orange-colored sateen. Some of them
also objected to the Chinese cart, and a few thought it
was a case of cruelty to the horse. It is the first time the
sectarian curse has been dragged into the Bendigo Easter
show, and it arrived in a heathen’s vegetable vehicle.
* * * *
“C.M.G.”: The Rev. J. Urquhart, of
Melbourne, who is whooping it up as a champion
of orthodoxy, fired this mass of wisdom at his con-
gregation the other day, vide an Age report
Much admiration had been wasted on human idols.
Napoleon Bonaparte showed them the possibilities of
humanity. He was gigantic of intellect, but not of heart.
He had dropped into oblivion, which had covered so many
thousands.
If Napoleon is sunk in oblivion, what is the
average defunct parson sunk in—say the Rev.
Jabez Jones, who preached conscientiously for 40
years in the Bethel up the back street at
Kidderminster in England ; or the Rev. Duncan
Macpherson, who exhorted for half-a-century at
Auchtermuchty further north? Parson Urquhart
quotes oblivion as if it were the reward of sin.
Ye gods ! What is there on earth in the way of
fbrgottenness to compare with the gloom which
falls on the bones of the good ordinary preacher
who shoved his honorable little barrow along for a
generation, and then got two lines in a daily
paper saying he was gone but not forgotten ?
Even the day after his death his friends have to
advertise that he isn’t yet wholly disremembered.
In N.S.W., J. Carruthers has struck the
idea that there ought to be a Board—another
Board !—to regulate State subsidies to hospitals.
At present, the hospitals all round get a £ for £
subsidy on their own collections, wherefore the
fat hospital gets fatter and the lean infirmary gets
leaner, and sweats its staff, and sells its poultices
to the local piggery, and does other things that it
wouldn’t do if it had decent support. The poorer
the district the more the hospital i& needed, yet
the less it can collect; and the less it collects, the
less it gets from the State. Even J. Carruthers
can see that there is something wrong with a
system like that.
“ R. Mac.” on a theological point:—
Heard “Benjamin” and “Mary” expounding their
particular brand of Christianity. The new version agrees
with the older creeds in passing the plate to receive the
“ free-will ” offering. The Benjamites also follow Salvo
Booth’s business-like plan of sending demure damsels to
receive that offering, instead of having the plate passed
round by immortals, whom their creed has saved from
death, and who are whooping cheerfully into their second
century.
Mary is the stir performer. Holding forth about the
contents of that blessed publication, Siiiloii, Mary said
it would tell us where hell was—not that any of the audi-
ence were going to board with Old Nick, but it would
give people the future address of their neighbors and
friends. Mary also says that the Scriptures teach that
we escape bodily death by living a celibate life. Seeing
that nobody, from the Creation down to about the year
1800— our oldest centenarian was born somewhere in the
vicinity of that year—seems to have escaped death, this
is a most tremendous attack on the alleged celibacy of
the alleged celibates of past generations, some of whom
died pretty young too. And wliat’s the use of escaping
death if you don’t escape old age? Mary and
Benjamin are obviously making as good a sprint down
the vale of years as anybody who doesn’t read Shiloh, or
know where hell is, or belong to the long-haired church ;
and when they reach the age, of CftO they will, on present
appearances, have been sitting helpless and toothless by
the fire for five centuries or more, and making their
relatives feel very tired of seeing them about.
AN ANSWERED PRAYER.
SALVATION JONES : “ Where’s yer ’usband, Mrs. Buster ? I come ter ‘are a 'eart to ’eart tork
with ’ im .”
MRS. BUSTER : “ ’E’s in the lock-up fer bein' drunk."
S.I.: “ An’ on’y larst night I prayed ter the Lord ter give 'im moral courage!"
MRS. B. (enraged): “Ho! yer did! Well , I may tell yer it took six traps ter run him in."
The jewellery robberies one reads of in the
newspapers are not nearly so interesting as some
which never get into print. Incidental to the sale
of a famous racehorse last year, there was a
diamond ring story with more than one moral
attached. The vendor of the gee-gee, being a
vulgar person who kept bad company, had in-
vested some of his profits in a prodigious diamond
ring, which in the natural course of events was
stolen from him at a Melbourne temple of Venus,
or under equally bad conditions. He didn’t an-
nounce his loss to the police, for that would have
been the same thing as telling all the circum-
stances to Australasia in general through the
press. One of the colleagues of the man who
bought the racehorse from him was an eminent
“ fizgig,” in close touch with Melbourne’s smartest
thieves and most unscrupulous detectives. The
anxious sport consulted the eminent fizgig as
to the fate of his lost property, and found that he
could buy it back for £5O. But it became known
to the brotherhood of “guns” that the go-between
was not “on the square.” He had arranged with
the owner that a detective or two—he has always
been one to work up a case for the “cops”—
should be brought into the job to get all possible
honor and glory for making a “clever capture,”
such as daily newspaper reporters love to babble
about. This secret having leaked out, the
diamond ring was not recovered. The rats de-
clined to venture near the trap, and, in thelanguage
of speilomacy, “the deal was ’orf.”
The Carruthers (N.S.W.) Government has
its grasp on another piece of park land, that
fronting Cook and Park Roads—a portion of the
old Sydney Common. There are two things that
make the average Sydney person in authority feel
his Vandal blood a-stirring : one is a park and the
other a tree. Just now Carruthers proposes to
collar this bit of Common, also the Observatory
Park, and a portion of the Domain (to make a
broad road so that the drunkest of men may safely
zig-zag from the new Library—built on park
lands—to the Art Gallery—also built on park
lands). And the City Council, trying to live up
to the Carruthers tradition, proposes to take
some of Hyde Park to widen a street.
Just about the time the Japanese training
squadron steamed into Wellington (M.L.) the
city was also struck by a travelling Jap. journalist
whose pasteboard bore the legend, “N. Nama-
kura.” He was doing the world for a syndicate
of Nippon papers, and had already visited 60
countries. He was amazed to find, as he made a
weary round of the best hotels seeking accommo-
dation, that they were all full. His suspicious
Asiatic intellect was intensely impressed with the
rush of business in the windy city, so he strolled
round to the police station to inquire why the
Government didn’t start State hotels and rake
much money out of the venture. He returned to
the most haughty and swagger establishment of
the lot with a policeman in tow, and then they
managed to scrape up a room for him in double
quick time. The Jap. evidently knew more than
some Sydney women who have had the misfor-
tune to be belated at night, and have tried to get
a lodging at the Hotel Norfolkhoward.
* * *
“N.L.” : “ Syd. C.” writes a poem (B.
4/4/’O7) about a young lady who dislikes to wear
a superfluity of clothing. The part that specially
takes my fancy is—
Collars she hath long since disdained :
All unconfined her neck of snow.
I wish that sensible girl would start a mission to
convert others to her commendable practice in
this respect. I could almost yelp over the num-
ber of times I have seen a fair young neck
gradually made scraggy by ramparts of buckram,
starched linen, or some other out-of-place material.
Even the well-ventilated lace collars contain a
weird metal support that prods the wearer some-
where in the neighborhood of the thyroid gland,
and conduces to unsightliness. Gome, dearly-
beloved sisters, cast your collars aside, and give
your necks a chance to retain their natural beauty
ere it is too late 1
A PAIR O’ KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ King Victor Emmanuel of Italy boarded King Edward’s
yacht on its arrival, and the two monarchs embraced re-
peatedly.”
“ Kiss me, Vic. ! ” and “ Kiss ine, Ted ! ”
(Never was such kissing since the days of Kissy Ware)
“Buss me, Ted, till, blushing red,
I go to the Quirinal —you to Portman Square 1
Tho’ .your paunch is in the way,
This shall be a kissing day ! ”
Four-foot-ten and five-foot-two
(Never was such kissing since the days of Kissy Ware), •
Meeting on Tyrrhenian blue ;
Kissing for to fright the Kaiser and to bluff the Russian
hear,
Little picturesque they- be,
Kissing by the Central Sea.
Never mind the humor o’’t
(Never was such kissing since the days of Kissy Ware).
“ Buss me, Victor, on the boat—
Ere you take the tram for Rome—l to Portman Square-
Kiss Bellona back to bed.”
“ Buss me, Vic,” and “ Kiss me, Ted ! ”
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE LANTERN LECTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a great professor, and, of course, he had a fad,
As every great professor in this world has always had !
His fad was talking temp’rance at the Uni. to his class,
Which made the youths regard him as a sort of cultured
ass.
He placed a drop of water on tne camera to show
H >w myriads of microoes in a single drop may grow !
He showed how whisky killed the microbes ! “ There
you are ! ” said he—
“ That shows that whisky must be always bad for you
and me ! ”
“ The whisky kills the microbes in the water?” asked a
lad.
“It does! ” said the professor ; “ that will prove to you
it’s bad ! ”
“ For microbes ! ” said the student ; “ but in future I will
see
I have a drop of whisky when the water’s passed to me ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODOE.


If your liver is sluggish and out of tone,
and you feel dull, bilious, constipated, take a dose
-of Chamberlain’s Tablets to-night before retiring,
=and you will feel all right in the morning.*
“Ah, my Beloved, till the Cup.” You
may just as well fill it with the purest spirit avail-
able. Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimu-
lant and best tonic known for mind or body.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
% 5
m
3 Good Points in an Overcoat.
FIRST: Handsomely Designed Materials.
SECOND: Perfect Fitting Qualities.
THIRD : Moderate Price.
NOTHING more handsome in Overcoatings has yet come to
Australia. We have made them up into very smart coats —
put the best of workmanship into them, and done everything
to insure YOUR satisfaction.
The fabrics are rainproof tweed, in dark grey shades with
faint colors woven through them. They have no linings to cause
trouble, but the inside is in check materials which gives a lining effect.
Send Chest Measurement over ordinary coat, buttoned, and measurement
from centre of hack to end of sleeve.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd..
MEN’S and EOYS
OUTFITTERS,. .
309-311 George St., SYDNEY.
THE MENTAL RESERVATION.
HUSBAND : “ When I married you, you told me
your parents were dead. "
WIFE: “ I did no such thing."
HUSBAND : “ You told me your father ‘ had
crossed the river. '"
MOTHER (interpolates): “ Skipped across the
Murray. So he did."
HUSBAND : “And that your mother, after severe
trial, ‘had gone to her reward.'"
MOTHER ( interpolates): “Gaoled! Twelvemonths
hard. That's all right."
HUSBAND : “ And that you would all meet again
by-and-bye."
MOTHER (interpolates): “ Well, we have met."
It isn’t often a man falls in as neatly as a
Brighton (Vic.) citizen did lately. He had fallen
out with a coffee-palace keeper, from whom he
had been leasing a billiard-room, and, being out of
the room himself, suddenly realised that it was
liis duty to tell the local sergeant that the place
was being run without a license. The Law was
much obliged for the information, and set out to
rsummon the new occupant; but, as there wasn’t
any new occupant, the room having been dis-
mantled, he served the summons on the former
•occupier, his tricky informant. Subsequently an
unusually discerning Bench fined him £5.
The white man’s burden grows heavy
up North. At Charters Towers (Q.), two
girls, aged 13 and 22, the daughters of a highly-
respected family, have been pronounced by the
Government Health Officer to be suffering from
leprosy. Tents will be erected in the police pad-
docks outside the town, and their devoted mother
will attend to the two innocent victims of the
cheap black-labor curse.
* * » •
The copious enthusiasm of a man in Mel-
. bourne:—
The Bight Hours procession took one hour to pass any
point in the ocean of humanity through which it
traversed Melbourne. The drum-throbs first announced
it. Then came the time-honored noble banner of 1856.
As it floated up, the leading band gave forth inspiriting
strains. The corporation laborers had the honor of
coming first, with their banner showing the Melbourne
Town Hall. Then the railway servants had their go in.
Such was the length of the turn-up that the public
was quite ripe for the second excellent baud with
“ Oh, How It Did Upset Me ! ” The licensed marine
store collectors were heartily cheered, with a gaily
decorated truck hoisted on high, and the music
appropriately changed to “ Any Rags, Any Bones, Any
Bottles To-day?” The sewerage and general laborers
had a good muster. A peculiar but handsome banner
preceded the saddlers—a shield, supported by two horses,
rampant, looking over their shoulders. Next there
loomed along two gorgeous, antique ladies on a flag,
apparently Juno and Venus, discussing the tanners and
curriers, who followed. The next band chipped in with
“ Off to Baltimore.” A classic lady again appeared
gigantic on a flag. The sawmillers showed up well.
Next, the coachmakers. The coopers were tremendously
cheered, with a lot of men at work on casks around a real
fire. The boot trade employees were sturdy as ever, and
the banner painter was again exuberant with beautiful
ladies and flowery wreaths. Surely the Melbourne trades
have an unparalleled array of banners.
More banner heaved along with the picture of a lux-
urious drawing-room, emblematic of the furniture trade.
The ironmoulders were more stern, with the picture of
a furnace and the Tubal Cains at work. Another band
refreshed the spectacle with “ Bom-bom-bay.” The
boilermakers came along with a grand banner-painting
of men at their stalwart trade. The engineers marched
by. Their banner showed Watt, Stephenson and Brunei.
The trades honor the really great men who have soared
above them, though they may have a contempt for
Goldbug, Giltgore, and the other Fats.
The carriers’ banner of a Roman chariot race was
glorious. The most significant thing in the procession
was the display by the General Labor Union, more
particularly associated with the shearers. Here a cavalry
squadron came in, with bushmen. Sheep were also borne
along. For a change there came the shipbuilders, with
flags and pennons and a band that discoursed “ Sail
Away.” The banners showed a ship launch on one,
and a steamer in full tear on another. The steve-
dores passed with the rousing flag of Neptune
driving his three horses over the ocean. Next was the
Seamen’s Union. The carters and drivers ensued, bearing
along a wooden horse, like the Greeks when they entered
Troy. After them the street hawkers of fruit and fish,
cheered to the echo. They carried along a sick man in
bed, with a variety of mottoes urging the public not to
abandon them. The bagpipers trudged by with a deafen-
ing skirl. The bakers came after the bagpipes. The
millers had a resplendent picture of Ceres in a cornfield.
The butchers, with their peripatetic meat-shop and the
inevitable banner, must not be overlooked. For a con-
trast there were the bookbinders with their literary
trophy, and motto “ Knowledge is Power.” And there
were plumbers, masons, painters, paperhangers, brick-
layers, carpenters, glassblowers, cigar and tobacco
trades, and other workers. A ghastly little banner
showed a man falling off a building, with the inscription
“ We want an Inspector of Scaffolding.”
« • * *
“ J.G.”: The only qualification needed for
Vic. country Js.P. is apparently ' to possess
a good heap of money or to monopolise
a few thousand acres of land. Educa-
tion is quite unnecessary ; a stake in the
country covers everything. I was in
court once when a complicated small
debts case was on. The unpaid judiciary,
after listening to the pros and cons of
the affair, put on the outward aspect of
he unboiled owl, and found that the
case was against the defendant. “Fined
£5 or two months’ imprisonment,” said
the big J.P., who acted as chairman.
The clerk gasped, the court orderly
coughed, the defendant nearly fainted
from amazement. “You can’t do that,
your Washups,” said the clerk. “ It’s a
civil case, and doesn’t carry imprison-
ment. You can only make imprisonment
the alternative in cases against breaches
of the Police Offences Act, not in cases
of this sort.” “Oil {right,” said the big
beak, glaring down on top of the clerk’s
head. “The case is dismissed.” “ You
can’t do that either, your Wasliup,”
moaned the anguished clerk, “as you
have found against the defendant.”
“ Well, wot can we do?” said the J.P.
“Remand the case till Monday,” said
the clerk, “when the P.M. will settle
it.” “ Orl right ” said the beak.” “How
about bail? Will £20do?” “ You CAN’T
demand bail in a case of this description,”
replied the clerk. “ Orl right,” snapped
the J.P. “ Call the next case.” Another
time I had occasion to have a document
witnessed by a J.P. and sent a note along
asking if he would be at home on a
certain date. I received the following
reply:
deer sir i think i will be hoam on next tuesday
evening and will then be most hapy to do what
you want if i have to go away from hoam before tuesday
i will send a not to you to let you no yours truely Blank
Hash J.P.
* * * *
“Barney,” bitterly (and blottedly) from
the spot where it happened ;
The maritime disaster off the Semaphore (S. Aus.) dis-
closes a state of affairs which out-Gilberts Gilbert easily.
Pilots, watchmen, light-keepers, and seemingly every-
body, were sleeping sweetly, while an anxious captain
groped his way to an anchorage. Next morning (after
the day had been fairly well aired) all hands arose from
their beds to find that two ships and a steamer had been
mixed up considerably ; with the result that a ship and
a steamboat had foundered. The senior pilot seemed
surprised that such a disaster could have happened, as he
told the newspaper man that he always walks down to
the end of his street with his telescope every morning
to see if there are any ships in the Gulf. The captain of
the vessel which didn't founder states that he burned
blue lights from about 2 a.m. until the time of
»the collision, somewhere between 4 and 5 a.m., but
not a soul ashore noticed them. The watchman
on the lighthouse at the end of the pier says
he rose early to put the oat out, or something,
but, it being dark and blowing, he went back to bed.
The pilot on duty says he turned in on Saturday night,
and as nobody told him that a ship was burning blue
lights and groping for an anchorage, he didn’t turn out
until Sunday morning about breakfast time. The damage
was all done then, so what could he do? Marine depart-
ments in other parts of the world must be rather stricter
than in S. Australia. I heard of a man taking- a job as
light-keeper in a light-house, and, being inexperienced,
he thought all ships should be home by 9 at night, so he
put out the light at that hour and went to bed. He got
the sack. (N.B. —The pilot service is a State business.
These .wo vessels weren't lost owing to Federation.)
Miss Ada Ward, the acting evangelist,
created a great deal of excitement on the voyage
to Australia by making peremptory demands of
the captain to put people off the boat if they
attempted to deride her “work.” Even in mid-
ocean Ada would rush the captain, and insist on
his putting somebody off. Possibly the evangelist
thought the pagans might be accommodated with
a raft and a tin of biscuits.
SCRIPTURE IN THE BUSH.
REV. GENTLEMAN : “Note, children, you all know what an apostle is ?"
BRIGHT PUPIL : “ Yes, sir; please, sir, my brother shot one last Sunday. Please, sir, it was
a ringtail! ”
The “ push ” has given the Melbourne sea-
side resorts best. Once Mordialloe was the rage,
Then Bill and Lizzie and the mouth-organ and
the picture hat moved nearer home to Mentone,
That was abandoned for Hampden. Then Greens-
, u a „ -NT™, Two
borough got a urn. Now Fern Tree Gully is
rushed on holidays. But Bill and his nh -
late tait don tgo right up the gu yi se ,
there is a dance-room and paddock adjacent tD the
station, and there they disport themselves in
■ Li- . i
serious fashion. Also at the Gully, there is a pub
alongside and a second one contiguous•, likewise a
third one adjacent; and when Bill returns home
cattle trucks, with one arm embracing Lizzie'and
the other adjusting a mouth-organ there is joy
along the track of the engine, and the countryside
understands that the ‘‘ push ” is departing till the
next holiday. As for Mordialloe and its suburbs,
they begin to be very dead. The campers are 50
per cent less than last year ; there are few of the
happy-go-lucky casuals who pitched a tent any-
where and loafed and bathed the days away, and
covered themselves with carelessness and sun-
burn. The only tents now are semi-permanent
structures, each as big as a two-roomed house,
with wood floors and pianos and other passemen-
terie. And the occupants have their days “at
home.” Gadzooks !
* * i *
From The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant;
An old Sydney landmark is being now demolished—
that on the N.E. corner of York and Barrack streets,
built, as we were told on the coping stone, by “J. K.
Heydon, 1853.” The land was originally a part of the
Military Barracks reserve. In the mid ’fifties it was
occupied by the Oriental Bank, which left there for
Pitt-street, in which thoroughfare it died. The builder,
Jabez K. Heydon, was an old settler. In the early’forties
he was at 78 King-street, “Pawnbroker and Agent
for Holloway’s Pills and Ointment,” vide advt. He was
J2 1 e . so j e Australian agent for Holloway. In the mid
’fifties he gave up the business and became proprietor of
the Freeman’s Journal, his home being at Kissing
Point. In 1845 he had an experience. At the rear of his
premises in King-street lived the owner of the property,
an old and wealthy woman, Mrs. Hoadley, whose name
still decorates the coping stone of the buildings. Mrs.
Hoadley had living with hera young girl, whom she had
adopted. On Sunday morning, May 19, 1845, the girl
rushed into King-street to tell the first person she met —
who happened to be peaceful Jabez Heydon, pawnbroker,
and sole agent for Holloway’s pills—that Mrs. Hoadley
had been murdered in the night. A man had entered the
bedroom and slaughtered the old woman, presumably for
the offence but acquitted, and Mrs. Hoadley is still un-
avenged.
Westraha, shocked by recent wholesale
baby-farming horrors, talks of a Foundling
Asylum. The idea is supported even by the
clergy, who seem to have been shamed, for the
time, out of their favorite attitude that the
blessed cause of morality demands that the sinless
illegitimate infant should he thrust down a drain-
pipe or left in a brown-paper parcel on a vacant
lot.
A quarter of an hour was recently wasted
in the Sydney Quarter Sessions in arguing at
cross purposes, before it was elicited that the
witness was referring to George-street, Redfern,
while everybody else thought he was speaking
about George-street, Sydney. Judge Murray
made a few remarks re the idiocy of duplicating
names. And he might with justice have made
more remarks than he did. The trouble about
streets represents only part of the evil. Towns
bearing similar names are scattered all over
Australia, even all over the world. The Post
Office record shows no fewer than eight Mel-
bournes in various parts of the globe, while there
are enough New towns in Australia alone to make
a decent-sized city in themselves. And the names
of the suburbs of most Australian cities might
well be extensively altered. Paddington, Water-
loo, Balmain, Waverley, Pyrmont and Surry Hills
(why is the “e” knocked out?) are bad enough
examples of the importing mania, but what about
the imagination of the man who gave Five Dock
its name, or the more recent genius who proudly
evolved Brighton-le-Sands—ye gods ! —from his
inner consciousness? And then there is Tram vale!
* * * *
In a small way and, unfortunately, accord-
ing to no definite plan, something is occasionally
done or projected to improve the narrow, con-
gested ways of Sydney. But the City Council
has at last realised that the odd-job method is not
the best. The other day a suggestion was made
for the resumption of part of the grey and for-
bidding-looking S.M. Herald building, with a
view to widening the place where three streets
meet, but the Council decided in the first place to
instruct the city surveyor to prepare a general
scheme for the all-round improvement of the
city. With such a plan on hand the Council will
know what it is driving at when it does a bit of
resumption here and there, instead of plunging
around in the dark. It will be aiming at some-
thing definite. But if the city surveyor is going
to draw up a comprehensive plan for making
Sydney a city laid out on first-class modern lines
he has on hand the contract of his life, and the
Council had better have a drop of stimulant handy
before it looks at the expense estimate.
TO A SHIP-OWNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The heroes of the work of saving 75 babies from the
wreck of the Suevic were George Anderson and Bill
Williams, seamen. —News item.
When you’re sitting warm and happy in your drawing-
room ashore,
And you’re thinking of your steamers on the foam,
When you’ve drawn your quarter’s dividend and feel
you’d like some more,
And you reckon up your freighters coming home,
Akbar Khan’s the man for you,
He’s the cheapest kind of crew,
Living on an oil-rag and a grain of rice or two,
He’s the owner’s Useful Man,
Brown or yellow, black or tan,
He’s so civil and so servile, he’s a servant through and
through.
When you’re battened under hatches in the liner’s hot
saloon,
When the racing screw-shafts set your nerves awry,
When the glow-lamps wink and quiver, stormy night and
fearful noon,
And the white-faced women huddle up and cry, *
Bill is good enough for you,
Nothing like him for a crew,
Working ships in rotten weather for a stormy week or two,
He’s the all-round trusty man,
He’s the only man who can
Grip the storm with both his knotty hands, and get the
liner through.
When you’re basking in your flannels on the liner’s sunny
deck,
When the stewards haste with bottles off the ice,
When the ladies ask the captain, “ Were you ever in a
wreck ? ”
And the Lascars on the fo’c’s’le dip their maulers in the
rice,
Akbar Khan’s the man for you,
Was there ever such a crew
Picturesquely gotten up in gaudy strips of red and blue?
He’s the Very Cheapest Man,
Brown or yellow, black-and-tan,
He is quaint and he is pleasing, he’s delightful through
and through.
When the liner leaps in madness on the black and hungry
reef,
When through the hull the savage breakers burst,
When fainting women lose their wits, and parsons their
Belief,
And the officers are shouting “ Women first,”
Sailor George will do for you,
He and Bill are staunch and true,
■“ Pass the babies down the ladder,” that’s for George and
Bill to do,
They are hard-faced and they’re rough,
They are mutinous and tough,
But they’ll laugh to scorn the tempest and they’ll see the
trouble through.
When the warships range the ocean, seeking foemen near
and far,
As Drake of Devon sought them long ago,
When against the old long odds we play once more the
British tar,
And to half the world the old-time challenge blow, —
Then who’s to fight for you,
When your dividends look blue,
Who will break the hostile battle when we’ve niggers in
the crew ?
What’s the use of Akbar Khan ?
You’ll want Bill the sailorman —
Find and pay and feed and keep him, and he’ll see the
nation through.
vie.
HAROLD J. BROWN.


the terrors of 'Hospital \
Saturday are to be augmented by 1
the playing of 24 brass bauds dis-
tributed throughout the city on.
that day.
All men over the age of 50 should be exempt from solici-
tation, and, if necessary, be protected by the
a , __ artist owns to 52. _
HOSPITAL SATURDAY.
Under the by-laws made by the Syd-
ney City Council regulating collections
for charitable purposes in the city, the
age of importunity is to be raised.
No person under 16-years of age will
be permitted to collect for charitable
purposes.
It is feared that this will mean a
considerable shrinkage in the A
returns, AM
The use of a box at the
end of a pole, In order
i to reach upper windows
\ or the roofs of convey-
ances, is Interdicted.
, \ The ingenious sex will,
}\\ however, doubtless find
\ means of evading this
i by-law.
Joey Carruthers says that
public men of to-day get
few of the crowns of life for
their rewards, having, In-
stead, often to bear a cross
that people do not see them
bearing.
Our artist has here tried to
notion of the gloomy
cellar under Parliament
House to which Joey fre-
quently retires to struggle
with his little
cross. It Is
not a cheerful
finAnfnrlo
The purity of the water
In Cataract dam (N.S.W.) Is 5
threatened by the presence
o! blackberry pickers on tfae
( water shed.
Sl*ns such as have proved so effectual in our tram*
V ferry-boats should be put up there.
“On the occasion of your birthday,,
allow me, on behalf of The Bulletin, to
E . r U .u W,th th,s »«le volume.”
Sa; real b,rthda y °* Aub-
CHARITY AND CHEERFULNESS GENERALLY.


A bad taste in the mouth reminds you that
your stomach is in a bad condition. It should
also remind you that nothing is so good for a dis-
ordered stomach as Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
•aiild up the system, not tear it down like the
ordinary pill.*
The afflicted all fly to it,
Th • suffering' cry for it,
Sing- praises high of it,
It can ensure
Protection from chills,
Ohest troubles and ills,
Keep down doctors’ bills—
Woods Great Peppermint Cure.*
HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing',
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NT)COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing 1 .
ANGLERS
♦
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 4it GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The kauri forests of Maoriland are doomed.
Experts give them 10 years’ life at the most. It
seems impossible to keep fire out of them in
settled country. So farewell to a good wood that
shrinks most disgracefully in three directions, and
always seems vexed it cannot shrink in any other
wav. Anyhow, its cost is expanding in a way
that compensates for its shrinking.
THE RISK HE RAN.
"So you've got a new baby up your way? ” “ Yes, man, and a fine boy too —our fifteenth."
“ Ain't you afraid of overstocking that bit o' land of yours, Anderson? ”
‘‘ Palaver ” : Re the complaint of “ Cocky ”
that the horses in Lambert’s “ Across the Black-
s°il Plains” are short of belly-bands. If “ Cocky ”
tad been out this way—between Nevertire and
Walgett (N.S.W. ) —in the ’nineties he would have
seen scores of horse teams with nary a belly-band
among the lot. Can’t say as to the methods
nowadays. Wheelbarrow men and Assyrians
have driven the big-gun carriers further out, and
things are becoming mean and small and niggling-
on the blaeksoil plains. The time will yet
come when a fiend in a faded plug hat will
invade the spaciousness of these open places of
Hod, and try to sell a time payment oleograph to a
peasant (we will yet have peasants) named William
•lohn Henry Joseph Crump.
“The Prooshan ” : A neighbor of mine
recently laid strychnine baits (apples) for rabbits,
over night, carefully locking his fowls up. Next
morning he found three dead rabbits, brought the
uneaten apples into his house, and liberated his
chooks. In half-an-hour he saw one hen giving
the last kick, and another evincing unmistakable
symptoms of strychnine poisoning, having evi-
dently got some remaining crumbs along the
poisoned area. The fowl’s owner instantly pow-
dered a lump of blue stone (sulphate of copper),
in size slightly larger than a pea, made a mixture
with a drop of warm tea, and poured it down the
fowl’s throat, and in 20 minutes’ time she was
scratching round as well as ever. A short time
ago another neighbor’s pig got on to the phos-
phorised pollarcki'diet and came up to the kitchen
to have her will' tpade, whereupon her owner
dosed her with the bluestone antidote, and the
porker recovered.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Lindy Lou ” I am full of sympathy for
“Cict”(B. 11/4/’O7) in his experiences with the
out-back gate, where fenced roads are unknown.
But the most blastiferous contrivance about the
blastiferous thing is the fastener, which he omits
from his comprehensive and blastiferous ana-
thema. Mostly, the wretched article is a piece
of fencing wire, twisted into weird and fantastic
shapes, like a lost boiled soul in agony. Gene-
rally a useless patent catch hangs midway
down, but the gate has warped, and tottered,
and sagged, and it is easier to twist a make-
shift into a thing of horrible and deranged
aspect than to fix the original catch. One
favorite fastener is a sort of hoop arrangement,
or circular curse, which goes round the post and
the top of the gate. It is held in place by the
strain of the gate leaning back. You ride up
alongside and remove it. That is all right. You
strive to replace it, and you find it takes both
hands. Your brilliant piece of horse-flesh seizes
with both hoofs at the opportunity of a loose rein,
and walks off, so that you either sever connection
with him or drop the circular curse. In the latter
case it flops down to the bottom of the post with
promptitude, and you either leave it there or dis-
mount and pick it up, and cast it fiercely in the
direction of the four winds. Next day, a bushy-
whiskered cocky comes and puts another piece of
wire on, and, finding a junk of charcoal, he prints
on the top bar : “Please shut this gate,” with all
the “S’s” turned backward.
* * * *
“Sloam” writes
I am a Victorian country teacher. The department
deducts £6 a year from my “screw” because there is a
worm-eaten, draughty lean-to attached to the school-
room ; but, for humane reasons, the department is con-
tent to receive the rent, and does not force me to
occupy the “ quarters.” So I stay at the pub. I
was sober one night, and my pal (call him Tate)
and I were sitting reading. Noticing a pile of three fair-
sized books moving along- the table, I drew Tate’s atten-
tion to it, and we watched the heap slowly procesh across
five or six inches of rough-surfaced table-cloth, along
with the landlady’s veil. Investigated, and found that
a small beetle was the locomotive —a “burying” beetle.
Its average length is seven-eighths of an inch, and it is
usually about half-an-inch across the back. The peculiar
head-gear of this insect, which enables it to burrow
nearly a foot into the hard ground, gives it the
appearance of a pocket rhinoceros. My particu-
lar specimen had become entangled in the veil,
which had come in contact with the books, and in
his struggles to escape he shoved the whole caboodle
in front of him. I found that the beetle weighed lOgr.
troy, and his load weighed XOfoz. avoirdupois. Thus the
sturdy little beggar shifted a mass approximately 336
times his own weight. Now, assuming that man possessed
strength in a similar proportion to his weight, and that
This Bulletin’s estimate of Bent’s weight is correct
(20 stone), that gentleman, if entangled in, say, a pig-
net, could move 42 tons of, say, bricks along a macadam-
ised road. And allowing him that pushing capacity, to
what figure could he shove up the rent of the lean-to
already mentioned, seeing that a perfectly ordinary man
has already got it up to £6 ?
Victoria's Thistle Act, under which almost
anything can be proclaimed a “thistle,” was
availed of lately to sweep in boxthorn and piteh-
Weed ; . The latter is, however, only a thistle
within the shire of Violet Town ; elsewhere it is
just plain weed. Where it’s a thistle it must be
destroyed, and where it’s just weed it can be kept
for the goats.
“ J.N.”: I never yet saw mention in the
“Abo.” column of a standing disgrace in the
bush—the yard which forms the hindquarters and
tail of the bush pub. It is always the same kind
of yard. A drain as old as Mahershalalhashbaz
extends through the middle of it, and that drain
smells like the burial place of Jeroboam 11. I
have seen a dead turkey lie for seven days in the
pub. drain before the slow process of time shoved
it through the hole in the fence by which the
slime is supposed to escape into the wilderness
outside. Verily a man has no occasion to read
“ The Jungle.” All the Jungle it is possible to
desire can be found in the back premises of the
Sour Beer Hotel, in the town of Misery, which
lies a little off the road to Drywash.
“Hassan”: “ Percole,” who evidently
IC s talking about, accuses ine
1 fsr
tio ied its habitat as the eastern seaboard. He
flings a freshwater fish at me from Victoria
(another wrong to the Ma State). Victoria’s sea-
board is the south-eastern variety of that kind of
timber, nor do freshwater fish inhabit seaboards
at all. “Percole ” also describes his precious fish
as Gadopsis, which is not at all accurate, as it is
only a generic determination. If I were to give
the classification which accompanied my blackfish
to any scientific authority in the world it would
be immediately recognisable. I cannot be more
accurate than that. But perhaps “ Percole ”
would like me to paint the beast’s portrait in oils,
Go to, “ Percole ! ” «
A CAUTIOUS MAN.
ABE : “ Vill you come and haff a drink mit me, Mark, my boy ?”
MARK (surprised): “ Yeth, Abe, I'll haff a drink mit you, but, remember, it don't commit
me to anything .”
“ G-ryffydd ap Llewellyn ” : People here
talk about barbarians and inhuman slaughter of
wild duck. They even go so far as to say that
Victorian methods of wild duck shooting are
opposed to all the noble traditions of British sport.
Wliat price the following? I was in the English
Midlands last October, and drove over to lunch
with some billionaire Landlords, who rented one
of the palaces of Britain’s Hoarystocraey.
Samples of this antique, ill-mannered, and im-
moral breed were gathered, some twenty in num-
ber, in the temporary tent of Israel for purposes
of sport. I went and watched them shooting
wild(?) duck, on a placid and weedy pond, called
“the lake.” Each man concealed himself behind
butts, and was accompanied by a yokel who
carried his two guns. The birds were peacefully
dozing on the surface ot the pond, and it was
necessary to send the keeper in a boat to rouse
them to energy. That much-tipped individual
succeeded in making them fly lazily about, by
banging the water with an oar in their close
vicinity, whereupon the noble sportsmen blazed
away and killed them. About 500 domestic fowls
were thus disposed of. I thought of long tramps
over Welsh bog and heather which I had taken
in Search of the wildest of wild grouse, when you
carry your own gun and ammunition, and are
lucky if you bag twelve brace at the end of the
day. But the gent, with a triple-expansion
hyphened name only indulges in “sport” if he
can do so with ease and comfort. He insists on
a Carlton lunch, and a chair to sit upon in the
intervals between the shots. He also draws the
line at wild game. Blaze away, Victoria ! You’re
all right!
* * * *
Australia is becoming, as fast as the axe
and fire can make it, a treeless land. Even
in the Northern (Vic.) mallee, where trees
are absolutely necessary as shelter for stock from
the burning north blast in summer and the
piercing east and south winds in winter, and
where, moreover, the shade and shelter trees —
pine, redgum, and box—are supposed to be pre-
served from destruction, the ordinary leaseholder
either simply puts the axe to every tree, or by
reckless burning-off accounts for the few which
remain after his first devastation. Arbor Day,
and sucli-like foolishness, are fine opportunities
for the outpouring of municipal oratory, but how
are we going to preserve a few of the old trees,
while those blessed new ones that the alderman
orated about are growing up ?
“Tiger-Snake”: “S.R.” (B. 21/3/’O7)
says Tyson had several silos wherein fodder was
f l 6 r? Jm "” y t “ koMd
buainess to have had it on hand during the
drought. Tyson did not have an opportunity of
sampling the hay mentioned ; he was dead some
years before there was urgent call for feed. Also
Tyson never had a silo. The only one of his
many holdings to harvest a bit of hay was Eelton.
This station had planted 300 acres of lucerne for
fattening purposes in the early ’ 80’s, and the
manager had the whole plot harvested
and stacked under a huge shed at the homestead,
The old man was away at the time, and when he
returned and saw what had been done he promptly
sacked the manager, and had the whole fanning
outfit' hauled to the creek bank and toppled in.
“ C.R.” : When you come across a snake
track on a dusty road, how are you to tell whicli
way the footless thing has gone ? It is not difficult
to tell the direction of all legged and footed
things. But 30 years’ experience has given me no
clue to the path of the snake.
* * * *
“Lot” : Has any B. correspondent ever
sampled a bush edible called by the Balonne
blacks “ weeur” (accent heavy on last two letters)?
First and only time of striking it was on Glenairn
run, and in places between there and Moonie
River, in the Red country. The “vegetable,”
grows very like a sweet potato, and in weight
have seen them as high as 181bs. It is a
bit of a trick to find, as it grows sometimes as far
as 30ft. away from the stalk, the leaf of which is
a very vivid green. Stock will not touch the
plant if ever so hungry ; I have seen starving
sheep shepherded around it and never look at it.
The blacks “ stalk ” the potato with a stick and
keep tapping over the ground in the vicinity of
the plant until a hollow sound denotes the where-
abouts of the tuber. I have eaten it both roasted
and boiled, but found it tough and earthy-
tasted, though the blacks consider it a great
delicacy when roasted, and travel far to get it.
* * * *
This is the story told by “ Gippslander, ” a
child of the wilderness. Like the Hebrew pro-
phets, who wore nothing on their feet, and very
little round their centre, he has a simple, vigorous
diction of his own, which would only be spoiled
if the sub-editor tried to overlay it with the
meretricious polish acquired by a University
education :
It occured on a farm in this way the owner was coming
into his cow shed for some article that he wanted when
he noticed one of his Cows Choking it seems it was a
great thief of a Cow and it got to a Bag of Spuds and one
of the Spuds got down its throat and stuck there and the
poor cow was in a bad way in fact it was staggering just
ready to drop (Desperate Deceases Desperate Remideas)
the owner thought to give the cow a belt on the Rump
with a Mall but on second thoughts he said it might hurt
the Cow so he yelled to his man that he had working for
him to fetch a thick board that was handy and to hold
it over the Cow’s Tail while he gave it a blow' with the
Mall hut in the excitement of the moment not noticing
the Cow’s Tail hanging over the hoard he let fly with the
Mall it came fair on the Cow’s Tail with the result that
it cut it clean off the Cow let off a mighty Roar and dp
with its hind legs and sent the man and the Board Flying
for about 10 Yards but it cured the Cow allright but they
couldent find where the Spud got to so the poor Co.v
must haveswallod it but any way the cow can be seen in
one of the paddocks at present with about 6 inches of a
Stump Tail.
A MAN FROM THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a salt-encrusted man, who long- had roved the sea.
His voice was loud and raucous, his language it was free.
He spoke of giant serpents, and of fierce, colossal whales,
That his friends mistook for islands till they raised aloft
their tails.
At length we grew suspicious, and said we’d heard that
rum
Oft blurred the sight of sailors, whereat he shouted
“ Come,
And I’ll bash you into brimstone 1 ” but we firmly
answered “ No;
but whisper what you’ve seen yourself in accents soft
and low.”
“Ofcourse,” he said, “them mates of mine sometimes
exaggerate;
And lyin’, let me tell yer, is a thing I alwus hate ;
And p’raps, now that yer mention it, them blokes im*
posed on me,
So I’ll tell what I’ve seen meself upon the blinded sea.
“ One time when we wus whalin’, where the sperm an’
humpers grow,
Right on the blazin’ tropics, where the white men seldom
go,
A nigger bloke informed us that no greater giants grew
Than the fish aroun’ them islands—can you lend a cove a
chew ?
“So I took our longest cable, and I hooked it firm an’
fast
To a rocky, rugged island, an’ soon I made a cast,
With an anchor fer a sinker, an’ I waited there an’ smiled,
A-thinkin’ of me boyhood, just as happy as a child.
“ But suddenly that chain went taut, an’ soon a fearful
roar
Catne rumblin’ through the water, rushin’ towards
that desert shore,
An’ the ocean seethed an’ tumbled fer quite a mile around.
Dog scratch me! But it puzzled me what sort uv thing
I’d found.
The cable jumped out tighter still, an’ creaked jest like a
winch,
But I’d hitched it to that island, an’it wouldn’t budge an
inch.
Seemed ter me I’d hooked an earthquake, an’ a tidal wave
combined,
W ith the heavin’ sea before me, and the creakin’ chain
behind.
Then the roarin’ grew terrific, an’ the groun’ began ter
heave
An’ I suddenly felt giddy, an’ my legs they seemed to
leave
The shaking deck beneath me ; an’ the island giveagroan
An’ jumped into the ocean, an’ left me there—alone ! ”
A pause ensued, and moodily bis beer he did assail,
And I murmured, deferentially : “ Perhaps... it was a
whale ? ”
He fixed me with his eagle eye, and scornfully did state,
“Great Grampus! Wotter thinkin’ of'? I used a whale
for bait! ”
W’e plied him with no questions, no comments trite were
passed.
We believe in emulation, but we saw we’d met at last
A scintillating genius in this man from out the sea,
So I rose and said politely, “ Will you have a drink with
me ? ”
N.S.W.
A. P. ROGERS.


Tell of the good of it,
Say what you should of it,
All that you could of it,
Say what you would of it,
Tell of colds cured by it,
Good health ensured by it,
Long life secured by it—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Mr. A. Adams, Havelock, Marlborough,
N.Z., says :—“I consider that Chamberlain’s
Tablets are an A 1 remedy, and the most efficient
procurable for all disorders of the stomach, liver,
and bowels. I have used them for some time,
deriving the greatest benefit, and have every con-
fidence in recommending them to all in need of
such a medicine.”*
SENTIMENT
enters largely into Brooch-giving.
A Charming Sentiment and old as
the hills—yet daily new—is ex-
pressed in our latest Southern Cross
Brooch, the first letters of each
gem spelling the word DEAR
Diamond, Emerald, Ametliy»c, Kuby,
set in fine gold, l|in. long, 70/“*
We also make Gem Name Brooches. M e make
them hence, there arc no intermediate
profits to pay.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“David H. Richards”: Generally, the
large land-monopolist is such an exceedingly sel-
fish and avaricious person that he only employs
labor when he can’t possibly avoid it; and, when
the Lord in His mercy sends moisture so that
this planet may bring forth her fruits and he may
wax opulent on the article coveted'of Jason, he
“sacks” his employees, and drinks champagne,
and considers his banking account how it
swells, and sings he won’t go home till to-
morrow. But the last copious downpour and
the beastly Local Government enactment have
put a spoke in his chariot. The spoke
came in the shape of a prolific crop of burr,
which has taken possession of a good lump of the
land, and an order from the above-mentioned
source to destroy it. So, now, almost anywhere,
you can get £1 a week and rations and be your
own chef, and find your way to work by keeping
the Morning Star on one shoulder, and your ivay
home by keeping the Southern Cross on the other.
The other day one big landlord “sacked” a man
for refusing to slay the prickly substance on
Good Friday. There was another man on the
place named Dick Tweedle who said “ Yes, sir! ”
and went to work. There is always somebody
named Tweedle in the way of effective protest.
EQUIPPED.
BUNG : “ Hey, Dave!
Ye've left yer whip
behind."
DAVE (too lazy to walk
back): “ That’s all right,
Bill. I’ll call fr’t cornin'
back. I got me lanywidge."
“Kelpie ” : There’s a lesson on the closer-
settlement and rabbit problem in this district
(Narromine, Peak Hill, N.S.W.). In ’9B a large
portion of Bulgandramine holding was cut up
into blocks of about 2560 acres. Since then almost
all these blocks have been wire-netted, and in
many cases rabbit pits have been dug at intervals
right round the boundary fences. There is splen-
did grass everywhere inside; and for several
years big crops have been harvested. I write this
within the shadow of a sorghum patch over 7ft.
high, and not a stone’s throw from howling deso-
lation. Just across the fence is a timber reserve
of some 9000 acres, leased to the station, and the
rabbits are dying on it wholesale. Now the
station people (although having rabbit drives
weekly and destroying tens of thousands of the
pest) have just rented a paddock from a selector
who selected on their one-time run, to save 100
head of cattle from starvation. Close settlement
will get rid of the rabbit plague. Nothing else
will—not even Danysz.
“ Krys W.” : One Saturday cocky Akers
caught up to cocky M'Guire coming home from
the sale. They got as close as the drays would
allow, and struck up a yarn. Passing Geary’s
pub they had got so friendly that they resolved
to have a wet. After the “wet” they both got
into Akers’ dray, and led horse M.‘Guire behind.
At parting, Akers invited M'Guire over on
Sunday. “ Come yerself, man, and we’ll taste a
bit together” was Akers’ parting injunction, and
the invitation wasn’t forgotten, for next Sunday
the whole tribe of M'Guire rolled Akers-ward.
But by this time the wine had gone out of Akers,
and he met them at the gate with anything
but hospitality in his optic. The M'Guires
alighted, and streamed through the gate in all
their glory. Akers grunted disapprovingly as they
filed in, and thought of so much corned beef and
pumpkin given away. Finally, as the fifteenth
strolled in and got safely past, Akers glared bade
and forwards from M‘Guire to the tribe, and at
length ejaculated: “Say. ole man, yer didn’t
forget the damn dog, didyer?” And just then
the dog came in.
* * * ft
“Cross Nibs”: The calm of a Sydney
hotel was fractured during show week. A bush-
man was the disturbing element. Accustomed to
face his breakfast before the stars went off duty,
he considered that 5 a.m. was the correct time to
place his legs under the table. Having spilt many
fiery fluids into the receiving department of his
sun-burnt visage the previous evening, he felt
very morose after surveying the dining-room
table, and noting the absence of edible decorations.
Ten minutes later the Japanese chef was aroused
by an agitation among the crockery in the kitchen.
Going down to investigate, he observed the rural
person retreating with a recently-boiled ham and
a dish of rice pudding. The Jap informed the
landlord of the appropriation, and they both
set forth to interview the bushman. Going
upstairs, they discovered him upon the second
landing ring-barking the ham with a clasp-
knife. Bung and the cook endeavored to
recapture the bill-of-fare, but were repulsed by
the aggressive manner in which the country visitor
swung the ham. The other boarders came out of
their rooms to discover the cause of the tumult,
and were greeted by the person from the scrub—
“ Come on, y’r blighted cripples, ’n’ see th’ bloom-
in’ wild bull eat ’is blanky breakfast.” But they
were discreet people, and awaited the fall of the
curtain. The Jap cook came with two tentacles
of the law, and they straightway/ fell upon the
staircase diner, and a great struggle ensued, in
which the ham loomed out vividly. At length
the man from Dandaloo consented to go
quietly on condition they allowed him to finish
his breakfast at the station. Then the Law, with
much rice pudding splashed on its uniform and
whiskers, removed the early-riser.
■* m * *
“Snell”: I have not yet been able to
arrive at a thorough understanding as to how the
merits of proprietary rights in “ a bit o’ skirt”
are arranged in push society. As a rule, the
bigger, tougher, and uglier claimant takes the
girl, and when there are doubts as to which is the
mightier, the aspir-
ants fight, and the
winner is held to
have established his
vested interest; but
where does the girl’s
choice come in ? A
lovely glove-fight be-
tween rivals in Mel-
bourne “peb” circles
came off in a patch of
suburban bush, on a re-
cent Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon, and I was
privileged to witness the
stirring spectacle. The
lads were well-matched,
and the trouble was a
donah. She must have
been a very fetching
damsel, or probably a good
provider, as “Spotter” and
“ Dido” fought twelve fierce
rounds for full ownership
before “Spotter” petered
out and retired hurt, admit-
ting gracefully : “ I got me
boots full, Dide. She’s yors.”
But at this stage another
claimant stepped into the ring.
“Mindyeh ain’t too sudden,
yous blokes,” he said, “’cause
I happen t’ have took over the
girl. She’s my prop.” “Dido,”
the conqueror, who had his shirt
half on, promptly shed it again,
and prepared to resume hostilities.
He had had a bad half-hour, and
was almost used up, but nobody
questioned the “fair dinkum ” of
the new attack. The struggle was
re-opened, and “Dido” did his dash
in three rounds, when all condition
deserted him. The tournament did not end here,
as one of “ Dido’s ” seconds took over the respon-
sibility on his principal’s behalf, and whipped the
third comer handsomely in lrnin. llsec. I believe
that, under the unwritten law, “Dido” is the
man in possession, but what I do not know is why
the girl accepts the referee’s decision. Has she
no predilections ? If she has, why does she sur-
render them ? So far as lam able to find out, the
spoils always go to the victor.
* * * *
“Best bloke among ’orses I ever seen,”
said Ginger, “was Snorter Riley. Y’ know
that grey mare of Mullinses? Well, she went
crook, a while ago, and nobody couldn’t do
nothin’ with ’er. She wouldn't let nobody go
near ’er, and yer couldn’t get a bridle onto her, or
nothin’. Snorter goes into ’er one day with a
seven-foot rail, and ’e fetches ’er one fair between
the ears, and down she goes. ’E put the bridle
on ’er all right. Best bloke I ever seen among
’orses, Snorter is.”
ANOTHER HEAVY SENTENCE.
MELBOURNE J.P.: “ You plead guilty to the charge of brutally illtreating your wife. Your
offence is one of the worst that has ever come under the notice of this court, and as a
warning to such scoundrels you will be fined five shillings or twelve hours."
“ Flinderino” : Horses may take a straight
cut for home when given their heads in the bush,
but I know that they don’t always head for the
nearest land when- cast adrift in the sea. Was
once on,a small coasting steamer, and we had a
job to land three horses near Cape Otway. There
was no suitable jetty in fche locality, so we had to
anchor about a mile off the beach and swim the
horses ashore. The first one swam a good half-
mile along the beach before turning inshore,
and nearly came to grief on the rocks. He just
swam till he was past the beach and the easy
landino- places, and then reckoned he would hoof
it up °a surf-beaten precipice. We tried to
lead the second one. The ship’s boat was
lowered, and the horse’s head made fast to a
line at the stern. The animal back-paddled for
all he was worth, and the four men at the bars had
a 20-minutes’ hard pull. The result was that the
horse was drowned through sheer cussedness
before half the distance was covered. We decided
to let the third animal find his own way ashore,
Directly he recovered from the plunge the horse
started off at full speed—in the wrong direction.
When last seen he was heading for Tasmania, and
no doubt furnished a banquetUor the sharks.
* * ,
“ F.H.R.” declines the combat :
I was walking along the railway from Burnie (Tas.) to
Strahan and was about the centre of the island, and the
rain was a little heavier than usual. That is the only
difference over there. Some days it rains heavily ; some
days it only Scotch-mists; other days it pours like all
Tphannum J
I had a fairly heavy swag and a wet 1 ‘ bluey,” so wasn’t
travelling at express speed across a button-grass plain
when I met, a swift bull. Now, I had no appointment
with him, nor did I want to make his acquaintance, so I
looked around for an excuse. The nearest trees were
half a mile, too far even if I abandoned Matilda. The
bull was murmuring sweet nothings, and throwing mud
over his shoulder like an enrasred alderman.
Just as he approached me f spied a small box culvert,
and into this welcome wet haven I crawled, dragging
thp lnriv after me
The rain fell dismally, and the water began to rise
slowly but painfully, but still that bovine browsed watch-
fully near. As my eyes grew accustomed to the dark in-
terior I discovered many creeping things that were
almost as objectionable as the bull. The noon passed,
and my cramped limbs were beginning to ache fearfully,
Then a small snake peered out from a crack in a girder,
Weather * lo ° ked
Towards evening," just as the gloaming had begun to
gloam and I was wondering if I would have to put up
there for the night, and if so, if my hair would be grey
in the morning, a faint bellow'from afar struck my ears.
My patient warder heard it also. He looked towards the
grey horizon, and again back at me as if summing up the
chances of warfare It hand or in the distance. Then,
murmuring softly to himself, he turned towards that
welcome call, and loudly proclaiming, “I’m a bull,” he
made off towards the timber. I pulled my sodden swag
out of that hole, and bade a glad adieu to the snake, and
f o "lS don ” don “ ,OUE,,the, " 0d ” d, ” t ‘ , ' pro “ h '
Distant rumblings like faint thunder assured me that
the bull was putting up the fight of his life with another
tha^anvstravvre^pould^have'mi^up^ h ' nl h lllo * l more
h lt satisfied me’much more P
it satisfied me mucnjnore.
*** * .
M.R. : Since the discussion m your
columns about how the surviving snake turns
up within 24 hours to weep over the body of its
slain mate, I have been taking observations
During J anuary 1 killed S6V6n snakes and watched
for results. The only things that turned up were
ants.
“ Buzzrocker ” : Be mesmeric influence of
frogs. Am satisfied, after much observation, that
the emerald jumper doesn’t put as much faith in
his mesmeric influence as in his leppmg capacity,
Up here (Rockhampton), M. Le Frog is Chief
Vermin Eradicator. He has free access to the
houses at nightfall, and the way he makes the
fur fly is fine ! As I write he is at it. Sitting
almost upright on his rear person, his big black
eye sights his prey. He doesn’t jump, but streaks
hand over hand till within shooting distance—no
hopping, but a regular, overhauling stroke. Ihen
measuring the distance (and he makes no nns-
take), he springs off his tail brisker than a greased
flea off Judkins. For fche rest, the relatives of
the ’roach or ’hopper collect the insurance. There
is no more mesmerism than a cat exercises over a
mouse. It is mere sleight of paw. Up here
there is no market for insectibane—the frogs have
formed a trust. And though it feels funny at
first—the clammy frog chasing merrily the elusive
’roach across your face in the dead of night—you
get used to it.
• • * *
“ Grip ” writes :
A pathetic figure in the bush is fche woman (and the
man, for that matter) who cannot read. I remember
once, in a remote part, stopping at a kind of half-way
house. The mailman, whose solitary passenger I was,
h ad some grudge against the people, and would not call,
Instead , he watered his horses at a stream close by, and
producing his own lunch, granted me twenty minutes
m which to refresh myself at the house. A quiet-looking
woman conducted me to one of the three rooms, and,
producing four letters, asked me in a slow, soft voice if Id
mu ' d reading them. I did mind very much, and with a
embarrassed laugh told her so emphatically. We cant
J/ead, . slle said > pointing to a careworn man nervous y
fingering a ragged hat in the background, and we d
much obliged if you d read our letters for us.
°}} a candle box and proceeded reluctantly to re .
The first letter was trom a creditor, and was one burning
threat. The couple looked at each other, trouble in t eir
tired eyes ; but though / was supremely miserable the
fact a s^ran^er ha 6 become aware of their aimcult}'
caused them no embarrassment. “ When does e say it 11
*° 1)6 P ald ’ ask , ed fcde w ° ” nX “°An”o\v
looked again at the lettei. On the 18th.
long s that . Haven t you a calendar. I asked. ,
miss,” said the woman absently and nsing, she took a
straining appaiatus fiom the wall. * dld ?.
1 said hastily. A thing with dates on i , J
a second time,
and as I put it down, the man rubbed his big rough hand
ac . r °® s hls h ned a ® e > looked out T ,|’ kro ” ~,
wmdow, and sighed hopelessly-. Thei next letter au
flom a relative, and described, with much mi >
harrowing details connected with a certain
unhappy event. My face grew hot as I read . 0
J’ o ’ l te ] your husband about it afterwards? lasted
uneasily, to the woman. Oh don ak f no t lce °j
she sighed; V don’tmnnd <J 1
° n - "P her eves
® a )7 tkat the wonian s lips were tremb g i
freatlength that iC
j - cabjss of general joyless e s „nt-hink about
Lucy.Teslhe ? ” "he manalked me sadly; and I went
over the lefcfcer a S? ain to see if Annie had sa L d any .f ing
about Lucy. Two letters yet remained. The mailman
was shouting impatiently from the gully. “And I came
for lunch,” I said to the woman. It was my turn to look
sad. “ Just read them,” she pleaded, “an’l’ll get yer
somethin’.” So, to the accompaniment o e maima
lateT hurried m ahuge’ chink of
damper and jam in one gloved paw, a bottle of water in
the other, and the loudly-expressed gratitude of the
pathetic and lonely-looking couple cheering me as I went.
THE WEST WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am weary of the night,
And I sicken at the day.
I have watched the torn bush fight
Till I, shuddering, slipped away.
In the gullies, on the ranges,
I have heard the smothered cry,
While the season wanes and changes,
And the weary months drift by.
Can you hear it in the city, at your glowing lamp-lit
feasts,
The moan of desolation from the wearied, anguished
beasts?
I have loitered in the noon-haze
By a homestead burnt and brown.
I have kissed beneath the moon rays
Sweet faces that in town
Would have sent the pulses leaping,
If those eyes, so wistful, sad,
From the shadows of long - weeping,
Gould grow young again and glad.
Can you hear it, silk-clad women, in your dainty laces
drest,
The sound of bitter crying from the women of the West ?
I have heard lost babies craving
In a thirsty desert land.
I have seen a mother raving
O’er a foot-print in the sand.
When the long bush-fires are gleaming,
And the scrub-birds soar for breath.
I have heard the woeful screaming
Of a man shut in with death.
Oan you hear it, men and women, in your cities by the
sea,
The crying of lost babies, and the West’s dumb misery?
N.B.W.
CARO.


SELF-SACRIFICE.
The poor forgotten Judkins made a
despairing effort to get back into hotoriety
by defending Ada Ward.
The Lionheartcd : “ Fear not, gentle
lady I 1 will defend you by standing
bravely in your limelight.”
•• CHARITY BEGINS AT ’OME.”
“The Conference,” the Spectator
states, “ is a lesson in political charity.”—
Gable message re the Imperial Conference
and the failure of Dealcin's attach on-the
Colonial Office.
John: “ Back! In the name of
Charity I will not have my good
and faithful flunkey robbed of
the simple )oy he finds in snub"
blng you and yours.”
LAND TAX.
But in addition to leaving him thus out in the cold, the repre-
sentatives of the artisans propose to *
draw further from his resources by
taxing the land out of which
he makes his living. Whether
the tax is to yield £50,000, or '
£lOO,OOO, or £200,000, it
means so many pounds
sterling taken out of the
revenues of the farmers,
who already find it
hard enough to
face the compe-
tition from
which the
artisans
are
sheltered.
—Argus
wail for '
the poor
farmer.
A Victorian deputation of Master
Butchers blandly urged that “ sausages,
being a poor man’s food, should not be
the subject of harassing legislation that
might raise the price.”
The Master Butcher : " It’s all right,
my good man. They are only food
for the lower orders.”
Fat : •• It isn’t
myself I’m
thinking about,
but when I
reflect upon
what the
poor creature
beneath will
suffer if they
reduce my
weight, I can’t
restrain my
tears I ”
NATURAL DEPRAVITY.
Had tlio machinery of Government
been adequately reduced by the State
Parliaments on the advent of Federa-
tion, the enormous sum of £2,100,(500
would have been saved to the nation—
enough to build two first-class battle-
ships ; and had the State gubernatorial
salaries been similarly curtailed there
would have been a further total saving
to date of £240,000 —sufficient to build
and equip a considerable flotilla of first-
class torpedo boats.— Age
Aunty Fat : "Wot I You’d sooner 'ave
nasty smelly torpedo boats than
them there nice ’igh-BYed dolls. It J
ain’t no good. I’ll never make a ;
little gentleman of you ; your tastes ;
' Is low.’’ :
Acting-Premier Forrest advises the Northern Terri p„„i, ...
ont Whilst disclaiming any sensationalism, he points out* the possible W "**'*
A suggested memorhU tab.et to commemorate the departure o, the ; Lt of our helexp.ore^f
MELBOURNE DREAMS.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-SI., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are indispensable to
all medicine chests. They aid digestion, promote
the appetite, stimulate the liver, keep the bowels
open, and restore all the internal organs to a
natural, healthy condition.*
If a laddie gets a wetting
Coming thro’ the rye,
If he has a cold upon him
Need the laddie die ;
He can laugh at all chest troubles
If he can procure
The proper stuff, and plain enough
It’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure -
An item of interest to anyone with a bad
cough is that which tells him of an almost certain
cure. Angier’s Emulsion cures the most obstinate
cough. There is nothing equal to it for the lungs,
while it is a great aid to digestion and a splendid
tonic. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
R.C. Archdeacon Darcy, the veteran
priest who ministered for 25 years at Wellington
'(N.S.W.) and died last week at the age of 80, was
•a nephew of the pioneer Archdeacon McEucroe of
St. Patrick’s, Sydney (who came to Sydney in 1832
and died in ’GB). Archdeacon Darcy was the last
of the R.C. clerics who drew £3OO a year from the
suffering Ma State.
Seems that, according to their constitu-
tion, Voliva has only succeeded to Elijah’s purple
wings until September, when a conference of the
“Christian Apostolic Church in Zion” will be
held. Place isn’t fixed yet, but if there’s an
empty bear-pit handy it will probably fill the
bill, assuming anybody opposes Voliva and Apos-
tolic Christians are in good brotherly form.
Dr. Bromby, Anglican Bishop of Tas-
mania (1864-82), who died recently in England,
wasn’t the only Bromby in these parts. A brother
was for many years headmaster of the C. of E.
Grammar School, Melbourne. A son was
Attorney-General of Tasmania in Reibey’s
Ministry (1876-7). Another son was Canon of St.
David’s, Hobart. Altogether the Brombies did
well hereabouts.
It is to actor Andrew Mack, now coming
back to Australia, that N.S.W. has to attribute
the loss of Jaynial Dan. Mack heard Dan, and
promptly recognised Demosthenes. He said,
“Dan, go roun’ Amurky wit’ yer mout’ open,
an’ yer pockets ’ll fill.” That brought up talk of
Spreckels. Mack wrote to Spreckels, and so
N.S.W. lost Dan. Some people are saving up a
brick for Mack because of the loss of Dan.
“P.” : The late John Young, contractor,
of Sydney, whose will was proved last week, was
said to be a lineal descendant of William Shak-
speare. The Shakespearian Society of Great
Britain, which claims to have a vested interest in
William’s bones, and professes to keep an eye on
his descendants, inquired into the matter, and
decided that the pedigree was absolutely genuine.
So Mr. Young, thus encouraged and verified,
named one of his sons Frederick James Shak-
pe are.
Captain Strachan, veteran mariner, who
is always being reported drowned, and then
bobbing up again serenely— The Bulletin
wouldn’t believe that Strachan had gone to the
bottom on the personal affidavit of Neptune—is
heard of again as principal of a Sydney syndi-
cate which has bought the wreck of the Australia,
near Port Darwin, and hopes to salve the vessel.
The Australia’s cargo was valuable, and is said to
be easily getatable. Captain Strachan, despite
his age, will personally supervise the work of
rescue, and his drowning will doubtless be re-
ported again before the job is over.
BLUFF BILL PREACHES PROTECTION.
Mr. Lyne has already aroused considerable irritation in
the ranks of the Liberal party and its press by his want
of tact in lecturing England as to the policy she should
adopt. Such an unwarranted and gratuitous intrusion
into the sphere of party polities as Lyne has made in Lon-
don must inevitably arouse resentment, People in Eng-
land do not know the blundering Minister as we know
him.— Melbourne Argus.
“ Billy 1 Billy ! ’Ow dare you be so disrespectful
to the gentleman t Yer musn’t be so ’orribly
plain and ’onest. W’y don’tcher be nice and
’umble like a good Australian 1 ”
It is suggested, and Carruthers has got his
mighty intellect focussed on the suggestion, that
Camperdown (Sydney) Cemetery should be closed,
the bodies removed to Rookwood, and the ground
converted into a public park. In this old ceme-
tery lie many whose names are famous in Aus-
tralian history—among them Thomas Livingstone
Mitchell, explorer; Maurice Charles O’Connell,
Colonel of the 73rd Regiment, who came to
Sydney with Governor Macquarie, and who
married Mrs. Rutland, daughter of Governor
Bligh (the Colonel in after years became Com-
mander of the Forces in Australia); Colonel
Lewis, of the 80th Regiment; John Everard
Howe, captain of the Calliope ; Edward Broad-
hurst, Q.C., once father of the Australian Bar ;
Kemp, of the S.M. Herald, the Macleays and
the Dumaresqs, and other proud fathers of old
Sydney. Also “ Bill ” Nash, of much gambling
fame and great wealth.
Britain has now one Socialist Governor
at least—-Sydney Olivier, appointed to succeed
the playful Swettenham at Jamaica. He was one
of the Fabian Society’s young men, and con-
tributed largely to the “Essays” on which the
first N.S. Wales Labor party chiefly fed. Olivier
knows the West Indies well, and was Acting-
Governor in Jamaica before Swettenham arrived.
“ Caber ” : Now that Bauanaland is going
to have a three-cornered political battle, and the
Constitoosh’nal aspect of
things is in dire peril, it
seems a pity that the
old joke we worked
on Bobby Crilih
can’t be used up
again. Bobby
was standing as
a Liberal for one
of the More ton
seats, and his
personal popu-
larity would
carry away 100
or so votes from
the other Lib.
This would let
the Tory candi-
date slip in. and
all kinds of per-
suasion were
vainly used to
induce Bobby to
retire. Our
chance came by
accident. It was
in 1873, what
time the De-
ceased Wife’s
Sister Bill was a
theme for dis-
cussion. Bobby
was orating one
night, and at
question-time a
Hibernian voice
was heard ask-
ing : “ Wud ye
make it lawful fer a
mahn to marry his
deceased widder’s shish-
ter, Mister Cribb? ” “ Why
not?” replied the candidate ; " there are no
ties of consanguinity, and I shall certainly
vote for such a measure if introduced.” “ But
tell me this, -Mister Cribb, is the world worth
anythin’ to a mahn whin his wife’s awidder?”
Bobby made some heavy remarks about d d
blockheads, and left the platform in a towering
rage. His withdrawal was in next morning’s
Coukier.
“ Gr.W.” : Glancing through an old
(14/1/1893) volume of Chambers’s Journal, re-
cently (it is urged in extenuation that the day
was Sunday and very wet, also the two-up school
was shut), the sparkle of this gem caught my eye :
Lloyd Freeman, C. 8., though an Englishman by birth,
was a citizen Of the world at large ; for had he hot con-
structed railroads within the shadow of the pyramids, and
through Canadian snows ? When a lad, had he not carried
a surveyor’s rod and line through Russia? And, to float
and build the Northern India and Afghanistan Railway,
had he not resigned the Chairmanship of the Melbourne
and Western Australia Trunk Line ?
This is an error. I have gone carefully through
the list of Chairmen of the Melbourne and
W. A. Drunk Line, since its institution in
1742, and am satisfied it does not contain the
moniker of Lloyd Freeman, C.B. Chambers
ought to be more careful.
H. V. Pridmore, the man who owned
what is alleged to be S. Australia’s first
Treasury chest, died very suddenly the other
) day. Pridmore, who a few years ago tui ned
his good, level head to wine-growing, bought
Osmond Gilles’ ancient place at Glen Osmond,
with its 60-year-old vines and olive trees, both
still in rich bearing. Gilles had been the
“province’s” first Colonial Treasurer, years
before the Constitution arrived; and the
alleged old Treasury chest went with the rest
of the property. Behind it is what is left of
the Glen Osmond mines. Before coming to
S. Australia (he helped to organise the settle-
ment) Gilles had been in business in Hamburg,
and knew something about metals; finding
gdena on his property (he was nearly as fine
a land-grabber as the S. Australian Co.), he
promoted a co. which made a stir for many
years.
W. P. Crick had two calls on him ,on
Monday. One call', from Justice Simpson,
demanded his presence from his pigeon-hole in
Darlinghurst to continue his trial; the other call,
from the Full Court, commanded him as a gent, one
to show cause. As he couldn’t well be in two
places at the same time, and Justice Simpson had
him all to himself, the Full Court had to post-
pone him for an interval. A barrister can charge
for being in two or more courts at the same time,
but as for actually being in two places at once a
lawyer has no advantages over any other man or
bird.
A veteran writes :
Captain William Jackson Barry, dead at 88, was a
jockey in Sydney in liis young days, his professional title
being “ Spider,” and the chief scene of his exploits Hyde
Park, where the racecourse then was. When he grew
too heavy for the saddle he took to boxing, and, as the
“ Cambridgeshire Pet,” figured successfully in several
of the city rings. He has been over the world many
times, and written and lectured on most parts of it. He
tried pugilism in almost every place he visited. His
niece, who some time ago came in for household property
in London, gave the old man a few substantial lifts. For
the last decade dr so, imagination played tricks with his
memory for facts, and his whale narratives began to go
beyond the limits of reason.
“ Melb.” muses :
My jolliest soiree this year has been with the Turn
Verein, at its new premises in Victoria Parade, on the
occasion of laying the foundation stone of considerable
additions, including a grand hall. A telegram of con-
gratulation was received from the Sydney Concordia.
The Turn Verein is now in the sumptuous old mansion
and large garden last occupied by Mrs. Grice. I was led to
reflection on how the great ones of the earth build soli-
tary places for themselves. What romance exudes from
yore-time Melbourne mansions. Mention has been made
in these columns of the wonderful palace of Mintaro, at
Lancefield, now occupied as a Methodist girls’ reforma-
tory, and built by Captain Gardner, the whaler. Then
there is O.’Shanassy’s “ Tara,” at Camberwell. Sargood
seemed as if he would establish a family seat at his “Ripp m
Lea.” Squatter Hugh Glass’s* mansion on Flemington
Hill is a marvel, but Glass broke. Take again squatter
Octavius Browne’s luxurious “ Como,” at South Yarra,
now held by the Armytages. Another example is Dr!
Martin’s magnificent chateau of “Banyule,” at Ileidbl-
berg. Quite a glorious place was squatter M'Millan’s
“ Landcox,” inhabited by Premier Bent, at Brighton.
Other salient fallings-away will recur to Melbourners.
Frank Leverrier, who won the Sydney
’Varsity Senate seat, is a 8.A., LL.B., and
B.Sc., which scraps of alphabet indicate that he
has graduated in the three faculties of Arts, Law,
and Science. Frank’s clever sister Yvonne, a
talented musician, had already brought the name
of Leverrier violently before the Australian public.
There was, of course, another Leverrier, the world-
famous French scientist and mathematician, but
the above pair do not claim him as an ancestor.
WHAT INDEED!
“ Now, what on earth are those blamed fools
laughing at ?”
John Forrest has been giving good advice
to his colleague Manger, who is going to the
Northern Territory :
A man with any sense will have a revolver in his belt.
When those fellows surround your provisions you are
pretty helpless without firearms.
Did it strike Bigjohn that his remark might be
given a wider national significance? Australia
has not got an effective revolver in its belt yet,
and will be “ pretty helpless ” when the Asiatic
swarms round its treasures.
Died suddenly, on Sunday, Arthur Col-
lingridge, one of the founders of N.S.W. Art
Society, and a picturesque figure in art circles for
many years. Of English birth but French train-
ing, Collingridge chine in early manhood to Aus-
tralia., where he worked first as a wood engraver,
afterwards as book illustrator, landscape painter
and teacher. For a quarter of a century he was a
considerable figure in Sydney life, and his death,
at the comparatively early age of 53, will be a
sorrow to a very wide circle of friends.
Justice G. B. Simpson, of N.S.W., agreed
to have the evidence in the Crick-Willis case taken
down by an official shorthander. So the world
moves. His Honor was for years a most obstinate
opponent of the official shorthander. And he
gave his reasons :
If I take my own notes, I emphasise here and there as
Igo on. I know the meaning 1 of that. But how is a
shorthander io do that? All he will produce is a long
dead list of words. I may remember, and may not, the
witness’s accent or manner. I’d be sure to do it if I
took my own notes. If I take my notes I don’t want his ;
if I don’t, I’m in danger of forming my judgment on a
mere written page, and so might as well shiv at home and
receive the shorthnnder’s notes there.
Apparently his Honor sees
now that, while the short-
hander reproduces everything,
the Judge, relieved of a vast
amount of mechanical labor,
can give the case itself his
whole attention and briefly note
(if necessary) the points that
need stressing. Of course,
Justice Simpson knows how to
spell everything without
having to cudgel his brain ; but
there was, for instance, Justice
Kerferd, of Victoria, to whom
the rules of spelling were a
nightmare, and whose mind
had to wander away from the
case to recall whether verandah
was spelt with an “ f ” and one
“r” or a “v ” and two “ r’s.
“ S.S.” : I see it asserted that King
Cobbler, the aboriginal celebrity, who died at
Narrabri (N.S.W.), the other day, at the alleged
age of 100, was a total abstainer. If so, King
Cobbler was unique. I’ve met in my experience
only one aboriginal in touch with civilisation who
claimed to be a “ plumy teetotalum,” and I gave
him a shilling. When I met him, an hour later,
he was “sprung,” and I abused him for his
perfidy. “ Tha’s all right,” said Jacky. “Tshil-
lin’ all spent. Mine teetotalum again now.”
Mr. E. C. Amsinck, journalist, who died
at Waverley (Sydney) on April 23, was the son of
Commander Henry Amsinck of the Royal Navy,
who came to Victoria in 1853 as agent of a rail-
way and dock company. The company never did
anyt long save on paper, but the Commander re-
mained and represented West Bourke in the
second Victorian Parliament. He married a sis-
ter of Sir Archdale Wilson, of Delhi fame. The
son, Eugene, joined the staff of the old Melbourne
Herald, then a morning paper with high liter-
ary ideals. He subsequently joined the Argus
(which had a habit of tempting good men from
other journals), and- 1 acted for it during the Maori
war, or portion of it. He was 68 when he died.
“ J.G.,” from a decayed Victorian town
Me the crowning of Judkins, and Disraeli’s refusal of a
similar “ honor ” (B. 4/4/’O7). I know of a Hebrew who
was crowned in Australia, just as if he were Solomon 111
or some such potentate. The ceremony took place about
a quarter of a century ago, at Buninyong, near Ballarat
One DeGosaowned a paddock on the Hard Hills, between
Buninyong and Scotchman’s. Webb Bros, located a rich
quartz reef just outside De Gosa’s paddock. Then a few
of the Buninyongites and Ballaratites formed a co., and
sunk a shaft on De Gosa’s land. For some time the com-
pany struck it rich, and erected all the usual require-
ments of a first-class mine. The DeGosa mine yielded
heavily for several years, and DeGosa reaped a rich har-
vest out of the royalties. Some shareholders, however,
thought that De Gosa didn’t open his mouth wide enough
when he asked for his royalty ; so, to placate him, and to
repay him for allowing them to mine on his land and
bring him in a big revenue, the leading lights of the eo,
did an almighty smoodge to DeGosa. One day the old
mine was smothered with flags and young limbs of trees,
A few hundred curious people gathered round the bat-
tery-house, whilst a smart-looking counterjumper or two
read fulsome addresses to DeGosa. The bank manager,
or somebody, read a long prayer. Then one of the belles
of “ The Ancient Village ” crowned old De Gosa by placing
a heavy golden coronet upon his head. After that the
directors and others went and emptied some bottles of
fizz inside themselves. The co. fell on evil days very
soon afterwards, and would have been mighty glad
to have got the golden coronet back, and boil it down to
pay expenses.
“ Hatana ” : Met a Maoriland parson, the
other day, who seemed rather different from the
usual run of gospel sharp. He had a holiday, re-
cently, and he disguised himself as a navvy and
went up to the top of the Main Trunk Line look-
ing for a job. Work was plentiful, and panned
out at about 10s. a day. One burly shoveller was
doubtful of the sky-pilot’s bona-Jides, and re-
marked on the whiteness of his arms. ‘'They’ll
be as black as yours when I haven’t washed for a
year,” was the reply of the sin-shifter, and
things were only middling for a bit. The
reverend put in 10 days’ hard, and then left for
home without being spotted. Said he, “Now
I’ve seen the life up there, so I can’t be told I
don’t know what I’m talking about.”
A scrap of biography :
Captain Jackson Barry died at Christchurch (M.L.)on
Thursday last. He was born in the village of Melbourne,
in Cambridgeshire (England), in 1819. About June, 1828,
in charge of Sir John Alcock, he left England by the Bed
Rover (Captain Davis) for Sydney. The Rover had 250
passengers on board, being the first free emigrants who
left London for New South Wales. They reached Port
Jackson in January, 1829, with a record of 24 deaths
during the passage, which sounds like a hideous rate of
moi tality. In Sydney they were quarantined for six
weeks. Barry’s patron, Alcock, was not impressed with
Sydney, and took passage for Buenos Ayres, but the
10-year-old Barry didn’t feel inclined to accompany
him, and bolted. He slept that night in a tank.
Looking for employment, he came across an old friend of
his father’s, Charles Smith, a wealthy butcher and owner
of racehorses. In 1835 Barry went to Melbourne, wherehe
saw Buckley, the wild white man. From Melbourne, in
1837, he moved on to Maoriland, and has knocked about
there and round the seas ever since. He was a
strenuous miner, pioneer, whaler, and romancer, a
mighty man of the sea, by his own accounts, and a per-
son who fled through or across Cook Straits on the back
of a live whale. He was also a kind of Whittington in his
way, being thrice Mayor of Cromwell. In his latter years
he was a very unsuccessful candidate for Parliament, and
was given to lecturing- much on the early days. His lec-
tures were unlike any others on earth, and there is
nothing resembling them in the Vatican. He always had
more energy than money, and he died lamentably poor.
“Melb.” : The Jewish Herald mentions
that Mr. Isaac Lyons died on April 10, at the age
of 89. Tiny “Ike” Lyons was one of our most
respected citizens, a wonderful surviving brick
from Old Melbourne. Fora number of years he
was connected with Baylee and Co., auctioneers.
His vitality was amazing, and when far past 80
he would stand in the pulpit selling all day, with
vim and abundance of wit. He would sing a good
song, too. In past years he was regarded as one
of our millionaires, but rt melted, and made no
difference to Ike. I remember some of his advice
in business: “Now be spry, young man, with
eyes all over you. One day a lady comes in, and
says she, ‘Mithter Lyonth, have you got a nice
suit of knickers for this little boy of mine ?’ ‘No,
ma’am,’ says I, ‘ but I’ve got some splendid
pickles.’ So she orders a case of’em. That’s the
way to do bithnith.’” Good old Ike. We all
miss him.
Justice G. B. Simpson, of N.S.W., is
reputed to buy and sample every patent medicine
going. There is nothing at all wrong with his
Honor, and the way he bears up against all the
medicines
does credit
to his
Honor’s
honorable
interior.
AN EXCITING LANE.
It has been told to John Forrest that some of the
Federal members about to visit the Northern Territory
are (telegraphs our Melbourne representative) apprehen-
sive that in their tours throug'h the country they may
encounter and be attacked by alligators. “I don’t know
about that,” he said, “ but I do know that if I were going
I would arm myself with a good revolver as a safeguard
against attacks by hostile blacks.” —D.T.
“ Ouph ! Why did I leave my little back room l
Election eyys were nothing to this!”
“Globe-Trotter”: In the early ’eighties
Allerdale Grainger (afterwards Agent-General
for S. Australia) and I were doing a little pioneer-
ing in what were then the extreme back blocks,
although only about 200 miles north of Adelaide.
But in the most solitary wastes there always ap-
pears to be somebody; and about sundown one
day we struck the hut of a German settler. How-
ever, it seemed our Teutonic friend was unable to
offer us hospitality. “Very sorry, but mein
frau she died this morning,” he said, pointing
with simple pathos to the hut’s one darkened
window-sash. On such occasions condolences re-
quire tact, and when proffered by strangers are
apt to sound vapid and inane, but Grainger ven-
tured sympathetically; “I hope the poor lady
was resigned to her fate ? ” “ Resigned ? ” queried
the puzzled settler. “MeinGott, she had to be!


in
At
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 165—Rea] Dark Brown Bear Fur
Sets, 755, 84s, 90s, 92s 6d, 105 s.
Beaver Brown, 775, 84s, 90s.
Brown Stoles, 37s 6d, 425, 57s 6d,
635, 70s.
No. 10—Real Bear Muffs, 19s 6d,
23s 6d, 29s 6d, 355.
No. 120 —Throw-over Mar-
mot Fur Stoles, Light
or Dark Brown, 21s,
27s 6d, 30s.
SEND FOR
Autumn and
Winter...
Fashion
Portfolio
Post Free
Anywhere*
No. 199 —Real Thibet Fur
Throw-over Stoles, Black,
Grey, Cream, 19s 6d,
22s 6d.
No. 379—Muffs to match—
11s 6d, 15s 6d, 19s 6d.
Shaped Stoles—6s 9d, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
• ~7
199
Hi
itss
m
■-
e :
• ■;
m
&
226
369
379
No. 226—Maids’ Cream Mohair Muffs, 3s 6d.
No. 369—Maids’ Cream Mohair Stoles, 4s.
m
/
550
%
m
Af
45
No. 550—Silk Seal Russian Jacket, lined Satin, 57s 6d, 60s.
Black, 80s, 105 s. Black Velvet, 555, 735, 90s.
Smoke Squirrel Fur, £7 7s, £9 9s.
No. 45 —White Real Fox Fur Sets, £7 7s.
Similar Styles, £5 ss, £8 18s 6d, £9 17s 6d.
Blue, Grey or Smoke, £5 ss, £5 10s 6d, £7 ss, £7 15s.
Throw-over Stoles, White, Grey or Smoke, 635, 90s, 105 s.
No. 266 —Real Silver Pointed Brown
Marmot Stoles, 455, 57s 6d, 755,
955.
Black Real Fox Fur Sets, £6 10s,
£8 18s, £9 17s 6d, £l2 12s.
No. 12—Pointed Marmot Muff to match
355, 38s 6d, 455, 555.
I
§r mm
No. 109—French Hair Fur Stoles, Chinchella,
Brown, Sable, Marten, Blue Grey
Dye, and White, 9s 6d,
w ¥
No. 137 —Real Marmot Fur Stoles,
Light or Dark Brown, Sable
and Marten Dye, 17s 6d,19s 6d,
21s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, 355, 37s 6d.
No. 144 —Foxaline Fur Stole,
Grey, White or Imita-
tion Stone Marten,
17s 6d, 21s.
Terms:
SPOT CASH,
Vn''
No. 4273 Foxaline Muff to match,
10s Od, lls 6d, 12s 6d.
w
Sf
T
4741
106
No. 4741—Black or Brown Caracel Jackets, 30s, 355,
4‘2s, 47s 6d, 535.
No. 106—Fur Necklets, Light or Dark Brown, Black,
■ White, Chinehella, Seal Brown, 4s lid.
Smaller Size, 2s 9d.
Anthony Hordern (SI Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, vix.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Bruntcn's Scotch V/ire Rope.
Nicholson & Sons’ E
Material and Mining'
Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers,
ng.ish Mills to grind everything. Steel Ralls. Locomotives. Tramway
Requisites of every descripticn. ’
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“ VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4Jd. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
115-117 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; or
Southport, Queensland.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank op Australasia
Written
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves.
Oct., 1900..£151,466 10 p.c. =£60,000 £20,000 £939,041
Apnl 1901.. 145,119 10 „ „ 80,000 35,000 969,160
a -’i i? 94 ” 140 ’ 077 10 » >, 80,000 20,000 1,009,237
~fM 68 11 "** 8S > 000 16,000 1,049,705
? Cfc -’i ™ 2 ' • !66,943 11 „ „ 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
n?/ 1 ’ ‘' 457 ’ 705 12 »* *» 96 .° 00 30,000 1,116,353
Antn 12 » ” 96 ’°" 25 » 000 1.146,951
’ , 4 ? 94 '' 160 > 93 4 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
? Ct '-i 140 >°66 12 „ „ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
n?r rll 'i 1 anl” ™’ ls3 12 '* •> 96 > 000 10 > 000 1.237,104
a™'i ' HI’ 451 12 •» »* 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
ril > 19 °6.. 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oot., 1906.. 153,511 14 „ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,861
The e *tra 2 per cent, has been paid as a bonus, and,
though all the figures suggest that the extra amount will
pe continued, the directors pay it in a form which doesn’t
in any way pledge them to continuance. The bank has
“jj, advantages. Its prestige, already high, was
added to by the fact that it didn’t have to reconstruct,
out, while it had no abnormal interest to pay on recon-
structed deposits, it seized the opportunity (or possibly
to some extent the opportunity seized it), and it reduced
its dividend to 5 per cent, for several years, meantime
writing down its premises hard out of disclosed profits.
Possibly it was also able to do a good deal of writing down of
other assets out of undisclosed profits. At October, 1896,
bank premises stood in the books at £444,996. They have
undoubtedly been largely added to since then, yet they
r™ “ *be books now—lo years afterwards—at only
.u '497. impossible, of course, to say whether
other assets m the hands of the bank have been written
W ’?<JS, fc u e ,! ame way ; bufc one tesfc can be applied. In
the 1896 half-year the disclosed income, before paying
working expenses, but after paying interest, was at the
rate of £llls. per cent, per annum on the total assets ;
on the same basis the return is now £2 18s. per cent,
lhat means one of two things—either that a presumably
riskier business at higher rates is being done now, or that
there has been severe writing down of assets; and the
tact that premises have obviously been severely written
down suggests that the latter alternative is probably the
tact. If the bank has written down one lot of assets it
lias probably written down other lots too.
Earnings consequently are high ; on the basis
ot capital and reserves they have been as follows
Apl., 1903 .. £ll 16 Op.c. I Apl., 1906 .. £9 14 0 p.c.
Oct., 1903.. 11 3 3 „ Oct., 1905 .. 913 9 ,
,^ pl -> 4994 •• 10 19 9 „ I Apl., 1906.. 912 3 „
Oct., 1904.. 10 1 9 „ | Oct., 1906.. 10 11 11 „
There is nothing in the figures to explain the great im-
provement in the 12 months; that must be put down
therefore, to the unusually profitable banking conditions
that have prevailed lately. A comparison
XT 4 Oct., 1905. Oct., 1906.
Notes .. .. £495,237 £470,007 Dec. £25,230
Bills, &c. .. 2,401,773 2,654,123 Inc. 252,350
Deposits .. 16,286,330 16,001,835 Dec. 284,495
Liquid Assets.. 6,765,732 6,734,778 Dec. 30 954
Advances .. 15,055,970 15,160,551 Inc. 104,581
Premises .. 294,741 269,497 Dec. 25/244
The question arises, as the figures don’t explain the large
increase in profits, whether these increased profits will be
maintained when the recent abnormally profitable bank-
ing conditions ease off. To counterbalance that, the bank
has no doubt increased activity in Australia to look forward
to. At present it has only about £6 10s. of the public’s
money for every £1 of the shareholders’ funds, and there
are banks with more. Presumably this bank could get
more too if it could find profitable use for the money •
and that s only a question of Australian industrial
development.
* * • *
Colonial Bank op Australasia (Melbourne):
Dividends on
Preference To Re- Re-
Profits. Shares. serves, serves
Sept. 1900 .. £12,019 4 p.c. = £6,081 £5,938 £17,946
Mar., 1901 .. 13,718 5 ~ , 7,601 6,117 24 063
Sept., 1901 .. 15,069 5 „ „ 7,601 7,468 31,531
„ Di vs. on all shares.
ar ;» *. 17,173 5 „ „ 10,942 6,231 37,762
Sept., 1902 .. 16,264 5 „ „ 10,961 5,303 43,065
Mar., 1903 .. 16,223 5 ~ 10,961 5 262 48 327
vfP*I’’ 1 ’’ loof " X’ 251 s ’’ ” fi>2B6 fig#
Mar., 1904 .. 19,11/ 5 „ „ 10,967 8 150 62.763
Sept., 1904 .. 18,287 5 ,’, ” 10,967 7,320 70 oS
Mar., 1905 .. 19,320 5 ~ „ 10 967 8.353 78 43«
Sept., 1905 .. 18,314 5 ” j,' 10|977 S IKS
Mar., 1906 .. 19,405 5 ~ „ 10,982 8 423 94 ’11 96
Sept., 1906 .. 19,578 6 „ „ 13,178 e’lOO 10C')’o96
Mar., 1907 .. 22,086 6 „ „ 13,178 8,908 109,504
The profits, as with most banks, show a fine improvement
and the 6 per cent, to which the dividend was lifted six
months ago, absorbs less than 60 per oent. of the
total available. The reserves are still, however, com-
paratively small, and these large additions to them
? re , „„® sirabl . e ; , The Colonial’s reconstruction scheme
in 1893 provided that preference shares should be pre-
ferential as to capital until 14 half-yearly dividends
at the rate of 7 per cent, or more had been paid : and it
would have suited ordinary shareholders ■ better had
profits been allowed to accumulate until, with their help
the dividend could have been lifted at once from 5 per
cent, to 7 per cent. However, it is too late for that now •
the directors doubtless ascertained that shareholders pre-
ferred to make no sacrifice of their immediate dividend
opportunities. And, anyhow, the preference capital
amounts to £304,044, while the ordinary capital is only
£135,236, so that “ ordinary ” shareholders are not in a
position to do just what would suit them best. The bank
is very well favored in the matter of deposits, etc. and
has about £6 9s. of the public’s money in the business for
every £1 of the shareholders’. In view of that, the earn-
ings per cent, of shareholders’ funds are moderate
Sept., 1903 ..£7 1 8 p.c. Sept., 1905 ..£7 l 0p«
Mar., 1904 .. 715 0 „ Mar., 1906 .. 7 7li P ‘
Sept., 1904 .. 7 510 ~ Sept., 1906 ..7 6 9 ”
Mar., 1905 .. 711 11 „ Mar., 1907 ..8 3 8 ”,
It is just 10 years ago since it was reported that £550 000
would have to be provided to make good the ascertained
deficiencies. Things didn’t improve after that for some
time, and it is possible that, later on, prudence called
for a further provision ; this may have been made
out of profits, which would account for the low earnings
for several years. It is true that, with almost exactly the
same proportion of public to shareholders’ funds the
Bank of Australasia show’s a profit of £lO 11s. lid.’ per
cent.; and some of the difference between that and the
Colonial’s £8 3s. Bd. per cent, is probably due to the
fact that even now one bank’s assets have been written
down harder than the other’s. Still, £8 3s. Bd. per cent is
a highly respectable rate, and doesn’t point to much
over-valuation.
Business has been growing in a substantial
way
Mar., 1906. Mar., 1907.
Notes £120,703 £138,333 Inc. £l7 630
Bills, &c. . .. 274,519 285,885 Inc. 11,366
Deposits at interest 1,734,631 1,890,581 Inc. 155 950
Free Deposits .. 1,020,392 1,221,903 Inc. 201’511
Liquid assets.. ... 1,104,502 1,132,875 Inc. 28’373
Advances .. .. 2,338,282 2,718,914 Inc. 380’632
Premises, &e. .. 251,921 246,878 Dec. 5’,043
So in 12 months there has been (before paying divi-
dend)
Total increase of liabilities £386,457
Add undivided profit 17,505
„ Premises, &c., written down or sold 5,043
Total £409,005
And this has been absorbed as follows:
Increase in advances £380,632
Increase in liquid assets 28,373
Total £409,005
The increase in liquid assets is thus very small in propor-
ti°n t° increased liabilities, and the proportion of all
liquid assets to total liabilities to public has been reduced
to a shade over 30 per cent. This cannot be brought any
lower with safety, especially in view of the fact that about
40 per cent, of the total deposits are not bearing interest
and are presumably at call. The bank’s trading has,
therefore, at least reached what appears to be the limit
Sa j- 4 ? rm repression of the tendency to rush up
the dividend is called for, so that reserves may be built
up. At present the bank has £1,132,875 of liquid assets
and £3,538,702 of public debt; so it has £2,403,827 of
public debt to be covered by non-liquid assets, which
latter amount to £3,065,792, or at the rate of £1 ss. sd.
in the £. The assets, as shown above, appear good ; but
the position is one that would be all the better for being
strengthened by steadily building up more liquid reserves.
* * * •
„ The Wellington and Manawatu Railway
Co. (Maoriland) :
, Railway Land Dividends Total
,® „> Profits. Profits. and Bonus. Reserves
lo9a .. 124
4^ 99 •• £6,258 £1,849 5 p.c.= £8,500 62*731
1900 .. 8,094 8,099 5„ „ 8,500 70,424
•• 8.773 7,866 6„ „ 10,200 76,863
4992 “ 7,969 3,624 6 » .. 10,200 78,256
4993 “ 19,361 35,221 16 „ „ 27,200 96,638
1994 ” 11,966 6,940 7„ „ 11,900 102,744
199 £ •• 10,389 6,201 7„ „ 11,900 107,434
4966 •• 11,265 10,629 7„ „ 11,900 117,428
1907 .. 11,447 10,477 7„ „ 11,900 127,452
, 6es ’ (les reserves shown above, there is a reserve
‘ llalnCenance of line, insurance, and contingencies,”
£36,000. Apparently this is mainly a renewal reserve.
To this £7OOO has been added during the year, as against
£4500 in the year ending February, 1906 ; £3OOO in 1905,
and £3500 in 1904. The actual results are therefore
better for the past year than they look in the table. No
doubt the older a line gets (up to a certain point) the
larger the outlay for maintenance; but so far mainten-
ance hasn’t been paid out of this reserve—it has been
charged against revenue. Also, revenue has been
charged with depreciation. Five years’results showing
gross profits after paying for repairs and maintenance may
be put this way :
Net Transferred to Written Gross
Profit. Maintenance A/c. Off. Profit
1903 £10,361 £2OlO _ Jl2 371
1904 11,066 3500 £984 15 550
1905 10,389 3000 1224 14 613
1906 11,265 4500 8619 24*384
1907 11,447 7000 8131 26,578
That puts a rather different complexion on the matter.
In the published accounts what appears to be the true
position is obscured by the fact that the whole of the
expenditure (apart from interest, office expenses, etc.) is
lumped ; and in the earlier years the amount transferred
to maintenance account was included in the lump. The
real inwardness of the matter ean be further probed by
comparing liquid assets now and five years ago :
T . ~ . 1902. 1907.
Liquid assets £134,030 £204,793
Less debts to public .. 14,074 27 169
Surplus liquid assets .. £119,956 £177,624
Increase of liquid assets .. .. £57,668
Expenditure on line and stock .. 69*412
Total increase of assets .. .. £127,080
Less book-value of land sold .. 37*216
Net increase of assets .. .. £89,864
And to check that:—
Land profits (Ist table above) .. £69,468
Gross railway profits .. „ 93,496
Total profits £162,964
Less dividends (6 years) .. .. 73,100
Increase of assets (as above) .. £89,864
It will be found that the dividends shown in the first
table amount to £74,800 ; the difference (£1700) between
that and the figures a line or two back is accounted for
by the fact that 1 percent, more on the capital of £l7O 000
was paid for the past year than for 1902. This, of course
is not shown in the balance sheet to February, 1907—the
appropriation is made afterwards. In spite, therefore,
of the profit and loss account, the railway working
account (which isn’t published) must show an increase
in profits from £12,371 in 1902-3 to £26,578 in 1906-7.
But the profits from land sales are coming to an
end. All the lands that remain now are valued at
£17,799 (book value). Still in the past five years land
worth £37,216 on the books has realised a profit of
£69,468 ; so there may be £30,000 profit, or more in
what is left. The fact that £37,216 (book value) of land
has been sold at a profit of £69,468 suggests the size of
ass the State is which builds railways with borrowed
money, and doesn’t take any of the value which the rail-
way (paid for with the borrowed money) adds to the
land. The co.’s railway and stock are now in the books
at £824,830. On that amount it showed a net profit last
year of £5 10s. 2d. per cent. (To the net profit men-
tioned above £34,000 paid in interest on £680,000 deben-
tures must be added.) On the gross profit, after paying
for repairs, the return was £7 7s. per cent. The weakest
point in the situation is that the debentures are four
times as great as the capital, and the capital has to
guarantee not only principal but interest—it has to stand
between the debentures and depreciation and all other
sorts of disaster. Even the £15,131 written off or put to
maintenance account last year amounts to less than 2 per
cent, on the book value of the railway undertaking. That
however doesn’t alter the fact that a very fine improve-
ment is shown in the past few years’ figures.
A few more Manawatu results:—
Railway Working Expenses to
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue.
1900 .. £94,046 £44,429 47’2 per cent
1901 .. 96,270 46,562 48‘4
1902 .. 104,208 55,203 52'9 ”
1903 .. 111,398 60,129 53'9 ’ ”
1904 .. 122,183 63,682 52 T
1905 .. 127,733 72,616 56 8 ”
1906 .. 132,460 75,280 56'8
1907 .. 144,647 84,196 58’2 „ ”
But working expenses include amount written off for
depreciation (as shown above), and that provision has
largely increased in recent years. Nevertheless a con-
siderable unexplained increase in working expenses is
disclosed.
* * * *
The Wellington and Manawatu Railway Co.’s
debentures (£680,000) fall due at the middle of next year.
They are in three lots, Ist, 2nd, and 3rd debentures'; but
as all have been quoted above par for the past four years
at least, and are now saleable in London (where most of
them are held) at a small premium, there is no doubt the
co. could renew them. With the liquid assets in hand
however, £170,000 will be paid off, and this will allow of
the shares being paid up from £1 to £2—in other words
£170,000 of reserves will be transferred to capital. These
shares (£1 paid) have recently been sold in M.L. at £1
18s. 6d.
» * » *
Tooth & Co. Ltd., brewers, etc. (Sydney)
Net _ To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Mar., 1901 £39,898 7 p.c.= £31,500 £8,398 £124 193
Sept., 1901 37,269 7 „ „ 31,500 5,769 129,962
Mar., 1902 41,536 8 „ „ 36,000 5,536 135,498
Sept., 1902 40,768 8 „ ~ 36,000 4,768 140 266
Mar., 1903 41,209 8 „ „ 36,000 5,209 145*475
Sept., 1903 39,053 8,, ~ 36,000 3,053 148*528
Mar., 1904 43,414 8 „ „ 36,000 7,414 155 942
Sept., 1904 37,570 8 „ „ 36,000 1,570 157*512
Mar., 1905 46,964 8 „ „ 36,000 10,964 168*476
Sept., 1905 37,394 8 „ „ 36,000 1,394 169*870
Mar., 1906 46,532 8 „ ~ 36,000 10,532 180*402
Sept., 1906 38,286 8 „ „ 36,000 2,286 182*688
Mar., 1907 45,156 8 „ „ 86,000 9,156 191*844
And the following may throw some further light on the
affairs of a large and profitable concern
1900. 1906. 1907.
Debts to public .. .. £16,763 £16,139 £17,777
Properties, goodwill, plant 647,831 631,158 604,932
Public stock and deposits.. 92,896 161,264 183,761
Gash balances .. .. 51,727 30,716 31,638
Stock 53,956 77,620 95,607
Sundry debtors .. .. 215,195 236,783 234,682
Profiton brewings, rents, &c. 132,377 137,829 146,663
Management, wages, &c. .. 91,898 86,297 96,406
In the 1900 half-year, the figures for which are set out
above, the net profit was £37,979. Thus, properties,
goodwill, plant, &c.—all fixed assets, in short—valued at
£647,831, returned in 1900 £37,979, whilst fixed assets
valued now at £604,932, or £42,899 less, return £45,156,
or £7177 more. This suggests that fixed assets have been
severely written down out of profits during the past seven
years ; and the increase of £70,776 in liquid assets (apart
from sundry debtors and stock) points the same way. In
two of the earlier half-years £2500 was openly written
off to provide for depreciation ; since then, the amount
has been £5OOO per half-year—a total for the seven years
of £65,000. The increase in the assets, apart from pro-
perties, plant, &c., in the same period has been :
Liquid assets .. .. £70,776
Stock 41,651
Book debts .. .. 19,487
Total £131,914
That represents the improvement in the position in seven
years after paying dividends. Certainly some of the
liquid assets may have been derived from the sale of
properties ; but, at any rate, as pointed out above, the
present fixed assets bring in more profit, and from one
point of view are worth more, than those of seven years
ago. The result, looking at the matter onlv through the
figures, would be regarded as highly satisfactory ; but
there is always the haunting fear that something serious
may happen to the brewing and pub-keeping business,
and even before anything serious happens to it, the cost
of fighting for “ the trade” will make a large hole in its
pocket. Shares in Tooth’s, partly by reason of the co.’s
large holding of liquid assets, partly by reason of its
conservative policy in the matter of book-values, com-
mand a price which gives a return of only about
£4 17s. 6d. per cent. ; but in the S. Australian Brewing
Co., for instance, investors require a return of from 8 to 9
per cent, to face the beer risk in that State.
* » * *
Provident Life Assdrance Co., formerly the
Provident and Industrial Insurance Co., of Maoriland and
Sydney;—
Expenses Total Carried to
Total and Divi- Out- Assurance De-
Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund, ficit.
June, ££££££
1898 .. 8,673 2530 7,837 10,367 2,203
1899 .. 9,177 2835 6,462 9,297 2 323
1900 .. 9,797 2936 6,195 9,131 666 1 657
Capital Forfeited.. eo 1597
1901 .. 10,738 3332 6,205 9,537 1201 396
, Fund.
1902 .. 12,237 3907 7,231 11,138 1099 703
Capital Forfeited 20 723
1903 .. 13,472 3988 7,791 11,779 1693 2,416
Taken over from old co. .. .. 612 3 028
Dec.,
1904 .. 15,289 3434 8,449 11,883 3406 6,434
1905 .. 15,826 4342 8,402 12,744 3082 9,516
1906 .. 18,350 3650 10,793 14,443 3907 13,423
No accounts are available for the period from July 1 to
Dec. 31, 1903 ; apparently the £612 described above as
“ taken over from old co.” is the income in excess of out-
goings for that period. The published accounts show an
assurance fund of £16,925, less £262, the shareholders’
dividend for the year. But the old co.’s assets included'
two paper items —extension of business expenses £2069,
and premises written up £3240. The former was written
off ; the latter was taken over by the new eo. It is con-
ceivable that the premises were at one time under-
valued, and that a revaluation fairly added 100 per cent,
to their book value ; but it is infinitely safer to set any
increase of value in one line against the fall which is
almost bound to occur in the value of some other line at
some time or other. It is a perilous proceeding to
pick out a security which has had a rise—possibly
only a temporary rise—revalue it, add the extra
valuation to the assets, and then do no more
revaluing. It is quite true that, accepting the co.’s own
written-up figures, rents and interest show' a return on
average funds (including capital) of £4 10s. 6d. per cent.
But, though that is above the average earnings of Aus-
tralasian life offices, it has to be noted that of this co.’s
funds £5034 are described as in “ head-office property,”
and £9098 in municipal debentures and loans on free-
holds ; and Maoriland rents and mortgage rates are hi«h.
The average funds of the Farmers’ Co-op. Insurance
Association (M.L.)last year earned £5 4s. per cent. The
£4 10s. 6d. per cent, return doesn’t, therefore, conclu-
sively support the Provident Co.’s valuation of its assets.
The Provident’s business is nearly all industrial.
The expense rate is, therefore, very high ; compared
with total income it shows up as follows :
1899.. £9O 7 3 percent. 1903.. £57 16 7 percent.
1900.. 70 8 3 „ 1904.. 52 16 4 „
1901.. 63 4 8 „ 1905.. 51 18 11
1902.. 59 110 „ 1905.. 58 16 3 „
That is to say, of every £1 paid in as premiums or in-
terest, 11s. 9d. goes in expenses, and Bs. 3d. is available
for insurance. In the face of that, the chairman tooted
gaily that, while the average cost of obtaining increase in
premium income in England is over 300 per cent., this co.
had an increase of £2312 last year at a cost in new busi-
ness expenses of £5231, or 226 per cent. The comparison
is valueless. If times are bad, or the country is poor,
and surrenders or lapses are numerous, then to get
£2312 net increase it may be necessary to get £12,312 of
new business—£lo,ooo to cover the lapses and surrenders ;
£2312 to make the increase. If times and the country
are good, and lapses and surrenders few, then it may
only be necessary to get £5312 of new business to make a
net increase of £2312, because in that case £3OOO will
cover the lapses, etc. The comparison made by the
Provident’s chairman merely suggests that in Maoriland,
with its prosperity and its high wages, it is. easier to keep
industrial insurances once they have been got than it is
in Great Britain ; so the total expense rate should be
lower. The policies in this case have the backing of a
paid capital of £5250 and an uncalled capital of £15,750 ;
on the paid capital 5 per cent, is drawn as dividends.
This is equal to 1$ per cent, of premiums ; in other words,
1£ per cent, is added to the expense rate payable by
policyholders for the extra security w'hich the capital
gives.
* » * •
The Heddon-Greta Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
Total Deficit
charged to (apart from
Coal Land Develop- Develop-
Sales. Sales. ment. ment).
Mar., 1902 .. £504 £1,798 £1951
Sept., 1902 .. 2,983 £668 4,888 1241
Mar., 1903 .. 4,290 1685 5,692 521
Sept., 1903 .. 8,599 94 7,573 380
Mar., 1904 .. 9,927 209 9,881 1520
Sept., 1904 .. 11,898 278 11,017 2054
Mar., 1905 .. 11,986 12,450 2054
Sept., 1905 .. 6,956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906 .. 12,420 14.323 3538
Sept., 1906 .. 10,375 14,323 3394
Mar., 1907 .. 11,192 14,323 3770
There was a profit of £53 on ordinary trading ; but £429
was spent on re-opening the mine-area where the fire
occurred, and that turned the profit into a loss of £376
and took the deficit up to £3770, including £907 flotation
expenses not yet written off. Besides that, as shown
above, £14,323 has been spent on development; but this
may turn out an asset, though the amount should be
steadily written dow'n (so much per ton of coal ex-
tracted), because however much of an asset a hole lead-
ing to a coal seam may be, a hole leading to another hole
where a coal seam used to be is merely a cavity, which
you can’t sell, or wheel away, or boil for breakfast. The
co., in the first place, offered 50,000 shares, but only
42,573 were taken ; and that disturbed the promoters’
plans. The outlay also was under-estimated ; then came
the fire. As a result of all these circumstances, 20,844
pref. shares had to be issued. Eighteen months ago there
were outstanding debentures, £14,500. The pref. share
issue has allowed of these being reduced to £4OOO ; but
the overdraft (now £4136) remains about where it ’was,
and has still to be grappled with. Other debts are well
covered by liquid assets. The co. has had an up-hill
fight, out of which ordinary shareholders haven’t so far
come very well (the pref. capital was only obtained by
making a large sacrifice) ; but the mine is able to make a
large output now, and better figures should soon be
forthcoming.
* * * *
Most of the inter-State shipping cos. have
joined with the S. Australian shipping owners and agents
in forming the Adelaide Dry Dock Co., which has already
settled its plans. The biggest vessels for which accom-
modation will be provided are such as the Kyarra and
Kanowna and some of the Lund liners—anything short
of 500 ft. in length. The dock is to be almost in the
heart of Port Adelaide ; in fact, one street (Jenkins-
street, Birkenhead) will have to be closed to give the
necessary length.
The little trouble over the last balance-sheet of
the Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney), referred to in
B. 18/4/’O7, gets more complicated as it goes along.
Auditor James Robertson had at that time issued a cir-
cular to shareholders stating that the balance-sheet
issued by the co. wasn’t what he signed—what he signed
showed a profit and loss debit balance of £5835, whereas
the published balance-sheet showed a profit and loss
credit balance of £B3, with an entry on the other side
(pushed under goodwill) of £5918 —the amount of the Dr.
balance twelve months before. Now the directors issue
one circular, and James Robertson’s co-auditor, P.
Campbell, issues another; and both of them make
matters about 17 times worse. The directors say
“ The directors are emphatically of opinion that
the sum (£5918) very inadequately represents the en-
hanced goodwill of the properties brought about
by .. . the establishment on a profit-earning basis of
the Sunday Sun, so it was determined to treat
the sum as representing the goodwill of the Sun-
day Sun.” Rubbish ! The £5918 was a debit balance,
and, as a debit balance, it ought to have stood until the
profits, which the directors talk of, wiped it out. It
would be preposterous for a co. or a firm, whenever it
struck a good piece of business, to add its former losses to
its goodwill and call it an asset, and then start off
scratch again. On that principle, the more money a co.
lost, the more it would reckon its business was worth. In
short, the new way to be worth millions would be to
lose them and then reckon your losses as assets.
F. Campbell, “shareholder’s auditor,” makes
some remarks which call for some more remarks from the
other auditor. The latter said the document published
wasn’t what he signed. Says Campbell“ Mr. Robert-
son and I have never prepared the summary of the profit
and loss account and the balance sheet. The work of
preparing the summary' for publication has been left to
the accountant of the co. Neither have we ever signed
the summary when prepared. The accountant of the co.
has always attached our certificates and signatures as a
matter of course.” This is cheerful. And yet the statements
have finished up like this:—“We hereby certify that we
have examined the above balance sheet, comparing it with
the necessary books, and find the same to be in accordance
therewith ” —followed by the auditors’ names. At this
stage it will probably be just as well to put in the peg
and wait for auditor James Robertson’s subsequent re-
marks. An auditor whose co-auditor accuses himself of
allowing somebody else to fasten his certificate and signa-
ture to something he didn’t see will probably want to
make some remarks very' badly. Meantime, what sort of
a law is it which allows auditors’ reports to be worth this
much?
* • * *
One of Melbourne’s outlying suburbs is con-
siderably interested in the sewering of the Philippine
capital. The Cornwell Pottery at Brunswick will be
busily engaged for the next three years in turning out
sewer pipes—from 4in. to 24in.—for the municipality of
Manila, the manufacturers’ only trouble in executing
the contract being to secure freight. The contract Was
taken from the American Hardware and Plumbing Co. at
Manila, which seemingly can import the stuff from Vic-
toria (where Australia’s Protectionist policy started)
more cheaply than it can be got from a Yankee combine.
* * * *
Some day when Sydney isn’t busy it will tie a
towel round its head and think of something that it
can do with its largest municipal white elephant—the
“Queen Victoria” markets, which so far are more like a
vast mausoleum than they are like the thing they are sup-
posed to be. Though the State gave the city most of the
land on which the great domed vault stands, the thing
runs the city finances to the bad to the extent of a pretty
consistent £9OOO a year, and it might be £lO,OOO if the
windows were mended every time they are broken. So
far the total leeway is over £70,000. Nobody seems to
know exactly why the markets won’t “ catch on ” ; all
that is obvious is that they have got down to a state in
which they freeze everybody who looks into them ; also
they turn themselves into horrible nightmares, with
icicles hanging to their mane, and pursue the property
department of the City Council in its sleep.
• * * *
Another 7000 tons steamer has been launched
for the German-Australian trade, and Freetraders are
rejoicing at the cheap freights in these subsidised ships.
Shipments of enormous quantities of lead and zinc con-
centrates are mainly responsible for this expansion of
trade. Yetif the South Broken Hill mine produced just half
its present output of concentrates, and smelted the stuff
locally, Australia would be better off, its mines would
last longer, and the wages would amount to just as much
as they do now. But apparently Australia has only a
weary suspicion that it has any claim for consideration.
9 * * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, started crushing
on April 15, after many vexatious delays and arguments
between the contractors and director Uren, who had been
on the mine for seven weeks. The plant is very com-
plete of its kind, and consists of rockbreaker, 10-head
mill (11001 b. stamps), two Wilfley concentrators, and
cyanide plant. It is expected to treat 1500 tons monthly
for a return of 6000 z., or, say, £2OOO to £2500. Manager
Hocking, who has had large experience all over Aus-
tralia, is very confident of the result, and emphatically
states that he has quite enough stone in sight to justify
his starting crushing. But his predecessors, Hawkins
and Johnson, as well as Tom Hewitson, made
much the same assertion, yet test crushings ah
the Boulder No. 1 battery gave miserable results..
Hocking then came along and sent 90 tons also to the
Boulder No. 1 battery ; but, after half the parcel was-
treated for a shade under 3dwt., the balance was re-
moved to Brown Hill Consols and yielded BJdwt. The'
next month will test Manager Hooking's optimistic pre-
dictions ; but one thing is certain—the stone will get fair
treatment, and the mine will get such a test as it has nob
had hitherto.


Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * » *
Pelton Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical Apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
• * • *
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company is
building a complete plant for its claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 88 feet; al7 inch
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
5 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H.H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
by steam from an externally fired multitubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoons to carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by iO feet
wide. To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
plant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Robert McLintock, Engineer, of
Dunedin. * 1 8 1
» * * •
The Searchlight (London), referring to the
report for the year, 1905, of The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Societv Limited, writes, in its September, 1906,
issue as follows The report itself, however, is one of
the pleasantest and most thoroughly satisfactory that
the Society has ever issued, sound and solid progress
being everywhere evident.”*
Cobar. — For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est.. 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* » * *
Cobar. — For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• » * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stan d close expert investigation. *
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourlce
street, Melbourne. * # *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 26 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discretion of east or wrought iron work.*
» * * *
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
m * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, was, according
to published cables, to reduce its monthly output from
£50,090 to £30,000. But the March output pans out at
£48,600, with a profit of £35,170. The grade of ore treated
is 87s. per ton, and it would have to be reduced to about
525. to bring down the monthly return to £30,000. If this
is really what is meant, it needs some explaining in view
oi past official estimates.
0*99
Associated, Kalgoorlie, seems to have consider-
able difficulty in keeping up its end of the stick.
All sorts of predictions were made as to the
output and profits of the remodelled plant, but,
during the last three months, the average out-
put has been barely 10,000 tons, and the average
profit £6300. On a capital of, say, £500,000, this return,
after deducting depreciation and London expenses, will
leave about 10 per cent, only, and shows that shares at
current prices are fully valued as mining shares go.
Every now and again rich patches are announced, but it
requires them all to maintain the average output. The
mine may, and probably will, last for years; but its
present rate of profit is about all it is likely to manage,
• « *
Kalgurli (W.A.) has done rather badly in
the past two months, during which profits have only
panned out at £lB,OOO and £18,300, against a previous
average of w-ell over £20,000. The cause, according to
official returns, is chiefly a big falling-off in the tonnage
treated, and no explanation is given for the decline. Two
new levels at 1250 ft. and 1350 ft. are now being opened
up ; so far as the former is concerned, the lode is as good
as ever, but not enough work has been done on the latter
for any judgment to be passed. In the upper levels the
mine still looks well, and there seems to be no reason to
feel uneasy.
* * • •
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W. A.), is at last being
licked into shape by its new manager, MacDermott, for
years underground boss of the Ivanhoe. The last two
months’ profits have been £6300 and £5600, against an
average of little over £3OOO for several months’ pre-
viously. On MacDermott’s advent the mine was in much
the same state as it was when W. J. Loring, now 8.,M.
and Co.’s head in Melbourne, took control some years
ago. That gave Loring a chance to distinguish himself,
and he took it, and lifted himself into the front rank.
Now MacDermott gets his chance, and he seems to be
doing well too. Most of the delayed mulloeking-up has
been completed, and the mine is likely to show very much
better profits before long.
* * * *
Bellevue, Mt. Samuel (W.A.) H has temporarily
closed down pending the reconstruction of theco. Appli-
cations for the new allotment were to close on April 30 ;
but applicants have not fallen over each other in their
eagerness to take up new scrip, and pay a 2s. call. The
mine has recently been working ore worth little more
than 205., and such a low grade is hardly likely to be
profitable away in the back blocks. There is now on the
property about 300,000 tons of tailings worth quite half
an ounce to the ton, but no known process will treat them
at a profit.
* * * *
Oroya-Black Range (W.A.) will have a railway
before many more months have elapsed. Hitherto
freight has been a deadly item. Bewick, Moreing and Co.
say that it cost them about £BOOO to cart their 20-
head mill and accessories out to the mine. The Oroya-
Black Range has the largest pay shoot in the State (it is
said to be 2000 ft. from end to end), and already 44,000
tons of ore, worth 70s. per ton, are said to be in sight.
Owing to the extreme flatness of the reef, all sorts of
things are foretold ; but there is really nothing tangible
on which to base, assertions. Anyhow, for two years
after the battery starts things will hum ; but what will
happen later on no one can say.
* * 9 *
Victory United (W. A.), which paid one dividend
in 1896, and another in 1898, and shouldn’t have paid
either, but has always been going to pay some more,
announces again (per manager Merry) that “ we have
every reason to believe that a dividend-paying mine is
now in sight.” Anyway, though the quantity of stone
actually in sight is very small, and the reef is so irregular
that little beyond what is in sight can be safely reckoned
upon, the co. has decided to put up a new 10-head
battery, the old rattletrap being played out. Last half-
year, after paying for mine development, £566 was left to
the good, and with £3165 in hand, the proceeds of that
and the reconstruction calls (the co. was put through the
mill last year), the new plant is to be built straight away.
* * * *
Metals keep firm —copper has passed £lOO again,
and lead £20 —and yet London won’t keep on buying
Broken Hill and Queensland stocks; and the Aus-
tralian daily papers say they can’t understand it.
The explanation is easy. London, when in its
senses, wants developed mines, and Queensland
can’t offer them, so far as copper is concerned. As
for Broken Hill, London finds the Zinc Corporation
failure a very bitter pill. That failure doesn’t affect Zinc
Corporation shares only. Broken Hill was boomed in
London largely on the strength of the millions of new
wealth that the Zinc Corporation “ process ” had opened
up in the tailings dumps. Now it is found that the Zinc
Corporation hasn’t really got a process, and never
had one except that it got some rights to use
Potter’s process, and Potter’s shares are now worth 9Jd.
* * • •
South Blocks, Broken Hill, is having a bumpy
existence. Get back to August, 1905. The co. was then
in 200,000 shares —100,000 paids, 100,000 contributing
paid to 7s. 6d. The former were worth 10s. 6d., the latter
3s. 6d., making the total for the mine about £75,000.
(Twelve months before that, after four years’ steady
prospecting, the mine was valued at £30,000.) Then,
early in October, 1905, the Zinc Corporation was formed—
really to work a process which didn’t exist—and Bewick-
Moreing’s following reached out after the South Blocks,
with the idea that “anew era ” was starting on the Barrier.
The old co. was bought out; and, with the help of the
Lake View Consols, a new co. was formed with a £200,000
paid capital, of which the old co. took half. Gradually,
though there were no unexpected developments in the
mine, the price was worked up until 555. was reached
in November, 1906 —an advance from £75,000 to
£550,000 in 14 months. Up to this time, though
the e old co. was formed seven years back,
no orb had been sold and no profit made. About two
years efore, in fact, manager Wainwright, of the South,
had reported that, with the then price of metals, he could
not see justification for a concentrating plant. However,
the change in the metal markets no doubt did justify a
mill. But £550,000 for a mine which hadn’t yet proved
itself was another matter. Now the mill is at work, and
in March produced concentrates worth £12,803 on an ex-
penditure (apart from capital outlay) of £9813. Profit
was therefore £2990. This was from 6233 tons of ore;
average was therefore 9s. 7d. per ton. The report on
which the co. was formed (with shares at 20s.—not 555.)
estimated the profit at 12s. per ton of ore with lead at
£l4. Lead was £l9 10s. during March. Yet the profit
■fell far short of 12s. It is very probable that, as it goes
along, the mill may be able to do better work. But there
are the figures as they stand. It isn’t astonishing that
from 555. in November the market had slumped to 325. at
the end of last week, though it is quite likely the fall has
been helped by heavy sales on the part of the big English
holders.
* * • *
Still another reconstruction happens to the New
Broken Hill Consols, which used to be the Broken Hill
Consols without the New. The original co. was formed
in 1888, and paid two dividends out of rich stuff got in a
claim on the eastern slope of the main Broken Hill lode.
In 1896 the co. had to get in some money, and added the
“ New.” No dividend has happened since. A couple of
years back the co. joined in the scramble for blocks on
the plain south of the B. H. South, where enough ore
has always been got to make sanguine cos. spend money
in trying to find more. About this time there was
another reconstruction and, on top of the old £596,419
of ordinary capital, £7500 of pref. capital in Is. shares
was issued—pref. capital to get ss. of profit, and then to
consider itself paid. But still no profit arrived. Now
the idea is to form a co. in 720,000 shares—72o,ooo shares
for half-a-dozen blocks which have been turned over and
poked at for nearly 20 years and have burned all the
fingers that have ever touched them. The pref. shares
are to take 75,000 paids (10s.) ; ordinaries are invited to
part up Is. 6d. per share on time-payment. Altogether
the Consols is the finest case of “ stringing ” the Barrier
knows. It is hardly necessary to say that poor old dis-
tant J. Bull owns the shares. Bull is often really a fine
milch cow.
♦ * * •
Those shareholders in Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.)
who hesitated whether to allow themselves to be frozen
out or not, and who decided to stick to the profitable old
mine, are finding themselves justified. The new co. took
things over about the beginning of October, and to the
«Dd of March—slightly under six months—a profit of
£7972 is shown after paying the reconstruction ex penses.
The old co., which had exhausted its calling power after
providing £252,000 in dividends, was reformed in the
same 100,000 shares, issued as paid to 15s. 6d. on payment
of sixpence per share ; and only 1360 shares were not
allotted. The call brought in £2466 ; and there were
£10,227 liquid assets in excess of liabilities at the end of
March. The shaft is now going down to the No. 18 level;
as far as exploration has gone between Nos. 16 and 17 the
prospects are good,, though the reef-country is disturbed
at the latter level.
# • * •
The share market is in the dumps, and, espe-
cially in Sydney, there is no speculative buying—apart
from the parent Budgery, which, on satisfactory ore-
sales, has had a slight recovery. Harden.gold, which
had shared the general buoyancy, is suffering with the
rest: the market begins to remember all the warnings it
ever heard about the district being unreliable at depth.
The management expected that, owing to the easterly
dip of the shoots, the east drive would show poor values
for 30ft. or 40ft. ; but unpayable values have continued
for over 60ft. The end shows only Bin. of stone, worth
21s. The stone in the west end is smaller than the
average at the upper level, but high grade. Altogether
it is evident that the public has taken too big a ri-k in so
heavily discounting future developments.
* * * *
There is something good about the frankness of
the Briseis Co. (Tas.), which contrasts vividly with the
secrecy of most big Australian mining concerns. Thus
every quarter the Board issues a circular detailing the
work done, the tin sold and the profits earned. Conse-
quently the investor does not need to wait for months for
the regular balance-sheet. Herbert J. Daly got something
of the same kind done at the North Broken Hill, and the
Junction North followed in his wake ; but Dickenson, of
the B.H. Prop., and Howard, of the B.H. South, are not
built that way ; nor are the Mt. Morgin people. The last
circular of the Briseis enables the year’s output to be
worked out. Compared with previous years, results are
as follows :
Overburden. Drift. Black Tin. Average
cub. yds. cub. yds. tons. per cub. yd.
1903 400,000 256,940 412 3‘5 lb.
1904 623,000 173,440 424 5'49 „
1905 455,000 281,950 744 5'91 „
1906 410,640 401,800 1017 5'66 „
Currie’s estimate of the drift in the Briseis mine was
2,711,100 cubic yards. Roughly, 1,120,000 cubic yards
have been taken out of the mine since 1903, when his
report came out. This leaves 1,500,000 cubic yards to
handle, and with the overburden out of the way, should
give a 3J years’ life if the last year’s total of 400,000 cubic
yards of drift sluiced should be averaged. No wonder
that the co. is hard at work trying to develop a new
mine across the Ringarooma River. Profits for 1906
aggregated £124,000 or about £30,000 a quarter. This
improvement is due not only to the larger quantity of tin
produced, but also to the higher metal value.
Minister McLeod is face to face with another
tribute-question difficulty, arising through the applica-
tion of the Guiding Star Co. for a renewal of its lease on
the Sebastopol Plateau, Ballarat. The ground affected
covers the Star of the East and the South Star mines.
The Guiding Star was virtually a small proprietary
co., and the biggest shareholder was the late
Alec Gilpin. Among the others were Edwards, the
Carlton J.P., and Harry Goddard. What these paid for
their scrip this deponent knoweth not, but in the old
days each of the dozen or the fourteen Guiding Star shares
were worth up to £BOO eaeh. Gilpin is dead ; the Plateau
drained his vitality just as it emptied his pocket.
Whether his shares were pledged with the banks has not
been disclosed ; but, if so, they must have been
written off by Moneybags ages since. Other holders
may have suffered, but the wheels of the Guiding Star
tributor have run along so well without cost to the parent
co. for so many years that its shareholders ought not to
complain if McLeod puts an end to the incongruous state
of affairs—because it is incongruous that the Star of the
East and the South Star, which have worked the ground
almost without reward, should be denied leases when
that of the old do-nothing proprietary expires by effluxion
of time. • There is not much shine about either the Star
of the East or the South Star mines. Therefore, if any of
the Guiding Star people want to continue their connec-
tion with either mine, the market is open to them at a
very low rate. This will mean the payment of calls, and
that is just what McLeod wants to force—that those who
find the cash for the mines should reap the reward.
• * * »
The Chiltern Valley gold output stands at
£1,041,852, which puts the claim next to the Madame
Berry among the alluvial producers of Victoria. The
gold has been won on an actual paid capital of £33,000.
There are very few plums of this kind in Victoria just now
—none in the alluvial line. As it is, for such a big
mine, working two shafts, the output of 53000 z. for the
half-year looks ridiculously small. Nowhere else except
in Victoria would such returns be possible, and
even less possible would it be for dividends to
be paid. But costs are very low. Directors’
fees, for example, take only £7O for the half-year,
legal manager £7B, general charges in Melbourne and
Chiltern £36, auditor £2 25., bank charges and advertis-
ing £7, and rents and insurance £l4B. Every penny of
the rest of the outUy was money spent on the mine or in
plant and materials. It would be hard to scrape the bone
barer than that. A cash reserve of £5OOO means more to
such a co. than £20,000 would to one of the
Bull-run concerns. The co. has had a good
long period of divs., but there is heavy work
ahead. When the Wallace Consols mine was bought, it
w'as pointed out in The Bulletin that the old co. had to
pay calls to take out wash, and all work done during the
last twelve months by the Chiltern Valley has verified
apprehensions respecting the poorness of the dirt. Fact
is at this point the gutter spreads out so wide that the
wash is unpayable, the gold only averaging Bdwt. per
fathom, w'hile costs represent 2dwt. more. In the
Chiltern Valley mine divs. have come from under
15dwt. ground, which has also had to make
up the loss at the Wallace Consols shaft. There
the main level down the lead is approaching the
bottom of the gutter, so the question arises whether a
new under level ought not to be cut. Anyway, the co.
must sink a new shaft if it is to command the ground
between this mine and the Wallace Consols lease. There-
fore, there must be a heavy outlay ahead, which may
absorb all the reserve and cash balances. What may be
found is that the gutter has been diverted in the west
end of the Chiltern Valley mine by the hump of reef met
with, and a run of good gold may exist in a narrow
channel to repay the search for it.
* • * *
This is the best that can be said about the
Pitcher’s Reef and Swiss Mount, Daylesford (Vic.):—“ In
conclusion, you have an undeniably good chance of
cutting the lode, and, judging by the early-day workings,
the chances are extremely good of it being of a payable
character.” The last part of this is doubtful; still
H. Harvey, mine manager, deserves a pat on the back for
his frankness in saying that the Pitcher’s Reef is a very
poor lot of potter’s clay yet. Its chances of getting gold
in the reef are as great as those of the other Daylesford
show's ; but of all of these only one of the boom “ floats ”
has justified any reliance on “ early-day workings.”
Reedy Creek (Vic.) has at last found a mining
historian to give it a lift. For many years Reedy Creek
has wanted something of the kind, for it has been shunned
by the mining fraternity since the days of Dick Beeston’s
Golden Dyke flutter. It is not far from Melbourne, and
it deserves to be remembered as one of the rankest call-
paying fields that ever bothered the public, or taxed the
patience of a legal manager. Yet it has got from a
Melbourne daily a column or two of the same sort of stuff
as that which helped on the Warrandyte fiasco ; and for
fear that one or two may listen, the real ought to be set
against the imaginary. The district is a decent field for
small parties, and can boast of a dividend or two from
the Golden Dyke. That, however, was in the long past.
To-day the Golden Dyke promises to live in memory
because it is the mine whose old-time tailings have been
the means of demonstrating the utility of a new
process for the separation of gold and antimony. This
is the Masson-Storer process, made workable by the A.Z.
concentrator, of which Storer is the mainspring. But
the tailings are pretty well gone, and there isn’t much in
the mine. As in all the claims there, the gold
, at the Golden Dyke occurs in a dyke formation,
which, as the region of decomposed rock is left, is found
to be as hard as the hobs of the other place. With depth
the gold has got beautifully less, and the antimony ditto ;
so it isn’t a claim worth kicking up any fuss about.
There are other claims not far away. These are the
Reedy Greek group, Balmer’s United, the Empress of
India, and so on ; but they are tin-pot concerns, with five
or ten heads of stamps. They did more crowing over a
20 or 50-ton crushing than a Westralian does over 10,000
tons. Out out the object lesson that the field has pro.
vided on the way to treat gold-antimony ore, and the
curtain can be rung down on it, save as a small man s
field. In that capacity it is a shade better than a stringer,
ranking about even with Warrandyte.
• * * •
Two or three years ago a co. proposed to put
a dredge to work on the Bendigo creek, starting on the
northern boundary of the city and working down through
Epsom and Huntly. Then the devil’s own row com-
menced. The cookies and fruitgrowers along the creek
said they were not going to have any sluicing in the
creek to spoil their property, and they yelled so loudly
that the proposed dredging license was never issued.
The creek has for years been filling up with “ slum ” from
Bendigo mines, until the bed is higher than the adjacent
main road. Banks have been constructed to keep the
water in, but if the district happens to get about 2in. of
rain in a couple of hours, the water leaves the creek
altogether, and, after washing out a few gardens, goes
down the main road, and makes a creek there.
After the Huntly and Epsom people had successfully
blocked the sluicing project, it was explained that the
co. merely wanted to take the stuff out, run it through
the dredge, and stack the refuse along each side of the
creek. If this were done the creek would be cleaned out
about 12ft. deep, and banks formed about 20ft. high.
Then, unless another Noah’s flood came along, it would
be able to carry all the water that arrived, without ruin-
ing the gardens, or the cookies’ crops. Then the objectors’
eyes were opened, and they invited the co. to come and
sail in right away. But the co. had, by this time, started
at Castlemaine or somewhere else, and it spoke rather
disrespectfully to the Huntly people. It is still believed,
however, that the Bendigo creek might yield fair results,
as some good prospects have been got from the bed.
• * * *
Victoria United, Ballarat’s biggest dividend-
payer, is rising above expectations. During the past six
months shareholders have received five 6d. dividends.
Total yield for the term just over, 52230 z. from 15,354
tons, averaging 6Adwt. This average is likely to be im-
proved, as developments in the 1300 ft. (bottom) level
northwards are encouraging, 288 oz. having been
got from 176 ft. of drive. In the past, heavy
cartage expenses have been incurred, but a saving of
about £l2OO a year is anticipated when the bottom level
is connected with the Queen shaft, north of the railway
line, and close to the Black Hill battery. The Queen
shaft is down 500 ft., and sinking is to start again. Like
most others in the district, the Victoria United is chiefly
worked by tributors, but unless the directors differ from
those of other shows thereabouts, more wages men will be
put on as the gold grows.
* * •
There are two opinions about the Lord Nelson,
St. Arnaud (Vic.). One, expressed here already, is that
the new' battery and works w'ere put up at an absurd
cost before the new developments in the old mine justi-
fied it. There is no doubt about the plant having cost
far too much. But Zebina Lane, who was Czar of the
mine for a generation, worked to a great extent by abso-
lute rule of thumb, and left in the mine a good deal of
ore which, now that manager Nicholl has reduced costs
to 18s. per ton over all, will pay very well to take out;
and one way and another it is now estimated by these
more sanguine souls that there is three years’ work in
sight. After paying £254,550 in divs.—the last of them
15 months ago—the mine has now about £7OOO of leeway
to make up ; but at present rate of going that may be
finished with and shareholders rewarded with another
smell of dividends before Christmas.
* * * *
Something may at last really be done with the
old Burra copper mine (S.A.), which shut down about 30
years ago, after paying over three-quarters of a million
in divs., and has been threatened with a dozen resurrec-
tions since. It had a remarkable history. The original
owners, who had to buy the freehold —the Government
hadn’t thoughtof leases, and labor conditions, and things
like that —quarrelled, and divided themselves into “The
Nobs” and “The Snobs”; and when they decided that
they couldn’t work together, and that the property must
be divided, “ The Snobs ” got the Burra and “ The Nobs ”
got the Princess Royal. The latter w'as a duffer; but
“ The Nobs ” got fat and lazy, and when the big rich
surface deposit was worked out they gave the thing
best. Whether it is any more than a surface de-
posit nobody knows; the oldest inhabitant, who
has probably got himself to believe what he wants
to believe, remembers seeing lodes of copper
making underfoot. Six years ago a co. was formed to do
some exploring ; but it mostly fossicked about on the
surface. Recently W. A. Horn, one of the first directors
of the Broken Hill Prop., got an option ; he bought the
right to form a prospecting co. with a capital of £15,000,
and the right to form a co. with a capital of not less than
£200,000, and a working capital of not less than £BO,OOO,
within nine months. The prospecting co. has now been
formed in London ; Horn, who interested himself in
Great Cobar, and is on that Board, no doubt got a big
lift out of his connection with that successful float. As
the option lasts only nine months, the Burra will have to
hum pretty soon.
* * * *
Just 12 months ago a prospectus was published
in Adelaide which looked so outrageous that The Bul-
letin suggested (22/3/’O6) that the Stock Exchange and
the Mines Department ought to give it attention. This
prospectus said, on the authority of “ the present mine
manager,” that “the lode matter is 175 ft. wide, with
neither wall showing, and gold-bearing and highly pay-
able for the whole width ” ; also, “ the directors have
sent to the Mt. Torrens Government battery an average
bulk sample from the mine for treatment,” and the result
was 640 z. from 41 tons. On the strength of that the
public had the privilege of putting up all the capital for
a fifth of the mine, and even of that capital the co. didn’t
get all. Shares were £2 paid. It was either the biggest
mine or the most impudent prospectus of the year in
Australia, and The Bulletin urged that, in the interests
of Adelaide investors and legitimate mining, the Inspec-
tor of Mines should try to help S. Australia decide
between these alternatives. The promoters called the
concern the Golden Gate. What the Mines Department
wouldn’t do, 12 months’ work has done, and the result is
that shares in this mine, with 175 ft. of highly payable lode
matter, have been hawked about at Is. Further, though
“ an average bulk sample ” gave over ljoz., the co. has
only been able to get 730 z. from 440 tons. The co. of
course has dropped into debt, and its only hope now
seems to be that it may get out enough gold by puddling
to keep things going till it can strike another patch ; for
the gaudy figures circulated when the co. was being
pushed off were the proceeds of patches. The time has
passed for the Mines Department to interest itself in the
matter ; but there is another Department which ought
to look hard at the prospectus, and consider whether the
facts justified the statements made in it.
* * » *
G. P. Doolette, the bustling “president of the
Mineowners’ Council in London,” has got Mt. Hector,
Glassford Creek and Mt. Shamrock in his bag, as a result
of his run up north ; and the old Mt. Chalmers, now the
Fitzroy, has been taken over from Philip Charley and
Capt. Osborne, and handed over to the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines, Ltd., with Baillieu, Loring,
Charley, and Doolette as directors, and 8., M. and Co. as
managers. The co. has “ a nominal capital of £500,000 in
£1 shares, and a working capital of £175,000 ; the first
issue of capital has been subscribed privately, and no
shares are being offered to the public.” A heap of money
is represented on the Board, but how much the “ first
issue ” amounted to isn’t mentioned ; if the public is let
in at all it apparently won’t be on the ground floor.
As for the mine itself, it isn’t necessary to describe it as
“ another Mt. Morgan ” —Doolette’s reported phrase—to
say that it has the looks of a mine. As Mt. Chalmers it
was provided with a furnace before the ore was found,
and failed. Philip Charley and Osborne cleared out the
top-hamper and proved a big gold-copper show down to
200 ft., the ore going over 3 per cent, copper, 4dwt. gold,
and 2oz. silver. The ore will take some treating ; but it
is only three miles from rail, and takes its name from the
river Fitzroy, which runs past it and then on to Rock-
hampton, so it has a great deal in its favor. For a start,
a 100-ton water-jacket furnace is to go up, and a branch
railway is to be run in to the main line.
* * * *
“So far as I can foresee,” Dr. Jack tells the
Stannary Hills Co. (Q.), “ the co. is entering on a period
of prosperity such as it has not yet known.” Well, that
isn’t saying anything very cheerful. After the paid
capital (£458,150), first mortgage 6 per cent, debenture
stock for £92,468 and £17,376 of 10 per cent, mortgage
debentures have been issued, and at September 80, 1906,
£28,389 of loans were also outstanding, secured by more
debenture stock. In sending out the results of the
geologist’s report, the semi-official announcement is made
that “ the initial financial difficulties are at an end, and
the corporation is now free from debt.” The 6 per cent,
and 10 per cent, debenture stock apparently isn’t reckoned
as debt. In the half-year to September last the profit,
after paying interest, was £l4,Bso—say 6 per cent, on
capital, and that was during a tin boom. The co. could
put up with a Rood deal more prosperity than that
without breaking in halves.
* « * *
Mt. Perry, an old Queensland copper mine, is
one of those things that don’t require booming. For
1906, the output of copper was 1722 tons, containing
22010 z. gold and 93550 z. silver, worth in all £179,761.
The workings are 1000 ft. deep; levels are extended
800 ft. and 900 ft., but the lode is small and in hard
country, so profits are not what the output might
suggest. The district is cursed by old mineral freeholds,
as many a hard-working miner has found out. One
after another they start to work some of these shows,
and then are fired off, and told that they have been
guilty of burglary or something dreadful.
• » * *
J. V. Mulligan, the North Queensland battler,
has got for his Nettle’s Creek scheme Logan Jack’s
opinion that it is “ the most promising dredging scheme ”
he has “ seen or heard of in Queensland.” Probably that
is why the promoting syndicate opens its mouth wide
enough to ask for £5OOO cash, on top of 25,000 paid
shares (out of 80,000). Jack expects “success from
the start,” and the vendors would have advertised their
confidence better if they had been prepared to take the
cash out of Nettle’s Creek instead of out of the public’s
pocket. Dr. Jack has a great mana just now ; but a, lot
of people would like his conclusions all the better if he
backed them up now and then with some figures. People
who go into a dredging proposition, anybow, and pay
£5OOO cash for the privilege, are surely entitled to have
the ground bored or tested in some way. Jack admits
that he saw nothing but the overburden ; and, though
there are a “few bars,” he reckons a dredge might be
floated over them, or round them, or something. The
prospects of Nettle’s Creek are not disputed ; but this
sloppy way of doings things is liable to lead to trouble.
A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining coys, because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. The makers are Messrs.
Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have supplied their
machines to all leading mines throughout North and South
America, and in other countries. W. &J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne and Sydney, have been appointed the sole Aus-
tralian agents. The machine has the distinction of being
a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LARGEST and REST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
'Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Compel ent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fc
<3-0 TO lIBLXj-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frgd. Hagerj, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stkipe
Mattalas'sh aiid other UnhmkinkAßiiE Shirts
are highly recommended.
<l3/- per Unlj-dozen, free by post throuyhout
A ustrnlin.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. .Illustrated
catijiloyiie with.4B samples
and 3 fine i cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State vyishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, SpC. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France
Chamberlain’s Tablets, which are perfectly
harmless, gently stimulate the liver and bowels,to
expel poisonous matter, cleanse the system, and
absolutely cure constipation and sick headache.
Sold.everywhere at Is. (Id.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
' able prices. '
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney {opp. Hunter St.).
Also at M KI.BOI'KNK. ■ .
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE COPY.
We cannot escape from the fact that we are
moulded by the customs, traditions and literature of that
magnificent little island far away across the seas. (Ap-
plause.).—Federal Attorney-General Groom at St. George
celebrations.
The rnouldiny process illustrated.
Danyell O’Connor lias urged the United
States not to be frightened of Japan, because Aus-
tralia will stand by in case of trouble ; and we
notice a marked stiffening since in the American
attitude towards Kokimoki, aged 18, who wants
to sit among the little white school girls in Cali-
fornia to be taught English.
“Why can’t he give the Imperial Mint
some of the Government land on The Rocks?
i here s enough space for a dozen mints there. I
don’t know what’s coming over him lately. He
seems to have gone completely off his head. The
sooner he undergoes a process of intellectual
adjustment the better for Sydney and the
people here.”—E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., on
Premier Carruthers, at the Sydney Town Hall
mectinr/ of protest ayainst the proposed Observatory
Site Vandalism.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers lately ex-
plained that his Government often bought 2000
or 3000 copies of a paper for distribution in Eng-
land through the Agent-General, but that the
paper was always examined first, and if it was
found to contain adverse criticisms upon the
Carruthers Government there was no purchase.
The Bulletin here lays its hand on its heart and
other vital organs, and takes its solemn oath that
it has no recollection of ever selling 2000 or 3000
copies to the Carruthers Government.
Another of the alleged wrongs of N.S.W.
has burst up. A month or two ago the S.M.
Herald and Telegraph almost seceded from the
Commonwealth because, though a Melbourne
paper was filed at the Federal offices in London,
there were no Sydney papers there. Joseph Car-
ruthers professed to have got a letter from London
with the painful news, and he passed it on, and
“Victorian domination” was again alluded to
with great bitterness. Now the Federal Agent
in London replies that the S.M. Herald has
always been filed at the Commonwealth offices,
and that Joseph’s informant is the usual parish
liar.
A year or so ago a smoke like that of a great
sacrifice rose from the Australian Foreign-trade
newspapers, as they raved about the alleged
unanimous disapproval aroused by the Federal
Commerce Act in England. Now cablegrams
like these wander in, and the S.M. Herald and
’Graph, and the Melbourne Argus and the Bris-
bane Waily Tale publish them gloomily without
comment: —
THE COMMERCE ACT.
APPRECIATION IN LONDON.
LONDON, April 25.
Leather importers have informed Mr. William Lyne
that strict enforcement of the Commerce Act regulations
respecting undue loading of leather with sugar and
glucose will produce an excellent effect on the Australian
leather trade. The Customs authorities recently dis-
covered that American samples were loaded to the extent
of °5 per cent.
Butter importers have assured Mr. William Lyne that
they highly approve of his grading regulations.
So Bill Lyne, like many another prophet, finds
honor outside his own country.
THE WORKERS' FRIEND.
Mr. Prendergast again threatens the producers of the
State with a land-tax It is a pity to find that a La or
leader, representing a constituency of artisans, uses the
opportunity to make a speech full of hostility towards
those whose industry is concerned with the production of
wealth directly from the land.— Melbourne Argus on the
Eight Hours’ celebrations.
Big Landlord : “ Stand back , you villain!
Would yer be so wicked as to attack us ’onest
’ard-working men like yourself?”
“ Cecil P.” : You offer (B. 25/4/’O7) a prize
of 3s. 6d. for “coherent explanation” of the
moan of one Clarke, over the capital site. Here
y’are : Clarke’s an ass. Is that coherent ? Please
send that 3s. 6d. by next mail, as the slate’s full
—and I’m not. Further, if Clarke and his kidney
really wish to give N.S.W. a Capital Sight, why
don’t they go and hang themselves?
These Jap. visitors really ought to arrange
to chatter the same yarn. While their warship
officers were telling Maoriland that their people
loved Japan so much that they couldn’t think of
leaving it, and that there was plenty of room
there anyhow, Nakamura, who represents a syndi-
cate of Tokio newspapers, was saying—
Japan had the problem of a surplus population to con-
sider, for she had no spare territory. . . . South America
appeared to him to present a favorable field for settle-
ment.
S. America—while handy Northern Australia is
gaping for the surplus Monkey that the official
Monkey says doesn’t exist? Not much !
Big John Forrest gives an emphatic reply
to the cheeky little half-dozen provineialists who
demand that the N.S.W. State Legislature should
select the site for the capital of all Australia—
this despite that clause in the Constitution which
begins “ The Seat of Government of the Com-
monwealth shall be determined by The Parlia-
ment,.” There is nothing in the Constitution, says
Big John, to give the power demanded. The Con-
ference of Premiers never suggested that the
N.S.W. State Legislature should have any voice
at all in the matter. The idea was never mooted
until Joey Carruthers came on the scene. And
Big John reckons he hasn’t any time for Small Joe.
A HORRIBLE REFLECTION.
James Mackay, speaking on behalf of the India Office,
explained i hat it was impossible to consider legislation
excluding Lascars from the British mercantile marine.
That would prove a great reflection upon hundreds of
millions of loyal, sober, and industrious British subjects.
—Tklkgraph.
A glaring scandal of Sydney local mis-
government is in regard to water and sewerage
services. Not only is it a fact that Sydney isn’t
allowed to control those essentially municipal
matters, but the management of them is divided
between two bodies—the Water and Sewerage
Board and the Department of Works —which
wrangle unceasingly. Just now, there is a fair
prospect of the whole of Sydney’s water supply
being poisoned by a mass of rotten vegetation,
which the Department of Works won’t remove
and the Water Board hasn’t power to remove.
What is the use of the benign Federal Com-
merce Act insisting that imported hall-marked
jewellery must be up to description, that woollens
must be woollen, flannel must be
flannel, and silk be silk, when such
precautions are restricted to deal-
ings with the wholesale houses?
The goods can still be retailed
under any old name to an unsus-
pecting public. What is required
is State demanding
that all goods, when displayed for
sale, should bear the description
and explanation insisted on by the
Commerce Act on their passage
through the Customs. What is
wanted more than this is a law
which would require every State
Parliament to pass, within a reason-
able time, any legislation that is
necessary as a corollary to any
legislation passed by the Austra-
lian Parliament. Failing such
action within a reasonable time,
the Australian Parliament should
have the power to make the law.
binding on the recalcitrant State.
This recognition of the duty of
the people to carry out in their State capacity
that which they had agreed upon in their Federal
capacity, would be queit sufficient to make the
State Frights party freeze with horror.
J. Bull’s hostility to the Channel tunnel is
one of the finest evidences of unthinking, blind
British conservatism that could be imagined.
Founded ostensibly on a fear of French invasion,
it is really nothing but a pig-like objection to go
the road that intelligence suggests, simply because
the road happens to be new. From the stand-
point of British defence against a possible French
invasion, the Channel tunnel would be one of the
best means possible to devise. With modern
appliances, the orifice could be so arranged that it
might be flooded at any moment by pressing a
button in Windsor Castle ; and then the destruc-
tion of the Pharaoh’s hosts in the Red Sea
wouldn’t be a circumstance to what would happen
to the Gallic invaders. The Channel tunnel is a
necessity which is as certain to arrive as were the
steamships which the clergy of England originally
cursed from the altar as inventions of the devil.
If the S.M. Herald report is accurate,
Carruthers, of 'N.S.W., has been at his old game
of misrepresenting Australian legislation :
In replying to the request of a deputation from the
Immigration League yesterday, the Premier (Mr. Car-
ruthers) made some references to the policy of a White
Australia. He said : “The immigration question is full
of nerves. The people have declared that they do not
desire that we should have a certain class of immigrants.
They do not allow colored immigration. They do not
allow’ the entrance of immigrants who cannot write out
certain words or a text at dictation. All through our
legislation we have been aiming at the restriction of
immigration.”
It may be worth while to remind Joe that when
he says the people “ do not allow the entrance of
immigrants who cannot write out certain words
or a text at dictation,” he is telling a flat untruth.
Out of between 40,000 and 50,000arrivalsin a recent
year, less than 150 were asked if they could
“ write out certain words,” &c. And the people
never declared that they wanted the education
test at all; they simply wanted to shut out colored
immigrants, but the British Government declined
to allow that, and forced them to take this cir-
cuitous way of excluding the undesirable nigger.
In this respect the Federal Act is built on
exactly the lines of the N.S.W. State law, passed
in 1898 by Carruthers and Reid. Apparently
Joseph doesn’t recognise his own l&w„or know that
it is his own law, adopted by the Commonwealth,
at which he is scoffing. Joseph makes such a
practice of objecting to everything Federal that
if he were adopted by the Commonwealth he
would probably bite himself from sheer force of
habit before he remembered that it was-himself.
It would be a practical bit of “thinking
Imperially” if the British Government acceded,
to, Deakin’s request, and ordered that naval
ammunition stores for the British ships itr the
Pacific should be replenished in Australia. That
would create Australian ordnance and ammu-
nition factories; and if any British ships are
really going to be about in these waters in case of
war they’ll need local supplies of war material.
' Of course, if the Australian squadron is to bolt at
the tirst sign of war the position will be different.
The S.M. Hekald toils hard to keep its
tin-god Johnson in the public eye. Witness this
last Monday
Mr. Johnson spoke with ease, and while he did not sav
much that could be gripped as a declaration of policy, he
evinced a thoughtful grasp of the railway problems with
which he had already been confronted. Perhaps the
best indication of his recognition that the railways of the
State are to a great measure its developing highways was
afforded when he mentioned that he appreciated the fact
that in th,e vast plains of the backblocks the railways
were, regarded as being necessary for the development of
the State, v * j
For a good, thick-set platitude with a short neck
and a bald head that is about a record.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Johnson
gave the Newcastle people small comfort re their
complaint that, owing to the specially cheap rates
on goods consigned to Sydney from the northern
stations, nearly everything for export was uselessly
carried 100 miles past the port of Newcastle to the
metropolis—-it being actually cheaper to do this
needless haulage. Johnson’s answer was that it
was done thait way in England, and as centralisa-
tion was what he was used to, he .didn’t see what
alteration he could suggest. Johnson apparently
intends to adopt the same regulations to keep
the N.S.W. railways clear of snow as he has been
used to in England.
This is an extract from a letter written by
Joseph Carruthers to the British _ Government
when the State Premiers weren’t invited to the
Imperial Conference in London :
The action of the Imperial Government is tending to
force the States more and more to regard less the ties and
connections with the Motherland, and more the bonds of
Federation.
Apparently Carruthers (whose composition is
pretty bad) didn’t drop to the fact that that is
exactly what Britain desires. There is a gradation
in these things. For instance, the_ little popula-
tion at Bourke meat works siding is expected to
hang on officially to Bourke electorate, and the
electorate hangs on to N-S.W., and N.S.W. hangs
on to the Commonwealth, and the Commonwealth,
through Alfred Deakin, officially assures Britain
that separation from the empire isn’t contem-
plated at present. The British Government likes
to hear that Australia is loyal, but it wants the
loyalty to come to hand in one large package
instead of in thousands of small ones. It no more
wants to hear separately from J. Carruthers or
T. Price or J. Evans than it wants to hear from
Bourke meat works siding. It hasn’t the time.
It is anxious that the whole coach should arrive
safely, not that a lot of detached wheels
and bolts and boards called Carruthers or Price or
Moore should turn up separately.
On April 7th, 35 years ago, the Cerberus
arrived in Port Phillip Bay. It was one of the
first tutret ships ever built, and cost £125,000.
The Federal Monitor, which was of the turret
class, had beaten the bigger and stronger Con-
federate Merrimae during the American Civil
War ; and that was why the Cerberus came to be
built in that fashion. Away back in that com-
paratively early day it was welcomed as the
nucleus of a Victorian navy —and
that is as far as the matter has
got to this day. Even the
most willing admiral wouldn’t
dream of tackling anything
bigger than a fishing smack
with it now, and it might
almost as well be sold for
a dredge.
THE LONG AND THE SHORT.
What I think would increase the shnse of British re-
lationship would be to have 200 or 300 British troops out
here. I have always regretted the withdrawal of British
troops fropi Australia. I don’t say that they should be
here for defensive purposes. But, just as you like to see
the uniform of the Jack Tar in our streets, so would you
like to see the uniform of the British soldier.— The for-
gotten Reid.
Political Joker : “ Ha/ ha! Splendid / And
the nation will have to pay for it.”
In repatriating Australians from S’Africa,
it is said that “ great care will have to be exer-
cised ” to see that only genuine Australians have
their passages paid. The question of nationality
ought to be easily determined by asking every
applicant to swear. If the seedy one remarks:
“The blanky place isn’t blanky well fit for a
bl,inky white man,” then Mr. Redtape will know
that he is a true Australian, and will send him
home rejoicing.
WHEN THE PEOPLE START TO THINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis a dream, I know, and distant;
But the brain with blows persistent
Hammers out its chain of reason inch by inch and link by
link ;
Down the years that stretch before us
Rings this everlasting chorus
There will he a mighty earthquake when the people start
to think !
Fat will gasp and Fat will splutter—
Fat will faint in frenzy utter, ,
\nd be carried on a shutter to the man who poundeth
pills ;
There will be a sound of gnashing,
And expensive grinders clashing
iVill proclaim the Tory splashing through a sea of tragic
ills 1
And the Argus editor, he—
All divested of his glory—
Will weep out the office-window mingled tears and
printer’s ink !
There will be a sound of wailing,
Yea, the sub. will set to baling—
When the unexpected happens and the people start to
think!
Half a thousand politicians
Will evacuate positions
Where to-day their jaws are wagging at Australia’s sad
expense;
There will be a heap of silence
Stretching many a blessed mile hence,
And the lost, forgotten speeches will blow over Sheol’s
fence;
From the ranks of Absentee-dom
There will rise a howl for freedom
When the people firmly lead ’em to their long-neglected
Home; »
Yea, the injured, bleating squatter
Will inform creation what a
Dreadful land this is, and hotter than Jehannum’s
blackened dome!
What a chorussing of curses—
What a frantic dance of Purses
When the distant Stinking Fishers stand upon Taxation’s
brink 1
Tears will trickle through the cable,
Fat will bellow like old Babel
Ho 1 the Hempire will be busted when the People start
to think !
Not to-day nor yet to-morrow
Shall we see these scenes of sorrow—
Tis a vision of the future spied across the wrack of years ;
We are busy at the wicket —
We are playing golf and cricket,
And it matters very little how Australia’s captain steers I
We are all so busy drinking
That we have no time for thinking ;
And, besides, We’re mostly winking at some other fellow’s
wife.
Let us waste another year, then.
Let us drink another beer, then —
Let us hug another dear, then, ere we start to raise hot
strife !
Fat will gasp, we know, and splutter
When some earnest thoughts we utter ;
But we’re busy, just at present, fixing up our skating
rink ;
He need fear no cataclysm, *
No immediate sack or schism,
For a lot of time will travel ere the People Start to
THINK l
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


TALKING MACHINES
-sr 1 '
T^SSii-wSs
. ■'•
Our StocK of TalKing' Machines comprises—
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS,
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES
and GRAMOPHONES
In Both DISC and CYLINDER Systems.
We sell TALKING MACHINES at all prices from 12/6
to £4O, and, should it not be convenient to pay all
cash, give you easy terms* Write for particulars*
CATALOGUES FREE*
RECORDS* —We hold over 25,000 Records in Stock
and receive fresh supplies monthly. We have all
the best Records: Melba, Parkina, Caruso, Sarasate,
Kubelic, Crossley, Andrew Black, Besses o* th' Barn
Band, Coldstream Guards, &c.
WRITE FOR LATEST LISTS POST FREE.
W. H. PALING <& CO.,
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
338 GEORGE ST.
Ltd.,
.SYDNEY
m
w
m
V
i
K
■it
f
Wm.
:
■
FOR over Fifty . Years the name
“ALCOCK” has been closely
associated with Billiards in every part
of Australasia, until to-day the name is
everywhere recognised as being synony-
mous with all that is excellent and high
in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have al-
ways won prizes wherever exhibited,
and at the New Zealand Exhibition this
year they secured the SPECIAL
AWARD and TWO GOLD
MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Catalogue of
Billiard and other Sporting Requisites.
SYDNEY : 422 GEORGE ST.
MELBOURNE : iss Elizabeth st.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is.
Packet of Ten 1 ... ... 10d.
“Yours and
99
(Old Scotch)
is THE WHISKY of the DAY.
The DEMAND for it is POSITIVELY
PHENOMENAL. Pore, Wholesome, of
agreeable Aroma, and gratifying to the
Palate, it is a Perfect Tonic Stimulant.
Mine
Always Call for “YOURS (SL MINE.”
Beck’s
Raiser Lager
has won THE ONLY GOLD MEDAL
at the New Zealand Exhibition. .
Eight, Stimulating, and Refreshing. Absolutely
Pure, of GUARANTEED EXCELLENCE, and un-
questionably THE MOST POPULAR LAGER ON
THE MARKET.
" A: " . 1 ,.: •? j • ■ •; ‘
SOLE AGENTS:
LOHMANN (EX CO..
7-9 Bridge St. # Sydney.
Representative for N. S. Wales - JOHN RANKIN.


GOOD LIQUEUR.
HERRING'S
CHERRY BRANDY
IS THE BEST.
Don’t trifle with coughs and colds. All serious throat
and lung troubles start from simple colds. Don’t trifle
with unreliable remedies—Senior’s Black Currant Balsam
is the proper remedy. It’s Nature’s remedy for these
complaints. It does not drug a cough into sil nee as
narcotic remedies do ; it stops the cough by removing the
cause of the cough. You certainly want coughs cured in
that way. It is pleasant to take; it is equally good for
children or adults. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is.
6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
“ Goutez et Comparez. ”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
3
mettes”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
UsK
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 30, 1907.
My Dear Arint,
The Connaughts, duke, duchess and Patricia,
did not board the Marmora at Colombo as was
intended. It was an awful shock to many pas-
sengers who had seriously inconvenienced them-
selves to travel by that boat on that trip. But
there was balm in Aden. The ducal party, fol-
lowed by a Shining Tail, came aboard there. Mr.
Deakin was sent for, and, after a chat with
H.R.H., Mrs. Deakin was invited to add her pre-
sence to those already in the Royal lair. Artful
Mrs. Deakin got a promise of needlework from
the Duchess, and from the Princess some water-
colors of her very own brushing for the forth-
coming Exhibition of Women’s Work. A bunch
of other Australians were also presented to the
Prince, and when at Suez the three Somebodies
and their Tail left the vessel to go to Cairo the
Australians’ cheer was the loudest.
One of Beatrice Harraden’s books dealt with
the motive of mind-poisoning. It is a little-used
subject in fiction, but in everyday life mind-
poisoning is the usual occupation of some persons.
If you are hard up for something to do, and
have a taste for Sherlock Holmesing scandal
back to its source, the result should make in-
teresting.reading. There is in Sydney scarcely a
girl or a woman who has any pretensions to youth
and smartness in dressing, or who is successful in
any direction, whose reputation isn’t shredded by
her worst friends and by others who, perhaps,
know her only by sight. Recently, one woman
was telling another whose mind would not take
poison, no matter how well-mixed, that a certain
Sydney belle used to go down every evening to
the caves at Bondi to meet a certain lady-killer
(names given in full). “ There are no caves at
Bondi,” said the unbeliever. “ O there must
be,” persisted the poisoner. “ Her own cousin
said she went to the caves to meet him.” Probably
“ her cousin ” said no such thing, but the talker
was out for dramatic effect, and a lie more or less
didn’t matter. One of a pair of recent brides was,
according to a group of her acquaintances, mar-
ried solely through pique because, if she didn’t
marry then, her younger sister would be a Mrs.
before her. The girl’s disposition towards the
man she married was only something short of
idolatry.
The desire to seem to be in the know—the
innermost know—is a mania with some women.
They were talking of a certain handsome chorus-
girl (she isn’t in Sydney now), and one woman, who
wouldn’t confess ignorance about the private life of
anyone in the Commonwealth, said off-bandedly:
“Mr. Bigwool pays her drapers’ bills.” Immediate
sensation, for Mr. Bigwool isn’t a bit that sort—at
least not now. An incredulous one asked, “But
how can anyone know that? Even if he did, he
would cover his tracks so well.” “ Well,” replied
the all-knowing, with an air of authority, “ I got
it straight from the cheque department at Absa-
lom Smith’s. Seventy pounds was the last bill he
paid.” The cheque department (whatever that
may be) of a reputable firm is hardly likely to
commit the shocking folljr of giving away the
concerns of customers the size of Bigwool to out-
siders ; but the majority of the listeners swallowed
the lie. The romance-weaving of “ the missing
girl”—she who came to Sydney from Victoria,
and accused herself of being 23 when she was but
15, and said she was on the stage and in the ballet—
makes one sympathetic. In that case, the romancer
probably got sick of the want of view from
her house in a Melbourne suburb. She yearned
for something different from the picture of over
the way, so she came to Sydney, and out of her
childish imagination she told little foxes. But her
kind isn’t in the same category with the stupid,
jealous mind-poisoners.
On Saturday the University undergraduates
gave their usual annual exhibition of fool, goat,
and monkey. One brutal batch of processionists
ought to be prosecuted for their treatment of the
wretched dogs and cats that were used in comic (?)
illustration of Sinclair’s book, “The-Jungle.” To
the “ fooling ” part of the commemoration no one
objects so very much. It shows that the per-
formers ought to be in an asylum, but one can
hope that it will be a comfortable asylum. The
playing on tin trumpets and the wearing of asses’
ears may amuse players and wearers, and though
the trumpet is discordant the ears are in perfect
harmony. But how one longs to hat-pin the exas-
perating fresh idiot when he shouts out “Yah”
just as a speaker is about to close his sentence
with something worth hearing. At Saturday’s
ceremonial in the Town Hall Premier Car-
ruthers and other speakers were s ‘ yah ”-ed by the
yahoos from the moment they rose to speak.
“Yah’’denotes intellectual bankruptcy. If the
yahoo had something witty to interject his rude-
ness would have a saving grace.
A large quantity of University girl wan _a
hand. It’s no uncommon thing to hear the man
in the street and the woman in the parlor say
“ the girl graduate is mostly very plain.” On the
same principle they say “the woman writer is a
fright.” Saturday’s display of capped and gowned
women ran to good looks—complexion and hair
inclusive. The academic dress is horribly trying,
but take 80 per cent, of the Uni. damsels, d ress them
coquettishly, and wave their hair, and perhaps
brighten and lighten it ever so slightly, and curl
it where a curl will make for effect, and put a much
kinked hat at the correct angle on the polished
and now artificial-looking coiffure, and the 80 will
outshine the same number of what is called
“society” girls—girls who never did any study
worth the name, but who are working really hard
to acquire and keep up their reputation for smart-
ness and good looks. And they’ll fade more
quickly than the Uni. girl, because throwing the
lassoo at every eligible man and missing him is
very trying to the nerves. Besides, unworked
brains make for prematurely old faces. As for
the women-writers, the few I’ve seen either were
or are very good-looking. Mrs. Craigie was
handsome. Ada Cambridge was, I am told,
very pretty. Flora Shaw is so still. Mrs.
Murray-Prior used to be a beauty. Louise Mack
and Ethel Turner are very pretty little birds.
The only two departments of women’s work
[work, mind you) in which a generalisation as to
beauty would be fair are the stage and the malt
and spirituous bar. Many actresses are gifted in
other directions than their work. Probably so
are many barmaids. Anyhow, both have a mighty
good chance of marrying into the squattage and
peerage. More chances than have the Uni. girl
or the woman writer.
Mention of Ethel Turner reminds me that the
Ethel Turner who sent me the tram and boat
notes in last week’s Letter is not to be confused
with the storyist Ethel Turner, who is still in
Sydney. Also, she has whooping cough just now.
At the ’Varsity Commem. his Excellency, draw-
ing attention to Australia’s vast territory and
small population, stated solemnly: “Now, it’s
very evident what every boy and every man
ought to prepare himself to do.” The girl
graduates at once assumed that these boys and
men ought to marry and bring up families, and
proceeded to blush beautifully. “You may ask
how shall we do it ? ” pursued the State Gov., his
words half-drowned by frantic applause. And
then it turned out that he only wanted the boys
and men to learn how to handle a rifle, and things
were flatter than a pancake.
After the false noses and fibre beards and
penny-whistling of the University freshmen’s
demonstration on Saturday, the sight of Alice the
Elephant crossing George-street was like looking
at Dignity materialized. She stood at the top of
Hunter-street waiting while a policeman took out
a summons against her for travelling in the city
by daylight. Calm, grand and self-possessed she
stood fanning herself slowly with her ears, and as
seemingly unconscious of the long string of lorries
she was drawing as of the city horses who, at
sight of her, rose and walked on the toes of their
hind feet and clawed at the top storeys with their
fore paws. Alice had six summonses issued
against her on the journey from Wonderland to
Lime-street Wharf en route to Brisbane. Every
bobby whose beat she trod took down her
name and address for hostile purposes.
Maie Saqui, the handsome comic opera girl,
once well know'll in Australia, has recently died,
in London, of cancer. So says a private letter.
Some few years ago she made what is known as “ a
brilliant match,” with a Guardsman belonging
to a Lordly or Early family.
Rose Musgrove left the Mongolia, at Colombo,
where she will stop for a few weeks. Then she
comes on here.
Mabelle Morgan, a Melbourne girl, formerly
with George Stephenson’s co. and Williamson’s
Royal Comics, take.s Elorence Young’s part of
principal boy in “Mother Goose” when that
edible bird goes on tour. Florence returns to
the old company for “ The Spring Chicken.”
Lady Plunket, wife of Maoriland’s Governor,
has been gazetted Honorary Colonel of Canter-
bury Volunteer Rifles. Tliat’s an inducement
for the lady to return from England, where she
recently achieved a sixth or seventh young
Plunket.
When the mail left Johannesburg an Australian
association was putting the finishing touches on
itself, and the public was trying to get over its
amazement at discovering how many prominent
and highly respectable Randites are Australians.
Johannesburg had got a vague impression that all
respectable people were Hebrew capitalists from
Germany.
Two yachts, lying in Sirius Cove and Farm
Cove respectively, are objects of steady gaze this
joyous weather. The first is only a tramp craft
renovated, but it has the beautiful and mysterious-
looking runaway lady on board. The other is
the Adele, that brought Governor le Hunte
from Adelaide. The Adele is a jewel of a craft
built for an Adelaide squatter man named
Dutton. She is white and has a yellow funnel
and two masts, and all the papers call her
“rakish-looking” and “beautiful.” If she had
two funnels and one mast she would be quite a
Bacchanal circumstance, and demoralizing to the
men-o’-war lying near her.
A curious, white canoe about 50ft. long, with a
long Roman nose at either end and two strange
erections like the dorsal fin of a shark, has been
lying on supports on Flood’s Wharf for the past
week. Ferry travellers have speculated consider-
ably as to its whatness and whyness, and the
hidden wherefore of it. It is a New Guinea war
canoe, and is intended for a museum in Sweden.
Mr. Wahlen, its owner, is in Sydney at present,
the guest of Count Morner. He owns a hundred
islands—more or less, but people say a hundred
off-hand—that lie in the neighborhood of Papua,
and he has brought two woman-eaters (men)
down here with him. (I suppose cannibals eat
women.) This sounds a picturesque lie, but it’s
the gospel according to one of Mr. Wahlen’s
friends. What he does with the islands and what
lie’s going to do with the woman-eaters deponent
sayeth not. If any more girls are reported as miss-
ing—
Violinist Premyslav and Andrew Black are
going to be toted through Maoriland by Mr. H. N.
Southwell. They start concerting in bleak
Dunedin early in May—and very bleak indeed is
Dunedin in May, and very Scotch-misty. En-
thusiasm over the Polish boy has risen like a high
tide with a stiff gale behind it.
Why is Premyslav so commonly called Herr?
I understood he is to be looked upon as a hunted-
down-by-the-Russian-Government Pole; so, if
Pole—Pan. Pan in Polish doesn’t signify the
long-handed kitchen utensil, in which the deni-
zensofour alley s con vert beefsteak into indigestion.
Neither is it the Giddy Goat of ancient classic
groves—merely the equivalent of Mr. in English.
In Poland we meet Pan Brown, Pan Jones, Pan
Robinson. The feminine is Panni for a married
woman, and Panna for the unmarried. Pan,
Panni, Panna—it all pans out well enough.
Following on the discovery of the climbing sport
of the White Maman Cochet rose, mentioned
lately, comes the news that a Mr. E. Atkins, of
Drummoyne, has grown from seed a new crimson
rose that bids fair to help advertise Australia in
the rose-growing centres of the Old World. The
new comer is a rich dark crimson, with brighter
reflexes, and has a delightful perfume. I am
assured that anyone who has the patience to.
hybridise roses, and then watch over the young
seedlings for several years, deserves all the success
achieved when one or two out of 500 show signs of
novelty. The latest novelty is named after the
f rower’s daughter, and is a cross between Roger
lambelin, the quaint dark crimson with the white
edges, and Gruss an Teplitz, otherwise Teplitz’
Greeting.
Mrs. Harry Levy is back from her European
canter, Presentation at Court (Countess of Crewe
sponsored her), and raids on the foreign dress
artistes. She is, report says, an object lesson in
really, truly elegant frocking.
Mr. Woodford, High Commissioner of the
Western Pacific, is lying ill in Miss Walker’s
Hospital at North Sydney. Lady Northcote and
the Rawsons have called with sympathy and
flowers, so the patient ought to get better soon.
Besides it’s an awful pity to waste this golden
weather in bed.
Miss Zelma Aronson, only daughter of Mr.
Fred Aronson and Mrs. (who works like forty
beavers on women’s work exhibitions and charity
ball committees, and with a swift nib on paper),
is engaged to be married to Mr. Stuart Macphail,
of the firm of Sydney merchants of that name.
Miss Maud Jeffries, who recently wedded a
youthful member of the Osborne clan, leaves
shortly on a visit to America. The spouse re-
mains behind with the sheep.
Women will probably rush to “Brigadier
Gerard ”asif it were a bargain sale. It’s uni-
forms, uniforms and brave fighting men all the
time, except when a Fair Countess Circumstance
gives it a touch of softness and frou-frouness.
Seems that a bad cold accounted for Julius
Knight’s huskiness, but a lot of the audience
thought it “just splendid art.” An officer who
has lately been in action would naturally have a
lot of powder smoke and fumes down his
throat, to say> nothing of his voice being worn
to tatters with roaring out heroics like, “Charge
and break that square!” “Up, guards, and at
’em !” and “Dogs, do you want to live for ever!”—.
this last when his men wavered before a hail of
grape shot. Miss Marion Gray is the Countess
Roquelaure, very tall and willowy, and playing
her part of pawn on the Napoleonic chessboard
with a spiritual grace and dignity.
Her first costume is of maize satin with turquoise
blue embroideries, a Directoire coat of turquoise
blue velvet, brown fur and gold embroidery. When
she takes off the coat she puts on an Empire scarf
of blue gauze. The second dream is of white
satin embroidered with wreaths of silver leaves
and green gauze scarf, and green gauze was wound
into the curly, classic pile of red hair, with a
bird of paradise at the side. In the last act
again white satin, over which is a purple velvet
coat bordered with ermine, and a small velvet
and ermine hat with purple feather.
At first night of “Brigadier Gerard” Miss
Elbert-Orton, who came along with Mrs. Philip
Morton, sat in the stalls, and displayed to the
circle a most kissable triangular patch of back,
defined by straps of glittering black sequined
something. When on the stage, the lady’s back view
shows a long slender V, of roseleaf complexion—
real local color—extending to the waist-line. But
her Saturday’s frocking was built on small, pri-
vate-view lines, and there can’t be any hostile
opinion about her taste in frocking. The E-O.
stage clothes were made in Paris, instead of at
theusual stage dressmaker’s —Nathan’s, in London.
Miss Sylvia Bedford, a niece of Mrs. Monty
Severn, has gone to Melbourne to study at the
Conservatorium under Marshall Hall. She has
a voice that promises good things for the future.
Mrs. Plomley, daughter of the late Prof. Pell
and sister of Mrs. Norman Shelly, who wrote
“Enderby” and who wears frocks that are as
feasts, is back in Sydney.
Rev. Hew Severn (cousin of our Monty S.) has
picked his halo off the gum tree to which it and
his raft were moored on the Murray River, and
has put the golden decoration in his suit case
along with his parsonical blacks and front-to-back
collar, and has departed for Europe.
Don’t forget that the ball in aid of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital occurs on May 8, at the
Town Hall. A most worthy charity.
On Monday, at the Town Hall, there was held
a “practical suggestion” meeting, in connection
with the Exhibition of Women’s Work. Mayoress
Hughes convened the congress, and read a con-
cise account of the work up to date. Mrs. Hughes
has secured promises of exhibits from the Tech-
nical College and Blind Asylum. Mrs. James
Ashton suggested that the exhibits should be
shown in Sydney after their exploitation in Mel-
bourne, and everybody thought it an excellent
idea. The central committee will in future hold
meetings on the last Monday in every month at
three o’clock.
The “Lily of Killarney ” is blooming for a
season of three nights at Mosman Town Hall,
under the conductorship of Mr. A. H. Norman.
It is so all-round fine in its presentation that
conductor and principals will not be able to resist
the pressure (not that they are likely to resist) of
admiring audiences to give the opera a show in
the city itself. Miss Geraldine is the Colleen of
the piece, Miss Laurel Noakes is Anne Chute,
Mr. W. Beattie is Danny Mann, the hunchback.
It was the afternoon of a festival on board one
of our warships. Several persons were wait-
ing on the man-o’-war steps. Amongst them was
a large lady who, as a launch drew up, eyed it
suspiciously through an eye-glass mounted on a
stilt. “Is that Lady Snoker’s boat ?” she asked.
“No, mum,” replied the handyman; “it’s the
Powerful’s.” She got in, looking harpoons at
everyone, and seated herself. A sailor asked in
quiet desperation : “ Can you steer, mum ? ”
Her “Certainly no!” was like a hailstone the
size of a pair of boots. “Well, mum, ye’ll have
to change your seat.” And her rage was as the
rage Qf a caterpillar as she got out of the steers-
man’s way.
From my Brisbane correspondent :
The great Chelmsford fite is over, with a balance of
something like £l4OO in hand. Thursday was fair ; for
the first time in the history of the damp Chelmsford
regime a vice-regal function was not rained upon with a
great rain. The noble promoter, contrary to medical
orders, put in an appearance, and worked like a whole
drove of negresses right up till 10.30 p.m. It was a great
crowd—hundreds and thousands of it! The cheery
stream of city and suburban folk was eager to see a real
Governor and his lady play at being shopkeepers, and to
purchase a trifle from the Chelmsford army of blue and
white workers who peddled books, pictures, photos and
post-cards of their Exes, (duly autographed), and
souvenir magazines. Everyone who was even half of any-
body took a hand at the stalls. Mrs. Barlow sold plants ;
Mrs. Speaker Cowley drove a big trade in cakes ; Mrs. Cecil
Palmer bossed the produce; the Philp dame and abigbrood
of red and white girleens sold tea and edibles till they
couldn’t stand up and had yet forgotten in their haste how
to _ sit down ; Mrs. Hopkins and Miss Bedford bossed the
children’s parade; Mrs. Spencer Browne ran a caf6
chantant; Dames Kidston and Joey Bell coined money at a
knick-knack stall. Three of the prettiest sale-girls present
were Misses Gladys Pollard, F. Collins and dainty Del
Abercrombie.
It was 11 p.m. before the band and the lights went out,
and the tired vendors had added up their totals, and her
weary Ladyship retired, feeble but smiling to the last.
Her frail husband came out strong towards the close of
the day, and did no end of odd jobs all over the place,
and ran on little errands like the duplicate kings of
Barataria.
Altogether, in one way and another, the hungry hos-
pital will benefit by some £2750, and this will enable the
committee to fix up a decent sanitary system and a mor-
tuarv-room, repair the operating theatre, and generally
smarten up the gloomy old place.
On Saturday the vice-regal party embarked on board
the official yacht Lucinda, en route for the Barrier Reef,
the Whitsunday and Hinchinbrook Passages, and all the
gorgeous tropical scenery of the north. His Ex. goes
inland to the mining country.
Bluff John and Mrs. Forrest had a smart and exclusive
party to tea, at the Queensland Club, on Thursday after-
noon—Lady Chelmsford, Miss Darley, the W. and R. M.
Collins clans, also some Newtons and Macgregors were
among the bidden.
A dark rumor of internal troubles in the local catmit-
tee of the Exhibition of Women’s Work is being whispered
abroad. So far, the only details I can gather are that our
Governoress disapproves of money prizes at the local pre-
liminary show, and, in her usual managing way, simply
refused to put a proposal in favor of such prizes to the
meeting. When her Ex. is in the chair the meeting
doesn’t get a chance to vote for anything that she seri-
ously disapproves of. She simply refuses to put the
motion, and disqualifies the meeting. Some stunned
ladies, who don’t know exactly how the thing was done,
because it was done so suddenly, propose to move further
if they can find out how to do it.
May 30th will see the reopening of the private assembly
balls. Profiting by past experiences, the fair promoters
hope to have a larger spread of mere man this time. Man
is a shy animal, but some promoters who are swift on
their feet and sudden off the mark reckon they can run
him down.
Yours Affectionately, Akenehi.
S. Australia is soon to lose its ancient
Auditor-General, Ebenezer Cooke, who prepares
to retire. Nearly 50 years ago he began to wade
among S. Australian figures in the service of the
English and Australian Copper Co. —a vast con-
cern then or a little later—passing gradually up
from an office-stool to be boss of the concern; and
thence, after a spell in politics, they made him
Auditor 25 years ago. Ernest Cooke, one of the
first and most brilliant graduates of Adelaide
University, now Government Astronomer in
Westralia, is a son of his.
“ Priam ” writes :—-
The iniquitously high price of land in Victoria (due
chiefly to the aggregation of big estates in the hands of
men who will not sell except at extortionate rates) is
destroying the farming of that State in more ways than
one. The alarming “ exodus ”is entirely due to the price
per acre. But, in addition, the cost of the land or the
awful drag of huge rents (over 60s. an acre is charged in
the Western District) compel the farmer to offer mere
starvation wages to his hands. The result is that every
year there is a moan about the scarcity of farm labor. So
alarming is the situation that the other day Agricultural-
Director Cherry (seeking for facts and not arguments)
reported his belief that with the present supply of farm
labor Victoria has reached its limit of wheat production.
The Tory remedy is to shove cheap labor immigrants into
the country, and so enable the ruinous land monopoly to
be prolonged. That would mean ultimately the lowering
of wages for every section of the community. The true
remedy' is so obvious that nothing but the ignorance or funk
of politicians (together with the shameless self-interest of
the House of Landlords) could have delayed it so long. A
stiff graduated tax would mean cheaper land, with its
ownership more widely distributed, and for the farmer a
big enough margin of profit to allow him to pay decent
wages. Then the “sturdy farm laborers" whom Tory
papers cry for would pour into the country of their own
accord.
Complexion Charm . —Every child is by
Nature endowed with a skin as soft in texture and
fine in grain as the petals of a peach blossom, but
to retain it beyond the years of childhood, or tore-
gain it when lost, Nature must be assisted.
Valaze affords this aid. Valaze builds up the
tissues, refines the skin and gives the complexion
that fine grained softness and transparent charm
that makes a face beautiful to look upon. It
clears away every trace of Wrinkles, Crowsfeet,
Sallowness, Freckles and Tan, and gives again to
its user the smooth rose-petal skin that was hers
in childhood, Valaze is guaranteed not to en-
courage the growth of downy hair. It is simply
a Beauty Builder—building on Nature’s lines.
3s. 6d. and 6s. jar (containing three times as
much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap, as used by the famous
Court beauties of Russia and Vienna. Com-
pounded wholly from almonds and rare herbs.
Delightfully refreshing and makes the skin like
velvet. It should be used in place of other soaps
with Valaze. It is far choicer and lasts thrice as
long. 2s. cake, postage 3d.
Rusmo Hair Killer, a new preparation for
instantly removing superfluous hairs. Cannot
harm the most tender skin. Can be used at home,
leaving np after trace or blemish. 55., or posted
under cover ss. 3d.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure.
No matter how obstinate these distressing
blemishes have proved, this Russian cure will
dispel them. It makes the coarsest skin soft and
clear. 2s. 6d. box, posted 3s.
Valaze Massage Rollers, for plumping out
and reducing the flesh, so that Wrinkles, Double
Chins, Flabby Necks, Crowsfeet, and all like un-
lovely detractions are rolled away. Price, Bs. 6d.
each; small set, in case, 10s. 6d. ; set of two, in
case, 18s. 6d.; complete set of three, 255. Sold
by all chemists, or direct from Mlle. H.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*


roRTHSDAttcmG
SEASON
v^r
i ~
o
o
oj*
$ 45
■ a
V
On
m
o
r§ky<
/ Ae^^emekoA.
\ttlQfy J Os'Ss Cors£
]Hs*twf<> cUre*.
Ask For'OJi TUw^v:
Sfi tGAL APPOIt» t(At
TO His Majesty King Edward Vll.
r
k
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
UPTON'S CE7LON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (£L Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TW£ BEs?
Si
THEGEM
fIEG.O.
For Afoot
.. or..
Horseback
tocKinet
ORESS
£HIELDS
For
the
Ball
Room
kleinert*s
9he Gibson
*•» OCT M tSM
* Ht * *fNOlttd
DRESS SHIELDS. 1
Should Be Worn Cnrlrr
The Cored Cover.
*
No Straits Over The Arm
The Tapes IV* Below The Bad-
For
AH
Occasions
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 29, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Sweet Nell Stewart, looking rather wan and
particularly winsome, spends most of her time,
since her return to Melbourne, in Empire gowns
and a state of chaotic hurry. At close quarters
she presents the same-as-ever pretty picture of an
old-time ingenue —an ingenue with a halo of cop-
pery hair and keenly intelligent eyes.
“I’ve not had an instant’s leisure since I
landed,” she says. “Old friends, new ones, all
give me a glimpse of welcome faces, and ever so
much kindness. And yesterday I made one of
the ‘ Juliet ’ dresses for the night’s opera. I’m so
anxious that all the artistes should look their best.
I left my girlie at school in Lausanne —a convent.
In her last letter she says she’s grown immensely
since we parted. She promises to be much bigger
than I am. My arm’s nearly well; but my nerves
are jumpy—an operation without an anaesthetic
doesn’t tend to soothe them. But here in Aus-
tralia I feel immeasurably better.
“ What shall I play here? ‘Sweet Nell,’ per-
haps—though I’d love to do ‘ Rosalind.’ Mr.
Musgrove is uncertain about that; but I believe
I have quite a new reading of her—a true one.
In America I’m to play Portia, Juliet, Rosalind
and Ophelia—and oh ! I do pray it may be a real
success.
“Of America: The first thing that struck me
hard was the enterprise of the U.S.A. journalist.
She or he will accept no refusal, no compromise ;
but gets some sort of news, right there. Our first
night in ’Frisco, two or three of them—shes—
walked into my dressing-room while I was—well,
considerably undressed, and interviewed me until
I was back on the stage again.
“ You’d be surprised if you saw Carrie Moore
now. She’s altered and improved out of all
knowledge. Robert Courtneidge has been the
means of that, to a great extent. She’s sure of
success. There’s one notable detail in all the
Australians’ work—the way they use their voices.
Both in England and the States even the stars
speak very evenly—a little dully. But our people
intone so vivaciously, and often musically. There’s
some sunshine in their voices, and the English
begin to notice it. Personality as much as talent
makes for success nowadays. All the Australians
who have done well prove that—Oscar Asche,
Hilda Spong. Alice Crawford —they all have
something unique about them.”
A small country town is often favored by visits
from the wife of some one very high up in anti-
Judkins circles. She is affluent to the point of
financial bloatedness, and is aware of the fact.
“I’ll buy that,” has become a byword in that
village—so often does the wealthy visitor utter it
in the tone of one fully prepared to purchase the
earth. But some people don’t view the lady as
the cheerful joke she really is. She took a fancy
to a tea cloth in a house where she was visiting,
and said cheerily, “I’ll buy that; it’s pretty.” A
wrathful hostess implied that neither her house
furnishings nor her clothes were for sale, and
that if a lavish offer were made for the back
hair she was wearing she wouldn’t take it off in
her drawing-room on any account —not even on a
cash basis. A few days later the affluent lady
made a sudden cash offer for a very high-toned
country dame’s rare and cherished Persian cat.
The anger of that dame was such that she would
gladly have thrown a cheap sixpenny cat at the
maker of the offer, but she disguised her wrath,
and said coldly that Fluff was not on the market.
“Thrice blessed is he who gets his blow in
fust.” She was very pretty and very fair. Her
home was in a sea-suburb, and her name had a dash
of romance in it. Her usual plan of action had
a dash of romance in it also, and it didn’t seem to
tone down any after her marriage. Then, when
the husband was expected to make an official
announcement of his feelings in the matter, bang
came the suit for divorce—from the wife. Her
complaint shrieked, in a high key, about
“cruelty,” which is a wide-spreading term any-
how. Somebody has computed that there are 76
ways whereby a husband may be cruel to his
skirted mate without counting the one that
hurts the most, and is never mentioned in court —
the way of polite indifference. Also, without
reckoning the process adopted by the gentleman
who held his wife’s bare feet too close to the fire.
I’ve just happened on a girl who has been
tarrying awhile with certain vice-regalities. She
knew them very well in their own country, and
naturally enough thought she’d find them much
the same people out here. But, now, after an
instructive experience of “loyalty” as it is
practised in Australia, she wonders what can be
the feelings of our exalted Figureheads when they
have served their term and got back to England,
home, and comparative obscurity. She was
amazed to find the “royalty bob” being dealt
out to Mrs. Madden and the wives of our State
Governors. Only one person in Australia has
any right to the “royalty bob,” and that
favored mortal is Northcote himself. Then
there is the carriage business. Except on extra
State occasions, his Most Gracious always makes
way for the Queen to take her place first. Here
the dignity of the Crown must be maintained at
all costs, and his wife must meekly follow his Ex.
to the kerridge every time. It is understood to
be an Australian rule of procedure adapted to the
requirements of a local society which is always
remembering its Governor to keep him holy.
Rupert Clarke is off with great expectations on
a managerial mission for the Meynell and Gunn
combination. It’s just possible that this country
may see a realisation of his dreams. Observation
suggests that an entrepreneur of long experience
is often the last person to recognise true talent.
Rupert is at least an amateur at managerial
business.
Captain Fitzpatrick and his better half sail for
Japan, on Friday, in pursuit of novel delights.
Ihe ex-A.D.C. and his Titian-tinted mate have
been honeymooning quietly and lengthily at
W arrnambool with few frivolous interludes until
now.
A wedding-ring has succeeded in framing a
stage lady with an aureole of romantic scandal.
After she had endured a long period of elabor-
ately blameless loneliness, she commenced to
comprehend the eye of a twin-soul. They ex-
changed soul-winks. The only visible result of
this relaxation was some trifling gossip. Then,
the starlette’s lawful lord appeared. Had he
arrived two months earlier psychologists suggest
he might have retained his happiness. But the
two momentous moons had impressed his deficien-
cies upon the lady, and she let him see it. He
miserably departed.
Thefightingsecretaries of the Anti-Sosh leagues,
and the Supreme Court proceedings they’re in-
dulging in, provide a new interest for a lot of
highly respectable dames who don’t usually fre-
quent Law Courts. Plaintiff C. H. Chomley, of the
Cit.s’ Deform League, has a following of elected
politicians, and the sisters and cousins and aunts
of the A’Beckett and Chomley families constitute
an elegant petticoat element in his interest.
Defendant, Grace Watson of the Wimmen’s Tea
and Politics Ass., has the moral support and ap-
pro vingpresence of Janet Missus, Mrs. Staughton,
and many more frocky citoyennes. The atmos-
phere of the fusty court is permeated for the while
with a suggestion of tea and cake and pungent
perfumes, which disconcerts even the Bench —who
is sociable C.-J. Madden. Sec. Grace plays the
persecuted patriotess in a girlish gown of grey
with tittivations of galah pink, and Dowager
Clarke has intimated her view of the whole busi-
ness by means of a well-known confection of
mauve, purple, and cream, an unfamiliar toque,
and wreaths of red carnations.
The members of the opera company have made
a much-needed improvement in the art of make-
up. The new effect was markedly discernible in
Rosina (Miss Stoller), of “The Barber,” on
Thursday night. Miss Stoller, with her supple
body and rather large-featured face, was turned
into a perfect and dainty little Bosina, decked with
soft baby curls round her pink and white face and
with a most kissable mouth. If the stage-manager
would only insist on the man-principals wearing
less hideous wigs and something not so heavy in
face garniture, it would be an improvement.
Doubtless it is difficult to break the news to
gentlemen of such stage tonnage that their taste
in whiskers is rather assertive. Stage-manager
Greder, himself, is clever in make-up, as in all
other professional details.
Seeing-people-off has become such an addition
to the routine of the society girl’s life just now
that one of Melbourne’s maidens has indulged in a
special Farewelling frock—to add to the list of golf
suit, tennis rig-out, croquet fixings and motor dis-
guise. This “extra special ” has startling stripes of
navy and white, made pinafore fashion. It might
be called coon-like, only the girl is so pretty that
posteresque is a nearer term. Anyhow, it shouts
from the deck or the gangway while the scarlet
floral token of effect and affection is handed over
to the particular gadder of the week.
Songstress Beatrice Kelly and Mr. E. T. Toms
were tied up in holy bonds on Monday. Pic-
turesqueness was lent to the ceremony by the
fact that it took place at the twilit hour of 5 p.m.,
and by some little-heard marriage-music. The
rope of love and duty was knotted by Father
Hearne, S. J., at St. Ignatius’, Bichmond; and
consequent rejoicings transpired at a' city cafe.
Arthur Geary, a little-boomed (little-boomed is
the exact opposite of “ Tittell-bruned ”) Tas-
manian baritone, goes to America this month in
search of fame. The youth, who was a civil
servant in the Apple Isle, retired, on the advice
of his teacher, Maestro Llewellyn. Critical folk
speak well of him.
The huge M‘Mahon (of the prefix “Lady ”) is
back in Melbourne, striding her manly stride and
swinging her gamp with a cane-like swing.
Last week of “Parsifal’’quite a goodly number
of parsons rolled up to the Williamson invita-
tion. It was a free show to them. As they
filed out of the house with a beatific smile in their
uplifted eyes, one fancied that they must be in-
wardly remarking of Mr. J.C.W.—“The Lord
loveth the cheerful giver.”
The Ladies’ Home Industries Exhibition, a
three days’ show, was opened with much flutter
on Thursday. It is a little coy bud of the coming
big Women’s Industries Exhibition, and all the
Important were there in swarms. There was
some wonderful needlework and carving and a
hideous gallery of paintings that were labelled
“paintings in colored oils.”
The Greene Ball, postponed from its usual
Christmas date, twirled and swung with great
vigor on Wednesday night. It began at seven for
the sake of the kiddies, and went on till the baby
hours of morning for the entertainment of the
grown-ups—the gradations between being cut
very fine.
Two stars will presently flash in the William-
sonian firmament, if papa isn’t very careful. The
crowning grace of the postponed ball was the per-
formances of the two Evans girls. Father is a
legal light somewhere Brighton way—or is it the
Dandenong Road ? Girlies are sixteen and seven-
teen respectively, and prettier, with a very showy
prettiness, than anything you’d happen on in a
day’s walk. They are tall and slight, with no
bones showing, and with complexions like cream
velvet beginning to blush. Add to this manes of
rust-colored hair and good sets of features. Set
it all dancing in purple gauze, veiled with black
spangled net, in a measure called “The Spirit of
Night,” and you’ll find yourself sitting back and
thinking a lot of things. Anyway, nothing more
fetching has been done in Melbourne these many
days. There is nothing of the one-horse show
about the Evans girls.
Mrs. Yallange and Miss Ruby Madden, with
Colonel Campbell to carry the wraps, filled the
vice-regal bill at Mrs. Greene’s ball. In the
crowded house their reserved space was con-
spicuously vacant until very late. Just as their
carriage drove through “ Cloyne” gates, the horses
attached to the deputy vice-regal chariot were
very nearly electrocuted. An exposed wire, from
the lights at the gate, touched the metal of the
harness. The gee-gees dropped like stones, and
soon were plunging and struggling, pinned down
firmly by the current. A man ran to help the
coachman. He also was struck down with the
same complaint. Other passers-by came to the
rescue and hung on to the reins, but every bit of
metal was spitting out sparks like so many angry
cats in flames. Some wise-head at last turned out
the post-lights, and the disturbance sorted itself
out. No one—man, woman, or horse—was seri-
ously hurt.
Poor old Shakspeare (who is dead) had another
birthday celebration in Melbourne last week.
(They won’t let him rest in peace.) The bulwark
of the ceremony was Food, moistened with
draughts of wine to the memory of Divine
William deceased. The learned societies lunched
on William ; moreover, they even adapted him to
afternoon tea purposes. As for dining—well,
the Vienna Cafe hummed with sonorous voices
of solemn speechmakers, loaded to the muzzle
with quotations, and dinner was such a prolonged
business that the subsequent glorified “ meeting ”
in the Masonic Hall was very late. Una Bourne
played Beethoven’s Appassionata (Shakspeare’s
*' Tempest ” is supposed to have been the inspira-
tion of this work). Nellie Veitch declaimed
much Shakspeare. A particularly clever opera-
tress in some of the amateur stuff was
Evelyn Merrin, of the gorgeous auburn hair.
She acts with restraint, is graceful, and has a
good elocuting voice with much feeling in it.
Pastor Sugden’s daughter, who has much of
popper’s musical ability, did him proud on the
violin.
An enthusiastic glad-to-be-home Streeton goes
about with chin in the air, nosing out color in the
autumn-grey-misty Melbourne streets. The artist
and his brother Streeton are “baching” just now
with Prof. Spencer. The pictures make a fine
collection. The small red seal of “Sold” is
spreading round the exhibition like an epi-
demic. The purchases on the opening day
alone reached a sum of over £l2O0 —something
of a record for a one-man show in Australia.
Streeton goes back to London by-and-bye. His
British diggings are in Chelsea, dumped down in
the very heart of big names—Turner, Whistler,
Carlyle, Sir Thomas Moore, and the like. Streeton
describes himself with boon companions (turned
out of early-closing clubs) laden with cider bottles
working a way along the embankment to his
rooms. The pervading great names are so thick
that the bottled wayfarers lean up against them
as against a strong wind, and at some corners they
fight their way with difficulty through the accumu-
lated ghosts of the Immortals.
It is necessary to go very soon after daybreak
to get a thoroughly roomy view of Streeton’s
pictures, in spite of the very sizeable hall in
which they are on view. The show has become a
fashion, and a large and frilly crowd gathers
there every afternoon. Before one looks at the
paintings at all, the impression of the whole
“ setting ”is soft and very pleasing. The south
wall, from ceiling to floor, boasts a magnificent
Samoan hanging, of huge design and soft brown
tones. Pale hessian lines the other walls and
covers the huge, slanting screens, and a low,
dividing arm (cutting the room) holds small,
exquisite water-colors along its lengthy sides. On
Saturday this held huge bowls of violets on the
narrow top. The violets and the pale primrose of
the hessian background were pure poetry.
Some Melbourne girls have a club in embryo.
It promises fairly. It has an unpronouncable
name and does not yet possess club rooms, but it
has Hopes. Members are “Gallery girls” who
have given up regular dabbling in the turpentiny
tube and regular wearing of the paint-stained
pinafore, but in order to keep alight the sacred
fire of art they meet at each others’ studios in turn,
and solemnly confabulate. The last decision was
that they should each produce a complete design
for a book-binding. Some thirty or more girls
are hard at work evolving their best, and the
collection will be modestly shown later.
Honeymoons have been growing shorter and
shorter, and it now looks as if they are to be
dropped altogether. Saw two of last week’s
smartest brides gallivanting about town two or
three days after the frill and fluff of the cere-
mony. One descended, radiant-looking, in a
purple cloth tailor-made, from her carriage. She
was shopping ( already —after all those weeks of
frill buying !). The other was gaily tea-ing in
Paris Caf4; she wore a microscopic hat of scarlet
roses, and the aigrette thereon waved proudly
above the gushing heads of the girleens with her.
Hubby was lost to sight in each case.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide :
People are beginning to waken to the fact that it’s
time someone got up and started “the season.” The
University ball has decided to happen on May 30th, and
debutantes are b irig called for (the lowest or any tender
not necessarily accepted). The municipal spree waits
till July, when it can catch her Ex., and an admiral or two
to decorate the proceedings. These two functions are
rather wide apart, and as there are at present no other
proceedings of any size in view, the unregenerate might
remark that it is a long time between drinks.
Victor Nelson Hood, who formerly held the post of
guide to Governors in S. Australia, and who has since
been a voice of warning and instruction in the ear of the
Talbottle of Melbourne, disported himself hereabouts tor
a week or two, and has now betaken himself to Britain’s
isle. He will just measure the grass on his baronial acres,
have a look at the tombs of his ancestors, and say a kind
word to the old poley cow. Then he will guide the Vic-
torian Governor back across the great deep to the scene
of his labors.
The S.A.J.O. races at Morphettville, on the 20th, were
not exciting. Much of the frocky populace stayed away,
and the rest came out in its oldest raiment and with last
season’s poultry waving in its hat. Every woman in the
place is saving up her chiffon revelations for the Cup
meeting, just prior to which last year’s barnvard fowl
will dissolve, and last year’s frocks and frills will be con-
signed to oblivion and Mary Ann. At this time of year
the millinery landscape is a dun waste, with a population
of about one real frock to the square mile. At the races,
Mrs. Herbert Rymill’s dainty blue garment easily fled
ahead of all competitors. Most of the others were a pro-
cession of coats and skirts, skirts and coats ad infinitum.
Some well-meaning but terribly misguided being has
offered a prize of £5 for the best novel'of 100,000 words
sent in to the local Exhibition of Women’s Work. The
great literary effort is to deal with Temperance and the
Expansion of Women’s Work. Provided both these sub-
jects are crowded into one literary masterpiece (for £s—
—10 s. for the Temperance and £2 10s. for the Expansion
of Women’s Work) the writer has a free hand, and may
throw in crimes, mysteries and ghosts at his or her dis-
cretion. Only amateur writers are allowed to struggle
for the £5. Now did the misguided being think that
any professional writer was likely to dash into the job ?
TheG. M. Ansteys are back from Britain, where thev
have been dallying for a space. They possess a houseful
of beautiful curios at Glenelg, and have brought back a
few cart-loads more. Another just returned is Harold
Parks, the Tortise-town elocutionist, who has been act-
ing in London and elsewhere.
Adelaide is busy farewelling Miss Hannah Cohen who
goes to the old-gold West to be married on Mav 14
The maiden is popular in this State, and the right’-
hand of farewell that is held out to her has a teai.
stained handkerchief in the left-which is a statement
that I haven t time to sort out. Mrs. Cohen gave an
at home” at the Lyric Club-rooms, last week, and seve-
T en u fc al ? riBr in th eir best raiment
to felicitate the bride-to-be. Latter wore a gorgeouslv
embroidered frock over palest-pink silk, and a lovely
white be-plumed head-piece. Like all the Cohens’ enter-
tainments, the spree was a very joyous one.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


From The Manager
jk j*
We have endeavored to give in
The Lone Hand a fair sample of
typographical excellence. I am
not altogether satisfied with the
printing as yet, though honestly
I think it represents the best of
its class yet done in Australia.
But I shall not be satisfied until
The Lone Hand equals the best
American printing, and no ex-
pense will be spared to secure
that result. Meanwhile letter-
press and pictures are at any rate
clearly printed on sound paper ;
and they are such letterpress and
pictures as no other shilling
monthly in the world offers.
I am particularly anxious that
The Lone Hand should be free
from typographical blunders. To
help to secure this result, I have
arranged a system of tines—no,
not fines against employees : we’ll
fine ourselves. To the reader who
first sends in the most complete
list of typographic blunders I’ll
pay a fine of £lO ; to the first
reader pointing out any additional
blunder not on that first list, I’ll
pay <£l. Doesn’t matter how
much we have to pay out; there’s
the offer. Errors in advertising
matter will count as well as in read-
ing matter. I have made arrange-
ments so that every reader in
Australasia will have an equal
chance to have his or her letter
opened first. I hope this will
stimulate keen close reading: of The
Lone Hand, and will keep us on
guard against shoddy typography.
J*
The Lone Hand offers some
special prizes to contributors; for
example, £25 for a short story. See
the publication itself for particu-
lars. Forthefuturelpurposesome
special illustration features, and
it is important for that reason to
have some accurate gauge of cir-
culation. I don’t want a casual
circulation, a sale of 40,000 one
month and 80,000 another. I
want a steady host of friends,
minimum 50,000, who will want
The Lone Hand every month,
and who will make sure of getting
it by subscribing now, either
direct to the office or through the
nearest news agent. Subscrip-
tions date from any month. Buy
the first number, and if you like
it, show your appreciation by
subscribing.
THE LONE HAND
NOW READY.
ONE SHILLING,
b
;
'
as
'7*
r
? I
■HI
/
\ -**"*; —
PRICE
m
CONTENTS.
7 tv
-A Photographic Study
J. F. Archibald ( Frontispiece )
Wm. Bede Dalley - - - - -
Missionary Sleek—A Humorous Par" - - -
His Boy Jim —Story—(lllustrated h; ; .one! Lindsay)
Love Hath Wings —Story (T’ivs ~a'ted by D. 11, Souter) -
She Loved Him for Himself Alone— Verse
A Tragic Comedy— Story - - -
Playing-Cards
Two Triolets— Verse -
Blackmail— Humorous Drawing
The Lost Scoop— Story
The Grey Hour — Verse
Australian Poetry— A Review
Tired— Humorous Drawing
Thin Ice— Story
From Cremona to Cremorne
Poetas et Reges— Verse (with decorations by Norman Lindsay)
French Literature of To-Day -
Love in Death— Verse -
A Shepherd in the Bush -
The Sacred Place — Story -
The Wife-Beater — Story
The Fight— Humorous Drawing
The Genesis of THE BULLETIN
Sydney—The Cinderella of Cities-
. By W. Alacleod
By Frank Myers
. - By “Hop”
By G. B. Lancaster
By Henry Fletcher
By E . Dyson
- - v - By Ilenry Lawson
Written and Illustrated by George J. A. Boss
- - By Arthur If. Adams
- By G. W. Lambert
By Milton Macgregor
- - By Victor Daley
- By Arthur A. D. Bapldon
By Percy Spenye
- - - - - - ■ * - By Helen Jerome
- A Special Article Written and Illustrated by “ Hop "
By Hugh Mc Crae .
By Henri Verne
- By Dowell O' Reilly
By “Brother Charles"
By Louis Esson
- - By “ Hamer"
- By Norman Lindsay
- By J. F. A rchibald
(With Pictures by Lionel Lindsay)
By J. D. Fitzgerald
By C. A. Jeffries
A Hero of Babylon —Story
A Poet of the Streets -
An Empty Room— Verse ....
Prolific Australia —Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay
Wisdom of the Serpent —Story -
On a Breezy Day —Picture -
For the Public Good A Series of Exposures: (a) Wren and Llis Ruffians;
(b) Consumption “Cure” Fakes; (c) An Impudent Alcoholic Fraud
A Page of Curious Photos -
By Roderic Ouinn
By “ F.R. ”
By A. Conor-O'Brien
By J. Allan
Digest of the Month -
Editorial
The Paying Guest — A Humorous Page
A Famous French Manager
The Stage Kiss - -
The Australian Play -
Our Song-Birds in London -
Drama for the Deaf Man -
Exile—A Chalk Drawing
Meredith—Poet and Philosopher
Horace in Australia -
Modern Life Insurance
“Our” Pacific Ocean -
The Judicious Thief -
By B. E. Minns
- By Louis Blin
By Grace Palotta
By “ Stargazer "
r r By F. Rodway
- By Fumley Maurice
By George Collingridge
xxxiv
5
6
io
1.6
17
22
23
24
28
29-
32
33
35
40
42
45
46
48
50
52
53
56
61
65
66
67
79
81
82
95
96
97
100
101
103
104
105
106
107
108
110
111
”5
to 1.
From The Editor.
jt
The Lone Hand, which repre-
sents The Bulletin’s attempt to
give to Australian readers some-
thing which will fj]] the place of,
without blindly copying, the
British and American magazines,
is now on sale throughout the
Commonwealth. The first nuni
ber does not pretend to represent
perfection. It has already, in-
deed, taught many lessons for the
production of the second number,
which is now in the press, and
represents, I believe, a distinct
improvement on the first issue. It
cannot be expected that a new
publication of this kind should
“ find the range ” of public taste
all at once. Still, it comes for-
ward in no apologetic mood, claim-
ing to be well worth the shilling
which it will cost the public, and
confidently hoping to make 50,000
friends, whom it will keep as
friends for many years to come
The endeavor has been made in
The Lone Hand to sttike a key-
note of cheerfulness. There is a
good deal too much wail in Aus-
tralian literature—too much ghast-
ly drought story, too much insist-
ence on the “melancholy” of the
bush, too much timidity as to this
great Commonwealth's future.
The Lone Hand stands from the
first for a sturdy optimism. It
will see the sunlight of Australia,
and not the occasional shadows;
wonder at the marvellous prolific-
ness of the ordinary season rather
than shudder at the grave losses
of a rare drought; think of what
Australians can do rather than of
what they fail to do.
With a policy of cheerfulness
and a careful avoidance of dull
discussions, The Lone Hand will
only seek to justify its militant
name when it comes to deal with
frauds on the public health and
the public pocket. These will be
exposed mercilessly, not in the
spirit of yellow journalism, but
with direct home-thrusting evi-
dence to back every statement.
A White, Cheerful, and Healthy
Australia — that’s The Lone
Hand’s platform.
THE LONE HAND
NOW READY.
ONE SHILLING.
If you like the first number, make sure of getting the following issues
by SUBSCRIBING FOR A YEAR. POST FREE. TWELVE SHILLINGS.
j , . ' t • > ' • 1 > ■


ALL THE WORLD KNOWS
THAT
Biliousness is due to a disordered state of the liver and can
only be cured by restoring that organ to natural healthy
action. This MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP does, promptly and
thoroughly, because it acts directly on the liver, stomach
and bowels. That is why it always cures, not only biliousness,
but indigestion and constipation as well. Why not give this
great medicine a fair trial? You will not be disappointed.
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
“I was subject to bad bilious attacks and indigestion, with
all their attendant horrors. Acute headaches, constipation,
flatulence, fulness and oppression—l had them all. 1 was
hardly ever free from pain, and the many medicines 1 took
9° O( L 1 was very weak and ill when a friend advised
MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP I took the Pills too, and between
them they completely restored my health”—Mrs Alice Whyte.
~ Gore Street, Fitzroy, Victoria
4, Little
CURES
BILIOUSNESS
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and "At Home" Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the new “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no r other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the "Louis” Velveteen, and the "Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST PREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, Iod
Are not Ordinary Blankets.
They are made from soft,
fleecy White Australian wool
by White Australians. Weight
for weight in pure wool, they
are the warmest blankets you
can buy.
jfT?Jhlev.|sLes
Blankets
We claim that we can supply better
value in Blankets than any other
house in Australia. That’s a big
statement, but we believe it is a
true one. The “ YENNIF” is our own
registered brand; you’ll find the
" YENNIF" tag on every pair. Here
are seven qualities; send for our
list of others.
Quality A “Yennif.**
Snow White Blanket, with Red and Blue Borders.
Size 9 quarter, for Single Beds ... 54 x 76 inches, 8/11 pair
(This size only in the double blanket.) ! :
10 „ for Three-quarter Beds ... 66 x7B inches, 12/11 „
11 „ Double Beds ... ... 76 x9O „ 16/11 „
(These sizes divided into Single Blankets, and whipped with Wool.)
Quality B "Yennif.”
A very good Snow White Blanket, with Blue Border; divided into
Single Blankets, and whipped with Wool.
Size 9 quarter, for Single Beds ... ... 54 x7B inches, 11/9 pair
10 „ Three-quarter Beds ... 66 x7B „ 15/11 „
11 „ Double Beds ... ... 76 x9O „ 19/6 „
12 „ Extra Large Double Beds 84 x9O „ 22/9 „
Quality C “Yennif.”
An exceptionally soft, well-finished Blanket, with Pink Borders;
divided into Single Blankets, and whipped with Wool.
Size 9 quarter, for Single Beds , ... ... 56 xBO inches, 15/6 pair
1° „ Three-quarter Beds ;.. 68 xBO *„ 18/11 „
11 » Double Beds; ... ...• 78 x 92 „ 21/9 „
12 „ Extra Large Double Beds 86 x 100 „ 26/6 „
Quality H “Yennif.”
In Dark Grey only. In the Double Blankets ; not divided into
Singles.
Size 9 quarter, for Small Beds 65 x 54 inches, 7/6 pair
11 „ Double Beds 84 x 63 „ 12/11 „
Quality I “Yennif” BlanKet.
In Silver Grey, with Blue Borders. In Double Blankets ; not divided
into Singles.
Size 9 quarter, for Single Beds ... ... 54 x 76 inches, 8/11 pair
Quality K “Yennif.”
In Dark Grey, with Blue Borders. In the Double Blankets; not
divided into Singles.
Size 9 quarter, for Single Beds ... 54 x 76 inches, 8/11 pair
Quality L “ Yennif.”
In Silver-Grey, witl. Pale Blue Borders
whipped with Wool.
Size 9 quarter, for Single Beds
10 ~ Three-quarter Beds
11 „ Double Beds
12 „ Extra Large Double Beds
divided into Singles, and
56 x7B inches, 11/9 pair
64 xB4 „ 14/11 „
74 x9O „ 17/11 „
84 x9B „ 21/- „
THE “YENNIF” FLANNELS are our Speciality, too; SEND FOR SAMPLES.
ISLES <a CO.
Limited
The Big' Block,
BRISBANE, Q
And at MARYBOROUGH, Q„
MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W.
LONDON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
;V» notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on 'MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
>ent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
William Hogg (Adelaide): Accept your assur,
ance—also that of Stott and Hoare, Sydney, and others—
that there are different sorts of “business colleges,” and
that some are quite respectable and straightforward. All
we want to urge is that some are otherwise, and intend-
ing pupils should look before they leap into an engage-
' ment with any “ business college.” Perhaps: If that
's a joke this can’t be our day for understanding jokes.
.. ..V.H.F.: To put it shortly, you first sent a story with-
out any name or address. Then you suddenly woke up
and sent your name and address without saying which
story they belonged to. And we are no forrarder....
M.L. (Melbourne): Both packets received. There are
hundreds of things we don’t acknowledge in this column
f or lack of space Tubal Cain : Idea of flooding inland
Australia with salt water isn’t fresh. The matter
has gone so far that the probable cost was inquired
into, and if you saw the anticipated bill you would
faint. And when you made your inland sea, rain
wouldn’t follow for certain. Part of Australia’s per-
manent drought country is right on the coast
Micawber: Yes, but if we ignored all the bounders
on the ground that 5 to condemn them fs to advertise
them, what would be left to say? Ginger:
Hardly enough incident in “The Long-Haired
Bloke.” Well written, but not much to make a story
out of T.V.S.: Better keep your money. It looks a
fraud— Phoenix : “ International Exhibitions ” too long,
and subject pretty well covered already A Great
Sufferer: You ask: “ Would a Police Magistrate lose his
position or pension if reported for being the father of
several illegitimate children for whom he pays slight
maintenance? Eight children for a certainty, and don’t
think I would be far out in saying 20.” There is nothing
to actually disqualify him in that record. But if the 20
could be proved he might be promoted to be a Divorce
Judge.. ..Wanda : Small beer only Oxy Moron : We’ve
had many stories of shy bush-lovers named Bill, and yours
has no fresh points about it....W.8.: “ Scullingßecord ”
declined.... Miss J.E.: Very nearly good enough
bepot: We don’t care for sonnets unless quality is extra-
special. Yours is only pretty fair.... Berida : The point
is good, but the verse is weak J.M. : You are pro-
bably an asylum-attendant yourself, so, of course, you
contradict, but the evidence on the other side is weighty.
—F.J.C. : Don’t remember it....Terrigal: Formal and
mechanical Mary F.: Smart, but faulty E.R. :
Pretty well written, but hasn’t story enough.. .".E.J.C. ’:
Ridiculously unsuitable Paddymelon : Humor of
“Fleas” is very mechanical and unconvincing.. . .Billy
■S.: Rather feeble and ineffective Jaw : Excellent sen-
timents in very indifferent verse Gae: The bad versi-
fication would have blocked it in any case. . .H.H. :
“Barney" has a good lilt, but some very weak line's.'
A.E.D.: A childish production J.K.S.: Rather pretty,
but spoilt by the weak ending. “Great is the art of
leaving 0ff.”... .Vick R.: Poetic, but not very intelli-
gible.. ..E.O.R. : “Sweet Sixteen” has two quotable
lines
She’s none of your lacteal-aqueous girls—
There’s rum in her glass of milk !
The others are too friskv-risky for print... T.E B •
Too trifling for print.... J. Turnbull: Many thanks.
E - Desmond : Funny, as far as it goes ; but that isn’t far
enough for us. .. George S. : Right in your arguments,
but you don’t put the case with point enough Chela :
None quite bad, but none very good Quondongj:
Reminiscences of “Scrammy” Tyson not interesting-
enough....One of the Fools : If you send in the column
with the different writers marked we will examine your
theory. Can’t identify ourselves by your description..
Tydvil: Has poetic flavor, but is somewhat stiff and awk-
V
ward of expression... .Oomet: “ Casey ” has good points,
but doesn’t explain itself sufficiently J.G.: You’re
far too long-winded... Thos. B.: Not enough novelty...
•las R. : None of the suggestions much good this time ..
Major : Not a wildly fresh idea Melvin H. : The in-
scription on Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair runs thus :
BE IT THUS RECORDED THAT THE ROAD
Round the inside of the Government Domain Called
MRS. MACQUARIE’S ROAH
So named by the Governor on account of her having
Originally Planned it Measuring 3 Miles and 377 Yards
Was finally completed on the 13th Day of June 1816.
. ...R.E.O. : Some of them we know to be old, and that
makes us fear that those we don’t know to be old may be
old without us knowing they are old. (Disentangle this
sentence carefully)....Deltoid : “Night” has too many
weak spots Cyene : Tawdry and artificial Citizen :
Not enough in it J.G.E.: Not up to the mark. It
might have a chance elsewhere... .C. Nelson : Verse very
bad, and prose-sketch not much good Mary G.: Shows
the inexperienced hand Guthridge: Capitally versified,
but very strained and far-fetched in places.. ..W.H. : Metre-
is your stumbling-block. .R.B. Thorburn: Picturesque, but
rather cheap of effect and faint of impression.... George
Scott: Your verse doesn’t rise to the occasion Aimce :
It doesn’t call for the severe treatment you hint at, but
it doesn’t catch-on, for all that... .Goril: Can’t say we
positively yearn for acrostics F. 8.: No intention of
altering your joke, but the artist copied it in a fearfully
bad hand on the back of his drawing, and Providence did
the rest.... G.T. : Dunno Flax-Bush: Your touch
isn’t strong or sure enough Krys W.: “Dream” and
“ Your Eyes’’are both pretty, but one is conventional and
the other extravagant. “ Serenade ” about the best of the
lot, but presents several anomalies. ..Dion : The couple of
good stanzas in it won’t “ carry ’’ the rest. R.R.R.: No
literary gift....L.S.: Hadn’t the ghost of a chance
Argo : (I) Norman Lindsay’s school-master was Judkins ;
that probably explains things. (2) Yes, the correspondence
man of The Bulletin is a Christian. He believes in turn-
ing the other cheek, or any cheek or impudence that’s
handy, to the writer... .Danebrog : You can buy a copy
of the Act from your local Government Printing Office
William L.: Rather a short-sighted view. In the
first place, the harm, done to Federal affairs by the
location of the capital in ' any : centre where State
influences are paramount is great, and it’s worth a good
deal of money to free the Union of that handicap. In the
second place, the capitnl,-under wise management, will
be an asset, and not-a burden The Rook : Note your
statement that the men in the bar cordially approved
of that epigram. How long had they been in the bar?
....The Hack: Much too long for us in any case....
D. Mac: Doesn’t get above mediocrity Philistine:
You haven’t the gift of effective narration... .Harry' M.:
A feeble strain for such a mighty subject.. ..E.J.C. :
“I will send every week.” For Heaven’s sake, don’t—
unless you can raise the quality 100 per cent Picalla:
Yes, there is a decided humor in it, but it needs neater
and terser treatment... .Equine : Still not up to the
mark, but, for a tyro, your literary case is not hopeless
Subscriber (Tas.): That Campbell Town (Tas.) meet*-
ing report has been sent from a dozen sources.
The Bulletin is profoundly grateful to those people
who kept it off the Campbell Town (Tas.) School
of Arts table. The Bulletin lias no desire to be read on
the cheap. It tries to be wortli sixpence to each reader,
and has a sordid desire to get the sixpence from each
reader..,. .Unsuitable : Harry Mcl.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
N.E.G.: Can’t recollect them now J.J.C. : Picture
consists of four blots of bluish ink, and the joke of a
witness telling a coroner that he is a “brush fencer."
Miss J. : The “ label ” joke is only a feeble play on words
and the girl is a living skeleton... .Lemon : Neither prol
raising, and one old enough to be buried J. White:
Picture of marriage ceremony and subsequent baby
declined... .Skvp : “ Cartload of Flies” too unpleasant.
Other picture much better, but the subject died as soon
as it was born Exlex: Gone to its long home...
A.R. : Cockroach picture bowled out, and insect trodden
on R.N.L.G. : Purely mechanical H.D. : Picture of
one man telling another that he fell off the bike when
unsober is of no use, even though there is a sketch of a
pub in the background.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota” Trophy, “Australian Bine Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide. Melbourne and Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Importers:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Aust aiian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
As remarked in last week’s issue, the Aus-
tralian-built Invincible did not run to form in the race
which was won by Davies Brothers' Fairbanks. It was
smoking at Bradley’s Head, and when it arrived at the
finishing line the smoke simply poured from every open-
ing. The Invincible is not a closed-in engine, and imme-
diately upon arriving home it was seen that something
serious had happened. The shaft was taken out, and
found to be badly scored, and then the oil was collected
and sent for an analysis, which revealed that emery and
other stuff had been put into the bearings. This hocuss-
ing process had done considerable damage to the engine,
and had prevented the craft running to its usual speed.
The Australian boat previously did 21‘6 miles an hour at
Gore Bay, and writer lias been on board when it did five
miles in fairly rough water at only a fraction less than 22
miles an hour. It is very probable that Davies’ beautiful
semi-hydroplane can do more than 21T1 miles an
hour, and it would require to in order to beat
the Invincible running up to. form. This is the
second time that emery has been put into the
engines of a motor boat in Sydney. The same
despicable trick was played on one of Mr. Gorrick’s boats.
Unfortunately, although the finger of suspicion pointed
most emphatically in a certain direction, Mr. Gorrick was
unable to sheet the crime home. Some day this sort of
thing will lead to an engine cracking up in mid-harbor
and ripping the bottom out of a boat, with fatal conse-
quences. In the meantime there is a reward of £lOO for
anyone who can give information that will lead to the
discovery of the animal who interfered with the In-
vincible’s engines.
Whether the Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. will
take any action regarding the championship and the
Albert Cup, in the face of the discovery that the In-
vincible’s engines were so interfered with as to deprive
that boat of all chance of winning, is not known at
present. Relph was guilty of carelessnesss in not making
it impossible for his boat to be interfered with. The
race was fixed for a certain clay, arid if he brought
his boat to the starting line in an impossible con-
dition, it was his own funeral. As, of course, no
one associates anybody connected with the Fairbanks
with the unfortunate business, it is considered that it is
unfair to penalise the winners for the wrongdoing of out-
siders. They took all sort# of precautions that no one
should get the chance of m'olesting the Fairtxmks, The
propeller was taken off the night before tire race and
locked up in a safe place, and a trusty employee, slept
with the boat and watched it through th.e daylight.
Relph, on the other hand, stuck his £B5O worth of speed
and beauty in an open shed and left it to take care of it-
self. Neither the Davies Brothers nor Relph had a cent
on the race, and it never occurred to the owner of the
Invincible that other people might be plunging more or
less heavily on the result. Under these circumstances
it is unlikely' that the Olub will take any action.
If he has not already done so, Relph will in the
near future challenge the Fairbanks to another trial of
speed over the same course. But, in any case, it is only
a question of time till the Fairbanks beats the Invincible
fairly. Even now another and higher-powered engine is
on its way from America to be installed in the
flyer, and is calculated to considerably increase its speed.
That splendid hull is the embodiment •’of speed, and,
power for power, must beat the heavier, broader-beamed
semi-cruiser that carries the Australian-riiade engine.
Ralph is now manager of the Motor Construction Depart-
ment of Mor,t’s Dock, which is making Invincible engines,
and that company ought t'o let him loose on the construc-
tion of a racing boat pure and simple, like the
Fairbanks, and keep the supremacy of Australian waters
for an all-Australian boat and engine. It would pay
the. company to do it. With the plant at his dis-
posal, Relph is in a far better position to-day to turn out
a world-beating machine than he was when he hacked
the Invinoible'engines into shape with a meat axe, and,
considering how well he did in the face of the enormous
difficulties that confronted him nearly two years ago, it
is more than likely that, with his improved facilities, he
would turn out an engine that would win world-wide
reputation.
There was something interesting about the
attitude of many sporting men one meton the day when
the report went out that the Australian boat had been
hocussed, and hadn’t been beaten on its merits. Motor-
boating is a rich man’s sport, and, so far, the interest in
it is mostly confined to the affluent. And the affluent
person of Sydney is, in very many cases, like no other on
the face of the earth. He is a Freetrader of the kind who
utterly loathes Australian manufactures, and who feels
himself insulted if any one tries to sell him boots or
clothes that are not imported. And when these people
heard that the Australian engine might have beaten the
imported article except for foul play, they rose up
as one man and said, “ What rot! ” They regarded the
statement as a base Australian lie, directed at the sacred
doctrine of importation, and as disgraceful evidence of a
conspiracy to create an Australian motor-engine in-
dustry. Probably if the tale had been to the effect that
the imported engine had been tampered with,
the impression among those affluent persons would
have been that it was quite natural for an imported
engine to win even under such drawbacks, and that the
whole painful business was only what might be expected
when this country gave up depending entirely on raw
products, and tried its hand at manufacturing even in a
small way. The affluent Sydney person is a weird animal.
* * . * *
Hitherto the Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. has
borne a clean, honest name, hut that fishing competi-
tion in Sydney harbor last Saturday suggests that it is
tired of its spotless reputation. The fleet was divided
into two competing divisions, which fished for a certain
number of hours, and then asked the judges to decide
which had made the larger bag. An additional prize
was given to the man producing the largest fish. Just
consider how this will open the door for lying, prevari-
cation, ringing-in, fraud of every sort, and consequent
irritation, heart-burning, and jealousy. So sure as the
club plays this game, so surely will demoralisation set in.
• * » *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition com-
menced on Saturday last, in weather that was much too
warm for the sport. The winners of the first blood were
University, Glebe, Newtown,Sydney and Western Suburbs.
St. : George drew a bye. Among the defeated clubs was
Eastern Suburbs, which adopted the dubious policy of
utilising the practice matches for the training of the new
men. The result was that the backs, who made a splendid
showing individually, played together on Saturday for the
first time, and the Sydney men had the requisite com-
bination to win by 9to 3. As usual, the mighty Messen-
ger played heroically, and scored what points were made.
In the Balmain-Glebe match the men from the Ragged
Suburb tried to swarm over the Glebe players, but the
meat men put up a stern struggle oh the goal line every
time, and managed to bring the Balmain rushes to a
standstill before any damage was done. The soli-
tary try Balmain obtained was the result of a
passing charge that took away the spectators’ breath.
Dribbling.to centre a four-man charge was made, in
which everyone showed excellent speed and first-class
judgment, and the four obtained their reward. But Glebe
played the better game right through, and won by 8 to 3.
The surprise of the day, however, was the conscientious
manner in which Western Suburbs licked South Sydney
by 11 to 9. South Sydney secured the ball every time,
but the Westerners broke up so quickly and fell on the
three-quarter line so energetically before it could get
going, that this superior grabbing was quite nullified.
All the same, it was a mighty close game. University
downed North Sydney by 14 to 6 ; and the unfortunate
Manly team was overwhelmed by the Newtown avalanche
to the tune of 22 to 3. This painful episode will not be
dilated upon.
In the majority of cases, play was simply shock-
ing and full of illegalities. In places it was also very
rough, and the way some of the brutes flung their feet
about deserved six months’ hard on a charge of criminal
carelessness. There were also a few threats to “ wipe yer
nose for yer ! ” and little things like that. Sorfie of these
violent gentry will have to be dealt with, or the game
will get a very bad name from the jump. Rugby cannot
afford a bad name just now. The Bulletin’s idea is that
Rugby Union should appoint stipendiary bruisers, whose
duty it would be to “ take on ” after the match all players
proved, upon scoring-book court-martial, to have threat-
ened to wipe anybody’s nose. Each bruiser should be
authorised to hit a man when he is down if the man won’t
stand up.
* * *
The ie. football season opened inauspiciously
when, at a practice match on April 20 between the Port
Melbourne and the Railway United clubs, two players
collided when jumping for a “mark,” and one came down
with his knee on the other’s chest. Result, numerous
ribs broken, ruptured liver, internal hemorrhage, and
death. That simultaneous jump for a high marK is the
dangerous point about the Australian game.
* * * *
The “muddied oaf” again commenced taking
pot-shots at the goal in Melbourne on Saturday, when
the eight League teams argued points among them-
selves. The Association dallied awhile ;it begins opera-
tions a week'later, with a view to ending later and
catching a noble gate at the tail-end of the season.
Games drew crowds of from 15,000 to 20,000, and were
fast and open, also unexpectedly scientific considering
. the youth of the season. Nearly all the clubs have
enticed rising players from the Juniors, the Association,
and from other States, Melbourne being especiallj' notable
in this respect. Carlton relied on almost the identical
team that won the premiership last year—and went
down badly before the rejuvenated “Saints,” who, by
the way, have recaptured a fine athlete in Cumberland.
“ Saints ” won by 56 points to 30. Collingwood, playing
only two new men, beat Fitzroy by 47 to 39, after a hard
and closely-fought game that was anybody’s till the bell
rang. “South,” which ran over Melbourne last year,
went home in disgust, the victory, by 61 points to 40,
being chiefly due to the efforts of 10 new men in Mel-
bourne’s 18. That club lately threatened to practise
professionalism more openly and freely than before, and
apparently it has carried out its threat. Essendon ran
up 99 points to Geelong’s 56, as was expected, the City of
Dreadful Sleep having no funds to buy players, and only
a few ansemic junior clubs to draw on.
Judging by the moves of the various League
and Association clubs, Victorian football daily gets
nearer to open professionalism. A case in point has
cropped up in the Essendon (Association) Club, which
seems to be gifted with amazing far-sightedness, all
things considered. The Essendon (League) Club plays on
the East Melbourne ground, which belongs to the Rail-
way Department and is likely to be resumed by it as soon
as the new station is finished ; then Essendon (Associa-
tion) reckons to jump the claim to League honors and
profits. This club has a ground away out on the new
electric tramline in that suburb, and of course matches
with League teams out there would mean extra dividends.
So the club, noticing that a crack Fitzroy player had
gone to Sydney to look for work, promptly brought him
back and planted him in a snug billet at the Tram Co.’s
office at £3 a week and a house free. Nobody seems to
know whether he has any acquaintance with tram or
electric light work, but he is a first-class toeballer,
* * * *
The Victorian Football League permit com-
mittee is naturally unbeloved of players, it having a
habit of dealing out awards in a very arbitrary fashion.
A player who had succumbed to inducements to join
another club recently faced the committee. As he left
the room, after half-an-hour's “explanation,” a friend
asked him how he had fared. The ansvv er was succinct—
“ Out!” “Whose case are they on now?” asked the
friend. “ Case o’ murder, I think,” replied the brief one,
as he departed in disgust.
* * * *
Soccer competition starts in Sydney this Satur-
day. The “Australian” League’s eight metropolitan
clubs will also settle down to the serious business of
finding the champion club.
■*■*■**
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union is in a
strictly business frame of mind just now. This week all
clubs have been ordered to produce books, and if any un-
financial members have been taking part in the opening
matches of the competition the club that allowed them
to do so will lose any points scored in that struggle.
Further, it is proposed to enforce the district residential
qualification, and players who are not kicking the leather
in the club of the district to which they belong will pro-
bably be biffed out.
A Rugby referees’ strike is one of the possibilities
of the present season. The ref. has a hard row to hoe,
and although the time when the sight of the revolver was
the only thing that could keep his features together has
apparently passed, he still has to put up with some awful
reflections on his descent,;moral character, and recreations.
And the Rugby Union does not seem to be worried over
his feelings. Apparently it considers that as he is in the
game for what he can make out of it, free and unin-
terrupted criticism has a tendency to keep him up to
the mark.
• « * *
If there is anything in opportunity, South Syd-
ney ought to win the Rugby championship this year.
The club has secured the Sports Ground for training
purposes, and has the use of the electric-light,
and, at the present time, its ’bailers are playing
practice matches there in the evenings—they say
they have no difficulty in picking up and passing the
ball; and the chances are that in the near future we shall
have electric-light football, For the benefit of the spec-
tators, so that they may follow the game closely, the ball
will be given a coat of luminous paint, or covered with
phosphorus, or something of that sort.
* * r *
The cable reports the result of the most sporting
football event of the whole world, the English Cup
(“Soccer” rules;. Nearly every club in England enters
for it. They are drawn in pairs, and only the winners go
into the next round. The best clubs are excused from
the preliminary rounds, which are decided locally, but the
successful clubs from each district and the pick of the
professional teams all go into the hat together, and are
thinned down from 64 to 32, 16, 8,4, 2—and the Final.
London still keepsits old hold on the event by having the
final decided there ; but that is because the Crystal
Palace ground is the only one which can be relied upon
to take in over 100,000 spectators and give them a fair
view of the game. The Cup got mysteriously stolen once
(like the Parliamentary mace in Victoria) while it was held
in Birmingham, and a new trophy had to be bought. A
Sheffield team has won this year from Everton (Liverpool).
The uncertain nature of the event is shown by the fact
that Everton was about 4th (when the last mails left) on
the League list of the best professional clubs, while
Sheffield was only 11th. The other two which worked
their way into the semi-finals, West Bromwich (Birming-
ham) and a London club, are not in the first division of
the League at all. The gate at the final this year repre-
sented a mere 85,000 spectators.
A queer feature of Melbourne sporting life is
the “competition runner,” of whom there are perhaps
half-a-dozen making a living. The best known runs as
many as 150 football clubs, from 3rd to 6th grade. These
he parcels off into batches, arranges the different rounds,
sees that the players fulfil the qualifications demanded of
each grade, appoints umpires, settles disputes, donates
medals, and generally watches over matters from beginning
to end of the season. He charges from 10s. to 20s. per club
entrance fee, Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per club for registration of
colors, 2s. 6d. per member for the booklets (names of
clubs and members in each competition), and a few
sundry items; and his expenses amount to little. Though
there is money in it for him, the business is mostly done
better and more economically than the callow club com-
mittees could do it themselves.
• * * »
At last, thank the gods, the cricket season has
ended, and Paddington wins the championship with 13
competition points. Glebe is runner-up with 11, and
Gordon a good third with 10. After that, they are all
single figures excepting Sydney and Redfern, which are
12 and 19 behind nothing respectively. This is the second
time Glebe has won to second place, and the club is likely
to be known as T.M.S. in future.
The feature of the last day’s play was the
amazing score put up by Gordon against Redfern at
Ohatswood Oval. Attorney-General Wade’s subjects com-
piled 446 for the loss of four wickets, and of this mass of
runs no less than 224 were made by O. G. Macartney, the
batting and bowling champion of the season. He carried
his bat when the light gave out, and his glory shed a
brilliant illumination over the whole district on Saturday
night (at time of writing there is still a faint glow in the
sky over Gordon way). His score included nine sixes and
30 fours. His clubmate R. N. Hickson also did well,
making 90 before he was bowled. Among the bowlers
Kelleway and Cotter were deadly, taking three for 17 and
three for 29 respectively of Burwood’s stumps. The rest
were nowhere.
Th,ere have been some dandy century scores
made during the just-concluded season. A. J. Hopkins
made the biggest, carrying his bat for 229. C. G.
Macartney came next with 224, not out, and 110 and 102
not out. Victor Trumper reached treble figures three
times also, his records being ”212, 172 and 110. Alpha-
betical White twice covered himself with glory, making
177 and 126 (n. 0.). So did W. A. Gregg, of Burwood, with
141 (n. 0.) and 125. None of the other century-makers
repeated the offence.
* * * *
Harry Trott isn’t a dead letter yet by any
means, and put up a slashing performance at Bendigo
recently, compiling 177 out of a total of 263. Like other
ex-Australian players, Trott’s spasmodic displays only
tend to confuse Australian cricket.
* * * *
Poor old George Giffen had the unenviable
lowest rung in the South Australian premiership batting
average list, with an average of 8 ; and in bowling could
only scoop in three wickets for 119— an average of 39'66.
Giffen’s position in first-class cricket is almost at an end.
* * * *
This amazing narrative appeared in that
allegedly intelligent paper, London Sketch :
“ In view of the decision of the South African cricket-
ing authorities not to send an Australian as one of their
team to England, it is interesting to remember that
Ranjitsinhji, come at last to his own, was the victim of a
still more awkward difficulty on the occasion of his visit,
with the Stoddart XI of 1897, to Australia. The Anti-
podeans had expressed their willingness for him to
play—not from any love of him, but because he was an
asset from the point of view of gate. When he arrived,
however, he came bump up against the laws of the land,
which say that no Asiatic may be admitted into Australia.
Here was a pretty fix, which the cricketing authorities
had not contemplated, either at Melbourne or at Lords.
There was Ranji, held up as rigorously as if he had been
a seventh hatter. The only thing to do was to rush
through a Special Act enabling him to enter. That was
done. We have never given the prince of batsmen a
statue, but he is one of the few men in the world who can
boast oUi special statute passed in his favor.”
Wonderful is the credulity of big English papers.
* * * *
For the strong man of a sturdy individualist
Ministry which stoutly defends the right of every man
to starve when he caiinot help it, Attorney-General Wade
takes a curious interest in the business of making men
abstainers by Act of Parliament. Quite recently there
was a deputation of bowlers who wanted their clubs
placed on the same footing as residential clubs, but
the influence of the Stiggins-like person has got
Charles Gregory Wade down, and he declined to see any
difference between a bowling club and a beer shop down
Miller’s Point. Although the sedate old gentlemen who
compose most bowling clubs may send their immortal
souls to perdition, they may not drink liquor at their
clubs on any Sunday, even if they have bought it the
night before. They are also forced to practise abstention
till after polling hours when there is a Federal or
State general election on. If a by-election
is being held in their district, they may not liquor up
till the trouble is decided; and on Good Friday and
Christmas Day they may drink only between seven and
nine in the morning, one and three in the afternoon, and
eight and ten at night. This careful attention to when
bowlers shall drink shows what a thoughtful Stiggins is
Attorney-General Wade. If they take liquor into
the club with them with which to save their lives dur-
ing prohibited hours and days, the Club must shoo them
out into the road to drink it. There is only one stage
worse than this, and Attorney-General Wade will yet be
found legislating to fix the times when a man may take
liquor in his own house, and the precise conditions under
which he may kiss the mother of his own children.
* * * *
In Westralia they seem determined to make a
world champion of runner Postle in spite of himself.
When he ran the 100yds. in 9 2-ssec. the Westralianspro-
claimed him globe champion, in spite of the fact that it
was done on a track the downhill slope of which is now
notorious, and with a gale behind the runner. All the
same, it isn’t safe to remark in Perth or Kalgoorlie just
now that Postle isn’t champion of the planet.
• • • *
Sydney lacrosse competition commences this
coming Saturday. Seven clubs will compete, and the
bye will be eliminated by the Association picking a team
to meet the odd team each week. Which is a mighty
sensible thing to do, and brings a delightful spice of un-
certainty into the business.
'• * « •
Englishman H. W. Stevenson, commonly styled
“ the greatest living billiardist,” is parading Australia,
mostly to spy out the land and fill in the time in exhibi-
tion matches with Australians. Stevenson holds the
world’s record of 802 for all-round billiards, and in 25
games with ex-champion Dawson has come out on top
17 times. If Stevenson is the greatest living billiardist
as alleged there should be some interesting shows ahead.
» * * *
The Westralian Turf Club is advertising
in this issue for three Stipendiary Stewards to con-
trol the racing on the principal courses of the western
State. Henceforward racing in Westralia will be on a
business footing, controlled by men chosen on account of
their special fitness for the work. The salaries are
liberal—£7oo per annum each, and all railway fares in
connection with the business paid. Although the engage-
ments are only for a term of twelve months, terminable
at three months’ notice by either party, there are prob-
ably three life-long billets waiting for the right men.
These stipendiaries are to haveabsolute control, no appeal
being allowed from their decisions. They will have power
to re-hear a case, to re-open if at any time they think fit,
and their fiat is to be law. They will be, in fact,
benevolent despots.
Although swimming is already immensly popu-
lar in Sydney, the controlling bodjjhopes to make it more
so by introducing a district system which will promote
healthy rivalry. Briefly, it is proposed to divide the
city and suburbs into four divisions, North, South, East
and West, each district to constitute a distinct union.
The question of district club versus district union was
carefully threshed out by the committee appointed to go
into the matter, and that body decided that the
union was the better and more economical system. The
qualification for all new swimmers will be residential;
but the present members of existing clubs will be allowed
to retain membership, irrespective of residential qualifi-
cation, as long as they keep up their payments. Once
the subs, fall into arrear, however, the backsliders will
fall under the residential qualification.
What Billington thinks of our swimmers is
evident from a statement of his manager, J. Crowther,
that the Englishman is prepared, for a substantial con-
sideration, to break any records, from 440yds. upwards,
that may have been made in any of the Sydney baths.
He considers that the Australian swimmer performs
under many advantages. Much of the English swimming
is done in baths that are very shallow, and in which the
water, being the drainage of the surrounding country, is
often impregnated with clay and other things that
have a tendency to deprive the swimmer of the
benefit of “ slipping.” And, of course, there is the
fact that the water is less buoyant than that of
Sydney baths, and also colder. But the great point
seems to be in turning, Australians gain much
from the kick-off, for, as George Farmer pointed out in a
letter to the press, the turning point at Highgate course,
which is 110yds. long, is a pole stuck in the mud, and
this must be touched by the hand of the swimmer in
turning. Which is a devil of a difference!
» * * *
A British pugilist has been arrested for killing
a man who persisted in singing in a train. It may prove
a case of justifiable homicide.
» * * *
For some reason or other a number of ILS.
journalists have persistently “ roasted ” William Squires,
declaring that before he was matched against Uncle
Sam’s best he must show just cause and reason. While
they raged William arrived on April 18, and proceeded to
brush the journalists aside. His method was simplicity
itself. He posted £lOOO with a challenge to everybody,
and the Yankee best felt a sudden hunger for money. Even
the mighty Jeffries himself, champion of the world, began
to figure out what a lot of good he could do to that
alfalfa farm of his with 5000 dollars. Tommy Burns
rushed round begging some promoter to cover the
deposit and fix the thing up quickly—he was real hungry
for that pile of sovereigns. The only lighter of them all
who did not nibble at the golden bait was Philadelphia
O’Brien. He absolutely refused to look at it, saying that
Jeffries was the man to scrap for that. Exactly what
John’s game is nobody save John knows. Possibly
he is satisfied in his own mind that Squires
is the better man ; but if so, it is the first time
John has had an attack of modesty. A little while ago
he was trying to make a match with Jeffries himself, and
expressed perfect confidence that his “ system ” was
superior to Jeffries’ strength and ferocity. The most
reasonable explanation is that John is a cautious man,
and desires that someone else should assume the risky
business of finding out just what sort of a tiger Squires
may amount to. John’s method has much to commend
it. All this sort of speculation moves the present scribe
to remark that the U.S. seems to be a place where they
talk about a fight for 12 months before it eventuates, and
then look at moving pictures of it and talk about it for
another 12 months afterwards. So much talk about an
hour or less of actual scrap makes one weary. It’s worse
than horse-racing.
* * * *
That rising young specialist, Peter Kling, scored
another decisive victory at Wren’s Athletic Pavilion (Mel-
bourne!, on Wednesnight of last week, and incidentally
contributed to the glory of White Australia. Peter was
up against Mally Jackson, a man of color from the Tas-
manian mines, and champion of Van Diemen’s Land.
Mally Jackson had the advantage of a stone in weight
and a couple of inches in height, and has a reach like an
ourang. His admirers declare that he can punch down
houses, but for all that it was the lighter man’s punch
brought down the house on this occasion—it also brought
down Mr. Jackson. The first round was little more than
a mad whirl, and the men floundered all over the ring,
going down together in quaint tangles. On one occasion
Kling was actually standing on his head for an appreci-
able space of time in the herculean clutch of his dis-
colored and disordered opponent. In the second,
Mr. Kling kept a cooler head, and resolved to
pick his spots, the wisest possible course, as
Jackson fights like an excited giant. Peter picked
those spots with such judgment that Mally started
falling with sudden jolts early in the round. He was
down and apparently done when the gong clashed again.
This was unfortunate for the Tasmanian ; if the gong
had been postponed he would have escaped two anxious
and troubled minutes in Act 111. After these two
minutes he was among the dead, and the white flag from
his corner was floating in the breeze. Jackson snowed
great gameness, but he has no knowledge, and is as open
as a thousand-acre paddock. He won previous fights by
sheer wallop, and the man who can dodge wallop and
prod in a straight left ought to fetch him every time.
* ♦ » •
The Illustrated Police Bridget, a fearsome
rag of English origin, publishes an alleged portrait of Bill
Squires, which is more like almost anybody else on earth
than the Australian bruiser. Among his. achievements, it
is mentioned that he defeated Peter Kling at the Ascot
Racecourse, Sydney, for the championship of the con-
tinent, and that he is a well-to-do mine-owner, and was
once a Sunday-school teacher. By the time Squires
reaches England, if he goes on there after his Uncle Sam
trip, he should know quite a lot of new information about
himself.
CONSTIPATION.
Constipation is like stuffing up the sewers of the
city, and keeping all the filth in them till they
are filled with poison and corruption, breeding
disease and pestilence. When the bowels are
clogged the waste matter decays and ferments,
and enters the blood, and is carried to all parts of
the body, producing headaches, biliousness,
sleeplessness, heartburn, loss of appetite, indiges-
tion, neuralgia, rheumatism, and various other
ailments, disturbing the heart and nervous system,
and, if continued, is liable to cause inflammation
of the bowels, liver and kidneys. To maintain a
healthy system the bowels should operate at least
once every 24 hours. This is one of Nature’s pro-
visions which is too often ignored, and the result
is untold suffering. Women are the greatest
offenders, but sooner or later they must pay the
penalty. Many women’s ailments are due to the
straining and purging, following upon habitual
constipation, and in many cases displacement of
the pelvic organs may be attributed to the same
cause. Constipation caused through neglect in
course of time becomes chronic, and the use of
drastic purgatives not only weakens the intestines,
but by the habitual use of such medicine the
bowels refuse to act naturally. Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills are a perfect remedy. They
act upon the liver, and stimulate the secretion of
bile, and assist the bowels in a perfectly natural
manner to throw off the waste matter from the
system. They do not weaken, sicken, or gripe,
nor parch the bowels —like salts (which thin the
blood) and many other remedies which only
aggravate the trouble —'but restore them to their
normal condition, and, being purely vegetable,
may be taken with perfect safetv by the most
delicate woman or the youngest child.


KUGELMANN’S
......
*
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The Western Australian
Turf Club,
Applications for the Position of
Stipendiary Stewards.
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the
positions of Stipendiary Stewards to The
Western Australian Turf Club.
Three Stipendiary Stewards will be appointed
for a period of twelve months subject to tenure of
office being terminated by three months’ notice
by either party.
Salaries, £7OO per Annum each. Railway fares
to Race Meetings supervised by the Stewards will
be paid by the particular Club concerned.
Stewards will have full control of the racing on
the courses of The Western Australian Turf Club,
the Kalgoorlie, the Boulder and the Coolgardie
Race Clubs, the Canning Park Turf Club, the
Helena Yale Race Club and the Belmont Park
Race Club.
The date of Appointments shall be as from the
Ist August, 1907.
Applications, which must be superscribed and
addressed to the Secretary, will be received up to
5 p.m. on WEDNESDAY, 29th MAY, 1907, at
the Offices of THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN
TURF CLUB, HOWARD STREET, PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
By order of the Committee,
GEORGE H. WICKHAM,
Secretary.
April 16th, 1907.
£BOO
FOR NOTHING.
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £BOO to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Scamp
Merchant, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Send
for his free Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some? Hunt them up at
once—they are worth money.
Special
DUNLOP
ROAD
RACING
TYRES.
Sfesi
v*
m
m
TO CYCLISTS
Who want to Finish In Front,
The remarkable success amt strength of our Open.,
elded New Road Racing Tyre has been the talk and
wonder of Road Riders throughout Australasia.. Every-
where satisfaction and long weary Everywhere a success.
These speedy covers, which have been known to run
over 3000 miles, weigh only 16 ozs, eaoh, and have open
fabrlo sides, protected by a skin of tough unvuloanlsed
rubber, which effectually protects cutting of fabrlo,
without effeotlng the resiliency and life of the tyre.
Non-slipping or plain bands can be had at option.
UNLESS ROAD RIDERS UBE THESE RPEEOY TYRES
DURING THE FORTHCOMING SEASON, THEY WILL BE LEFT.
FOR THESE WONDERFUL, TYRES HAVE NO EQUAL FOE
ROAD RAGINQ AND RELIABILITY,
Ask your Cycle Agent to let you look at one of these covers,
or send us for a small sample section.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
108 FLINDERS ST*. MELBOURNE,
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Ohrlatohuroh, N.Z,
A Kind of Progress.
A few days ago a conference of self-styled “ pro-
gress associations ” was held in Melbourne, and
it considered the weighty question of how to
accelerate the progress of the State. A rather
wide variety of subjects was discussed, and,
finally, resolutions were adopted in favor of
“advertisingbeauty spots,” “land settlement,”
“better control of national parks and gardens,”
and “increased support to country libraries.” As
a progressive platform, this collection is unique.
There is, of course, a certain kind of progress in-
volved in visiting the State’s beauty spots—you
must progress there on foot, or in some kind of
vehicle; but, as an aid to the prosperity of the State
in general, visiting beauty spots much resembles
the attempt of the dog to subsist on continued
admiration of his own tail. For years to come, the
number of visitors to these beauty spots, from
outside the State, must be small, so the progress
associations probably intend to coax the farmer
to leave his plough idle and visit them. The item
advocating increased support to country libraries
is typical; a large supply of novels as an aid to
settlement is a great idea. But the tone of the
meeting is completely summed up by the state-
ment that—
Mr. MacDougall, M.H.R., pould not find a seconder for
a motion in favor of the compulsory resumption of large
estates.
The land settlement plank adopted was, of course,
the old moss-grown and worm-eaten thing that
consists of urging the Government to “do some-
thing” in the matter. While the ridiculous
meeting was passing its meaningless resolutions,
farmers were leaving the State in all directions
looking for land. At the same time huge areas of
Victorian land, ready for the plough, stand idle
in nine counties, and are likely to stand idle until
legislation shifts the big landlord to Tophet or
elsewhere. And MacDougall, who was born,
and brought up, and lives amongst these locked-
up estates, and who represents a number of them
in Parliament, couldn’t even get a seconder for his
resolution. As a voice crying in the wilderness,
surely MacDougall put up something of a record.
♦
The Victorian Land Settlement division of the
Immigration League is broadcasting a pamphlet
which ought to wake up a few more people. It
shows that at the end of 1905 only 4,209,877
acres of Victoria’s total of 56,245,760 acres were
used for agriculture—say acres in every 100.
In the Western District, probably, on the whole,
the finest agricultural country in the world, not
one acre in 35 is cultivated. In Follett county,
which forms part of the district, only one acre in
130 is used for agriculture—sheep claim the rest.
And instead of improving the thing gets worse.
This Follett county actually lost population be-
tween 1891 and 1901; people drifted from it in
spite of its great empty spaces of land which called
out for population. The same with the neighbor-
ing counties of Grenville, Ripon, Villiers
and Normanby. The league does good work
in putting these facts into the hands of
people who can easily verify them, if they want
to, from the official statistics; and it follows up
that good work by pointing first to “ The Peril of
Melbourne ” (the title it adopts for the pamphlet)
and then to the peril of Australia, with its 8000
miles of unprotected coast-line. “ Agriculture is
the first line of national defence,” it declares
boldly. But it stops there. It doesn’t suggest
how Follett county and the rest are to be made
available for the thousands who ought to be
providing materials for Australian defence. So
far as it goes, it is admirable. But it needs to be
followed up close by some more strenuous crusader
who won’t quake at the suggestion of party
politics, and will blazon it forth that the only
hope of reform is through a Federal graduated
land-tax, stiff enough to compel the reform that
obviously won’t come without compulsion.
•
The N.S.W. Political Insect Caerutheks has
found yet another Federal grievance. There is a
bit of rock and sand in Sydney Harbor called
Goat Island. On it is situated the official resi-
dence of the Harbor Master of the port—a N.S.W.
State officer. The rest of the island is occupied
by the Public Works Department—a State de-
partment—and by the leading State lights belong-
ing to the port, while round its edge rests a dado
of punts, lighters, dredges, and other paraphernalia
of the State Public Works office. The islet, however,
is nominally Federal property. So the Insect Pre-
mier is buzzing with wrath. ‘ He had a bridge (of
which no one ever heard before) already practi-
cally built—in fact, he might as well say it was
built—the middle of which he was just going to
flop on to Goat Island, one end resting in the
wastes of Balmain, near nowhere in particular,
and the other reaching up to the wilderness on
Ball’s Head. Then he discovered that the
Federal arch-fiend owned Goat Island, and the
whole blessed scheme has fallen down dead.
Joseph’s alleged scheme would really involve the
building of three bridges—one from Sydney to
Balmain, one from Balmain to Goat Island, and
one from Goat Island to a spot on North Shore
right away from the population. It wouldn’t
solve the bridge question, for no-one wanting to
get from Sydney to North Shore would go round
by Balmain to be left in the bush at Ball’s Head.
It is, in fact, such a fool of a scheme that The
Bulletin takes the liberty of suspecting, not only
that Carruthers never intended to build any
such bridge, but also that he never even dreamt
of any such bridge till he noticed that Goat
Island was Federal property, and thought that he
could make another Ma State grievance out of the
business.
♦
Even if the Carruthers Government could make
out a case against establishing an inebriates’
home at Rabbit Island (N.S.W.), and in favor of
locating the institution in a wing of Darlinghurst
prison,- that doesn’t begin to excuse its pro-
crastination in the matter. The See Government
adopted the Hawkesbury site, and it and the
Waddell Government spent some £6500 on the
fsyjum there, and £2500 on the supplementary
building at Milson’s Island. In these days all
was known against the situation that is known
now, and it wasn’t much. Anyhow, the need for
the asylum was urgent, had been urgent for years,
and is still urgent. When Hogue came in as
QarrOthers understrapper he cold-shouldered
rnu •?’, an d was gradually dropped.
Ibe £9OOO it had cost was also dropped. Yet
Carruthers and Hogue had apparently no idea
to put in the place of See’s idea, until they con-
ceived the dreadful thought of making the
Inebriates Home a gaol in a Sydney back street
instead of an airy country retreat. The yearning
to drag everything to Sydney is so great that
drunk must go there. A helpless in-
abiuty to decide about the site ” seems ohronie
with N.S.W, politicians. For 40 years they
struggled to decide on a site for a new railway
station in the city, and they ended by building
a. station m the same old suburb. They can’t
decide on a site for an Inebriates’ Home. And
they can t decide on a site for an Australian
■capital, and don t want to let anyone else do it.
Our Dan’s new title : “Sir Daniel
O’Connor, Knight Commander of Saint Gregory,
ex-Member Australian Parliament, formerly
Postmaster-General of Australia. ” Dan lectures
on “ Australia, the Land of the Rising Sun” to
the tribe of Yankee Doodle.
The cheap Monkey man begins to cut into
the Australian timber trade. Despite the draw-
backs of freight over sea and the cost of long
inland haulage, he is now shipping cargoes of
pine, oak, ash and basswood, and dumping them
in Australia at a price that knocks out even the
Canadian and United States soft woods. A month
or two back the Heinrich Menzell brought a cargo
to Melbourne, and in April the Norwegian steamer
Christian Michelsen landed another. Meantime
the superior Australian timbers are being wantonly
burned by the million feet to make room for
Cow—as if there wasn’t vacancy enough for her
already.
The A.N. A. competition, which prescribes
no age-limit, seems to have reached the summit
of absurdity in Tasmania. At a recent “ tourna-
ment ” of dramatic recital in Launceston, there
was a desperate struggle for supremacy between
Crosby Gilmore and a 17-year-old damsel. Mr.
Gilmore, onetime Attorney-General for Tassy,
has retained his youthful enthusiasm for rolling
his eyes and “r’s” in fine theatrical frenzy, and
if wo had an Australasian championship prize
for the best recitation of “Little Jim,” the
matured barrister, would go into active rehearsal
for the event. Perhaps he ought not to be won-
dered at. One who signs himself Crosby Gil-
more, and wears a wig and gown, must naturally
think himself a born actor.
The lately-formed Hospitals and Charities
Association of Victoria has been taking stock of
itself, in a manner of speaking, and has discovered
that the present accommodation in the metro-
politan hospitals is 1182 beds; also that the figures
of out-patients’ attendance show that one person
in every seven in Melbourne is at some time or
other in the year the recipient of medical assist-
ance per the hospitals. (This case is not quite so
bad as it appears, for some patients may attend
several times a year—still it is quite bad enough.)
The chief reason of the enojrmous attendance at
the metropolitan hospitals is that there is nothing
between the private hospital at five guineas a week
and medical fees, and the public institution which
gives equally capable treatment for nothing or
thereabouts. An institution that would fill the
needs of the man of strictly moderate income is an
improvement that Victoria calls for in a loud,
emphatic voice.
A recent Tasmanian arrival in Melbourne
struck something extra in the way of bad luck.
Going on board the Flora at Burnie he was
accosted by the old familiar long-lost uncle, who
persuaded him to hand over his ticket and money
for safe keeping; and of course the disreputable
bogus relative kept them so safe that he has them
still. Arrived at Melbourne, the stranger
narrowly escaped arrest for burgling a passage ;
a police sergeant was called in, but the Tas-
manian youth’s obvious unsophistication saved
him. With 2s. in his pocket he made for the
spud diggings at O'arrum, but struck a job on the
way, at East Brighton. Here the local Sherlock
Holmes took him for the missing Woodend mur-
derer, and hauled him back to Melbourne, where
the sergeant who had seen him on the boat recol-
lected him, and acquitted him, so to speak. But
the youngster reckons Melbourne is a bit too
swift for a quiet West Coast apple-gatherer.
“ G-. Elburg” writes :
Re the Varischetti incident. Exhibitions of courage are
not rare in Australia. One of the bravest men I ever
knew was a member of the S.A. police force. He was
once told off with a companion to capture a wild youngster,
who had eleared out from home and was smashing things
up generally. It was a semi-official job, undertaken at
the father’s request., The lad was traced to a disreputable
house, and when the'constables entered they found him
waiting at the top of the stairs with a revolver in his
hand. The big man said, “Don’t be a fool; put
that thing away and come home with me.” The quarry
responded by pointing his weapon and threatening
to fire if a step were made up the stairs. The big police-
man just snorted, and bounded straight up towards him,
almost filling the narrow stairway. The promised bullet
came along, miraculously missing the easy mark. Then
the youth lost his nerve, dropped his revolver and
jumped through a window on to a shed roof. The
constable went after him, smacked him where he sat with
his open hand, and,took him home. He refused to report
the shooting incident. “What’s the good?” he said.
“ There’s no harm done, and it would only make more
trouble.” The same man had another narrow escape
when arresting a mad wife-murderer. He went straight
at his man, despite the spectacle of a revolver which the
raving person pointed straight at his chest. Again his
luck was good, for the gun missed fire and the madman
never had another opportunity. It was impossible to
frighten him ; yet he caved in over a trivial family dis-
agreement, and took his own life.
William Dodery, M.L.C., retires from the
Tasmanian Upper House, aged heaven only knows
how many years, and as two men want his seat,
there will be an election for Westmorland the
first since 1877. By reason of the property quail-
fication which restricted membership to rich
Tories, and the other property qualification which
pretty well confined the selection of the member
to rich Tories, it wasn t worth anyone s while all
these years to oppose William Dodery. He
became so permanent and immortal that the Tas.
Upper House was known as the House of
Dodery. Now a dreadful Progressive person
named Cheek wants the seat, and Cheek has the
forehead and the cloven hoof to say that the
Council franchise should be extended to as many
people as possible, that the accumulation of great
estates is a menace to the prosperity of the
country,” and that “ the average rents are 25 per
cent, too high.”
Premier Carruthers says that some of the
immigrants who lately arrived in N.S.W., pre-
sumably under the impression that land must be
_ -i : a AW «i Tr qlgo
easily procurable in that empty State, have gone
into solicitors offices and inquired how they could
bring actions against the Government for false
pretences. Probably they wouldn’t have much
chanee, but how many agricultural immigrants
would come to Victoria or Tasmania or N.S.W.
if they knew the whole truth about the big
estates, and the land famine, and the
occasional land ballots, where the rush of 100
applicants for one farm is like a football scrum,
or a sketch of Paul fighting the wild beasts at
Ephesus?
The Joe Government of N.S.W. proposes
to start another Commission to inquire into the
{orestry conditions of N.S.W. This will be one
more roaming, roving job of twelve or twenty
months’duration, paid for in a couple of heavy
sa | ar j es a number of small ones, and a bucketful
of .. exp enses.” In the Lands Office there are
pq es n f documents dealing with the forestry of
g tate —documents that have been acquired
a t large outlay, and hardly even looked at. From
the information pigeon-holed, and from informa-
tion available at a day’s notice, a competent
L an( j s Minister should be able to compile a Bill
f or p ar h amen t which would effectually cover the
f ore stry requirements of the State. The Corn-
m;ssjon j s p ar tly a sop to hungry parasites, and
mos tiy a dodge to indefinitely postpone a difficult
su hj e ct
'
Recent remark of the Anglican Bishop of
Melanesia (to be pasted up somewhere in the
brain in case of trouble):
s ” me of the ™ en have settled on land to which,
perhaps, some of the Kanakas had claims. Their native
f r i end s, perhaps, received the purchase money, but they
themselves were away, and consequently got nothing. I
know of one trader who last year received a threatening
letter from a boy in Queensland, saying he would shoot
him on his return, because he was living on his land,
Some Australian papers said they had got letters
from the islands, predictingthattheKanakaswould
be set upon and slaughtered if they were sent back
from Queensland. Now Australia can begin to
understand all this tremendous anxiety that the
Kanakas should be kept in a safe place—their
land had been stolen while they were away.


A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” I.EVER, 255.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, £7
10s. : i
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
TRUTH in ADVERTISING
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
16-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6<L
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A- SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, 30s,
40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
SOLID
GOLD
£3.
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS.^
These illustrations reveal some of the very-
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-et. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
355. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
KING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
w
i. SAUMDERS.
18-ct Gold
Diamonds and
£2
£2
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2.
r&. SAUNDERS. ~
18-et. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£3
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5.
£5
W A. SAUNDKKS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£lO
0
Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald Centre
£l2 10s.
£l2/10
Sk. SAUNDERS.'
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
ER^S
£B/10
or Sapphires £8 10s.
All Diamonds £l2 10s.
£l2/10
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Keyless
Level*;
20/ -■
Quality,
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-faee Keyless WATCHES, strong'
and reliable, 10s, I2s 6d, 16s, 17s 6d, 20a. Extra'
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
$-ct Gold Shield and Dumb*
iUell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-et. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
•-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 25b.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
15-et. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A, SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
GL»
A. SA UNDER*.
15-ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Q-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, .if Mf,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 Ms,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, -to
Guaranteed for 3. 4, 5, and 6 years.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811,813,815,817
S£B^s?Sro n , SIDNEY


ftSStSS
.
■mmss
• <
iillli
wan
mWmmSmi
m
m
Mi
m
%
my
IB*®
.
LgM
m
m
m
%
-.'s'*
I
si
HR*?
I , I
SiSS
r - ;
r>*!
1
*r
-•
- ■{'•’ •' ■"
■
m
- .
111
■ •*
»
mm
i»-s#
A
W
yf»*
:
-
‘-Ja
iwgSlff
.T
4P
:
»
S»V$ S£l
'3:
*S®KJ
■W
■
< ,
;■.) ■
■
m
mISHhi
’
• -
.. ' - •
■ » y
* IS
tmW.
;
• . •■■ ■ 4
„
■' . v f
an
mem,
■
iHWI'
.


say
M
8
%
SB
is
m
z 1
(No. 225)
THERE’S
MORE
MONEY
IN THE
BUFFALO”
ENGINES
THAN IN
ANY OTHER
There could be no more forcible
demonstration of the truth of the
above assertion than the fact that
we have during the past twelve
months sold throughout Australia
for purely agricultural purposes nearly, if not quite, as many “Buffalo” Engines AS
ALL OTHER MAKES COMBINED.
The reason for this remarkable engine business is not difficult to discover.
Agriculturalists throughout the Commonwealth are daily receiving either ocular
demonstration or reliable testimony from the users that “Buffalo” owners are in
possession of an engine that, instead of being a “SOMETIMES USEFUL” fair-weather
machine, is an “ALWAYS READY” LIGHT YET POWERFUL Tractive Force THAT
BRINGS THEM IN A STEADY INCOME FROM JANUARY TO DECEMBER.
NO MATTER WHAT MONTH IT BE there is always some work being success-
fully carried out by the “ Buffalo” at a cost far lower than that of using men and
horses for the same work.
On sticky roads and under adverse conditions, when by reason of their great
weight it is impracticable to use the heavier types of engines, the “Buffalo” can be
seen travelling with her load behind. EVERY DAY IS A “BUFFALO” DAY.
In the ploughing season farmers are observed with their ploughs hitched to a
“Buffalo,” turning over from 15 to 20 acres per day of eight hours at a cost of LEiS
THAN 3/- PER ACRE.
From dawn till dusk, during the threshing
and chaff-cutting seasons, “Buffalo” Engines
are in evidence in every State EARNING
GOOD MONEY FOR THEIR OWNERS.
For the clearing of scrub, the pumping,
of water, the sawing of timber, and a hun-
dred and one other lobs that can be most
successfully and economically accomplished
by steam power, there is a STEADY AND
EVER INCREASING DEMAND.
How great is the increase in this demand
for Power, and how general is the convic-
tion that the “Buffalo” represents the most
reliable and efficient means of providing that
power, is borne out by our sales during the
past FOUR months, having MOUNTED UP
TILL THEY HAVE REACHED THE TOTAL
OF THE PREVIOUS TWELVE MONTHS and
13 H.P. SINGLE CYLINDER BUFFALO-PITTS
TRACTION ENGINE.
given us an average of nearly one engine sile per day.
THESE RESULTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES, and can only have been attained
by the SHEER MERIT of the engines themselves. Every “Buffalo” Engine sold is
the means of selling others. Buyers incuire of users, and users are nothing short of
ENTHUSIASTIC in their praises.
ANY MAN WHO CAN RAISE A FEW POUNDS for the first small payment will
find that his “Buffalo” will do for him what it has so frequently done for others, that
is, MORE THAN EARN THE REMAINING PAYMENTS LONG BEFORE THEY BE-
■j 4 H.P. DOUBLE CYLINDER BUFFALO-PITTS
TRACTION ENGINE.
COME DUE.
Send NOW for our new catalogue, “The
Buffalo in Australia.” It gives full particu-
lars and testimonials from scores of satis-
fied users, and will convince you that
ISP There’s Money
in the “Buffalo”
International Harvester Company
of America
(Incorporated)
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and Launceston
GEO. WILLS & CO., Fremantle. General Adents for Western Australia.


“PICTURESQUE
AUSTRALASIA.’’
THIS “ Picturesque Australasia ” may
be more properly termed “ Pictured
Australasia,” inasmuch as it contains
pictures of almost everything in Austral-
asia that is worthy of being shown in
a picture, and the show altogether is a
surprising and beautiful one. In fact,
people who have never looked through
the book can form no idea of its exhaus
tive completeness. The contents will
give a person a better idea of Australasia
than any other six books ever published.
It contains 1150 beautiful engravings
showing more than 2000 distinct repre-
sentations, the most interesting and
striking of the country and its history.
Any intelligent person, who has looked
through this book, knows far more about
Australasia than one who has not.
Therefore, all schools, colleges, and public
libraries should have it, and also all in-
telligent men who care to possess a
knowledge of what Australasia is really
like.
It contains
56 Life-like Portraits of the Govern-
ors of Australasia.
54 Portraits of Premiers and other
eminent Statesmen.
70 Portraits of Celebrated Dis-
coverers, Explorers, Pioneers,
Missionaries, Writers, &c.
Australian Natural Scenery, consisting
of : —Mountains, plains and valleys,
creeks, rivers, lakes, gorges, rapids,
waterfalls, avalanches, glaciers, geysers,
boiling springs, passes, caves and caverns,
forest scenery, coast scenery, ports and
harbors, &c. Station Life Squatting,
stock driving, kangaroo slaughtering,
shepherding, sheep shearing, wool scour-
ing, horse breaking, bush fires. Gold
mining, silver mining, coal mining.
Wood cutting and sawing. Country
Life :—Land clearing, farming, harvest-
ing, hop picking, sugar growing, market
gardening, dairying. Machinery. Ship-
ping. Naval and military illustrations.
Travelling. Coaching. Bushranging.
Old sites. Historical incidents illus-
trated. Government and Public Build-
ings, including:—Government Houses,
Parliament Houses, town halls, public
libraries, custom houses, mints, treasuries,
law courts, hospitals, asylums, prisons,
forts, lighthouses, telegraphs, post and
telegraph offices, roads and railways,
railway stations, bridges, viaducts. Cities
and towns, principal streets, markets,
churches, schools and colleges, museums,
exhibitions, parks and gardens, public
statues and monuments. Sports, includ-
ing :—Racing, cricketing, footballing,
bicycling, yachting, hunting, rabbit
trapping, agricultural and cattle shows.
It also contains 50 portraits of noted
Aboriginals of Australia, Tasmania, New
Zealand, New Guinea, New Caledonia,
Fiji, Samoa, &c., together with illustra-
tions of their houses, dress, weapons,
customs, corroborees, war dances, battles,
<fcc.
Also Australasian native animals, birds,
reptiles, fish, insects, &c. ; and Austral-
asian native trees, plants, and flowers.
The work, altogether, is a very complete
epitome of universal information about
Australasia. It was published at
£7 10s., and is now sold for £1 at
COLE’S BOOK ARCADES, Mel-
bourne ; 333 and 146 George-street,
Sydney ; and 67 Rundle-street,
Adelaide.
This is an opportunity that will never
occur again.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. por Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO liEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
On; fctors —The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, P.1.A., P.F.A., P.S.S.
1 EAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
THE SECOND SUBDIVISIONAL
The Section includes 32 Choice Dairy and
Agricultural Farms from 72 to 344 Acres.
AUCTION SALE (6000 Acres) OF
THE ROMANY ESTATE
20,000
ACRES
ON THF FASSIFERN RAILWAY, 46 MILES
FROM BRISBANE, Q’LAND, WILL TAKE
PLACE AT HARRISYILLE, AT 2 P.M. ON
SATURDAY, June Ist
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES*.
The Cressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk factory (1J
miles away) pays sd. per gallon for milk.
RAINFALL —36.66 inches; average for 18 years.
Close to Market and Railway Station.
Settlers can visit Brisbane and return same day.
No Survey Fees or Residential Conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material, and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land —Ridges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, level roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks.
The Normanby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and large lucerne fattening paddocks,
and has been used for many years past as a
“ Topping ” Run for fat stock travelling to Bris-
bane markets.
LIBERAL TERMS
One-tenth Cash ;
Balance in Ten
Annual Payments
at 5 per cent.
PLANS AND PARTICULARS FROM
ISLES, LOVE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
N.B.—Conveyance meets train every morning.
articulars and Plans obtainable at all offices
■'> tralian Estates and L.M. Go., Ltd.
«NtSrS^
91
9
Electric Scarf Pins
For Attaching to Pocket Lamps.
These Pins are made to wear in the scarf,
and the wire for connecting- with Lamp is
long enough to run down under the vest, and
allow you to carry Lamp in either vest or
trousers pocket. Easily connected by un-
screwing burner from Lamp and screwing in
its place Button or Pin.
Skull Pattern Pin, price 1/2; Pearl and
Brilliant Pin, price 1/5 i and Lamp
Pattern, price 1/8 post free anywhere.
THE SEARCHLIGHT Electric Pocket Lamp.
This Electric Pocket Lamp is guaranteed in perfect order, throw-
iMg a dazzling bright light. Though so cheap, it is of the best quality.
By pressing the button the light is instantly available. It contains its
own battery, and every Lamp is tested before forwarding. Useful for
many purposes. Strongly made Nickel Case, finished in imitation
crocodile leather. Price only 2/« posted free to any address in Aus-
tralasia. The same Lamp, fitted with Bull’s-eye Magnifier, price 2/6
post free anywhere. Extra Batteries for Lamps, which can be recharged
when exhausted by adding hot water, price 1/3 post free anywhere.
Electrical Novelties, Conjuring: Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise
and Joke Novelties.
H. L HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY GO,
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket. WHOLESALE and RETAIL. WRITE FOR PRICE LIST B.
The Most Up-to-date Fancy Goods Store in Australasia.
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
ITow to Make Love, Is Dream Book, Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Kreutzer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of thf, Romish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art Studies. 5 parts, 10s. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates & engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Mid wives’ Handbook, 92 illus., 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Lover’s Letter.
Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning Calcula-
tor, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid,
Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
tik
0
MAKES the SKIN
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
AH Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
B»>nts Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALEs STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St,, Sydney, Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL i A, E, DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney,
It Stands to Reason
that the Man
who first discovered that the human
voice could be reproduced—the dis-
covery that was the parent of the
Telephone as well as the Phonograph
—to-day produces the best talking
machines made.
Thomas A. Edison invented the
Phonograph, and every genuine
EDISON
Phonograph
bears his name “Thomas A. Edison’’
as a trade mark—without which none
are genuine.
Write us for descriptive printed
matter and the name of your nearest
dealer, who will play you some selec-
tions —FREE OF CHARGE.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Don’t
“DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 75% of Cases of Old
or " p- —-
Our FREE BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES are dangerous things for you to “doctor”
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent, of
cases of deafness of people who write us. 75 per cent,
of cases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
Write us the
History of
Your Case and
We will ad-
vise you Free.
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
young-, whether you have
been deaf long or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and WE WILL
tell you whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you. DON’T, we can.
We can, because, as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will send you’ FREE, we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. It tells you the names and addresses of
hundreds of people who formerly were deaf, and whr
could only be cured by using Mr. Vernon’s Electricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain, because if
we can't Care your case we will
say so at once.
That costs you nothing, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-day.
THE ...
tltt"**
BRINGS BACK)
LOST
HEARING^
THE L. R. VERNON CO.
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no inconveni-
ence, and ere he is aware his complete reform is effected.
We send book of particulars and samples of Eucrasy, free
sealed.
Address : THE- EUCRASY CO.
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
Qrand Pipes
Best Pipes
DelichttulPipes
Thais what
v?,
* D £*l/\RK CUARANTIjS^
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable frmaHTobacconists


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
“ Grip ” sends this to “ Akenehi ” :
Your pathetic inability to go out in your grasshopper
arouses my sympathy. If you so desire, I will introduce
you to a girl who can tame it. She can, or could, train
anything, but perhaps her hand has lost its cunning.
She is strenuously engaged just at present training a
dimpled microbe with two abnormally fat leg's, which she
fondly dubs her “ Ownest Own.” Remember an occasion
when her family was visited by a very pompous bishop.
It was in very deed an Occasion. The girl, being
left alone with His August Pomposity, offered
to bet him a new shovel hat that Don, her
collie, would pick out his photo from a dozen
or so others, and, without giving the shocked
cleric time to catch his breath, she whistled up Don, told
him to have a good look at his gaitered Nibs, and empty-
L n ", a ;, riU ? lber photos on the floor, commanded him to
find the bishop’s. The dog studied the group thought-
fully, and then, with a joyous bark, seized in his teeth
the photograph which the bishop had naturally imagined
reposed prominentlyin a massive silver frame in the show-
room of the house: That evening a dinner had been pre-
pared for the clotted cream of the hamlet, and when
feeding had begun the girl surreptitiously let loose a
The little chap sat on his hind legs in the
middle of the table and smilingly enjoyed the situation.
The ladies rose screaming, and the mouse, delighted at
bemg free, and excited, perhaps, at the unusual noise,
started a mad race round the table, leaping the small
cruets and other obstacles in splendid fashion. Un-
happfly, his last jump over a low, white fence topped by
daffodils was taken too exuberantly, and he landed in the
Bishop s still warm soup, splashing the august one like
anything. The girl, with horror written on her face,
came round quickly and removed the plate, and in a
second the mouse was secretly tucked away again, to be
produced on some future occasion when thing's looked
promising. She was an awful handful of a girl.
A mob of sheep was troubled by crows
pecking at their eyes, and were constrained to
express themselves in anything but a sheep-like
way. The discontent of the jumbucks shocked j
the crows extremely, and they said that the in- I
gratitude and selfishness of the lower orders quite I
surpassed comprehension.
Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
(\r\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
. Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near KingswayY
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Price
Those
wiry beards
that resist the
razor’s edge quickly
yield to the softening
influence of the pure
antiseptic lather pro-
duced by
Williams’
Shaving Stick
feels line on the face
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers,
all over the world, or mailed to any address
on receipt of price in stamps. Williams’
Shaving Sticks,ls.; Williams’ Luxury Ta-
blets, Is.; Williams’American Shaving Tab
lets, 6d. (Trial size) of Williams’ Shav-
ing Stick, 2d
TheJ. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Bussell St., London, W. C •
1 Paris,4Kue Chauveaux Lai '
161 Clarence St., Sydney
S outh Wa. es. Head,
office and facto-
ries, Glaston-
bury, Conn.,
i.A.
u
BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pi'izo Medals^
Works 5 Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS
At Lowest
Rates.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
Tel. 4552.
■Mbs
itfilra
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
MEN
suffering' from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug' Co., 88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “Medical Review,” London, 25 years
chief consultant & Locum Tenens to Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostician, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for over 30 years! Cure Guaranteed.
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEGTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live', and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free ““X
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
V
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE I ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
in ature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
wnicn they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
, SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
0^- C ° V , Cred fdition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for aEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datb, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d
Complaints, is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. wm~ Established, So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT in stamps, money order, or
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sta«-e Is
posted. New Tricks wmi Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid’
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is.
Practical Palmistry, is. Love and Parentage 8d
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. A est Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhefe.


TIRED OF LIFE
IFULSUFFERING
From Dreadful Pains From Wound
on Foot—System All Run Down
After Six Months’ Agony—Not
Able to Work —Completely Cured
in Two Weeks.
MIRACULOUS "CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Words cannot speak highly enough
for the Cuticura Remedies. lam now
seventy-two years of age. My system
had been all run
down. My blood
was so bad that
blood poisoning
had set in. I had
several doctors
attending me, so
finally I went to
the hospital, where
I was laid up for
two months. My
foot and ankle were
almost beyond
recognition. Dark
blood flowed out of wounds in many
places, and I was so disheartened that
I thought surely my last chance was
slowly leaving me. As the foot did
not improve, you can readily imagine
how I felt. I was simply disgusted
and tired of life. I stood this pain,
which was dreadful, for six months,
and during this time I was not able to
wear a shoe and not able to work.
“Some one spoke to me about Cuti-
cura. I bought a set of the Cuticura
Remedies and the praise that I gave
after the second application is beyond
description ; it seemed a miracle,
for the Cuticura Remedies took
effect immediately. I washed the foot
with the Cuticura Soap before applying
the Ointment and I took the Resolvent
at the same time. After two weeks’ treat-
ment my foot was healed completely.
People who had seen my foot during my
illness and who have seen it since the
cure, can hardly believe their own eyes.”
Robert Schoenhauer,
Aug. 21, 1905. Newburgh, N. Y.
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation
Reference: R Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Resolvent Pills (Clioeolate Coated, in vial of 60),
may be had of all druggists A single set often cures the
most distressing and torturing humours. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Poston, TJ. S. A.
83T Mailed Free, 44 The Great Skin Book.”
Address, R Ty^P B Go., Sydney, N. S. W.
AJk
/
Oatine
r is the great face cream
that is making so
many English com-
plexions clear and
beautiful.
A year ago Oatine was unknown in Eng-
and, now it is used by every woman who
values a good complexion.
Merit alone has built up its enormous popu-
larity. Oatine is a pure face cream, cooling
and refreshing, free from animal fat and
dangerous minerals. It removes the dust
and dirt that soap and water cannot reach
from the pores, and keeps the skin soft,
delicate and clear. It does not grow hair.
Being made from fresh pure oats, heat does
not cause it to go bad.
It is the ideal face cream for Australiansi
and will enable any woman to keep a fresh
clear complexion in the drv Australian
climate. Men use it after shaving.
In jars 1/3, or large size, four times the
amount, 2/6.
To be obta'ned at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Austtalia.
Get ajar to-day.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks'
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
- QUEENSLAND QIANQH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
Wkst Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE’’
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
lOHN SANDS, 374 George St, Sydney,
Solk Australian Aoknt Wabasii Systems.
105,000
The WaybacK iSeries*
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 8.
aad keeps laughing. Red Harry ts.
m/.
f/s
O'
\\
Ss
%
fr
I
m
t *?
ft,y
.•<••••
.>//
frVtW
VX
x
X
w
|V%
¥
MU
California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
■weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figs,
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A
o.
2
V
o
o
yiDE
swv
r
FREE.i^
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES*
OXFORD
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
10/6
14/6.
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
In box ealf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
Our Booklet, “ Shoelight,” that illus-
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
LEMMING’S BOOT Stores
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
mmm*mmssstr
■Kg;
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
'
GtS^Cfr
SALT ®
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1006, says:—
“ This famous salt maintains its qualities for digestibility and savour,
chloride of sodium this preparation contains phosphates which
Cerebos Salt not only a flavouring ingredient, but a food in itself.”
Agents—harrison Attwood, Sydney.
Besides
render
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin fuze
Price, 21s.
The Inky Way.
There is a cynical comp, on the Melbourne Argus.
Lately he made a preacher declare that the world was
governed by “ Gold Almighty.”
* • # •
“ N.L.” : “ Mr. Mortimer Ohalcedon’s short stories are
about to be published in book form.” That kind of sen-
tence is turned out by the thousand. Why shouldn’t
literary chroniclers boil it down to “ Mortimer Chalcedon
is being volumed ” ? They’d save fully 2d. a year on ink
by taking this hint.
* • # •
A hard-up Sydney compositor visited a religious paper
office the other day. “ Yes,” said the boss, “we are
busy, and we want a good fast comp.” “That’s me,
exactly,” rejoined the out-o’-work. “ What are the
wages?” “ Well, we always pay 225. 6d. to good men,”
said the boss, with a condescending attitude.' “Do j'ou
pay on Wednesday and Saturday—twice a week?” asked
the out-o’-labor person, as he left. \ Taken right through,
the Christian newspapers are the worst to work for.
• * » •
One Thomas Catling was banqueted in London on his
retirement from the editorship of Lloyd’s Weekly News,
and Lord Burnham (who used to be Edward Lawson, of
London Daily Telegraph, and who was plain Levy the Jew
before he went sour and disguised himself as Lawson) spoke
a piece. Describing Fleet-street, he said:—“lts whole
length—from Ludgate Circus to the Temple—is only a
third of a mile. No such concentration as that now
found there exists in any other part of the world. I
believe that 107 newspapers have their offices in Fleet-
street metropolitan, provincial, colonial, foreign,
European, American, Asiatic. The Far West and the Far
East, from California to Hong Kong, meet journalistically
in Fleet-street.”
• • • *
The importing craze which afflicts the offices of the
Sydney dailies extends to their own columns, imported
news of scant interest to Australians being given place,
and space denied to first-class local cop3’. News, like
heat, lessens in intensity with distance. Nevertheless,
the Sydney Foreign-trade journals exalt trumpery stuff,
just because it is sent over the cables from somewhere
else, into epoch-making items. What reader, for in-
stance, remembers a word—if he ever read it—of the
columns of reports of House of Commons debates which
have been put forward among the items of the day during
the past few months ? One recent day the “ bill ”of one
morning paper announced as its star item “ The Royal
Visit to Spain.”
•*# ■ *
Interesting editorial paragraph from an English thief
paper:—“lam exceedingly pleased to find our colored
readers are taking a greater interest than ever in our
good old papers. Clive Butcher writes from Ben-
digo, Victoria, saying: ‘I have read your three
papers for many years, and still continue to enjoy
them ; in fact, I think them better than ever.’”
Victoria, as every intelligent English editor knows, is
some sort of a jungle, somewhere in S. Africa, or there-
abouts. You take the tram at Timbuetoo. There are a
few whites, but mostly the population consists of woolly-
headed blacks with .yellow stripes—a marvellous provision
of nature to allow them to escape the deadly native bear,
which roams over the country. At the sign of a bear the
native lies motionless on the ground, and the bear mis-
takes the yellow stripes for veins of gold, for which the
Bendigo district is especially noted. And even in such
places as this, you see, “ our good old papers ” are
circulated.
* • * *
“Claude Clipperton”: A Woman who was shopping
in an Emporium managed to surreptitiously annex some
yards of Lace, which she clipped with her pocket Scissors.
The Theft was not discovered for some Days, by which
time the Culprit had used her >' tty to ornament her
Dress. When brought before the V gistrates, she boldly
asserted that the Lace was but a otation in the new
Costume which formed her latest Publication, and that
she gave due Acknowledgment to Inquirers that it had
once adorned the lace-draped Columns of the Emporium.
It was, in fact, an Extract, and she wore it between In-
verted Commas. Her Husband, she added, was the Editor
of a Snips Paper, and he had always Told her never to
Steal anything without Acknowledgment. “Go to!”
said the chief Magistrate. “ You use the Terms of
one Art to describe the Transactions of another. Six
months 1 ”
• * * *
“Cash”: “C.N.”, who wants (B. 7/3/’O7) public
speakers to show just where their quotations from other
people begin and leave off, should go for newspaper
writers. There is hardly a big daily in Australia that
does not fill up with alleged “ leaders ” pirated from some
article in the bigger English magazines. The source
of the inspiration is probably alluded to onee
in the course of the column, to give a defence
to the charge of stealing (“We acknowledge our
indebtedness”); similarly, there will be one solid block
of quotation. But compare the rest of the turn-out with
the original article, and you will find, at best, a careful
paraphrase, with the original allusions to “ English ”
customs turned into “ English and Australian ” or
“ British.” An Adelaide freelance pressman of the long
ago tried an even simpler plan. He copied out of London
Public Opinion (which gives the views of all sides on
current topics) three slabs of opinion from different
journals, and these, unaltered, made up the three para-
graphs of a refutation leader. It was printed and paid
for; but discovery and retribution followed quickly.
“P. Winkle ” : My experience on the Inky Way :
Begin with the Age. I’ve had several, articles accepted
and printed promptly. But, nary a bean have I received.
The Leader is damnably worse, for it has paid me
for the letterpress (40 lines at ljd. a line), but quite
overlooked payment for the several published photos
I got, at great inconvenience, from certain celeb-
rities. The Argus pays promptly and well. The
Town and Country .Journal staff I intend to kick all
round —personally and collectively—when I visit Sydney.
I have sent stories on several occasions that have been
expensively typewritten, only to be returned rolled as
adamant as a fossil’s gizzard, and gummed so that the
MSS. was irretrievably spoilt. Steele Rudd’s Mag.
is good at long field, and returns promptly, although
the thumb-marks on my returned MS. are reputed to be
those of feminines, and the faint perfume that pervades
the enclosed Brisbane atmosphere as it escapes from the
envelope lends the aroma of Truth to the opinion—given
by a policeman who has made thumb-impressions a
-pecialty. Re The Bulletin—prompt pay and returns
are its most pleasing and profitable feature. I received
payment for certain bombs aimed at the editor two
ears ago—no publicity as yet.
OUR POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our poet sings of many things,
All causes he espouses—
Of Cupid’s wings and wedding-rings ;
Of huts, hotels and houses ;
Of simple maids in quaint brocades
And girls in summer blouses.
He’s got a lot of tommyrot
In every week’s editions,
On weather, doves, illicit loves,
Erotics and perditions;
On cows, and flats, and plutocrats
And perjured politicians.
I like to read his ready screed,
His quips and cranks and catches,
His metres strange, his varied range,
His epics, odes and snatches,
That twinkle here and thunder there
As divers themes he hatches.
We’re often told that verse is old—
The primal form of letters ;
All lore was sung with measured tongue,
Till language cast its fetters.
The ancients knew a thing or two,
And we are much their debtors.
So dip your pen, and start again,
O bard of many phases—
Sing loud and long your Summer song
On wattle-bloom and daisies ;
On kings and cads and fashion-fads,
On Paradise and blazes 1
VIC.
A.B.O.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55.000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116.621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. ;. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of ||aui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,('00.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and othei places.
Bank of |)eui Sooth (Dales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ... 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund _. ... 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... . . 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 5,475,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
O. R. COW PER,
Superintendent.
Shipping.
l\r. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. 7th MAY.
MANILA i . 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal jjank of flueensland
LIMIT HI). **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FoND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ ABCRPCCN LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
"MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
DAMASCUS
N. Allan .. .. | Noon, May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, June 21
H. A. Sehleman .. I. Noon, July 19
"Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on da)' of sailing.
Dalyet/y and. Com nan a. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LO«DO‘J via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 17tb MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
SUE VIC to follow.
II
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyetj/ and ( oiujtau•/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA.
*Twin Screw.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars..^
UNION STEAM SHIP CO /I PA Y OF N.Z. LTD.
Auenis. < Jeor•/e-sr.reefe, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
mm^
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a
$5-
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S. "W.
(I|ontdepieteO.«i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLERIIAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FRJ.I'K. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,130,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy'-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S, Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tile.y, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
lion, il S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up JE1,000,000.
Reserve Fund .£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHESs
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney ami Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND —Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville. ’
WEST AUSTRALIA —Perth, Fremantle, Kalg’gdr'lik,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Rokbukxi;.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Sblpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOK MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. .
S.S. Riverina, Wednesday,
May 15.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
May 29.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, May!
-S.S. Marloo, May 11.
S.S. Yong-ala, May 18.
Best and 'J/ieapest /to ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime!
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, AD&
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,aiI
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:-
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batayia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £i(
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Office
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Bataan afield Puiad*
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house ic
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beaen.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, j-honr
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., Lcndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
HOTEL
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Henry Skinner,
Glardudou-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101$. CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far tiie largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Hin.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terras.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J.-Alu®,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. &
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwadßi
M.L.C. . , .
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A-
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY^
Diana” Iloussaye,
folio size Photo,
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
PHOTOS
With 700
Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 in
Monev Order or Stamps ot an)
country ! Sample Collections <*
Photos, and Post Cards at s,‘f
101-, 20/-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
Postage 2 la.
o
N THE HOP ! —3OO of “ Hop S r>«; .T


jkj.
lai)* in Australia.
m anas
ilnsutpsoaliU ('JuaUtn.
ir font tn touch, in tune, in design, in ujoodtoorh, tnctaluioi[h, frame, iuning-sgstem,
earrings, action, felt, glue, qastoqs, scones, strings, polish—in qrcrg detail of
material, of tnoqhmanship, and of sgstqm of mamtfaduqq, in qrcqg attribute, %
gqale Australian pianos ace of unsurpassable qitaliig. Stheg are built throughout on
% most up-to-date, Scientific principles, bg tjpqongtflg competent icorlimcn, gttidqd bg
experiqncqd management. !®lpg contain features tchiqh cannot be obtained in aitg otffur
pianos—patented Steel tuniug-sgStem, patented gross-plied tcoodmorh, patented Itccagonal
baSs-stgings, patented cast-in bitch pins. ®hq sgstera of manufaeiuqq in mang respects
is far ahead of % practice of,tip piano mabqrS of (Cheat Britain, Europe, and America,
and in ecqrg otlpr qcspqcf it is equal. Slip qualiig of the matqrialS is thq bqs’t that monrg
tan bug. glpu horn pan ttpre be ang beftqr pianos ? ®he demonstrable fact is itpt
ilprq are no pianoS—German, (Sutglislp oq ang otheg—quen equal to
tip 1 grab A ua tqalian fianos. We do not elaim that tfpqq ai;e no otlpr higlf grade
pianos, but up do most qmphaticallg aSSqqt that tip Beale fianos, bg gqasott of our
patqntqd inceptions and ouc improced systems of mamrfaqJuqq, are superior to all
otheqs, good as Soup of tlpse otlprs undoubtqdlg aqe. Come and see them foq goursclf.
Write for Qtataloguq and qirculars. (Compare them uiith all the otlpr piaaos gou hnoiu
of, See uiljich is snperior—and gou mill detidq to bug a gealq.
dash or (Eaep ‘derms
$S ranches anb drabeUers throughout the (Eotntnontoealih.
474 (Seorgc §treet, spbnep; 107 §toanston §treet, JRelbounte; 28 punter street, Jtrtocaetle;
24 sribge §treet, #allarat; George Street, Bathurst; Jftitcheli Street, sSenbigo; 127 JLunble
gtreet, Jlbelaibe; 615 Dag §tveet, Perth; 101 Brisbane §treet, Launceston.
Cfcrtt times as mang feat* Australian fianos art solb gearlg in geustraliH as of ang otljer make. Sljcg art solb birttt from
fattorg to ustr —no mibbltmtn.


We have received a copy of a high-class
gravure, issued by Bovril Limited, London, en-
titled “A Tempting Bait,” which is a reproduc-
tion of the charming oil painting that was ex-
hibited in the Royal Academy in 1906 by Arthur
J. Elsley. This gravure is given free in exchange
for coupons found round all bottles and jars of
Bovril. Full particulars as to conditions of ob-
taining these pictures are given on the leaflets
wrapped round the bottles and jars.
With this issue the proprietors of Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure, a well-known household remedy, com-
mence their 1907 campaign. As a fitting introduction to
the season they have just received the following com-
munication from the New Zealand International Exhibi-
tion authorities : “New Zealand International Exhibition,
1906-7, April 2nd, 1907.—W. E. Woods and Co., Propty.
Ltd.—Dear Sirs—l beg to inform you that you have been
awarded a diploma of special award and gold!medal for
your exhibit of drugs and medicines in class 3, subdivision
2. Subject: Woods’Great Peppermint Cure for coughs
and colds—l am, Dear Sirs, Yours faithfully, D. A.
M’lntyre, Superintendent of Juries and Awards.'”*
The Targo and Floris motor race held this year
at Sicily was'regarded more as a test of endurance than
speed, and was run over rough roads through mountainous
country. There was over 50 entries, and the first six
home were fitted with Michelen Tyres, of which Messrs.
Barnet Glass and Co. are the sole Australian agents. At
this firm’s works at Footscray (Melb.) some excellent re-
pairing and re-rubbering is being done. Motah men from
Europe speak highly of it.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report re wool :
Since last week’s auctions very few transactions have
taken place, the majority of buyers being absent attend-
ing the Brisbane sales. The market shows no quotable
change, and any good shipping lines are readily placed at
late rates. Sales will not be resumed in this centre Until
14th prox., ours being fixed for the 15th, when we hope
to bring forward several well-known Queensland brands
of the new clip.*
Amusements.
“THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Direction .... .. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2,
The Romantic Drama in Four Acts, entitled,
BRIGADIER GERARD.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as CAPTAIN GERARD
Other Characters by Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
RITERION TH EATR E, SYDN E Y.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 4, HONOR THY FATHER.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
WHAT WOULD A GENTLEMAN DO ?
Preceded Each Evening at 8 o’clock by
IN HONOR BOUND.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
“fHE LYCEUM HALL, BYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty,” and
THE BRESCIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR OF
** MADAME TERESA
CAERENO,
The Celebrated Pianist,
Beginning,
MELBOURNE, MAY 20; SYDNEY, JUNE 8.
Direction BENNO SCHEREK.
JOURING QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A hijrh-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manajrer— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Immense Success of MISS BIJOU RUSSELL.
Great Success of EMIL AMIEL, World’s Leading Flexible
Equilibrist and Most Marvellous Bender.
CLEOPATRA, the Fearless & Fascinating Snake Charmer.
BONITA, World’s Champion Girl Rifle Shot.
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
Miss IDA INGERSOLE. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
LITTLE EILEEN O’NEILL. HARRY SADLER.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THREE GIBSON GIRLS, Singers, Dancers.
FANNY POWERS, Singer, Dancer, Mimic.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plays.
ADRIAN AMADIO, Boy Flautist.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.'
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
Plan at Allan’s. OW PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
THURSDAY, 2nd MAY, FRIDAY, 3rd MAY,
Last Two Performances of DOROTHY VERNON.
SATURDAY, 4th MAY,
A MEMORABLE AND BRILLIANT EVENT.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
SUNDAY.
This being' her Last Six Performances in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
SLIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 ’ Lessee .. .. .. .. BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
the most popular of Drury Lane Dramas,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
ICE SKATING.
THE FAVORITE WINTER PASTIME.
THE GLACIARIUM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
will be RE-OPENED on
SATURDAY, the 4th MAY, 1907.
H. NEWMAN REID, General Manager.
"[■OWN HALL, MELBOURNE
Commencing MONDAY, MAY 6.
AN ARTISTIC COMBINATION.
COOK’S PICTURES,
COOK'S PICTURES,
AND TIIE
ALL BLACKS,
ALL BLACKS,
Orchestra Singers and Terpsichorean Artists.
ALL ARTISTS. ALL TALENTED.
ALL CLEVER.
J. A. MACDONALD, Advance Manager.
Business Announcements.
“50RELLE” (THE MISSES CLAPP)
Will Visit SYDNEY early in JULY,
With one of their Fitters and SPRING MODELS
and MATERIALS.
The Grosvenor Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
This Favorite Hotel has now been thoroughly
' renovated, and offers splendid accommodation
for Visitors.
BEAUTIFUL PUBLIC ROOMS.
EXCELLENT CUISINE. CIVIL AND ATTENTIVE STAFF.
Under My Own Management.
Special Tariff during Winter Season.
C. VV. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Missing Friends.
IF JAMES DAVIS, husband of Ellen Davis,
of 60 Junior Street, Leichhardt, last heard
of in Brisbane about the end of 1903, will
communicate with the undersigned he will hear
of something to his advantage.
BROWN & BEERY,
Solicitors,
46 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Tenders.
rTIENDERS are invited for . . .
Hire of School of Arts Hall,
Casino, N.S.W.,
From JULY 29 to AUGUST 3 (Race Week).
Tenders close MAY 11.
Highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
JOHN H. CONNOR, Hon. Sec., Casino.
Business Announcements.
| RPIES’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Mukphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Ladies* Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
NOVEL AND VERY CHEAP
KEYLESS ELECTRIC CLOCK
7} inches high by 5 inches wide.
Handsome Appoaranoe Excellent Timekeeper
Observe the Price— Only 8/6
A REALLY NICE PRESENT
f.HERE are several points of superiority
about this Keyless Electric Clock. The
chain and weight movement is much more
reliable than any spring mechanism, there is no
danger of a broken spring, the winding is done in
a moment by merely pulling up the weight by the
chain. If you want to see the time during the
night, you have simply to press the button and
the brilliant Incandescent Light illuminates the
face of the clock. The figures and the bands are
• white, and thus show out clearly and distinctly
on the dark background of the prettily embossed
case. You must not think that this clock is in-
ferior because it is so cheap. We guarantee it to
keep excellent time.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE
\X/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
” BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Do YOU want to buy A PHONOGRAPH?
w
TRADE\ \\l\l MARK
WOTU
E~
phonos
Why not buy it at the wholesalers where
you get better treatment, better terms,
and a better instrument.
Our mechanics regulate, oil and overhaul
every Phonograph before we send it out—
this is a feature you cannot be sure of if
you buy elsewhere.
The EDISON Gem Phonograph,
£2 lOs.
The EDISON Standard Phonograph,
£5.
The EDISON Home Phonograph,
£7 lOs.
RECORDS—I/-, 1/3, 1/6, and 1/9 Each.
Write for Catalogs—FßEE.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Importers of Phonographs
and Records,
393 George St.,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
(foSSR
mwwV'S
the moustacheless man
Often finds it a great disadvantage to be without a
moustache. Just think for a little and you’ll quite
understand this.
CAPILLARINK is the only genuine Moustache pro-
dueer—it goes deeply into the roots and actually
FORCES the hair.
capillarine is sent post free anywhere for
lOs. 6d.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 26 Years.
Tasmanian Labor Conference decided by 16
to 11 that Protection should be in its platform.
But as the State Labor party’s constitution
requires a two-thirds majority to effect a change,
the vote didn’t count. Still, it’s something to
know that a large majority of the Tasmanian
Laborites realise that when Watson comes to
power he must have a fiscal policy.
Another sailor has been drowned from
Melbourne wharf through stumbling over a loose
rope in that ill-lighted death-trap. In its regard
for human life, Melbourne Harbor Trust is about
the last thing in shiftlessness. Bent, recognising
that, once threatened to mend the blundering
concern; but it happened to be one of Bent’s
days for empty bellowing.
It’s always the wail of the Tory press that
the Labor voter pays more attention to politics
than the Tory voter, and Sydney Telegraph
advances a most unconvincing reason -
Men with large interests requiring their attention can-
not afford to spend all their time standing at attention in
the ranks of a conscript political army eternally on a war
footing - . To this extent the party they belong to is and
always must be at a disadvantage in a general election, as
compared with the more rigidly disciplined Socialist
phalanx.
The Telegraph w'ould really have the public
believe that the worker has nothing to occupy his
time except politics—that he doesn’t work, but
just stands all his time with his eye fixed on next
election. It is too thin.
At a recent Melb. function
Senator St. Ledger (Queensland) said that, as a man
experienced in practical politics, &c., &e.
What does Saint Cashbook’s practical experience
of politics amount to ? As Laborite, as Philpite,
as Independent, he stood for State electorates,
and never had a look in. He wore out all his
boots pursuing the State elector, and never caught
him. And at last he was selected by Anti-Sosh
to run for a Senate seat, and was elected, but he
hasn’t even seen a Speaker yet, except, perhaps,
in the street, and he hasn’t even seen the inside
of a Parliament House, except as a casual visitor.
That’s what the swollen-headed St. Daybook’s
“ practical politics ” amount to.
“D.K.” raises a curious question :
Should the farmer have a vote? Personally I say
“No.” In Queensland he wants to import cheap Dago
labor, and thereby drive Australian farm hands out of
the business. If the farmer is entitled to have cheap
Dago labor, so is every other class of employer, and the
end of the business would be that the Australian
toiler would disappear, as far as Queensland is concerned
—if the fanners had their way. It was the members put
into the Federal Parliament by the Australian workers
that gave these farmers the sugar bonus, and thereby
changed them from poverty-stricken objects clothed in
old spud bags to well-to-do persons with bank balances,
sons at college, buggies in their sheds, and pianos and
mechanical players in their drawing-rooms. And the
fanners replied by voting solidly on the Anti-Sosh ticket
at the last election. That is the ungrateful Queensland
farmer; but in Victoria he is a fool as well as an ingrate.
The Victorian farmers elected Bent and his gang
to prevent the Labor party putting on a land-tax
and bursting up the big estates, so that their
sons might get cheap land. Then in Maoriland it
was the farmer who howled till he got the duty
taken off agricultural machinery, and thereby ruined a
thriving local industry and seriously damaged his home
market by depriving the people who worked in those
factories of employment. Now he is importing shoddy
American machines at an increased price, which will
keep on rising—and serve the fool right. No, most
emphatically the farmer should not have a vote. He
isn’t fit for it.
Joseph Carruthers, of Sydney, put his
foot down with crushing weight on the innocent
Immigration League for asking, not exactly a'
subsidy, but a little office accommodation. He was
quite surprisingly virtuous :
Mr. Carruthers, in reply, said that in matters where the
responsibility must rest with the State, the State took the
view that, having the responsibility, it will not connect
its name, by endowment or subsidy or gift or grant, with
anything which was not wholly, absolutely, and directly,
under its control. This was the only safe policy to
take up.
That’s quite a wonderfully sound principle when
you come to look at it, and provided you turn it
all round so as to inspect it from every side ; but
somehow it doesn’t square with other parts of
N.S.W. practice. Schools of Arts, Agricultural
Societies, and quite a heap of things managed by
committees which are quite independent of
Government are heavily subsidised. After all,
.Toe’s virtue is not deep.
“ Wusslean ” : I’m “doing” a Victorian
district, over which lies wide and heavy the curse
of the big loafing landlord, and although the land
would support teeming thousands, one can travel,
day in and day out, over leagues of beautiful park-
like land, without meeting a soul. There are town-
ships where there should be towns, and the town-
ships are seldom even “two pubs and a hut”;
sometimes there’s the pub, and sometimes the
hut. I used to ride past towns I had to visit till I
adopted an ingenious device. I carry an alarm
clock, and set it to the time it takes to reach, the
township. When the alarm goes off, I get off my be-
lated steed and look for the township. I generally
strike it pretty right, but when I forget to allow
for a wind behind me, I am carried right through
the township, and have to walk slowly back look-
ing for it. This would occur oftener but that
some of these townships, which could hardly be
sworn to as places “within the meaning of the
Act,” erect signs which announce that one has
arrived at, say, Bundgulmerang. A keen eye
will then detect signs of settlement. There are
seldom more than signs, and sometimes the grasp
of the land-grabber has effaced even them.
An American correspondent, writing in
March Scribner’s on “The Situation in Man-
churia,” makes these unpleasant remarks :
In discussing some moral aspects of the Japanese occu-
pation, recently, with a British missionary of world-wide
reputation, who has resided in Manchuria for many
years and through the entire period of the Russian
occupation and the war, I found him in rather a gloomy
frame of mind. Among other things he said : “I am very
much disappointed at the results or the Japanese adminis-
tration. Its general effect has been to decidedly lower
the moral tone of Chinese life. The conditions under
which the people have been compelled to exist, the
necessity for constant evasion and lying to save their
lives and property, the deteriorating commercial influence
of the Japanese traders who are supported in their pre-
tensions by the military authorities, the uncertainty of
obtaining justice from the Japanese military courts, and
the presence of thousands of Japanese men of low charac-
ter, and immoral Japanese women who openly ply their
avocation in the streets of the cities and towns, are cor-
rupting influences new to the country, or only felt before
to a limited degree.”
That woman who plies the oldest profession on
earth is so vast and glaring a feature of Jap life
that she intrudes into every Jap narrative. It is
impossible to keep her out. Japan appears to be
all small brown swindle, and small brown Flossie
Few clothes, and brown Tottie, and brown Moll
Flanders—or rather Moll Chrysanthemum. It is
the Tottiest empire On earth—the universal
Tottie, in fact.
Among plans to induce electors to vote,
that proposed by Arthur Dymoiid in England
about 1828 merits a mention. Dymond proposed
that officers appointed by the State should go
from house to house and collect the popular
suffrages. Those officers were to be purely State
1 officials under obligation to show no party bias.
The House of Commons rejected the plan almost
without a hearing.
Maoriland shows a growing dislike to our
yellow brother, and the circular printed below is
calculated to pour oil on the troubled flames.
Whoever drafted it is a fairly thorough individual,
and if he can get his ideas embodied in an Act of
Parliament, it will give Lord Lansdowne a fatal
shock for certain. This is the circular :
THE ANTI-ASIATIC LEAGUE OF MAORILAND.
The Aims and Objects op this League are :
(1) To approach the Government from time to time in
matters affecting anti-Asiatic legislation, and to advocate
as follows
(2) The bringing down of amendments to the present
Acts dealing with the immigration of Chinese, and raising
the poll-tax from the present amount (one hundred
pounds) to one thousand pounds.
(3) The re-introducti.on of the Asiatic Restriction Act,
1896, which failed to receive the assent of the British
authorities (or a similar Act).
(4) The bringing’ down of an Asiatic Deportation Bill for
the purpose of deporting all undesirable Asiatics now in
this State.
(5) The matter of our constitutional rights in dealing
with Asiatics that are and are not in treaty with the
British Government.
(6) The necessity for having the names and places of
business of all Chinese printed on their fruit bags,
groceries, and all other articles that they sell, so that they
can be detected in evasions of the law's.
This League considers that the time is ripe for the
proposals herein outlined, and also that the yellow
scourge will become a real menace to the people of this
State in the very near future.


The Colonial Bank of Australasia [united.
The Twenty-Eighth Report of the Directors of the Colonial Bank of
Australasia Limited,
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Twenty-Eighth Ordinary General MEETING, to be held
at the Bank, 12G Elizabeth-street, at noon on TUESDAY, 30th April, 1907.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their TWENTY-EIGHT REPORT, with a
Balance-Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 31st March, 1907, duly
audited.
After providing for Expenses of Management, Interest Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current, Tax on Note Circulation, Income Tax, and making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
the net profit amounted to ... ... £22,086 2 8
Brought forward from 30th September, 1906 596 2 1
£22,682 4 9
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.:—
Dividend at the rate of 6 pjr cent, per annum on preference shares ... £9,121 6 5
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares ... 4,057 111
To reserve fund (making it £105,000)... ... ... 5,000 0 0
Balance carried forward 4,503 16 6
£22,682 4 9
The Dividend will be payable at the Head Office on and after Ist May, and at the Branches on
receipt of advice.
The Twenty-eighth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of
the Company, 126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on TUESDAY, the 30th day of April, 1907, at noon.
By order of the Board.
SELBY PAXTON,
Melbourne, 18th April, 1907. General Manager.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1907.
Dr.
To Capita] paid up, viz.:—
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9 15s. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £llss. 135,236 10 0
£439,280 10 0
Reserve fund 105,000 0 0
Profit and loss .. ~ .. .. 17,682 4 9
Notes in circulation .. '.. .. 138,333 0 0
Bills in circulation 285,733 10 2
Balances due to other banks .. .. 152 0 8
Government deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£35,987 Bs. sd. ; bear-
ing interest, £401,041
10s. lid. .. ..£437,028 19 4
Other deposits—rebate and interest accrued—
Not bearing interest,
£1,185,916 Bs. 4d. ;
bearing interest,
£1,489,540 ss. 3d. .. 2,675,456 13 7
3,112,485 12 11
Contingent liabilities, as per contra 150,426 18 6
£4,249,093 17 0
Or.
By coin, bullion and cash
at bankers .. .. £656,301 16 11
British c0n5015,£70,668
15s. 2d., at £B5 per
cent., £60,068 Bs. 9d.;
Victoria Government
stock and deben-
tures, Metropolitan
Board of Works, Mu
nicipal and Savings
Bank debentures, at
valuation, £70,205
10s. 4d.
Bills and remittances
in transitu
Notes of other banks
Balances due from
other banks
Stamps
Beal estate, consisting of —
Bank premises at cost to new bank
Other real estate at valuation
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts
Liabilities of customers and others
in respect of contingent liabilities,
as per contra ..
130,273 19 1
313,987 7 7
1,058 0 0
30,101 10 5
1,152 0 7
£1,132,874 14 7
196,648 16 8
50,229 5 3
2,718,914 2 0
150,426 18 6
£4,249,093 17 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, &c £25,714 11 2
„ Bank note tax .. 1,222 19 9
„ Transfer to reserve fund 5,000 0 0
~ Balance .. .. .. .. 17,682 4 9
£49,619 15 8
By Balance brought forward £596 2 1
„ Gross profits for the Half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for income tax and
bad and doubtful debts 49,023 13 7
£49,619 15 8
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
£105,000 0 0
£105,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward .. . .£100,000 0 0
„ Transfer from profit and loss . .. 5,000 0 0
£105,000 0 0
Your Way
fUterfS
w
WHEN you go to the Play or Concert what a lot
of INCONVENIENCE you are put to, get-
ting there and back.
You don’t get home till the SMALL HOURS OF
THE MORNING, and generally manage to SPEND
FAR MORE than you can REALLY AFFORD.
Besides, you DON’T REMEMBER a SINGLE
BAR of all those PRETTY SONGS you heard.
And Mine
'GRAPES
WIIEN I wish to be entertained I stay by my own
fireside and listen to' THAT WuNDROUS
MAGICIAN, The COLUMBIA CRAPH-o-phone.
By its SUBTILE ENCHANTMENT, FAMOUS
SINGERS and PLAYERS of distant lands are
brought into MY VERY PRESENCE, and with
their SWEET SOUNDING MELODIES charm awav
the CARES OF THE DAY.
GRAPH
-O-PH ONE
A COLUMBIA
in the home is a REAL ECONOMY, and will save you ONE-TENTH of your present outlay
on unsatisfactory amusements. Wr.te for our New Catalogue B.
COLUMBIA PHONOCRAPH CO., Cen’l, 255 clarence st., Sydney.
Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in the World.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
th is Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
Brains
Repaired
by eating
Grape-Nuts
lO days* trial shows.
“Tlnere*s a Reason.**
&WAX VOOR
THROW
You can cure deal ness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly ? Then write for booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 239 Collins St.. Melbourne
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
i rested it invades the passages which lead
| from the ndse to the head, ears, tlyoat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren.
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do yon
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh.
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
tpa. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete.
Sj?
• S
• 8
j]
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(lncorr.vcra.ted by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. • • •• £1,600,000
Reserve Fund (of which £500,000 is invested in 21 per cent. Consol* at 85,
the remainder being used in the business of the Bank) 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 1,600,000
£4,510,000
SEVENTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS of the BANK of
AUSTRALASIA, with the Accounts for the Half-Year to 15th October, 1906.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 28th March, 1907.
REPORT.
The directors submit to the proprietors the balance-sheet as at 15th October last, with the profit account for
the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes, and
for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £170,511 7s. Id.
To this sum must be added £17,359 ss. 6d. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£187,861 12s. 7d., out of which the directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent, per
annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a bonus of Bs. per share, free of income-tax.
The dividend and bonus will absorb £112,000, and the directors have further appropriated £30,000 to the reserve
fund, £12,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises, and £17,000 as a bonus to the staff of 10 per cent, on their
salaries. There will then remain £16,861 12s. 7d. to be carried forward to the next account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable in London and in the colonies on 30th inst.
The directors have to record, with much regret, the death of their colleague, Mr. Samuel Joshua. He was
elected to the Board in the year 1873. He had always evinced the greatest interest in the Bank and its affairs, and
his services were greatly appreciated by his colleagues.
The directors also regret to announce that Mr. Ames Hellicar, owing to ill-health, is retiring from the office of
superintendent, to which he was appointed only eighteen months since. His service in the bank has extended over
a period of 43 years. The directors have appointed in his place Mr. 0. R. Cowper, who has been acting superin-
tendent during Mr. Hellicar’s illness.
4 Threadneedle-street. London. 18th March, 1907. ALBAN GIBBS, Chairman.
Profit Account from 16th April, 1906, to 15th October, 1906.
Undivided profit, 16th April, 1906 .. .. .. .. .. •• •• ..£113,350 5 0
Less: Dividend, sth October, 1906 .. -. •• •• •• 96,000 0 0
£17,350 5 6
Profit for the half-year to 15th October, 1906, after deducting rebate on bills current at
balance date (£10,289 17s. 9d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts £321,036 13 10
LESS :
I. Charges of Management-
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the
superintendent’s department, and 172 branches and
agencies .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• £93,711 18 8
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, &c 24,306 19 7
London—
Salaries 9,027 15 7
General expenses 2,801 11 5
£129,848 5 3
£11,964 18 0
8,712 3 6
20,677 1 0
160,525 6 9
. 170,511 7 1
..£187,861 12 7
£30,000 0 0
12,000 0 0
17,000 0 0
59,000 0 0
Total amount of unappropriated profit..
From which deduct—
For transfer to reserve fund ..
For reduction in cost of bank premises
For bonus to staff
11, Rates and Taxes—
Colonial ..
London ..
Leaving available for dividend ..
..£128,861 12 7
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET, 15th OCTOBER, 1906.
Or.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation . • £470,007 0 0
Deposits .. .. • - • • • • 16,001,834 12 3
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,654,122 19 11
£19,125,964 12 2
Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 1,310,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is in-
vested in 21 per cen<t.
Consols at 85, the re-
mainder being used in
the business of the
bank.)
Profit account; undi-
vided balance .. 128,861 12 7
3,038,861 12 7
£22,164,826 4 9
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion and cash balances ..£3,465,940 5 9
Loans at call and at short notice.. .. 2,137,000 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 967,140 12 2
India and Colonial Governments’ se-
curities 164,697 8 7
£6,734,778 6 6
Bills receivable, advances .on securities,
and other assets 15,160,550 14 3
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London 269,497 4 0
£22,164,826 4 9
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing
is a full and fair balance sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s
affairs as shown by the Books.
London, 13th March, 1907. WELTON, JONES and Co., Auditors.
THIS RAZOR isa
Price 10/6 Post
Free Anywhere.
XShe PLUM RAZOR.
—is always ready—always right—
never Scrapes or pulls or gives
trouble—the secret is in the steel 1
25 YEARS ON
THE MARKET.
25 Years on the Market, and selling: better
to-day than ever before, is the strongest
reason we can g:ive you to induce you to
try the PLUM RAZOR.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15s.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30s.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney. ip Established 25 Years.
“ HARNESS THE WIND ”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S £>
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of ....
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
m
J PRICE 27/B
the:
Magic Flute.
THE GREATEST MUSICAL MARVEL OF THE AGE.
Price complete ONLY 1/6 Post Free.
This is really a Magic Flute. Nothing like
it has been seen or heard before.
,lost PIKE
ftOOTKfltCt
wmpcuiitßOPiNmi
It is so shaped, that by placing the openings before the mouth and nose, a series of sounds may be made sur-
passing the sweetest tones ever produced on a flute by the most accomplished artist, or rivalling the effects of the
greatest ventriloquist; it is a bird call—an animal caff-a shrill summons of alarm—there is absolutely no
limit to the uses to which the Magic Flute may be put. A whole orchestra may be formed by Magic
Flute players.
It is capable of producing the soft, thrilling, vibrant tones of the violin, or the ear-splitting hunter’s call, at the
will of the player.
With it the sportsman can imitate the call of birds, the far-off bark of dogs, or the peculiar cry of the many
animals of the forest, tt must not be confounded with the cheap and nonsensical toys which are sung into and
merely disguise the. voice. Its range is over Two Octaves, and any one can play any music ever written, or
any tune upon it with Five Minutes’ Practice. As an artistic solo instrument for concert or home amuse-
ments, in bands or orchestra, picnics, or duets, trios, quartettes, quintettes, sextettes, it is the greatest musical
marvel of the day.
There is really nothing to be learned about the Magic Flute, for it is only necessary to think of a tone, and you
immediately get it. If you are a musician or singer so much the better, if you are neither the Magic Flute will make
a musician out of you without you realising it, for the Magic Flute will inspire musical thoughts in any human brain.
The Magic Flute is beautifully made and finished of nickel-plated metal, and can easily be carried in the
pocket. Price, only Is 6d, post free to anywhere. If you order three, we will present you FREE, with a
splendid 2s Piece of Music your choice of a Piano Piece, Song, March, Two-step, or Schottisehe. Note that
each Song has full Piano Accompaniment, and is sold at all Music Stores at 2s. per copy. We positively guarantee
you.satisfaction, so send in your order right away.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter-street, Sydney.


THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
FORTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT of the Directors to the Shareholders.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Shareholders the Balance-sheet of the
Bank, as on 25th March, 1907 : also Statements of Profit and Loss Account and the Reserve Fund on that date.
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is .. .. .. .. ££3,504 6 7
which it.is proposed to appropriate as follows:
To Reserve Fund (making it £285,000) £20,000
Dividend at the rate of 9 per cent, per annum 18,000
38,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of £20,604 6 7
to be carried forward.
An interim Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum was paid in November last.
During the past year Country Branches have been opened at Lameroo and Snowtown, and Suburban Branches
at Unley and Thebarton.
In November last Henry Scott, Esq., J.P., found it necessary, owing to ill-health, to resign his seat on the Board.
The Directors regret the loss of such a valued colleague, and place on record their appreciation of his services to the
Bank during the 17J years he occupied the position of a Director.
At a Special General Meeting, held on 29th November, Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., was elected a Director in place
of Mr. Scott.
The General Annual Meeting will be held at No. 23 Waymouth-Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, Ist May, 1907, at
11.30 a.m., at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect Two Directors in place of the Hon. H. C. E.
Muecke, J.P., M.L.C., and Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., who retire by rotation, but are eligible for re-election, and offer
themselves accordingly. The Shareholders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, and fix the
remuneration of the retiring Auditors.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE, March 25. 1907.
BALANCE-SHEET.
LIABILITIES.
To capital paid up .. £400,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 265,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 58,504 6 7
—£723,504 6 7
Notes in Circulation .. .. 179,622 0 0
Bills in Circulation .. .. 469,814 2 6
Balances due to other Banks .. 11,331 12 3
Deposits 3,269,238 5 5
Interest Accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted 22,844 14 11
£4,676,355 1 8
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion, and
Cash Balances ~ £508,151 3 7
Government Debentures 458,938 18 5
Municipal Debentures 5,025 0 0
Money at short call 970,000 0 0
Balances due from other
banks .. .. 125,021 1 9
Notes of other banks 6,467 0 0
£2,073,633 3 9
Remittances in transitu .. .. 269,383 4 2
Bank premises and furniture .. 76,924 16 4
Bills receivable and all other advances 2,256,413 17 6
£4,676,355 1 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM MARCH 26, 1906, TO MARCH 25, 1907.
To Reserve Fund as below £15,000 0 0
Dividend in May, 1906 16,000 0 0
Dividend in November,
1906 16,000 0 0
£47,000 0 0
Balance „ M u «. .. £58,504 6 7
£105,504 6 7
By balance March 26, 1906 .. .. £49,239 8 5
Net profit after making-
provision for bad and
doubtful debts, interest
accrued on fixed de-
posits and rebate on
bills discounted, and
expenses at head office
and 32 branches, in-
cluding salaries, rents,
&c £59,262 8 2
Less note tax .. .. 2,987 10 0
£56,264 18 2
£105,504 6 7
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date £265,000 0 0
£265,000 0 0
By balance March 26, 1906 .. .. £250,000 0 0
* Transfer from profit and loss, May, 1906 15,000 0 0
£265,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
R. S. YOUNG, Accountant.
A. GEO. DOWNER,
JAMES HARVEY,
H. O. E. MUECKE,
JENKIN COLES,
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
-Directors.
We hereby certify that we have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and accounts of The Bank of
Adelaide for the year ending March 25, 1907, that we have counted the cash, and examined the bills on hand at the
Head Office (the assets and liabilities at the branches other than London being: taken on the certificates of the
Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London
Manager), and that it is a correct abstract of the same.
Adelaide, April 15,1907.
W. L. WARE, F.1.A.5.A., \
J. S. LLOYD, F.1.A.5.A., /
Auditors.
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIRTY-EICHTH REPORT. Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 36th April, 1907 <
THE Directors have pleasure in submitting' to Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts
for the half-year ending 28th March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £2626 19s. lid. brought from last half-year) amount to £16,070 8 2
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz. :
To pay a dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on 150,000 old shares (£1 paid up)l
from Ist October, 1906 r £5,687 10 0
On 50,000 new shares (10s. paid up) from Ist January, 1907 .. .. J
To transfer to reserve fund 7,500 0 0
To pay a bonus to the staff 561 0 0
And to carry forward the balance .. .. .... ... .. .. 2,321 18 2
£16,070 8 2
The past half year has been characterised by great activity in banking business, of which the Royal Bank has
experienced the full benefit, a considerable increase in the turnover having taken place, a,nd the directors con-
sidered the time opportune for enlarging the paid-up capital, so that they might be in a position to take full advan-
tage of the business offering. They accordingly invited applications for 60,000 new shares, which, they are pleased
to report, were promptly taken up at a premium of ss. per share, the entire issue having been largely over applied
for. The last payment on account thereof was due on 30th March, and this amount has since been all paid with the
exception of a small sum. The premium on the new issue has been placed to the reserve fund, which, with the addi-
tion proposed above, will stand at £75,000. The extra work in connection with the new shares occurring at a time
when general business was unusually active, has caused a severe strain on the staff, in recognition of which the
directors recommend the payment to the officers of a bonus, which they consider well deserved, and which they
have no doubt will meet with the full approval of shareholders. The directors desire once more to express their
appreciation of the services rendered by shareholders introducing new accounts, and they trust to receive a continu-
ance of this support in the future. By order of the Board. H. T. WILSON. Manager,.
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET of THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 28th MARCH, 1907.
Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares, £600,000;
second issue of
5 0,00 0 shares,
£200,000 .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital paid up on
firstissue,£lso,ooo;
second issue,
£43,262 10s. .. £103,262 10 0
Reserve fund .. 67,500 0 0
Profltand loss account 16,070 8 2
£276,832 18 2
Notes in circulation 14,205 0 0
Bills in circulation 128,904 3 8
Government deposits .. .. Nil
Other deposits—rebate and interest
accrued—
Not bearing’interest £239,680 8 11
Bearing interest .. 956,706 8 8
1,176,386 17 7
Balances due to other banks .. .. 1,285 1 9
£1,597,614 1 2
Contingent liabilities, as per contra.. 303,730 0 0
£1,901,344 1 2
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers .. ..£268,713 14 6
Notes and bills of other
banks 801 14 11
Balances due from
other banks.. .. 7,907 2 3
Bills and remittances
in transit, and pay-
able in London .. 326,007 5 5
Government, munici-
pal and other public
stocks, debentures
and funds .. .. 111,000 0 0
Stamps 634 8 7
Real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises
Other real estate at cost to bank
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts
Bank furniture, fittings, station-
ery, &c
£715,064 5 8
55,000 0 0
13,937 8 4
812,112 7 2
1,500 0 0
£1,597,614 1 2
Liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of
•contingent liabilities, as per contra 303,730 0 0
£1,901,344 1 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent and other charges
Balance
.. £5,553 9 3
.. 16,070 8 2
£21,623 17 5
.. £12,876 19 11
By Balance at 29th September, 1906
LesS Dividend declared
3lst October, 1906 ..£5,250 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund 5,000 0 0
10,250 0 0
Balance carried down .. " ... 2,626 19 11
Profits for the Half-Year after
injr Interest accrued on Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Current, less Re-
serves for Bad and Doubtful Debts .. 18,996 17 6
£21,623 17 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance.. .. ..£67,500 0 0
£67,500 0 0
By Balance at 29th September, 1906 . .£50,000 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 5,000 0 0
Premium on new issue of shares .. 12,500 0 0
£67,500 0 0
XHCB 1* WEKTT Y-EIGrHTHI REPORT
of the DIRECTORS of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
1. The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last and the Profit and Loss Account for the
Half-year which then terminated are now submitted to the Shareholders.
2. The net profit, after deducting expenses of management, and the other items specified in the
Profit and Loss Account,
amounted to ... ... ... ..
Balance from previous Half-year
Deduct Note and Income Taxes in Australia and Great Britain
Leaving available
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £150,000) ...
Dividend at therateofs percent, per annum on P.oference Shares...
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares...
Carry forward
3. During the Half-year Branches have been opened at Foster, Lake Boga, Lindenow, Melton
and Quambatook in Victoria ; Renmark in South Australia, and Claremont in Western Australia.
4. The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company,
Collins-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, Ist May, at noon.
5. The Shareholders will be called on to elect two Directors on that occasion, in lieu of Sir William
Austin Zeal, K.C.M.G., and the Hon. Joseph Major Pratt, M.L.C., who retire by rotation. There
are no other candidates. They will also be required to appoint two auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
JOHN G. ADDISON,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited. Chief Manager.
Head Office, Melbourne, 18th April, 1907.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE NATIONAL EANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1907
(Including London Office to 23rd February, 1907, and' Western Australian Branches to 11th March, 1907.)
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
Dr.
ASSETS.
Or.
To Proprietors’ Capital
—30,578 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO per
share, £305,780;
238,488 ordinary
shares paid up to
£5 per share,
£1,192,440.. ..£1,498,220 0 0
„ Reserve fund ac-
count .. .. 140,000 0 0
„ Profit and loss ac-
aoount .. .. 54,815 410
£1,693,035 4 10
„ Notes in circulation 293,626 12 6
~ Bills incirculation.. 1,166,847 13 0
Government d e-
posits—Not bear-
inff interest,
£75,996 4s. 9d.;
hearing- interest,
£503,790 7s. 4d. .. 579,786 12 1
Other Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest, £3,256,781
18s. 4d.; bearing
interest, £4,065,092
16s 7,321,874 14 4
„ Interest accrued
and rebate on cur-
rent bills .. .. 75,580 9 7
~ Balances due to
other banks .. 39,216 16 6
9,476,932 18 0
£11,169,968 2 10
Contingent liabi-
lity, as i croon tra.. £292,201 9 8
By Coin, bullion, and
cash at bankers . .£2,094,420 5 1
~ Government, muni-
cipal and other
public stocks, de-
bentures and funds 584,982 13 6
„ Bills and remit-
tances in transitu 1,254,276 19 7
~ Notes and bills of
other banks .. 15,167 9 11
„ Balances due from
other banks .. 62,561 19 9
~ Duty stamps .. 4,105 4 8
£4,015,514 12 6
~ Real estate, consisting- of bank
premises, at cost to the bank .. 447,407 8 1
~ Ot! ier real estate at valuation .. 104,237 7 2
~ Bibs discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts .. .. 6,602,808 15 1
£11,169,968 2 10
~ Liability of the old bank, in the
form of a guarantee of certain
shire and municipal debentures
(Victoria) sold in London, and
which are being duly provided for
by sinking funds, in terms of the
act authorising their issue, £92,100;
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
drafts, £200,101 9s. 3d., as per
contra, £292,201 9s. 3d.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 131 branches
and 24 agencies .. £63,545 0 6
Note and income taxes 4,609 1 10
Balance 54,815 4 10
£122,969 7
By Balance brought forward .. .. £6,656 16 2
Gross profits, including- recoveries,
less rebate on bills current, interest
paid and accrued on deposits, re-
pairs to premises and rent .. .. 116,312 11 0
£122,969 7 2
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
£140,000 0 0
£140,000 0 0
By Balance last Half-year £130,000 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 10,000 0 0
£140,000 0 o
J. G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
Note.— The customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’ statement to comply with the Companies Act app.ar
on the Official Report.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
The most Fashion
able Winter Resort
in Australia.
Buildings heated
throughout and lit
by Electricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Good Cuisine, and
Healthful Amuse-
. '■
***** , * ?w? **
ments. Motor Cars and Carriages Every Day to Jenolan Caves and Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney. Tt S7‘
Let Me Tell your Fortune
FREE!
Read the Answer in the Stars. Shake-
speare says :—“The stars above us govern
our conditions.” Let me tell you what the
future has in store for you. Do you wish to
know whether you will prosper or not in
your undertakings ? Win or lose in specula-
tion ? Why be sick when you may be well.
Why be poor when you may be rich and influential ? Do you know where your star is guiding you .
If not, it is very important that you should know, and I will give you this knowledge. Clear answers
to all questions of vital interest. About your love affairs, about family matters, about mariia„e,
about your lucky days, about changing your position, about what business will bring success,
perplexities.
If you want to make your future successful, and know what it contains, all you have to do is to
write me, telling me your full name, state whether you are married or single, tell me the date oi juu
birth and year, and enclose 1/« for postage, etc.
The Horoscope or life reading I will send you promptly will cover your whole affairs and, your
future will be revealed to you like an open book.
A WORD TO THE WISE.
Please do not confound me with any other
Astrologists and Clairvoyants in this or any
Other city. When one attempts to imitate me,
put it down, “ There’s something’ wrong.”
DON’T DELAY,
Consult me
TO DAY.
You little know what to-morrow may ha\e
store for you. If you are sick or unhappy 1 ®
help you. If you are happy I can ward on dans
from you so you may remain happy. - v
may mean misfortune, disgrace, even dear .
Your Horoscope will be sent you sealed and confidential. Let the world’s greatest astrologer read
your life as the stars reveal it, and mystify you by its truths. Address—
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
bourke street,
MELBOURNE.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS'? Melbourne
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395 & 397 Hay St Perth
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward St? Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
1465148 Queen St. Auckland.
I£3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 £238 High S'; Christchurch .<
Princes £ DowlingS* DunedjnJ
CORNER. CEqrcf 53 sYDW^L
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
. If it's from
Stewart Dawsom]
its good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
lohe STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.** Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
Study this Diagram and
you will be convinced of
tbe Savings Effeded.
The cut shows a
cross-section of
the
Jas. Boss
Gold
Filled
Case, '
which is one of
the variety of
cases found on
Keystone-
Elgin
Watches.
I
T I I
Construction of this Back Bid is same as Front Lid.
Construction
this Inside
Cap is same
os Front Lid.
These Joints are
made of
Solid Gold.
The Bow is Solid Gold.
Showing application of sheet
of Gold on Grown.
“Showing composition-metal
supporting Gold on Crown.
—Showing application of sheet
of Gold on Pendant.
•Showing position of sheet of
composition-metal in Pendant.
Showing application
of sheet of Gold on
the outside of bezel
which holds the
glass, or “ crystal.”
(The dotted line in-
dicates the glass, or
"crystal.”)
- Showing application
of sheet of Gold on
the outside of Front
Lid.
-Showing position of
sheet of composi-
tion-metal between
outside and inside
sheets of Gold.
-Showingapplication
of sheet of Gold on
the inside of Front
Lid.
. Showing compoii-
/ tion-metal support-
’ ing Gold on Center ,
or “ Rim,” of Case.
Showingapplication
' of sheet of Gold on
the outside of Cen-
ter, or “Rim,” of
Case.
These 14 ct. Gold-Pilled Watch Cases are made of two
plates of 14 ct. solid gold, with a plate of hard composition metal
between them, thus making the surfaces that are exposed to
wear of solid gold, and using a cheap metal to obtain stiffness
and strength, thereby obtaining a case which for all practical
purposes is equal to solid gold, at a cost of from one third to one-
half the cost of a solid gold case. Stewart Dawson and Co.’s
25 years’ guaranteed Gold-Filled Watches are not to be con-
founded with the ordinary American-made gold-filled or rolled
gold watches. In all the essentials ours are the equal of solid
gold. Externally there is no difference ; the gold on the OUT-
SIDE, the designs, the workmanship, and all the details of
finish are precisely the same as in a solid gold watch.
Of Special Interest to Thoug'Htful
and Provident Men and Women.
YOU will agree with us that it would be a difficult matter to find a man or woman who dislikes the idea
of wearing a gold watch. Many never expect to be able to afford one ; others, again, can easily
afford it, but do not like to run the risk of losing such a valuable possession. If we could only meet
these people face to face and have a few minutes’ talk with them, we could quickly show them a
way, and a satisfactory way, too, out of the difficulty. The 14 ct. Gold-Filled Case was the invention of a
mechanical genius, one James Boss, in 1853. He conceived the idea of a STIFFENED gold watch case; a
case that would look LIKE A SOLID GOLD CASE for a specified long term of years, would be actually better
than a solid gold case as a protection to the movement, and would COST MUCH LESS. His thought was
to replace the gold that was hidden away in the thickness of the case—the WASTED gold—by a cheaper,
stronger metal, and thus preserve all the beauty of the solid gold case at no sacrifice, but an actual gain, of utility.
This diagram shows the
beautifully Engraved Hunt-
ing Case of the Ladies’ Size
Watch.
This Diagram shows the Works.
We post it free and safe
to you for
A Free Copy of our Watcli, Jewellery, and Silver
Goods Catalogue gladly sent, on request.
K
BMW
m
■
I
m
s*:*j
This shows the Engine Turned Hunt-
ing Case in the Men’s Size.
USA.
o»
am a
Shows the Works of the Men’s Size Watch
5
lOs
Sent Free and
Safe by post
for ....
412 Georg'e Street
(Strand Corner), SYDNEY,
If you are going to London write for a Free Booklet that will save worry,
or you can call at any of our 8 Stores and get a copy.
When You Visit London!
Meet Your Friends and
Fellow Australasians at
Stewart Dawson’s,
19, 20 & 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
ONE of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART DAWSON & CO.
for the better reception of the many visitors to London from Australia. It is miles ahead of any building anywhere devoted to the Jewellery
business. Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and New Zealand Stores of all the new
things as they appear. There are Three Showrooms, Home Offices,.Reception Rooms, Two. Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
the least, a Bureau where you can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort', or have a glance at the Australian and New Zealand papers.
This convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addressed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will always be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


Whoever wrote the par. about
the Rev. Stewart (B. 11/4/’O7) was a bit out. St.
John’s is at Essendon (Vic.), not Moonee Ponds.
Then the burly meenister, Alex. Stewart, has no
kids under about ten years old, and it is a long
time since the youngest was small enough to howl
when the gas was escaping from pa. The Rev.
Alex, is quite capable, however, of taking strong
measures to keep his flock from getting tired
under the influence of exhortation, and if a drowsy
sheep is not promptly brought to its senses by one
of its neighbors, the burly parson would not think
twice about adjourning the discourse while he
stepped down and personally prodded the sleepy
sheep in the loin chop or the mint sauce, and woke
it up.
Victoria still has three annual reminders
of the 30-years-old Kelly gang troubles, in the
shape of pensions—one of £49, in addition to the
Police pension, to the widow of Sergeant Ken-
nedy, murdered in the Wombat Ranges ; one of
£52, besides his allowance, to Constable MTntyre,
rendered unfit for duty at the same time; and one
of £52 to Michael Reardon, injured in the final
attack on the gang at Glenrowan. It looks about
a fair thing to levy, a poll-tax, or something, on
Kelly Gang plays in order to get square on the
transactions.
James Smith, Melbourne’s patriarchal
journalist, leader-writer for something like 67
years, has seen the rise and glory and end of over
a dozen Smith journalists since his arrival in the
Yarra city—Gervase Smith, Jardine Smith, H. J.
Smith, G. G. Smith, and so on. Most of them,
one time or another, worked with him. Some of
them came along young and fresh when he had
done a good lifetime’s work, and they kept pace
with him for a few years, and then they dropped
in their tracks, while the Immortal Smith just
went right on as usual. He is the pinnacle, the
landmark, the great Smith beacon or pyramid
which stands up immovable in a desert of shifting
and transient Smith. And when he lets go his
journalistic sons will take up the Smith tradition.
“ Whaffor ” : Since the importation of
opium was prohibited, smuggling has become a
fine art in the Northern Territory. Whites, both
male and female, are known to be engaged in the
illicit traffic for the Chinese. One woman was
recently found with a large quantity of opium in
her possession, and heavily fined. It is also well-
known that Chinamen are brought into Port
Darwin by every boat. Some startling revela-
tion will be forthcoming some day.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
• •
• •
WEAR
BucKley & Nunn's
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. 10
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
1513
STAGS
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . .. TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weakjßn ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lest Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nervea.
They secure the return of Youthful Streng-th and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair-.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
FI I nnn PHI I C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
LIL.UUU C* JJ *» K_ » » Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
(A/caalr Utfomon Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23 6.
sicdii vrUIIIIqII Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA FILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing: Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
01 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
MANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
£3
•-/
'T'HIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping, and
1 is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
c unts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“ DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315*317 Bourke St., Melbourne
GOES LIKE SIXTY
i SELLS LIKE SIXTY
| SELLS FOR SIXTY
$65
GILSON
IGASOLENC
ENGINE
'For Pumping, Cream
(Separators, Chums, Wash Ma-
chines, etc, FREE TRIAL
Ask for catalog-all sizes
GILSON MFG. CO. LTD. Sept, i., Guelph, Ontarla
PATERNOSTER’S
■a pills warn
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
New Cure
For Rupture.
New Scientific Appliance, Always a Perfect Fit-
Adjustable to Any Size Person—Easy, Comfort-
able, Never Slips, No Obnoxious Springs or
Pads—Costs Less Than Many Common
Trusses—Made For Men, Women,
and Children.
I Send It on Approval—You Wear It—lf You Are
Not Satisfied, I Refund Your Money—Brings
Immediate Relief to Sufferers.
I have invented a rupture appliance that I can safely
say, by 30 years’ experience in the rupture business, is the
only one that will absolutely hold the rupture and never
slip, and yet is light, cool, comfortable, conforms to every
movement of the body, without chafing or hurting, and
costs less than many ordinary trusses. There are no
springs or hard, lumpy pads, and yet it holds the rupture
safely and firmly without pain or inconvenience. I have
put the price so low that any person, rich or poor, can
buy, and I absolutely guarantee it.
C. E. BROOKS, The Inventor.
I make it to your order—send it to you-
you wear it, and if it doesn’t satisfy you
send it back to me and I will refund your
money.—C. E. BROOKS.
That is the fairest proposition ever made by a rupture
specialist. The banks or any responsible citizen in
Marshall will tell you that is the way I do busiuess-
always absolutely fair and square.
For several years my appliance has been used in all
parts of America, with a wonderful record of success. It
has come to be recognised as the only sure, unfailing re-
lief from all the tortures of rupture, and the most reliable
method of cure. Thousands of reputable, honest, thank-
ful men and women testify to the great good the Brooks’
Rupture Appliance has done them. Since its introduction
into England, my appliance has brought perfect relief
and comfort to many who had suffered for years from
rupture.
Mr. R. Hartwell, 95 Holly Hedge Lane, Walsall,
Staffordshire, writes as follows:
Walsall, Aug. 9, 1906.
Mr. Brooks. Sir, —I received the appliance all right
on July 27th, and must say it answers the purpose
intended. It is very comfortable. I see men around me
in the same form as I was, and I think very likely when
it is more widely known that some of them will adopt
your plan. I have now worn it two weeks and can walk
about much better, which is a good advertisement.
Yours truly, R. HARTWELL.
Mr. T. W. Straw, 23 Park Road, Blackpool, has
found relief. He says :
Blackpool, May 12, 1906.
Dear Sir, —I received the appliance on 'the lstihst.,
and am very pleased with it. It adapts itself to the body
in a marvellous manner and serves its purpose perfectly.
I have never felt so safe or so comfortable before since I
was ruptured. I cycle and take a lot of exercise, but the
pad always stays in place, whatever position I get in.
I am, Yours truly, W. T. STRAW.
If you have tried most everything else, come to me.
Where others fail, I have my greatest success. Write me
to-day, and I will send you my book on Rupture and its
cure, showing my appliance and giving you prices and
names of people who have tried it and been cured. It
is instant relief when all others fail. Remember I use
no salves, no harness, no lies. Just a straight business
deal at a reasonable price.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd. postage.
Write your name very plain, and be sure to give your full
address, so there can be no mistake in delivery. Address,
C. E. BROOKS,
3367 Brooks Bldg., Ma.rsha.il, Mich., U.S.A.
H OMCEOP ATH Y
Secret
0f...
Health
£
HOMOEOPATHY
MFANS Health
WEAK MEN!
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to be able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism (Q> Allied
Complaints, Prostatic
Affedlions. Etc., are completely and permanently cured by
Patients living: at a distance, who wish
to gfive the HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip*
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMOEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated :—“ Homoeopathy is onlym
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly to
nauseous njedicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild, power—HOMCEOPATHY,” .
We would' like you to‘know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of ou r
system, we will, send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “ WORDS Op
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to— . •
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.


LLER 5
MI
&
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
f Hloropyhe
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
A
re you
bald ? Is
your scalp
tight ?
There’s the
reason.
When your scalp tightens, your
hair falls out because your scalp
is unable to nourish it.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
acts the same as nature. It
gently nourishes, and stimulates
the scalp tissues and gives them
strength to grow strong, thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry’s.
Use Reuter's Soap tor the Shampoo
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/« and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says The prince of living
A s trologors. ’ ’
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL Co/ London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt. }
Name
Address 1 ..
Date of Ilirt'i
T
=<
v\
&
*v
\\
\ /
MEN! DON’T
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing
doctors does not cure you. You are trying one medicine after the other
with the same disgusting disappointment. You are a “ medicine doser,”
and the only change in your condition is for the worse. "Why don’t yon
! stop tHis medicine Habit? Why don’t you. avail
yourself of the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own
lines. Use the life-giving, healing, strengthening forces of Electricity!
This is the electric age. You can see on every hand the wonders of Electricity.
You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine, for medicine gives no
nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we apply it and you
will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to
the breaking-down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its alotted task
the entire human machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life
—is to rebuild the weak part which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply
of vital electric energy. This can only be properly done with the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now
admit it, but there has been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is
crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good.
Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . . Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shocK, no burning or blistering* and
you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility* Weaßness of all Kinds* Varicocele*
Rheumatism, WeaK BacK* Sciatica, Lumbago, Indigestion, WeaK Kidneys*
Failing Memory* and all evidence of Breaß-Down.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooH, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
lilte BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
The McLaughlin Co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Joseph n. corcoran Office Hours— 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McLaughlin co. f
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK
Name
Address
2
Wo Woi\\er sYvo\A& \>e vrXYvoyfc \\
request.
/!propress/re d/etary adapted to cde protv/tp d/pest/repowers
Milk Food N?l
from 6/rf/> to 3months
Milk Food m 2
from 3 to 6 mortts
Malted Food N 93
from 6 mo/it/fs e/pwarcfs.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
9
□
V
0
0
0
■O-
-
3
'A/
*0 WVSV^
0
I
POWELL’S
OF
The only SAFE AND RELIABLE REMEDY
For COUGHS, COLDS , ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
NIGHT COUGH, INFLUENZA, etc.
The unpleasant sensation of tickling in the throat, which deprives so
many of rest during the night by the incessant coughing it causes, is
quickly removed by a dose of Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed. It is a proved
cough remedy of 80 years’standing. It strengthens the Voice and cures
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
The Rev. WM. LUSH writes from Stbcwold Vicarage, Horncastle—“For the past
twelve years I have been in the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending
your balsam. I should not be exaggerating if I said I had never known it to fail. When-
ever I have a cough I use it in preference to anything else, and again and again it has
cured me.”
Mr. A. J. WOODHOUSE, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk; writes—“ Last
year Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed cured for irte a very obstinate cough of some months*
duration, which I feared would lapse into a ptilmonary affection.”
Mr. LIONEL BROUGH, the eminent actor, writes—“ I think it an invaluable medicine
for members of my profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and
sister artistes.”
Squatters and farmers, when ordering their stores, should not omit this time-
honoured Cough Remedy.
WARNING.—When purchasing Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed you are
earnestly requested to see that the “ Lion, Net, and Mouse ” Trade
Mark is on the bottle wrapper, and be not persuaded to take
Imitations.
Sold by all Chemists, etc ., throughout the world.
Prepared only by THOMAS POWELL, Ld., Blackfriars,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland
l&LLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Sfe., Sydney, and Eagle St., Brisbaat,
the bulletin post carps
|new SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
E6e LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
u
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
"THE MAINE"
<Sheu/ing Pi fie A parr.
Sant
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2|lb., fitted with plain V back sight f '
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
Postage on one Rifle —Is 3d, N.S.W. ; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on! the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows A Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where "Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain,
Be'ssrajpe of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly.
NOTICE -Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning: of the Act.
» the youngest child and the most aged person.
It is equally beneficial tor
ASK, for,
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT A
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
I SUBSTITUTES.
♦
*•
%
BUlllc
%
#
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINBLETON'S EVE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596.
ilittiifli
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free or write
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Load, London, Eng.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds’ worth of
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO
5
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “■ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending- your solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you six dozen of the most artistic penny picture post cards you have
ever seen. Everybody wants picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own
use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each" one you
wish to dispose of ; thus you get double the value for the money you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Watch. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs., or
Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISPON & CO., Angel Place, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
fs*
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
SULPHUR
THE GREATEST
Blood Purifier
KNOWN.
This Great German Medicine is the
CHEAPEST and best. 128 doses
of Sulphur Bitters for $l.OO, less
than one cent a dose.
It will cure the worst
kind of skin disease,
from a common pim-
ple on the face to
that awful disease,
SCROFULA. In
all cases of such
stubborn, deep
seated diseases,
Sulphur Bitters
fa fVirt a /-I
Don’t ever
take BLUE
PILLS, or
mercury, they
are deadly.
Put your trust
in Sulphur Bit-
ters, the purest
and best medi-
cine ever made.
Is your TONGUE
COATED with a
yellow, sticky sub-
stance? Is your
Breath foul and of-
fensive? Your Stom-
ach is Out of Order.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
If you are sick, no matter what
ails you, use Sulphur Bitters.
Don’t wait until you are unable
to walk, or are flat on your back,
but get some AT ONCE, it will
cure you. Sulphur Bitters is
THE INVALID’S FRIEND.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustratea
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I
free of charge and postage paid, wm tell you
all about this marvelous science, it contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and show
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address
s»rof. R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
Price 218. The Bulletin Office, Sydney


*'• \U: A
•V.'wv
V\*'
vll//
~11,
»•>
K\Ul
ill I
Nine-tenths of the principal diseases which to-day afflict the human
race have their rise in a common, ordinary little cold. The history of
most cases of diseases of this character is very much the same. The cold
comes, and is neglected. It moves down from nose to throat, from
throat to bronchial tubes and lungs, and when it doesn't end there,
IN CONSUMPTION. Its after-effects are sure to weaken the
kidneys, liver, and heart. This is all accepted and taught in the medical
schools to-day. It is well for you to remember it. An equally
important fact to remember is that the proper and only scientific
treatment for a cold, in any stage, is
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
FOR COUGHS, COLDS & CONSUMPTION.
This medicine will cure any kind of a cold or cough, and will prevent all
the dangerous after-effects of Lung and Throat Diseases. It is guaranteed
to cure, or money back. Try it.
Read the following letter from Mr. HENRY MARTIN, Leslie-street,
Sailor’s Gully, Eaglehawk, Victoria :
SHELDON DRUG COMPANY,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have suffered for years with a nasty dry cough, which not
only annoyed me much during the day, but became so bad that it was simply
impossible for me to get a decent night’s rest, and, hearing of your DR.
SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY, decided to give it a trial, and now, after
using five bottles, my complaint has completely vanished ; the first few doses
gave me immediate relief, and I now look upon your valuable medicine as a
necessity in my home. If these few lines are of any service to your firm, you
have my permission to use them in any way you think fit. I can unhesi-
tatingly recommend DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY to all sufferers of
chest complaints. Gratefully yours, HENRY MARTIN.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be relied upon to
cure all LUNG TROUBLES. It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed by many of the most
prominent citizens and professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a patent medi-
cine, or an ordinary cough mixture, but a scientific discovery that will
make sore lungs well.
To be obtained everywhere at Is. 6d. and 35., or will be posted on
receipt of price by the Sheldon Drug Co., 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Trouble
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body of urinary and biliary poisons, due
to ineffective action of the kidneys and liver. A realisation of the work performed by these vital
organs enables us to understand why, when they fail, we necessarily suffer.
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the excess of water from the blood in the form
of urine. The kidneys of the average man filter and extract about three pints of urine every day. In
this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. Now all
these are solid matter, which, when the kidneys are working healthily, is dissolved in urine and leaves
the body in complete solution. When the kidneys fail, a proportion of the solid matter remains in
the blood, and, becoming actively poisonous, produces the various disorders due to urinary poisoning,
such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone and Bladder
Troubles. Sick Headache and Anaemia are also generally attributable to the same cause.
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely related. It is almost impossible for the
kidneys to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, and vice versa. In the liver various
substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made from the
blood daily. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so
as to be able to supply it again to the blood as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric
acid, which is insoluable, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the
blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or
diseased, the blood becomes laden with biliary and urinary poisons to such an extent that it is not in
a condition to take up nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no longer formed, and it is
these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words the blood is vitiated and starved, and
we are bound to suffer in consequence. Indigestion, Biliousness, Neuralgia, Anaemia, Sick
Headache, and Blood Disorders are but Nature’s signs that the liver is not doing its duty.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so
intimately associated in removing the waste products of the body. Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the liver,
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of all
urinary ami biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
® ra^ e j' T?r* one ’> Troubles, Ansemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,
provided Warner s Safe Cure is taken as directed. Even Bright’s Disease yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
k° make is to place some mine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, snows a brick-dust like
sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, and
no time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity will result. |2]
The Sagamen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lIE skalds of ancient Iceland
In pagan minstrelsy
Exalted high their heroes
To uttermost degree.
In tales made weird with witchwork,
With troll and haunted cairn,
With rilne, and spell, and potion,
Fey maid and changeling bairn.
They made their Vikings mighty,
Elf-forged the swords they swung.
With ships, like gold-beaked dragons,
On whose wings war-shields hung,
With double fifty rowers
Their sworn and willing thralls.
And only men of courage
Might tread Valhalla’s halls.
Their warriors drank to Freya
For love to light their life ;
Full horns to Thor and Odin
For strength to win in strife.
And when the pale Valkyries—
Dread Sisters—chose their own,
Had fair, foresighted women
To bind their hell-shoes on.
Of helm and bryme dinted
By Baresark battle-axe,
They told ; of weeping women
With hair as fair as flax.
And on they mist-hung mountains,
With cloud-wreaths for their loom,
The fateful Korns went crying,
And wovb the web of doom.
The skalds of ancient Iceland
With many words made play,
Peopled with witch and warrior,
Fiord and scarp and bay,
And faith, our modern sagas
Vie with those songs of swords.
The naked truth is hidden
Beneath a web of words.
3.A.
PROSPECT GOOD.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
BENNO’S BENDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ y’ ain’t ’earcl iv it?” said
Feathers.
Fie and the town traveller were lunch-
ing together in the small reserve shut off
by the lift well and a stack of bales, and splitting
sixpenn’orth of draught beer, Billy the Boy having
“run the rabbit” for a consideration. Benno
was sitting back in the corner, pale and pimply,
and wearing the satiated expression of a man who
had breakfasted on cod liver oil. There was a sort
of unearthly yellow down on the clerk’s thin face,
and his high, humped nose was dead white, an
eerie, corpse-like feature. He had a black eye
and some abrasions. Benno was not interested
in meals.
“Have er look et his gills,” the packer con-
tinued, sitting back for the sake of the view.
“Look as if you were sickening for something,
Benno,” said Goudy. “ Better have it operated
on.”
The clerk tried hard, and pulled his face into a
faded smile, but failed to'sustain it. He groaned.
“Don’ make him laugh,” said Feathers re-
provingly. “Once a bloke died iv laughin’.
Let’s pretend we don’ notice nothin’. Fact is
that in ther corner’s a great objec’ lesson on tem-
p’rance, it’s a touchin’ hillustration iv ther ’orrid
influence iv strong drink on ther himmature ’n’
ther weak-minded.”
“Arr-rr, Scotty, call off yer monkey ! ” hissed
Benno viciously.
“’Ave er wet rag on it, dear,” said Feathers, in
feminine tones and with great solicitude. Then
resuming his confidential manner : “ Benno’s one
iv ther never-shoulds. ’E ain’t built fer ther
purpose iv encouraging ther breweries. Men iv
his physique ain’t designed be an all-wise Provi-
dence fer puttin’ down ther demon, ’n’ Benno
ortenter entered fer ther novice pint-bitin’ tour-
nament yes’dee after.
“’Twas a harf day orf, ’n’ our Mr. Dickson
must get out after it along iv ther Don ’n’ yours
till death. Ther Don was shoutin’—p’raps that’s
how—but it ain’t er thing Benno ’ad done afore, t’
my knowledge iv his ’abits. We scarcely knoo
we had him erbout us, till he’d got his small load,
hi’ was tearin’ orf his'rags t’ fight er fifteen-stone
mutton ’umper in er bar down be ther freezin’
mill. I dunno what ther lumper ’ad done t’ get
Benno in that dangerous state—mistook him fer
the free lunch ’n’ took him up with his bread pro-
befly. Anyhow he was a helephan’ iv er man,
’n’ Benno was buzzin’ round his outskirts with
most iv his clo’s on ther floor, arrangin’ er terrible
death, ’n’ ther barmaid was weepin’ piteous, ’n’
hopin’ Benno wouldn’t act cruel be ther pore man.
Benno’s shape was ther dead ringiv that iv Griffo,
’n’ he was er terrifyin’ spectacle, but ther big man
jest wiped his fingers on him, absentminded, ’n’
then Benno got er worse attack, ’n’ tore
off some more clo’s. But our Mr. Dickson’s like
er lot what ’ud rather take orf every stitch than
fight, ’n’ we got ’im away, leavin’ a bit iv ther
’otel standin’.
“ Cornin’ up the road Benno had an air iv great
gravity. He was stern with everyone, ’n’ when
blokes passed, peaceful ez kittens, Benno swung
round on ’em, ’n’ glared after ’em with ther
fee-rosity iv er tin tiger, shouting how he wouldn’t
take chiv from no Little Willie, bein’ a naughty
man himself when roused, ’n’ good ernuf for
penny bundles iv that sort. Then fer an orful
moment he’d sorter totter on ther brink iv gettin’
across them,' ’n’ maltin’ a mess iv ther place ; but,
somehow, he never done it.
“When we come to a ’orse tied to a post,
Benno gave er little start iv pleased su’prise, ’n’ he
stopped, ’n’ gazed at ther crock with an air iv
profound wisdom. Then he walked round, ’n’
examined ther other elervation. Then he lifted
up one ’oof, ’n’ gazed into it, ’n’ then put it down
on his own foot. After that he tried to open ther
’orse’s mouth, ’n’ ther ’orse bit him, ’n’ then
Benno come away. He said he never see er finer
specimen iv a Hinglish ’unter in ther ole course
iv his experience. Now, ez er matter iv fact,
our Mr. Dickson don’t know er ’orse from an iron
bed, but when he’s got er dribble iv beer in he
gets an idea lie’s bein’ mistook all over ther plaee
fer er successful jockey.”
“ Anyone'ejaimin’t’ be champion long distance
li ir’ll ’ave t’ toss you fer it, Mills,” said Benno
weakly.
“We started on er ’ouse t’ ’ouse visertation,”
continued thepacker, “with ther penny comic there
at heel. I wanted t’ wire him ’ome t’ mother ’n’
ther girls, but ther Don wouldn’t ’ear iv it.
He said he found him a nice change this dull
weather, ’n’ so me noble drifted from bad t’
* Oh, my! ’ ’n ; afore night he was all sorts. S’pose
you ain’t studied how beer eats inter differen’
people, Scotty? Nothin’ brings character out
like shick. Fer me, I’m never so carm and col-
lected ez when chin-deep in cold colonial. Ther
Don, he blows out his pout, ’n’ rises in the soshul
scale hand over duke ; : n’ you can’t reckon he’s
wet through ’n’ through till he’s a Hinglish Earl
out t’ buy an ’an’ful iv gold-mines ’n’ er small
quantity iv cattle-runs; but with er tup’ney like
Benno you never know what’s cornin’ erlong next.
He’s jist odds ’n’ ends. There ain’t nothin’ def’nite
in his jag, ’n’ one moment his gills was layin’
bare his passionate young ’eart to er barmaid big
ernough t’ be his fat aunt, ’n’ ther next he was
sloped up agin ther wall, pressin’ his baby brow t’
ther cold, ’n’ sni veilin’ erbout his sister Hameliar,
what teaches er hinfant class et St. Mark’s, ’n’ is
that unconscionable good ther flies carn’t live
on ’er.
“ ‘ Ah-h-h, Hameliar, what’d yer say iv y’ cud
see what I’ve come ter?’ said Benno, low ’n’
piteous, n’ ther tears dripped down like er leak
in er dipper.
“‘Y’ortenter bring it out without its com-
forter,’ said ther crool barmaid, ’n’ a torpid little
gazob what was devourin’ a grown man’s drink et
ther other end iv ther bar put up er ’orrid laugh,
’n’ cried : ‘ Gor’ bli’, look et ther lost boy ! ’
Then Benno pulled his little self up stiff ’n’ ter-
rible, tugged his coat, ’n’ went across ther bar, his
legs lockin’ every second stride, ’n’ floundered
inter ther free lunch, paused t’ recollec’ what
he’d come fer, stiffened hisself agin, ’n’ hit ther
gazob with er ’am san’wich. Ther gazob bellered,
’n’ went buttin’ at Benno, ’n’ both foundered in
ther rooins iv ther lunch. They got up outer ther
sawdust, covered with fish balls ’n’ mustard, ’n’
ther gazob said Benno was his dear ole cobber, ’n’
Benno kissed ther gazob, ’n’ ordered all ’ands ter
ther pump agin.”
“It’s a low, dirty lie !” cried the clerk, starting
up. “ I never kissed him. You’re lookin’ fer it,
Mills, ’n’ Jimmy Gee ! ye’ll get it.” Benno went
suddenly limp again, and sat down. Mills disre-
garded the outburst.
“Afore ther fat Duchess’d begun t’ pull ther
drinks, Benno fell inter one iv them cold, dank,
solemn spasms, V stood in ther middle iv ther
bar, swayin’ on his stem, ’n’ lookin’ like er man
feelin’ ther ’and iv death on him. Then he made
er straddlin’ break fer ther closed door, ’n’ tried
t’ walk through it. When he came back he sort
o’ slid in, ’n’ stood agin ther wall, ’n’ looked over
at us, 'n’ his face was like ther chiv iv er pale goat
I once saw what’d took er big drink on er lunch
iv dried peas. Er faint, billyus smile fluttered in
ther stubble, ’n’he said : ‘ Thereshlovelymoon,’
’n’ ther sawdust slid under him, ’n’ he sat down.
He smiled up at us agin like er fond poodle, ’n’
he said : ‘ Boys, yorter see moon—buful moon ! ’
Then his ’eart broke in ’im, ’n’ he cried:
‘ Hameliar ! Hameliar ! why don’ yer come t’
me ? ’ ’n’ he burrowed down in ther sawdust ’n’
wept.”
“Lies ! Lies! Lies ! ” snarled Mr Dickson, and
groaned again.
“Ther lady ’elp asked, sweet ’n’ pretty, if ther
legal infant ’ad ther price iv ther drinks he’d
ordered in his sock, ’n’ Benno was his self agin.
He rose up, proud ’n’ stern, ’n’called her madame.
“ ‘ Don’ you make any mistook, Madame,’ he
said, * Benno kin pay fer any drinks he orders.
Champagne ’f he likes. Pay fer drinks ! I like
that! ’ ’n’ his voice rose t’ a pig squeak ez he
went along. ‘lt’s dam insult. Can I pay fer
ther drinks ? Square ’n’ all it’s er dam insult.
Whad yer mean be it ? ’ he yelled, ’n’ he whacked
a pewter down on ther bar, ’n’ tore orf some
elo’s. ‘I did n’ come here t’be insulted,’ he said.
* I’ll fight ther blessed barmaid. Come on ’ he
yapped, throwin’ his cigger et ’er, * I’ll fight yer,
big ’s y’ are. Le’s see who’s bes’ man! ’ ’n’
he skipped ’n’ sparred a bit, ’n’ skidded
ercross ther Bar, ’n’ shot clean under ther
lunch table. He came back draggin’ his coat
after him be One sleeve. ‘Pay fer drinks!’ he
said, ‘ Madame, d r yer know who yer pickin’ at ?
D’ yer know I got two ’unnerd quid fer me las’
win et .Corfield ? Dam it, sen’ fer boss ’n’ I’ll buy
ther infernal ’otel. Pay fer drinks ! Here, take
’t out iv that ! ’ ’n’ he bounced er lordly copper
on ther counter.
“Et ther nex’ pub ther Don was doin’ his
magnificent Hinglish character himpefsonation.
He was an ’ell if er swell frim ’Ome—er dizzy
sport with er heyeglass ’n’ guff erbout his fam’ly,
’n’ I wus his trainer, ’n’ Benno his jockey. ’Ow
ther Don kin do that kind iv thing on three
‘thripneys,’ the glass top off er penny puzzle,
’n’ er brass ring full uv Chiny di’monds, runs me
out, but he does it, ’n’ was quite warm ’n’ cosy
with ther ginger barmaid ; on’y Benno got
snivellin’ mashed erbout ’er ’imself, ’n’ wanted t’
have ’er t’ cry on all on their lonesome. That
ginger pot-polisher’s bin through all ther beer-
’ouses in town, ’n’ she’s er tough, er fair halligator;
but Benno, he cried on ’er ’and, ’n’ said it done er
man well t’ meet er true, pure woman. He said
if he’d met a hangel iv goodness like ’er in his
early man’ood he’d never’ve took the downward
track. Then he called her Hameliar, ’n’ said he
was lost, lost, lost. He also said he’d ’a’ bin er
better man if his child ’ad lived. After that he
bucked up wonderful, and called for more beer.
He could stand up agin it all night, he said.”
“ Yar ! chuck it. Yer gi’ me ther ’ump ! ” came
faintly from Benno’s corner.
“’Twas et ther gateway Mr. Dickson made
the discov’ry iv his life. He come in, bustlin’
with excitement, ’n’ told us ther moon was spiked
on ther spire iv ther Weslean Church. He seemed
er good deal upset erbout it, ’n’ wanted ter call up
the Premier down ther pipe; ’n’ when they wouldri’
let ’im et ther tellerphone he got proud ’n’ hurt,
’n’ said he washed his ’ands iv ther ’ole business.
Then he went over t’ ther bar, haughtily, ’n’ took
on an ole gent’s beer. ‘ ’Scuse me, young gentle-
man, tha’s my refreshment,’ said the old gent.
He was a very tiny, shaky ole gent, with baggy
eyes, ’n’ er mouth that flopped round feebly, like
er cow’s. Benno looked et him zif he was a plague
rat, ’n’ he sez, like fifteen thousan’ a year : ‘ Bar-
man, remove this fellow; he is annoyin’ me.’
Then he raised ther beer. That old gent was 70
if er day, ’n’ all his joints seemed t’ be mended
with string, but he was ’er giant ’n’ er ’ero in de-
fence of his beer, ’n’ ten secs, later Benno was
down in the sawdust agin, with them scratches
’n’ ther dawnin’ symptoms iv ther black eye you
notice he’s wearin’ this spring, ’n’ th’ ole gent was
in possession iv his own agin.
“We missed Benno after that, ’n’ found him
down in the gutter, with er ’ot-pieman on top
iv him. He’d wanted t’ buy er box iv liver
pills off ther pie stall, ’n’ insisted on ther pie-
founder lookin’ et his tongue. That’s ’ow.
I dunno meself ’ow we got into Reekie’s, the
Dago wine-shop back o’ Paddy’s. S’pose y’
don’ know it, Scotty? It’s hextra special, ’n’
Reekie was er brigand in his own country, but
got fired out i v ther push fer his bad ’ahits. He’s
big, ’n’ fat, ’n’ lazy, ’n’ his elo’s ’i failin’ off him
(Continued on next page.)


Stomach Troubles
Many Treatments Failed to Cure.
N
O other organ in the body is taxed to such an extent as the stomach.
Here is a rough list of what the stomach has to do every day :
“ Turn several pounds of solid food into a semi-liquid state. Digest
that amount, turning it into a form from which it may be made into
bone, muscle and other tissue. Make its own supply
of gastric juice to digest with—lo to 20 pints per day.
Keep up a heat of 100 degrees, notwithstanding all the
cold water, etc., that is taken.” If the stomach gets
below that temperature —100 degrees —or if
it ceases to secrete gastric juice, food decom-
poses, wind collects, and flatulence and pain
follow. There is headache, dizziness, loss of
a
Dan
ri
appetite, constipation, and
boms of digestive disorder,
put the stomach, liver and dij
in perfect working order,
away decomposing matter,
the bowels, tone up the seci
end distressing headaches,
bright eye, a clear
healthy constitution.
other symp-
Bile Beans
festive organs
They clean
gently open
•eting glands,
and give a
skin, and a
Mr. H. E. Neville, who resides at 52
Addison Road, Marrickville, Sydney,
has proved this, and writes : “ I have
much pleasure in testifying to the
merits of Bile Beans. I suffered with
terrible pains in my side and stomach, for which I used several so-called remedies,
but could gain no relief. A friend recommended Bile Beans, and presented me with
a few to try. These I tried, and gained almost instant relief. Thus encouraged, I
purchased a, further supply, and after taking four doses the pains left me entirely,
and I have had no return of the malady. I can with confidence recommend Bile
Beans to anyone similarly afflicted.”
Bile Beans do not force unnatural and artificial action of the stomach or liver ; they strengthen
and restore the natural functions of the body. Bile Beans are a speedy and permanent cure for
Headache, Indigestion, Biliousness, Liver and
Stomach Troubles, Constipation, Piles, Bad
Blood and Bad Breath, Anaemia, Loss of Appetite,
Insomnia, and all Disorders of the Liver, Stomach
and Digestive Organs. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers at Is. ljd., or 2s. 9d. large family
box (containing three times Is. ljd.).
A
a/idi////iaUjaimJ/a/i<(
rf/mw {/*/%)faz&fd ■&'
d&dm
d d dudad
mid /aJd dna&d d
d dd diaz/tad^-'
’n’ he sez : ‘ Good-a th’ ni’, Meester,’ same’s ther
purr iv er gorged cat,’n’ smiles er sudden white
smile, like ther fear iv death. He’s got two fun
’n’ fancy girls there, what deal out ther ebony
stain. They’re called Will ’n’ Won’t. Will’s er
moth-eaten serio-chronic left over frim father’s
day. Won’t’s a curious coon mixture —stout ’n’
pig-eyed, with er peanut complexion, ’n’ ’er cart-
load iv crinkled ’air, dyed lemon yeller.
“ Reekie’s shanty’s got ther name i v ’er ’ot shop,
’n’ ther young devils don’t think they’re edjikated
till they’ve took liberties with Reekie’s pianner.
Ther wineshop’s erbout ther size iv er publican’s
coffin, but there’s er room at ther back where ther
barmaids ’ll sit on yer knee when you’ve stood
’em three drinks outer ther stained water bottle.
Ther planner’s there, ’n’ ther young devils ’re there
too, actin’ up t’ it all they know how. Benno
took t’ Reekie’s like er fair sport. He riglar
splashed himself agin ther bar, ’n’ was perky ez
er chicken rooster after his first win. Be this
time he was ther rich uncle iv us all. He had t’
cling hard t’ ther dead cigar he was carryin’ to’
keep himself up; but there was no moskeeters on
his. When he plunged inter ther smoke iv ther
back room he looked ez disjinted ez sixpen’orth iv
bones in er bundle—but his soul was proud.
‘ ’Elio! ’ello ! ’ sez he, with a r’yal gesture, ‘ clear
ther room. This room’s reserved for me ’n’
mine, ’n’ if y’ don’ get out I put y’ out, see.’ Er
lad from er trainin’-stable ’bout two foot ’igh hit
Benno all iv er ’eap in a corner, where he sat,
wonderin’ what’d come erbout since he last re-
membered himself, ’n’ tryin’t’ work it out on his
fingers.
“ We left him there, restin’ fer er time, ’n’ pre-
sently he was up, walkin roun’ ther pianner,
lookin’ et it with a knowin’ eye, same’s he looked
et ther ’orse, on’y more hartistic. This trip his
niblets was er great musician—in ’is mind. He
went up ’n’ touched ther pianner in er himpres-
siveisort iv way, ’n’ listened with his ’ead all a one
side. That pianner was a sort iv combination
dust-bin ’n’ slop-bowl, ’n’ it sounded like er
tinker’s shop when y’ ’it it. Benno touched it
agin, ’n’ seemed very pleased with it. He sat
down t’it, ’n’ done er crawl over ther keys, ’n’
ther pianner cried out in pain. ‘That’s er
splen’id instrument,’ sez our Mr. Dickson,
spealtin’ ez a hexpert. ‘ That’s er perticular fine
instrument,’ sez he. ‘ Yes,’ sez ther lemon-’aired
coon girl, ‘but you’d better not play it, sonny —
you’ll disturb ther cat. That’s where she lives.’
Benno, who couldn’t scratch er toon out iv er
’and-organ, tossed back his ’ead of ’air, ’n’ got
down to it. He hit ’er nine times, ’n’ ther com-
motion was frightful. Erbove ther jingle iv
failin’ tins y’ cud ’ear ther squealin’ iv er clutch iv
blin’ kittens, ’n’ then, outer ther top, flew er
great grey cat. She landed in Benno’s hair, ’n’
hung on, ’n’ Benno went over backwa’ds, lnttin’
ther floor with his neck, ’n’ screamin’ ‘Murder.’
“Ben rose up, free ev cats, but with that
peanner snouted. He’d put some wine in on top
iv his beer, ’n’ was seein’ red, ’n’ the pianner was
his t’ kill. He grabbed up ther chair ’n’ bashed
ther pianner in the wind. He swung his club, ’n’
biffed her in ther teeth, ’n’ she yelped like er
’uraan been. Bash ! crash ! biff ! went ther chair,
n’ ther ole pianner was shriekin’ fire ’n’perlice
’n’ murder every belt. Then ther Dago, who’s
always lurkin’ on ther edge iv ther smoke, stepped
up ’n’ called er finish on er foul. ‘You spoila the
pian’,’ he said—‘ breaka the bowel of the beautiful
pian’. I fine-a you the ten shiel.’ It was er good
bluff iv Reekie’s. Sometimes it comes off, but this
was Benno’s busy night. He swung ther chair
agin, ’n’ ther Dago took her where ther monkey
tucks ther nuts. Then all iv er sudden ’ell got
loose. Reekie whipped out er knife—er long,
clean, crool-lookin’ knife. I saw ther light dancin’
on it. Benno saw it too, ’n’ he saw ther Dago’s
white grin, ’n’ he knew. His hands went t’ his
face, his knees fell in, ’n’ fer er second his wild
eyes stuck out through his fingers, glarin’ et
Reekie, who was tryin’ t’ fight his way through
ther push that’d rushed him.
“ Then our Mr. Dickson screamed like er ’orse
in er burnin’ stable, ’n’ he turned ’n’ done er guy.
Ther Don punched ther Dago fair on ther point, ’n’
was after Benno. I got out after ther Don all I
knew. Run ! You never in your natural seen er
dead shick pace dirt ther way Benno done it. He
was jumpin’ cross ther town er block at er time, ’n’
every bound he yelled ‘ Murder ! ’ I think in his
dilly bit iv red brain he b’lieved we was the Dago
out after ’im, ’n’ we saw him go down ther white
road, streakin’ through ther quiet, moonlit city,
disturbin’ ther peace with his ’owls, ’n’ every
now’n agin er fresh helmet ud flash out, ’n’ go
bobbin’ after that squealin’ streak iv er demented
clerk, till cops’ bonnets was ez thick ez fleas in
their limelight. Benno went right bang through
ther city, ’n’then er long John got his foot on
’im.
“When we came up eleven cops’ad our Mr.
Dickson down, ’n’ he was two’n-a-harf secs off
dead fer want iv wind, but he was savin’ :
‘Murder! Murder! Murder!’ in er thick, fat
whisper, ’n’ his chiv was ez white’s er turnip
“‘Whatisut?’ said ther long cop, lookin’ at
us, suspicious.
“ ‘ It’s er baby drunk what’s broke erway from
parents ’n’ guardians,’ I said.
“ ‘What’s he talkin’ murder fur?’
“ ‘An old Greek oyster breathed on’im up et
Matter’s fish-shop,’ said ther Don.
“‘Then I’ll put’im where he can meditate’n
pray, said ther John.
“We tried t’ beg ther body, but ther John was
set on hushin’ ’im up, ’n’ so our Mr. Dickson went
t’ beddy-by on er soft board lars night, ’n’ was
fined in er like hamount this mornin’, ’n’ he’s just
bin explainin’ t’ ther Firm that he didn’t turn up
this mornin’ cause his aunt what’s goin’ t’ die
nex’ Sat’dee had t’ be buried in advance, ’n’ how
his injuries was doo t’ his fallen outer his motor
car ’r somethin’ —‘ain’t yer, Benno?”
Benno said: “O-o-o-oh! 00-oh ! Oh!” and
pressed his head against the bricks.
EDWARD DYSON.
A Ballad of Motors Two.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
yri HE friendliness of olden times was never
quite the same
Around the Dingo district when Maloney’s
motor came;
His toney friends who used to call for scandal
and for tea:
Were each and ev’ry one consumed by burning
jealousee.
And so at last they made resolve in Brown’s Dead
Dingo bar
That Dingo Yale would shortly sport another
motor car.
And so it came to pass that they were wonder-
fully glad
When big MacPherson built a car that made
Maloney sad.
The things were nearly similar; this difference
lay between—
MacPherson’s was bright yellow and Maloney’s
car was green.
The latter was the symbol of a hundred Popes of
Rome,
And Mac’s of the theology his fathers brought
from ’Ome.
And then the rivalry began, and gathered force
each day ;
MacPherson shattered records to Maloney’s great
dismay.
It was a feud between the sects on holy grounds
alone,
Between the Anglicans and those who kissed the
Blarney Stone.
And soon the hate that smouldered long burst out
in bitter flame
Till Mac and Mick with daggers drawn two
murd’rous fiends became!
They used to thunder down the hills ; they used
to scramble up;
They went to meet the Governor ; they went to
see the Cup.
The lately-standing records went ridiculously
wrong
When Mac with unrelenting speed went thunder-
ing along !
They raced to please the gallery (as rivals
always do),
While people vaguely guessed which was the
faster of the two.
At -last the motor-men agreed to let the autos,
race
For God, and man, and country, and for glory—
or disgrace !
The course was ultimately marked thro’ miles of
rock and scrub—
It wound away beyond the range, and finished at
the pub.
The distances, the rules, the judge were fixed the
night before
The day that promised heaps of fun and waggon-
loads of gore.
The racing day, the trysting-ground—a weird,
inspiring sight—•
The screaming, anxious multitude, all crazy with
delight.
They drifted in for miles along the slow meand’r-
ing creeks ;
They came from homesteads lonely by the tow’r-
ing mountain peaks;
From haunted huts and cosy homes, from scenes
of wild unrest,
They came to modern Babylon with fierce and
fiery zest.
Supporters of MacPherson wore a yellow seldom
seen,
While Maloney’s wore a shamrock or a scrap of
Irish green.
And ev’rybody wore a look that meant “ I’ll do or
die ! ”
For party feeling on the creek ran dangerously
high.
And with reason ; for the honor of MacPherson
was at stake,
While Maloney raced for Freedom and for his old
Ireland’s sake !
The pistol shot ! —Away they went! A wild and
loud “ Hooray ! ”
As side by side those motor-cars went surging on
their way.
And like a sphinx sat Scotland’s rep., unruffled,
graven, grim—
The world held nothing worth a cent save vie*
tory for him !
But Mick Maloney merely smiled and grimly
gazed ahead,
As up the rise, and down the gorge, and thro’ the
scrub they sped.
Aye, on and on—and faster still they raced in
lightning style,
First Ireland held advantage, and then Scotland
for a while.
And faster yet, and faster, till at Rogan’s crossing
place
MacPherson's auto, struck a tree and vaulted into
space!
It fizzed and smoked, it hissed and roared, went
whirling round and round—
It turned ten backward somersaults, then crashed
upon the ground !
The concourse gathered round, and gazed in horror
at the wreck,
And someone tried in vain to patch MacPherson’s
broken neck !
Some viewed the scene with reckless rage, and
some with boundless glee.
For Mick Maloney’s famous car had vanished
totallee !
They jeered the old religion that MacPherson
brought from ’Ome,
And cheered for Ireland’s saint and for a
hundred Popes of Rome !
But, as I said, the feeling ran malevolent and
high,
And soon shillalahs whirled around, and rocks
began to fly !
The ground was ornamented with a hundred hats
and coats;
The women screamed and tore their hair, and
clutched each other’s throats.
Till there was only one man left (that’s me) to tell
the tale,
And shed a tear for those who died that day at
Dingo Yale !
But Mick Maloney never stopped (alas, for
faulty gear !), .
And scarcely looked on either side all thro that
mad career !
But on and on, and further out, and past the
Dying Day,
And still he’s going on and out—at least the
drovers say.
But p’r’aps a spirit comforts him what time a
lonely star
Is guiding thro’the Great Unknown that crazy
motor car.
And p’r’aps some time when day is done, and
night is. falling grey,
A ghostly car thro’ Shadowland will wend its
homeless way;
Aye, past a heap of motor scraps and countless
sticks and stones
That lie beside a mould’ring heap of mens and
women’s bones !
That’s the plain, unvarnished story—just the
why, and whence, and how
At Dingo Vale, where \ reside, there are no
motors now.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


We take pleasure in publishing the following in*
teresting letter from Mr. James Sumers, who also
very kindly sends his photograph:
u
!*f
9
“Indigestion and liver complaint,
troubled me greatly, and the money I
spent on various medicines was only
wasted, as they did me no good. A
friend asked me why I did not take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I thought that if I did the result would
be the same as with the other medi-
cines; but, to my great surprise, after
taking a few doses I felt really better,
and I continued until I had taken, in all,
seven or eight bottles. I was then able
to digest my food, and it made me feel like a new man. I now always
have with me a supply of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” — James Sumebs, North
Terrace, Adelaide, S. A.
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out.
You must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep
your liver active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be
active, and a feeling of general good health may be yours by keeping
your liver active and your blood pure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens
the stomach and aids digestion.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla will do all this for you, but
you must insist upon getting “AYER’S,” for it is
stronger, contains more valuable ingredients, and
cures more quickly than any other kind.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEE A CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
T
s-
NO MONEY WANTED.
'f nc us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing- 6
ot our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
nave sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing- the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
we take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We' have no connection with any other firm,
.v? a , r -K i dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
tnis liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. ,
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
GIVE “HER” A PURSE
THAT is the kind of present a woman always appreciates,
and, of course, if it comes from “The Store Where
Quality Counts,” you may depend that it will be of
the latest style and excellent value.
fm
coacKcoax
m
s
Price 12/6
POST FREE.
The whole of the Purses and Bags
we offer are made to our special
order, and we guarantee their
durability.
These are two styles that we find
popular. They are real crocodile
leather on best steel frame, silver-
mounted, leather-lined, and of very
smart appearance, English-made,
and will give five years’ good wear.
Many other articles suitable for
presents are fully illustrated and
described in our large catalogue.
May we send you a copy—post free ?
We pay the postage on anything purchased here, and if on receipt of
the parcel you are in any way dissatisfied with your purchase, please
return the article and we will cheerfully refund your money.
WITH
CHAIN,
POST
FREE.
oote
GEORGE ST., Cor. ROYAL ARCADE,
AN INTERESTING
HOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving l instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
oerve-ppwer and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
HEhT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth!
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pjky exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
mu not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHIELINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.O. M SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
W 1
&
A
Ik
Kit
sy
f
/ '
7/'
8
0
p
p
EECHAM’S
Pulls
Will
/naffe all tAe difference
A BOON TO THE. BILIOUS.
Are you compel eil to deny yourself many wholesome foods because you think they make you bilious?
Do you know that your condition is more to b ame than the food ? Your liver and stomach need atten-
tion mo -e t.ian the diet. When you find yourself suffering with a bilious attack, take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
and all annoying symptoms will soon disappear. They settle the stomach, regulate the liver, and
exercise tne bowels. Their good effects are felt immediately. BEECHAM’S PILLS mingle with the
c .itents of the stomach, and ntake easy work of digestion. The nourishing properties of the food are then
read ly ass miLted, replenishing the blood, and giving health, strength and vigor to the whole system.
So!d Everywhere in Boxes, price 10/,d., 1/1%, and 2/9. [4].
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your...
Rabbit SKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS' PRODUCE
HILL, CLARK ©. CO.,
SYDNEY.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Kerned/ for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fau'ldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
■LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY*
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, tree of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A,MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the rame
diseases in 4.3
hours Without
incon- __
Ca'
venience.
[m.
OR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: to to 4,7 to 9 daily.
■ DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd.,'and
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE* for 3s This nneniftcent ijcdicafunrlr r> OU Bn a f Pj- V t 0
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50
Plate. The most interesting-, up-to-date, and reliable medical \v oVk published I b
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those wXd f< » aU
to the public. It isa complete Encyclopaedia of information for 'sufleri.i- humanS* ?fflk-t£l
standing, exhausting:, or. painful diseases. Wo
grand work, wintainiiVg 34 iTl”ustrali(Vns plate
Medical Rook is like will be sent POST FREE",
..-iving a very fair idea of what the Great
A,»••«,»» over ■■ S*-™.the iss^rsisss JKi-K.3S
works), possed FREE od applioalion. E. 55."“F1™ I,™ S'“ gg?£,2MiyW «•'
any where on receipt of,ls 6d (stamps). Note Address 8 Special Ailments posted
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writinj
“ Elmley House, ’ EhzCtbeth-St. ,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
men
ano
WOMEN
FREE


HOT
WATER
BAGS
-
The Very Best\
Quality, with |
Patent Stopper!
and Handle. J
Sizes.
12in. x 6in.
12in. x Sin.
12iii. x lOin.
Without
Covers.
7/-
Complete
Wool'or
Sealette
Covers.
7/9
9/-
9/6
THESE WE GUARANTEE.
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd
270 Caorge Street, Sydney.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GEIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
EXTES. Sold by all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and PoWer Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.
SYDNEY.
.
Pocket-Knives,
and
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
©00t3?3
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
WOLF
aOT
AX le
<5.1.0
S"l
At the Showrooms—
Empire Champers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
I, & J, laxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free,
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs, Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Striotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS; (
J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST. s SYDNEY.
all first*
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle • • • 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEBT.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles."
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUTTtN & CO.»
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
/SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pu I leys— Cast, W.i, Wood, Shafting:, Hangers, &e., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron-Bar, Bod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers* Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
-GOLF BALL
TELEPHONES—BB2 and 2435 CENTRAL.
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD Tor the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Professional
or THE
Silvertouin gabber go.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CENTRIFUGAL SWIVELLED PUMPS
Of the VERY HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
The Pump takes its suction in on each side, therefore the Propeller of the Pump is always in equilibrium, thus doing away
with all unnecessary friction. The bearings are fitted with Oil Lubricating Rings, so that the same oil can be us
and over again.
PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND,
Makers of High-Class Pumps
of AH Kinds.
So/e Agents : GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
