

I3EW.A-IVS ™e WHISKY
R. Gr. WA.TK.mS & GO.,
107 Kent street, SyfeLza^y,
—FOR— m • - X
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
gjgĵ
1
A tjt
gjgfj
sjgjg
:oBArt.T,
»
PIONEER
LEATHERi
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Write for SPECIAL CATALOGUE of
Kirchner’s WOODWORKING and SAWING MACHINERY
SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BA TTLE & CO., Ltd., 7Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
p
-^3
"Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand jjACON
CHUBB'S
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
♦-
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents
Canvassers Wanted. IEH
U ~&Jb
N9ISN0G
RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney'
Charge for Selling Woo!
Reduced to 2 per cent
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
E. J.E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
BENSDORPS
At
Xft
fjfgjf
is the Queen of sJI Cocoas
FOI^
l Aroin^Strength^Puri^C
SJLVMXSV3
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I¥f
fjfg
0* gfjfg
t*
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will dd more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
■ •"-'V
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-MaKing Machinery.
Also largest matters in
HELIDCMM SPA WATER
Taken as a Table Water, neither oppression 1
nor depression follows. I
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1437.]
[Thursday, August 29, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, JST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


RECENT TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Hiscox, Modern Steam Engineering, 15s, postage is.
Gairns, Locomotive Compounding and Superheating, 10s,
post Bd.
Darbysliire, Precision Grinding, 7s 6d, postage 6d.
Gant, Elements of Electric Traction, 6s, post 6(1.
Long’ridge, Gold Dredging, fully i.llus., 245, post Is.
Hobbs, Thenno-dynamic Prince of Engine Design, 5s 6d,
post 6d. -
Garcke, Progress of Electrical Enterprise, Is 6d posted.
Honsden, Practical Earthwork Tables, iSs Gd, post 4r|.
Hofmann, Uydroinetalluryy of Silver, 20s, post Is.
Grossman, Elements of Chemical Engineering, 4s, post (id.
Shaxby, Klein. Electrical Engineering 3s (id, post (id.
Tinney, Gold Mining Machinery, its Selection, Arrange-
ment and Installation : a Pract. H’hook, 15s, post Is.
Woodworth, Punches, Dies and Tools, IDA, post Is.
Peters, Principles of Copper Smelting, 255, post Is.
Benjamin, Machine Design, 9s Gd, post Cd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTO., 71 CASTLERBAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
lON’S
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1 16.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
I
A—The Larynx,- or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lpbe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Afedieines, “EUMEMHOL
JUJUBES” du*;. n ot interfere with digestion Un
the contrary, have a beneficial effect,
their An'tiseptil
fermentation of fl
'properties prevent abnormal
THE RED PAGE
mohk van.* n
earnestness of G.B.S. grows al-
I most frenzied in its intensity in his
last volume, containing the thir-
teenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth of
his plays, as well as the voluminous prefaces
with which he always accompanies his drama-
tic works in book form. - Shaw is becoming
middle-aged ; his early sparkling humor has
bubbled out; he no longer says smart things
for the sake of saying them ; he says things
now because he believes them, and their
humor is more or less a happy accident.
For Shaw cannot be altogether dull, even
when he is altogether earnest. In the older
days Shaw was preoccupied about the
dramatic texture of his plays ; for him, even
in his most irresponsible humor, the play
was the thing ; and the result has been some
valuable contributions to the modern drama
that—say, ninety years hence —we shall
have the pleasure of seeing daily bn the
boards of our municipal or State theatre.
And now his ideas have conquered his
technique ; and these three plays are some-
what carelessly constructed. This is not, how-
ever, to admit that the three dramas in his new
volhme (Constable), are not excellent acting
plays, bubbling with wit. And here it behooves
the writer to dismiss the popular conception
that Shaw’s work is for the study, not
the footlights. The writer saw two of these
three plays on the London stage : they acted
better than they read. Candida , for in-
stance, would seem—as it originally seemed
to its author—a play impossible for produc-
tion. Yet upon the stage, where effects
are always broadened and emphasised,
the comedy seems richer, the dr;umatic sus-
pense more real. In the present volume
John Bull and Major Barbara certainly need
condensing in the final acts. Shaw suffers
from the fact that by his stage-manager he
is regarded as God. The stage-manager
would no more, use the blue pencil to one of
those long speeches where Shaw takes the
words out of the mouths of his characters
than the editor of “ The Exodus Times ”
would have : thought of improving the style
of the “ copy ” of the Ten Commandments.
But, despite this intrusion of unadulterated
Shaw, here are two comedies and one farce
that clamor for the coming of the municipal
theatre.
John Bull’s Other Island affords us a
clearer insight into the weaknesses of modern
Ireland than a dozen critical studies. For
Shaw, the disillusioned and expatriate Irish-
man, has the mental detachment of the his-
torian ; he does not take sides. He simply
puts before us the Irishman of to-day in the
Ireland of to-day, and leaves us to judge. It
is true that both in that laborious “ Preface
for Politicians ” and in the play he explains
the Irishman by proving that he is an
Englishman; but his argument is well based.
“Ireland,” he insists, “ is the only spot on
earth which still produces the ideal English-
men of history.” As Broadbent remarks
It has often struck me as a most remarkable
circumstance that the only party in Parliament
which show* the genuine old English character
arid spirit S the Irish party. Look at its inde-
pendence, its determination, its defiance of bad
governments, its sympathy with oppressed nation-
alities all the world over ! How English !
Here, from the preface, is a piece of sane
and dispassionate criticism :
Ireland has been deliberately ruined again and
again by England. Unable to compete with us
industrially, she has destroyed our industries by
the brute force of prohibitive taxation. She was
perfectly right. That brute force was a more
honorable weapon than the poverty which we used
to undersell her. We lived with and as our
pigs, and let loose our wares in the Englishman’s
market at prices which he could compete with
only by living like a pig himself. Having the
alternative of stopping our industry altogether,
he very naturally and properly availed himself of
it.... In wrecking all the industries that were
based on the poverty of our people, England did
us an enormous service. In omitting to do the
same on her own soil, she did herself a wrong that
has rotted her almost to the marrow. I hope
that when Home Rule is at last achieved, one of
our first legislative acts will be to fortify the sub-
sistence of our people behind the bulwark of a
standard wage, and to impose crushing impost
duties on every English trade that flourishes in
the slum and fattens on the starvation of our un-
fortunate English neighbors.
But it is not his presentation of the in-
habitants of that other island that makes
this play noteworthy, but his character-draw-
ing of its owner. Broadbent is the typical
Englishman—a caricature peliiaps, but a
caricature that has the genial and sympa-
thetic qualities of a Max Beerbohm. Broad-
bent is earnest, yet at the beck of his plati-
tudes, incapable of rebuff because thick-hided,
happily lacking that sense of humor which is
the Irishman’s practical damnation, efficient
because narrow-minded, a fortunate being
“ with all his ideas in watertight compart-
ments, and all the compartments warranted
impervious to anything that it doesn’t suit
him to understand.” The type is so truly
drawn that this blundering, thick-headed,
platitudinous, good-hearted John Btdl wins
all along the line, simply because lie has the
dull driving-power of the efficient. For he
is free from dreams, except, as he admits,
the dream that he onOe had of Heaven :—-
Once, when I was a small kid, I dreamt
that I was in Heaven. It was a sort of pale blue
satin place, with all the pious old ladies in our
congregation sitting as if they were at a service ;
and there was some awful person iii the study at
the other side of the hall. I didn’t enjoy it, you
know. \
But the dreams of an Irishman are his racial
suicide.
Oh, the dreaming, the dreaming !. .. No
debauchery that ever coarsened, and brutalised
an Englishman can take the wortftand usefulness
out of him like that dreaming: an Irishman’s
imagination never lets him alone, never convinces
him, never satisfies him ; but it makes him that
he can’t face reality, nor deal with it, nor handle
it, nor conquer it: he can only sneer at them that
do, and be "agreeable to strangers,” like a good-
for-nothing woman on the streets. ... At last
you get that you can bear nothing real at all ;
you’d rather starve than cook a meal; you’d
rather go shabby and dirty than set your mind to
take care of vour clothes and wash yourself.. . .
And all the time you laugh, laugh, laugh, eternal
derision, eternal envy, etprnal folly, eternal foul-
ing and staining and degrading, until, when you
come at last to a country where men take a
question seriously, and give a serious answer to it,
you deride them for having-mo sense of humor,
and plume, yourself_on your own worthlessness as
if it made you better than them.
The comedy opens in Broadbent’s London
office with the intrusion* of the “stage”
Irishman who says “Begorra! ” and calls
Broadbent “your honor,” and drinks his
whisky, and borrows five pounds. And he
turns out to be a Scot from Aberdeen, and
quietly disappears out of the action—with
the borrowed five pounds. Then Broadbent,
taking his English valet and his revolvers,
goes to the Ireland of his romance, and has
adventures with a motor-car and a pig, and,
at the end of a scene where Shaw musters
an assortment of Irish types for dissection
and satire, the Englishman is enthusiastically
chosen as their candidate for Parliament.
You see in that scene all the futile misery,
bickerings, broodings and sullen rage of
that poverty-stricken place. Take this pic-
ture of Irish industry :
Industrious ! That man’s industry used to
make me sick, even as a boy. I tell you, an Irish
peasant’s industry is not human : it’s worse than
the industry of a coral insect. An Englishman
has some sense about- working: he never
more than he can help—and hard enough to get
him to do that without scamping it; but an Irish-
man will work as if he’d die the moment he
stopped. That man Matthew Haffigan and his
brother Andrew made a farm out of a patch of
stones on the hillside—cleared it and dug it with
their own naked hands, and bought their first
spade out of their first crop of potatoes. . . ,
What good was it to them ? The moment they'd
done it, the landlord put a rent of £5 a year on
them, and turned them out because they couldn’t
pay it.
Bat Broadbent’s stolid English valet, in a
scene of unexpected comedy, turns on the
Irish and their wrongs.
You Irish people are too well off ; that’s what’s
the matter with you. You talk of your rotten
little farm because you made it by chuckin’ a few
stownes dahn a hill! Well, wot price my gran-
fawther, that fitted up a fuss clawss shop and
built up a fuss clawss drapery business in London
by sixty years’ work, and then was chucked aht
of it on ’is ’ed at the end of ’is lease withaht a
penny for his goodwill. You talk of evictions !
you that cawn’t be moved until you’ve run up
eighteen months’ rent. I once ran up four weeks’
in Lambeth, when I was aht of a job in winter.
They took the door off its ’inges and the winder
aht of its sashes on me, and gave my wife pnoo-
mownia. I’m a widower now. (Between his
teeth) Gawd ! when I think of the things we
Englishmen ’ave to put up with, and hear you
Irish bahlin’ abaht your silly little grievances, and
see the way you make it worse for us by
the rotten wages you’ll come over and take,
and the rotten places you’ll sleep in, I jast
feel that I could take the ’owl bloomin’
British Island mid make you a present
of it, jast to let you find out wot real ’ard-
ship’s like. . . . I’m a ’Owm Ruler, I am. Do
you know why ?... It’s because I want a little
attention paid to my own country; and that’ll
never be as long as you chaps are ’ollerin’ at
Westminster as if nowbody chattered but your own
bloomin’ selves.... I’m jast sick of Ireland. Let
it gow. Cut the cable.' Make it a present to
Germany to keep the owl Kyzer busy for a while;
and give poor owl England a chawnce ; that’s wot
I say.
Pure comedy is the scene between Broad-
bent and an Irish girl. Meeting Nora by
moonlight beneath a ruined round tower,
the Englishman naturally makes love to her;
but the practical Irish Nora is so surprised
by this outbreak of sentimentality that she
puts it down to drink, and actually persuades
Broadbent that he has imbibed not romance
but too much whisky. In a higher plane
of comedy—the ironic comedy that hovers
dangerously near to tears—is the character
of the mad disfrocked Irish priest, introduced
to us'in a fantastic scene where he converses
with an invisible grasshopper. This mad-
man suffers from the pardonable delusion
that this world is Hell.
This world is very clearly a place of torment
and penance, a place where the fool flourishes and
the good and wise are hated and persecuted . . .
Now, sir, there is only one place of horror and
torment known to my religion ; and that place is
Hell. Therefore, it is plain to me that this earth
of ours must be Hell, and that we are all here to
expiate crimes committed by us in a former exist-
ence.
J*
Hoiv he Lied to Her Husband is a one-act *
burlesque of Shaw's Candida. The author
tells us it took him four days to write, and
he prints it “as a sample of what can be
done with even the most hackneyed stage
framework, by filling it with an observed
touch of actual humanity instead of with
doctrinaire romanticism.” And in this piece
d' occasion Shaw has poured some very
cold water upon the romanticism of his
own Candida. “He” is a poet who lias
written certain verses to Aurora, the wife
of Teddy Bompas, and these verses get into
Teddy’s hands. The poet’s name, by the
way, is Henry Apjohn. Henry calmly asks
Aurora to go away with him ; but Aurora,
being a practical woman, objects.
She : Do you mean to say that you propose
that we should walk right bang up to Teddy and
tell him that we’re going away together?
He : Yes. What can be simpler ?
She: And do you think; for a moment he’d
stand it, like that half-baked clergyman in the
play ? He’d just kill you.
He : You don’t understand these things, my
darling ; how could you ? In one respect, I am
unlike the poet in the play. I have followed the
Greek ideal and not neglected the culture of my
body. Your husband would make a tolerable
second-rate heavyweight if he were in training
and ten years younger. As it is, he could give a
good account of himself for perhaps fifteen
seconds. But lam active enough to keep out of
his reach for fifteen seconds; and after that I
should be simply all over him.
Meantime Teddy has got hold of the poet’s
manuscript poems to Aurora, and Henry
Apjohn promises her that he will deny this
damning piece of evidence of his love for
her. When Teddy taxes him with his in-
fatuation for Mrs. Bompas, the poet man-
fully lies. He professes the iciest indiffer-
ence to Mrs. Bompas. Whereupon the
infuriated husband
I’ll tell you what Mrs. Bompas is. She’s the
smartest woman in the smartest set in South Ken-
sington, and the handsomest, and the cleverest,
and the most fetching to experienced men who
know a good thing when they see it, whatever she
may be to conceited penny-a-lining puppies . . It’s
admitted by the best people ; and not to know it
argues yourself unknown. Three of our first
actor-managers have offered her a hundred a week
if she’ll go on the stage ; and I think they know
what they’re about as well as you. The only
member of the present Cabinet that you.-might
call a handsome man has neglected the business
of the country to dance with her, though he don’t
belong to our set as .a regular thing. One of the
first professional poets in Bedford Bark wrote a
sonnet to her,, worth all your -amateur trash. At
Ascot last season the eldest son of a duke excused
himself from calling on me on the ground that his
feelings for Mrs. Bompas were not consistent
with his duty to me as host; and it did him
honor and me too. But ( with gathering fury) she
isn’t good enough for you, it., seems.
It ends with the poet confessing his love,
and the flattered husband offering to pub-
lish the poems on condition that they are
dedicated to his wife.
.
Major Barbara is a study of poverty, and
both in his play and in his preface, “ First
Aid to Critics,” Shaw indicates his remedy.
That remedy is Money. Andrew Undershaft
is a millionaire manufacturer of cannons and
explosives —an English Krupp, and his
daughter, Barbara, has become a major in
the Salvation Army. Both are intent on
saving souls, the major by religion, and the
manufacturer by attending to the drainage
of the model village in which his workmen
are housed. The play opens with the visit of
the millionaire to the family from which he
has been separated for years ; and the
natural mistakes he makes in recognising his
grown-up family—he has only a hazy recol-
lection even of the number of that family—
are Shaw’s sly hit at the facility with which
the long-lost son is recognised in melodrama.
Lady Britomart Undersliaft, his wife, makes
the error of introducing him to a gathering
in which the two girls’ fiances are also in-
cluded, and Undershaft is naturally puzzled.
Lady Britomart : This is your family.
Undershaft ( surprised) : Is it so large ? lam
sorry to say my memory is failing very badly in
some things... .
Lady Britomart : Andrew ; do you mean to
say that you don’t remember how many children
you have ?
Undershaft : Well, I’m afraid I They
have grown so much—er. Am I making any
ridiculous mistake? I may as well confess: I
recollect only one son. But so many things have
happened since, of course—er —
In the second act we are taken to a Salva-
tion Army shelter and treated to some pain-
ful realism. Here, Shaw’s earnestness is
fully apparent. This scene is written with a
grimness that can be paralleled only by the
modern European playwrights whose work
our theatrical managers do not consider
good enough for Australia. The comedy
element is supplied by a Greek Professor,
who becomes a talented performer on the big
drum in the Salvation Army merely out of
love for Barbara. The Army’s methods are
incisively analysed. While praising the
Salvation Army for its joyous vitality, Shaw
/points out that it has almost ns many weak-
nesses as the Church of England itself.
It is building up a business organisation which’
will compel it eventually to see that its present
staff of enthusiast-commanders shall be succeeded
by a bureaucracy of men of business who will he
no better than bishops, and perhaps a good deal
more unscrupulous. This has always happened
sooner or later to great orders founded by saints :
apd the order founded , by St. William Booth is
not exempt froijn the same danger.
Naturally, a millionaire manufacturer tully
approves of the Army’s efforts ; it gives him
better workmen—and larger profits. It
draws their teeth, makes them sober, honest,
attached to their homes, happy, and unsel-
fish. With their thoughts on heavenly
things they have no time for Trades
Unionism nor Socialism. The gospel
of Andrew Undershaft is simply that
“the greatest of evils and the worst
of crimes is poverty, and that our first
duty : —a duty to which every other considera-
tion should be sacrificed—is not to be poor.”
Shaw’s remedy is not Universal Old Age
Pensions, but Universal Pensions for Life —
that is, “to give every man enough to live well
on, so as to guarantee the community against
the possibility of a case of thb malignant
disease of poverty, and then (necessarily)
to see that he earned it.” Delightfully
simple !
The universal regard for money is the one hope-
ful fact in our civilisation, the one sound spot in
our social conscience. Money .. . represents,
health, strength, honor, generosity, and beauty
as conspicuously and undeniably as the want of it
represents' illness, weakness, disgrace, meanness
and ugliness. Not the least of its virtues is that
it destroys base people as certainly as it fortifies
and dignifies noble people. It is only when it is
cheapened to worthlessness for some, and made
impossibly dear to others, that it becomes a curse.
In short, it is a curse only'in such foolish social
conditions that life itself is a curse.
And when Barbara, revolting from the Army
because it takes “tainted money” from
a distiller —Shaw points out that all money
comes from tainted sources—is in utter des-
pair, her practical father comes to her rescue
with his philosophy.
Undershaft: What do we do here when we
spend years of work and thousands of pounds on
a new gun that turns out just a hair’s-breadth
wromr after all? Scrap it. Scrap it without
wasting another hour or another pound on itl
Well, you have made for yourself something that
you call a morality or a religion or what not. It
doesn’t fit the facts. Well, scrap it. Scrap it,
and get one that does fit. That is what is wrong
with the world at present. It scraps its obsolete
steam-engines and dynamos ; but it won’t scrap
its old prejudices and its old moralities and its
old religions and its old political constitutions.
What’s the result? In machinery it does yery
well; but in morals and religion and politics it is
working at a loss that brings it nearer bankruptcy
every year. Don’t persist in that folly. If your
old religion broke down yesterday, get a new one
a£ul a better,one fur to-morrow.
Barbara : Oh, how gladly I would take a better
one to my soul! But you offer me a worse 0ne....
Undershaft : I see no darkness here, no dread-
fulness. In your Salvation shelter I saw poverty,
misery, cold and hunger. You gave them bread
and treacle and dreams of heaven. I give them
thirty shillings a week to twelve 'thousand a year.
They find their own dreams; but I look after the
drainage. .
Barbara : And their souls ?
Undershaft : I save their souls just as I saved
yours.
Barbara (revolted ) : You saved my soul! What
do you mean ?
IJndershaft : I fed you and clothed you and
housed you; I took care that you should have
money enough to live handsomely. . . That
saved your soul from the seven deadly sins.
Barbara : The seven deadly sins ?
Undershaft': Yes, the deadly seven. Food,
clothing, firing, rent, taxes, respectability, and
children. Nothing can lift those seven millstones
from Man’s neck but money. ... I lifted them
from your spirit, , . . I saved you from the crime
of poverty.
Oosins : Do you call poverty a crime ?
Undershaft: The worst of crimes. . . Poverty
blights whole cities ; spreads horrible pestilences.
. . . What you call crime is nothing; a murder
here and a "theft there; what do they matter ?
They are only the accidents and illnesses of
life; there are not fifty genuine professional
criminals in London. But there are millions of
poor people, abject people, dirty people, ill-fed,
ill-clothed people. They poison us morally and
physically; they kill the happiness of society;
they force us to do away with our own liberties,
and to organise unnatural cruelties for fear they
should rise against us, and drag us down into their
abyss. Only fools fear crime; we all fear poverty.
A book that “ gives to think.”
Upton Sinclair, author of The Jungle , states
that he has written no fiction since that book,
and that Prince Hagen , recently issued among
other books by this author, was written when he
was 22, and was published in England in 1903.
The Industrial Republic (Heinemann), however,'
from internal evidence does not seem a reprint.


A
<aee
High-Class Hall-Marked
Silver-Mounted Ware
No. 1836.
Silver-Mounted Comb, Tortoiseshell
color, “Cherub” design (No. 1836),
2s. 9d., ss.
Fancy designs, Is. Gd., 35., 4s. 3d,
ss. 6d„ 6s.
Sterling Examples
OF
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Silver-Mounted Shaving Brush (No. 1828 a)
Bs. 3d., 10s., 12s. Gd.
1
No. 1850..
■
No. 1851
Silver-Mounted Smelling- Salts Bottle, with hinged Silver
Top, shown in natural size (No. 1850), 4s. 9d. Other designs, same
shape—3s. 9d., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 11s. 6d. to 245.
Lavender Salts, in Silver work Case (No. 1851) —ss, 9d., Bs., 11s.
Bottles of Crown Lavender Salts, in Sterling Silver Case —
Bs. 9d., 9s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 155., 2ls.
m
No. 1847 a.
No. 1847.
Silver-Mounted Pyramid Bottles, 9iin. high
No. 1847, Cane Pattern, 10s. 6d.
■ No. 1847 a, Hobnail, 10s. 6d.
No. 1827.
No. 1828.
Silver-Mounted Hand Mirror (No. 1827)
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., 20s, Larger Size, 225. 6d.,
255., 30s.
Silver-Mounted Hair Brush (No. 1828)—75. 6d.,
IQs., 125., 135., 155., 18s., -215., 255,
No. 1385.
Silver-Mounted Comb, Tortoiseshell color,
(No. 1835), 7\ inches, ss.
No. 1829.
Handsome Silver-Mount-
ed Hound Mirror,
Cherub design (No. 1829),
275. Similar design,
smaller size, 19s. 6d.
No. 1830.
Large Round Silver-
Mounted Mirror*, dif-
ferent designs (No. 1830),
235. 6d., 255.
Wlkeia ©ffdeimg
0 0 0
□ □ □
No. 1832.
Silver-Mounted Hair Brush, Rococo design (No. 1832)
7s. 6d., Bs., 9s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 15s. 9d., 17s, Gd., 225., 235. 6d.,
255., 28s„ 31s.
No. 1844 A.
Silver-Mounted Gent.’s Hair
Brush, Cherub design (No.
1844 a), Bs. 6d.
N®. 1831..
Silver-Mounted Military
Hair Brashes (No. 1831)
ss. 9d., 7s. 3d., Bs. 3d., 11s.,
13s. 6d., 155., 21s.
No. 1825.
No. 1825 a.
Silver-Mounted Hair Brush, “Dawn,
best Bristles (No. 1825) —21s.
Silver-Mounted Hand Mirror, “Iris,
(No. 1825a)— 295. 6d.
No. 1833.
Silver-Mounted Hair Brush, Cherub design,
3 Sizes (No. 1833), 6s. lid., 10s. 6d., IBs.
No. 1843.
No. 1*44,
Silver-Mounted Hair Brushes—
Watteau design (No. 1843), 14s. 6d.
Palace design (No. 1844), 10s. 6d.
No. 1823.
Toilet Set, consisting of handsome Silver-Mounted
Hair Brush and Comb (No. 1823)—11s. 6d.,
12s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 20s„ 235. 6d., 295. 6d.,
355. 6d.; or with Brush, Mirror, and Comb—
-325. Gd., 355., 465. ; or in Cherub design, Brush
and Comb, 18s., 21s.
No. 1848.
Glass Scent Bottles, with hinged Silver Top
(No. 1848) —3in. high, 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d.; 3Jin,
high, 145.; 4in. high, 18s.
Ban de Cologne— Long Bottles, in Sterling Silver
Case, 9s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 16s. ; Square Bottles, in
Sterling Silver Case, 7s. 6d., 10s., 125., 155., 225,
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MAKHMOHEl
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNB ■'ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BR °KERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES,. pay special attention
are carefully attended to by our staff of lug y . t Account Sales rendered promptly.
t 0 by •!>» Company to WHEAT growers for free storage o
, their E grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application. DROPPER.”
| Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent GRIP DROPPE
&
BE It HYPNOTIST
BFUNs MONEY
Would you like to exert a Bin and
desire to possess an accomphshinent by « can maste r this
money? If so you should become * free of a n cost at your own
•wonderful, mysterious i sc about the secrets, methods,
home. By a few hours You can surprise and mystify a 1
uses and wonders of the hypnotic wane • . . we ; r( j an( j masric spell,
your fiends by placing any one you jish unto ttaa we.* you wish . yon
1 and compel them to ft he most wonderful and astounding
I can sway the minds of other ~ P hours at a time. You can do a
thousand amaring things
C-uwe. You are also shown how you may heal the sck P yQU can promotion
msmmmmm
R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CD, TAILOR-MADE P.D
*0 CORSETS. W
Are the most successful corset design ever created,
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rusc-praot
supports*
llKi
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A sinqle test has convinced thousands of
women that here is a type immeasurably
Tuper'ior to all other straight-fi onted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE
STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procurbj the correct style, write for
book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO., _ m . DlsIP
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
gfjfgj
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
<.niTR WAVORITE” COLD ESIAJIEL (Washable) —Rich and
! tt^ni»{«;»|}
color! A i®l c\”a gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other H T(JB EN AMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
rp 0 DEIFY competition.
SPIRITS.
Tlxe Best Brands only
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c,
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
Will
Andrade
fgjfgj
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over oO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Datk Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each.' Reynolds’ Court of London SkR«B, 2*
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, ihf.
Husband and The Lover, Is ; posted Is od. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
OF BOCCACCIO 2/6. HEPTAMKRON. 2/6. Brideof the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnisihng and Polish-
Wood Is 3d ; Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How toMesmer.se : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance.
is Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
p amt! tk 1 s Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
HOW TO VAMP ON PIANO, IS. HOW TO VAMP, 1 ? .
ttAwto Make Love. Is Dream Book,ls. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, is. The Cuckold. Is: nostl/3. Kreiit-
ZER SONATA, IS ; post IS 3d. SLATTERY S SECRETS OF
tub Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of Frenc
Art, in 5 oarts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. G P L
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art ofLove,
9 8 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Ccnturj
edition, very latest. 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s (id posted. ‘ ,
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Mi l -S^lks
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling, ls.Bd. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Ligiiin ng
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, ls -^ ON “ Y
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, zs.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and JOAsre
Public Speaking Made Easy, is. Wife 8
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is How to Make Love, is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
J3T AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
PLEASE
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Winchester
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
CONICAL BALL
$mii>
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliabili y
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
Fref Send' uf your name and address and we will send you 8 boxes
them at 1/- a box, tnen re se or wor k, the valuable premiums as
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
£lOO
a Weeh
Given
Away
Free
ENO’S FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvel ous.
It is, in fact, Nature's Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
CAPTION -SM C.pJ. “ y °“ **” *
CAUTION. WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd.. * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. KNQ..
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere . _________
ARTER*
©\CTEGTS P°wllf IPOtULg.
ILLS
For TORPID LIVER*
fSr constipation,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION,
Every man and woman , s^° ul p|^p^ s th and 'saUw °Skin.
injure the comptexion, LITTLE LIVER
S and SSS 3
Sss -ver have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little puls.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
... Little Liver Pills Must Bear S.gnature 0«
0


“For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
Jit
im
Jk
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
Mger’s
'Ghernf 9ectoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., 1). S. A.
r gjg
WARRANTEO TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS IVtf.roZ,
easily made. Write u once, using mflicient jpostnge,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
>en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ »». eso LIVERPOOL.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES— IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
The Evidence & Reason Why
ANEW
If 1
BOY
THE
EVIDENCE
From 18, Brougham Street, Wool-
looniooloo Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.,
July 25th, 1906.—“ My little Francis,
aged four, had not been well for
some time and did not improve.
His appetite was very poor, and he
grew pale and thin. One day I
read about Scott’s Emulsion and
gave it a trial, with most gratifying
results. Scott’s Emulsion made
a new boy of him altogether ; he
is full of life, and is always x'eady
for his meals and enjoys them.”
(Mrs.) M. HURLEY.
The Reason WHY
He is full oi Life
CL Scott’s Emulsion gave
strength to the system,
which thus soon began to do
its own work again. The
little chap got the nourish-
ment of his ordinary food as
well as the big extra nourish-
ment in his Scott’s. There
could only be one result —
the one recorded by M>s.
Hurley. But remember, it
was Scott’s did this—not
some other emul-
sion “ju st as
good” (which, by
the way, is im-
possible). There-
fore, make sure
“ the fishman with
the fish ” is on the
package before
you buy.
TRADE MARK
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
From all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines
D
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGTON'S
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
1 ttb D CO r NATURAL aperient water*
Hnnyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
By Royal
Warrant to
m
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
By
Royal Warran
Purveyors to
fdgjfg
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOiR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
4-7 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
MANY LIVES.
WORLD'S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma
and other
Lung Troubles.
OWMge.
£ungTbnfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
lt is also pleasant and refreshing for
} bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
> against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
(Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
ry NATURE’S nE*
PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon|
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS 6 DAIN TY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
Ask your
GROCER, STORES cr
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Things False and Evil.
All things are true, there is no lie,
And what was once Tradition
In the nation’s youth Time turns to Truth,
And Fact is Myth’s fruition.
Breed Tale, and Dream, and Fairy Lore,
Their gossamer is stable,
The years will show, and men shall know
The certainty of Fable.
The gods were born in the long ago,
When the world was in confusion,
And elf and sprite in ancient might
With prophets in collusion.
The gods were babes, the men were babes,
Their truth was mixed with folly;
’Twas infants’ food, but the core was good
And never passes wholly.
The sinner’s lie, the dreamer’s lie,
Contain the self-same kernel,
And the Sirens woo to a haven through
Dark gulfs that seem infernal.
The good do quick, the false do slow,
What is the selfsame doing ;
Who thinks he flies to the Father o’ Lies
The Holy Grail’s pursuing.
The wisdom and the deed come out,
The uitimates of Fancy,
For the Higher Wizard conjures gold
From the bowels of Necromancy.
No one, and nought is all a lie;
Time moulds the legendary ;
And the soul is built, while the feet of Guilt
In the gulfs of Chaos tarry.
The legend’s throbbing at the heart,
The fetich is evolving ;
And the wooden god, with his book and rod
And his secret, man is solving.
And the answer’s this: In the slimy dawn
Devil and man were devil,
All gods uncouth, with the germ of Truth
In the sodden lump of Evil.
And because of the germ can neither stop,
In the valley of Error turning ;
For the seed was great from the hand of Fate,
And the gods and men are yearning,
There is no hobble for foot of man,
No hills where the gods shall stumble ;
The dream and the lie are the destiny
For the birth of Truth was humble.
And the Perfect’s in the chrysalis,
For the core contains the leaven ;
The husk shall rot, but the Good shall not
And all roads lead to Heaven.
via
M.E.F.
The Strong Arm.
We that are rich beyond measure,
And dowered with the cream cf the earth,
As fools that make light of their fortune,
Not guessing its wonder or worth,
Sit idle while navies are building,
| And armies are gathered afar ;
And bicker like children, and trifle,
Unmindful of rapine and war.
We know not the hour or the moment,
Yet know that the moment may come,
When our doors shall fly wide to a Stranger,
Whose knock is the roll of a drum. -
We have learnt all the arts of the nations —
The games and the joys that enthrall —
The skill of the singer and huckster,
But know not the greatest of all.
If these be the things that we cherish—
Soft-dreaming on couches of ease—
Our foes may be lords at their pleasure
Of all our wide acres and seas.
We buy Art’s achievements for money—
The music and pastimes that charm—
Can we buy a strong arm in our peril,
A valiant and sword-bearing arm ?
Are we cowards or fools that we lean on
The Briton, the Lord of the Wave?
If the mifht of the Briton be broken,
Then what shall avail us and save ?
Who mastered the Russian and Mongol ?
How long, famished-eyed, shall he stand
And gaze on the feast and the banquet,
The honey and wine of our land ?
Trailing smoke, spitting fire from their warships,
With every man grim at his post,
May come the foul legions of Asia
To hold or to harry our coast.
For the man in the noon of his manhood,
And the youth in the light of his morn,
For the wives, the white women we honor,
And the babes of the future unborn,
Let us dig the red ore from the mountain,
And build the red mill in the gorge,
And heap the red fire in the furnace,
And fashion with hammer and forge
The hulls and the guns and the engines,
Thrice tested, and tested again,
Of the ships that shall ward us in war-time,
And prove us a nation of Men.
N.S.W.
NOMEN.


Jke Seal of \2ua/itO
Ltv At i i £ / C
/a
Trade dlark!
SYDNEY Show Rooms
56 PUt Street.
/Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
4k
THE TIE THAT BINDS.
CADBURY’S COCOA can be obtained in every cornerofthe British Empire
& everybody aqrees that for Strength. Purity, Flavour f. Economy it is unequalled.
IS I mmm
gill?
BRITISH t
ISLES_<\ .
Kir '/£$
’J">|fcW CA ' '««' »Nn «3?a
Vrl' / J
W; ' * BRITISH fe.. •. .v
V^tJllll'l
THE GIFT t r h"
m
s's
lIV'
COUNTRY
to her COLONIES
ZEALAND
TASMANIA ,/
The New Fragrant Tobacco,
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
MW
V L^TaX
Tobacco
<S) sjanu factored in I
Richmond Virginia. ,1
© Brother Gg,
Packe d hy RTown-j * Co. A^enfs.Sydney.
Facsimile of Soz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacsonists.
No connection with any Trust or Combine
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
5f EClf l tIOIIIUR
Scotch whisky
m
rE
ai
£
Wt
Z
Z
z
z
z
z
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS nmde on latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn oil all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, IAILS, IUIEL.!
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 21315
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
■o
T
fgjkfgjfgf
m
K
.22*
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
Ruberoid
/im§
1
ATTRACTIVE
HOMES
There was a time when RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH was con-
fined to covering the floors of bathrooms —lead was expensive,
and RUBEROID was just as good. That time has gone past. To-day RUBEROID
FLOORCLOTH is laid in dining-rooms, breakfast-rooms, bedrooms, and halls, of
Those who wish to improve the Home
t iruiMi
and make it more Attractive.
Some of the best-appointed hotels have adopted the RED RUBEROID FLOOR-
r CLOTH, others have chosen the BROWN, but in each instance the adoption
of RUBEROID has been for two reasons —
Appearance and Durability.
RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH not only looks well, but wears
well. It is as cheap as the cheapest linoleum, and is as durable
as the best. To be obtained from all Storekeepers.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH & CO., LTD., Sydney & Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 28.-No. 1437.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 29, 1907.
Prick 6d.
THE INCENDIARY.
WILD STATE PREMIER: ..HOORAY! I DID IT! I DID IT ALL ON MY LITTLE OWN! AIN’T IT BEAUTIFUL? DOESN’T IT
BURN SOMETHING LOVELY? WON’T PEOPLE REMEMBER ME FOR THIS? HOORAY!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians. ’’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... nan
Quarterly . . ... ... It / U
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Cori'espondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
someUmes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
2'he Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other At tides, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will le understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A tnateurs in lllaclc and II hite.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original hunun ous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i. e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be Pfffd
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, lid High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco..— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt .—The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6‘fui. x lhin.,
ivill be fonvardeu on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 29, 1907.
THE FOUNDING OF THE N.S.W. STATE
INDENT DEPARTMENT.
If State Premier Carruthers of N.S.W. is to
be held wholly responsible for all that happened
last week, then the folly and wickedness of the
business almost passes words. On the other hand,
if he is, and has been during the last few months,
an over-wearied man, suffering from brain-fag,
sleeplessness, excitement, and the nervous con-
dition which follows on these troubles, there is
very little to be said, and all that remains
to be done is for those in authority to repair the
damage and the folly and insult as quietly as
possible. One day last week, under the direction
of Mr. Carruthers, something was started in
Svdnev which might have been the beginning of
civil war. The State Premier, in his frenzy on
behalf of what he calls State Rights, has tried to
lay down a principle which, if it is carried
to its logical conclusion, will ruin the wholesale
commerce, the manufacturers, and to a large
extent the revenue of N.S.W., and upend business
in general. The Constitution sets forth that the
Commonwealth shall not “impose any toon
property of any kind belonging to a State.
This has been generally held to mean property
which the State holds for its own use. >; Premier
Carruthers demands that “ property shall in-
clude “goods,” and not only goods which the
State imports for its own use, but aiso goods
which it imports to sell. For lately the State of
N.S.W. has become a trader and an importer.
Premier Carruthers, by some strange lank,
obiects to the State being a manufacturer, and
doesn’t want to see it making locomotives for its
own railways at its own workshops; but he doesn t
mind it be'ing an importer of wire netting. Yet,
it is hard to see why it should import wire netting
ispeinsr that the only wire-netting factory in Aus-
tralians in Svdney, and that Sydney factory is
big enough to supply all Australia, if it onW
got the chance), unless the hatred of N.S. .
manufactures has become a disease. Joseph
Carruthers started to import wire netting on a
huge scale, that he might resell the stuff to
mstoralists —some of them very rich pastoral,
ists He demanded that this netting should
pome in free under the clause which
exempts State property from taxation regard-
less of the fact (1) that “ property and goods
mav not be quite the same thing; and (2) that
when a State leaves its usual business as a
State and becomes a trader, hawker, dealer
Inbber bottle-o or marine-store dealer, it is a
serious' question whether it has any more claims,
as against the Commonwealth, than any private
individual in the same line of business.
• * * *
Of course, if Carruthers’ contention holds good
he sets up a precedent which is liable to make an
end of the Federal revenue and a great deal of the
State revenue, and an end of Australian
manufactures, and of the ordinary importing
business ; and to start Australia on a
dizzy new career. If the 30 per cent, duty
on wire netting can be wholly evaded by
the State Government constituting itself the
nominal importer and then reselling the goods,
there will obviously be a demand sooner or later
—probably sooner—that the State Government
shall indent silks for the retail trade, and thus
dodge the 20 per cent, duty ; that it shall import
woollens, and thus dodge the 35 per cent, duty ;
that it shall import piece goods, and thus annul
the 25 to 35 per cent, duty—in fact, the State
Indent Department, which will import every-
thing free of duty, and sell it to the retailer, will
be fairly in sight. The business can’t well
stop at wire-netting ; other dealers or users will
demand the same treatment as the users of netting,
and when the Absolutely Freetrade State Indent
Department, which Carruthers has endeavored
to establish in the wire-netting business, is estab-
lished in other businesses, there will be no Federal
Customs revenue at all. And when imported beer
and sugar and wine and tobacco come in free
through the States Absolutely Freetrade Indent
Department, and local beer and sugar, made by
private employers, still pay Excise duty, the
ruin of the breweries and vineyards and sugar
plantations will arrive right there. Instead of
there being Protection in their favor, they will be
handicapped by heavy taxes from which the lm-
ported goods will be free. Even if the State
takes them over, and runs all the sugar planta-
tions and all the breweries and vineyards, and
thereby escapes the Excise duty the same
ground, that property belonging to a Sta,te must
not be taxed), sugar and beer and wine and
tobacco will lose all the Protection they have
hitherto enjoyed, and these industries can only
live after that by paying nigger wages and work-
ing under nigger conditions. If the principle
which Joseph Carruthers has endeavored to set
up holds good, then any mad or reckless or
anarchistic State Premier may at any time start a
policy which will (1) destroy practically all local
manufactures; (2) destroy all the importers (I he
Bulletin has mighty little regard for them, but
they should be destroyed by local manufactures,
not by a bigger and wilder importer than them-
selves) ; (3) destroy the Federal revenue almost
entirely; (4) destroy about one-third of the State
revenues.
The manner in which Joseph Carruthers set
about fixing up this amazing disaster seems to
have been as remarkable as the proceedings or the
other ill-balanced individual who burnt the lem-
ple of Ephesus. The Governor was away, ihe
Attorney-General was away, ihe Chief Justice
(aged 77 and probably not so swift as he once was
to understand when an amazing piece of trickery
was laid before him) presided over the Executive
Council. A cunningly unobtrusive memo., drawn
in such mild terms as to seem almost meaning-
less, was passed. Then a force of police under
Carruthers’ orders, went down and seized the
consignment of State-purchased wire-netting
—or as much of it as could be secured.
If William Lyne had done what he ought
to have done, he would have telegraphed an
order for the Federal troops to go down and
recapture the property; in such matters Lyne s
patience under insult becomes almost past endur-
ance. Yet if he had done the right thing, the
country would have been terribly near to blood-
shed and civil strife. So Joseph Carruthers is,
for the time being, in possession of enough of his
wire-netting to give the State s Absolutely Free-
trade Indent Department a fair start. And it
that Department starts, Heaven only knows where
it will end. It seems liable to spread to almost
any extent, unless the High Court wipes it out.
Of course, a really wild State Premier, who had
the money to spare, might do some exciting
things in the way of State indenting, by paying
the duty and then crediting the State Indent
Department with the three-fourths, or more, that
is returned by the Commonwealth; and selling
State indented goods, which nominally paid 30
per cent, duty, with only 7$ per cent, duty on
them. But that danger might be dealt with
under the law prohibiting the granting of boun-
ties by the State, and in any case it could be dealt
with when the Braddon clause expires and the
Commonwealth gets full control of the Customs
and Excise. The situation which Joseph Carru-
thers tries to set up is one in which there may be
no Customs at all and no Excise.
K * * *
The later proceedings could only be described
as painful and pathetic. If the chief actor in
them is regarded as a man whose mind is in a
normal condition, some of them might be spoken
of as unutterable wickedness, but that view hardly
seems to fit in with the circumstances. Joseph
Carruthers held a meeting at the little suburb
of Rockdale, in a hall that could hold, per-
haps, 1000 people at most, and he described
it as “one of the record meetings of JN.b.W.
That State has had a long experience of meetings,
and Carruthers’ poor little record didnt really
amount to so very much. There he held forth
hysterically about his readiness to go to.gaol on
behalf of the State (as if anybody had proposed
sending him to gaol) much as Miss Miggs the
violently Protestant slavey in Barnaby Budge
declared her readiness to be a Martha at the
stakes ” at any moment. He shrieked wild
denunciations about “Victoria' the old fixed
idea, or delusion, or craze, or hallucination,
which now comes into almost all his speeches,
even as King Charles’s Head wandered discon-
nectedly into the orations of poor Mr. Dick.
He complained wildly that the federal
Government now owed the State of JN.S.W.
£835 000 for interest on the value ol trans-
ferred properties,” of which “ not one penny
had been paid—a statement that might be
called a disgraceful falsehood, but which it seems
almost more reasonable to regard as an example
of brain confusion. N.S.W. has received back its
full share of the Customs and Excise, and about
£3 000 000 over, and if £3,000,000 isn t large
enough to include £835,000, then arithmetic is
also more or less unbalanced and off its normal
basis. And, later, the State Premier told quaint
tales about all manner of people who had offered
to go to gaol in his stead. Surely N.S.W. isn t
full of madmen who regard it as possible to go to
gaol by deputy !
The whole matter, from beginning to end,
appears to have rested on delusions. The agree-
ment arrived at, when the State Supreme Court
decided that certain material imported by the
State Government for its own use (not for sale)
should be free, seems to have been that, on the
goods involved in that action, the duty should be
refunded, and that on other points in dispute the
State should raise an action in the High Court
and obtain a decision. In any case the State
Supreme Court’s decision was wholly unsatisfac-
tory. In the first place the Acting Chief Justice
announced that he expressly declined to say
that his Court had jurisdiction in such a dispute,
and he also announced that he expressly declined
to say that his judgment was in any way binding
on the Commonwealth. He handed down the judg-
ment as an inferior and probably useless article
that he happened to have on hand, and under tne
circumstances it was quite reasonable lor tne
Commonwealth to ask that a new case should be
raised before the High Court. That was as
regards goods imported by the State for its ovai
use ; as to the right to bring in, free of duty, goods
intended for sale, there was never even an
attempt on the part of the State at getting a legal
decision. There was merely much insolent bounce,
followed by Garruthers’ mad act of insurrection,
and the vision of the amazing State Indent De-
partment, which is liable to abolish all Customs
revenue and make the N.S.W. Government the
great, universal, all-round importer. The case is
surrounded with difficulties. If Joseph Oar-
ruthers is to be held as wholly responsible lor
his actions, then the wickedness of some of these
actions is beyond description, but it is difficult to
believe that, either for his present deeds and
words, or for many of his previous sayings, he
should be held fully responsible. Matters have
suddenly come to a point at which a certain
charitable doubt sets in. The best thing now is
for N.S.W., as quietly as may be, to find another
State Premier, and arrange to let the recent inci-
dent drop into oblivion, and seek a peaceful
settlement of the points at dispute in the High
Court.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Captain Mahan and Australia.
Dr. Richard Arthur, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), writes:
It is strange that the most weighty warnings as to the
Peril of Australia should have come from America. First
of all, Roosevelt, with his “Beware of keeping your
Far North empty”; and now the author of The In-
fluence of Sea Power ” doctrine confesses it is not elastic
enough to cover Australia. „ .
We have he says, to stand on our own bottom. No fleet,
however powerful, can radiate its influence over twelve
thousand miles of ocean. These are the two basic facts
that must be forced upon the politicians and people of
Australia before anything can be done. And with the
recognition should come heroic proposals for remedy.
There are, at the least, eight or ten years of grace.
The time is short, but a roused and strenuous
nation, fighting for its life could astound the
world in that mere handful of years. But to effect
anything 1 , the people must be of one mind and un-
divided. Those who seek to block the coming of white
men into Australia should be denounced as the traitors
to their country that they are. And the white men we
want are not to be had merely for the asking. (Coghlan,
the Agent-General, spoke some time ago of the 140,000
British who went each year to the United States. A
statistician should make more certain of his figures. Not
half that number go, and many of them are undesirables.)
The genuine agricultural laborer, whom we need most at
uresent is a rapidly diminishing quantity in England,
and though he lived to be 100, he couldn’t save his fare
to Australia. He will have to be brought out free, if at
Our birth-rate will not go up. Increased prosperity
will probably lower it even more, and so the Common-
wealth should seek without ceasing for men, or those who
will be men when our days of blood and iron come. Mahan
can foresee their coming when the great pent-up flood of
Asia will burst its limits, and sweep towards the South.
This shall come to pass as surely as the rising of the
sun and what barrier will Australia offer to it? No
nation of 5,000,000 souls, though they be the bravest of
the brave and armed to the teeth, can hope to hold a
continent of 3,000,000 square miles. All history is
against it, all reason is against it. If the Australian
people dream it possible, they will suffer the most hideous
awakening. In that day, the fierce pride of the Anglo-
Saxon will lie stricken in the dust. There will be for us no
Thermopylae nor Marathon to roll back the hosts of Asia,
for those who will press in upon our scanty numbers will
be incomparable fighters, and of an appalling efficiency.
Fol the next ten or twenty years our grievous need is
not for people by the thousand, but by the million. If
they are not all up to our standard, we can raise them m
a generation, provided they are white. If they are
yellow we will sink to their level, and pass out to the
limbo of the dishonored and What we
will do in the next ten years will determine the fate of
Australia for ever.
-♦
More Things That Australia Can’t Do.
All last week the dreadful importer, and the
papers which look after his interests, were busy
telling Australia about the things it can t do. it
really seems, according to these hopeless charac-
ters, that we can’t do anything at all. Among
other matters it was stated that a duty on cottons
and linens is absurd, because we can t make
such things in Australia.” It was declared that
“ we couldn’t make boot-lasts in Australia (a
boot-last is mainly a piece of wood or iron in the
shape of the human foot, and the thing is made in
Australia), therefore a duty on them would ruin
the boot industry. There was an announcement
that the making of the cream separator in this
country was hopeless and out of the question. A
certain sticky substance that leather is glued
together with is, we learn, “ quite impossible of
production in Australia.” Next wild alarms and
incursions arose on the ground that we can t
grow rice in Australia,” and distracted people
laid things about “starch” The practical
impossibility of making bottles here was dwelt
upon with great emotion by a fool, who perhaps
didn’t know any better. It seems plainly evi-
dent that we can’t make wire netting here
(though there is a wire-netting factory in Sydney
which reckons that, at a few weeks’ notice, it; could
get to work on a scale that would supply all Aus-
tralia) ; hence the tears, and lamentation, and
insurrection because “the duty will make the
price of imported netting go up. John Quick
has a dreadful fear that paint can t be made in
Australia, and as it “must be imported, the
duty will be added to the price, and then the price
will be so high that the foreign ship which used
to be painted here will now go away unpainted.
He asked the Government to seriously consider
the dreadful ease of the unpainted ship. But among
all the preachers of this doctrine of helplessness,
cowardice, incapacity, and general lying-down
the prize fool, the innumerable and monumental
gibberer, the idiot that passeth all understanding,
was the Sydney Morning Herald. It struck
the summit and pinnacle, and proved itself the
unutterable donkey of the universe. This (m re
the tariff) is the Herald’s discourse (23/8/ 07)
Meanwhile the loathed foreigner will be expected to
buy much Australian produce and pay gold font. He
wiil not have the impudence to expect that Australia w ill
take his products in return ; nor will he venture to point
out that if the vessels which carry our wool, wheat,
butter, and so forth, to Europe return
will rise, and we shall get less and less profit. The tariff
will restrict our purchasing power one way, and the in-
creasing cost of carriage will spell diminishing spending
power the other way. Yet the stream of gold which is
to pour in upon us as everybody buys from us, and
nobody sells to us, will be poor help, because we cannot
eat the precious metal. It will have to be stored up,
and will fail to fructify. We shall not buy goods from
abroad, and we can only use a certain number of
sovereigns among ourselves at any time as a medium of
exchange. But why flog the argument ?
One would think that we might use the money
the Herald is so alarmed about in creating new
Australian industries; or that we might start
paying off our immense foreign debts with it, or
that, if we had an absolute superfluity, we might
lend it out abroad, as Britain France Germany,
and the United States are doing, and become a
creditor nation instead of a debtor one. But the
S.M. Herald, steeped in ignorance, cowardice
and folly, and sodden with hatred of its own
country, holds that we Australians won t have
sense enough to do such things. have
have sense enough to pay our debts when we have
the money lying idle. We won’t know enough if
we have a vast surplus of cash and no lQ cal outlet
for it, to buy foreign securities or any other tritl
with it. A Bulgarian or a Peruvian might know
a little thing like that, but mere Australians
won’t. With us, “the precious metal will have
to be stored up and will fail to fructify. Even
the Herald’s office-boy is surely more intelligent
than that. Such things set one wondering if ever
another country was so cursed with and
slanderers within its gates, and tolerated them so
meekly.
A Sheol of a Fight.
Australia has looked long and earnestly at the
new tariff, and, on the whole, it feels satisfied,
and throws its hat up high. Now it badly wants
to know what kind of a fight will be put up for
the new tariff. Half-a-dozen years ago that
great man, C. 0. Kingston of S. Australia
brought down a tariff that promised to be of
inestimable service to Australia, but things wen
wrong. In the first place, the great mistake was
made of not first providing the new Parliament
with a set of workable standing orders. Conse-
quently there was hardly any limit to the possi-
bilities of obstruction, and the importing party—
which always seeks to destroy Australian manu-
factures and the Australian capital employed in
them, and to deprive Australian workmen of the
wages which mean food for their wives and
children, because the products of Australian
factories interfere with the imports out of winch
it makes its money—stonewalled for all it was
worth during the greater part of a year.
The Australian party let many items go out
of sheer weariness, and George Turner, who was
even in those days beginning to fall away noticeably
from his old stalwart attitude, sacrificed many
more out of sheer weakness. Altogether it wasn t
the sort of fight that Australia looked for and
hoped for Then, the other day, this country saw
another fight which was also quite unlike what it
hoped for. This was over the Bounties Bill, of
which item after item was jettisoned by Minister
Groom with hardly a struggle. Now, in the
matter of the tariff, Australia expects and de-
mands that a very different variety of scrap will
be put up. It hopes to see the traitors, the anti-
Australians, the obstructionists, the interminables,
and the people of boundless jaw put down by a
liberal use of the standing orders when they try
to talk the tariff to death. It hopes to find the
National party full of a fixed resolve to see the
thing through to the bitter end—ready to make
any small alterations which logic and reason show
to be advisable for the better promotion of Aus-
tralian industries, but fixed in its decision not to
yield one-tenth part of a farthing to mere clamor
and for the sake of mere peace. The country has
given the Protectionist party a majority, and ex-
pects to see it used for all it is worth. The un-
patriotic section of the Parliament will doubtless
call it a “ brutal majority, but the country has
to be governed by that or else by a brutal mi-
nority. Also, there will be complaints that the
tariff is being shoved through by mere dead
weight of numbers, just as if that was not what
numbers were for. And there will be complaints
about “stifling debate” if the Government re-
fuses to listen to 140 hours of maundering about
some dead person named Cobden. And if the
Protectionists don’t talk, and refuse to help their
opponents to prolong the agony, they will pro-
bably be called “ dumb, driven cattle ?r some-
thing like that. And if they stick to their Tariff
through thick and thin they will be described a,s
Lyne’s “servile following. And, in short, all
the usual remarks will be made. But the country
doesn’t care what remarks are made. What it
demands is a great rousing somefihing tliat
might be defined as a Sheol of a fight—to shove
the tariff through without any alteration that is
calculated to impair its efficiency. It desires no
more of the apologetic tactics of George Turner,
and none of the mild compromising spirit of
Edmund Barton. It knows that the tariff is an
eminently moderate and reasonable tariff far
more moderate than very many other Protec-
tionist tariffs—and it desires no whittling down
and no surrender. Put shortly, it asks William
Lyne and his followers to fight like the devil.
—
Bicycle Parts: A Sample of N.S.W. Industry.
The trouble with the Sydney manufacturer is
that he is only half a Protectionist i he still more
than half believes the weary old lie of the daily
press that Freetrade means lower prices. And m
that belief the Sydney manufacturer howlsfor
Freetrade on his “ raw material, regardless of
the fate of the man who has to live by providing
that raw material. Just now there is a tern
whoop from sundry makers of bicycles, who are
howling to have their parts admitted free, on the
ground B that “such things cannot be made in
Australia.” The crazy conviction that nothing
can be made in Australia amounts to a disease,
and the ignorance of the average Sydneyite about
the industries of his own country amounts to
another serious internal complaint. The making
of bicycle parts is a Sydney industry blighted by
the idiotic Sydney preference for imported rub-
bish Two Sydney establishments the Victor
Motor Co °olWord :S treet, Double Bay, and
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co., of Balmain
-are in a position to supply right away not
onlv all the bicycle parts that the Sydney
trade is likely to want" but all Australia be-
sides The Victor factory has a magnificent
ptot that can do an, high-cta
work, and its lathes will cut to the 16,000 th
part of an inch. Bicycle parts are not difficult to
make, and this establishment will
well as any English, firm. The Mort’s Dock Co
which has made in its own workshops some of the
finest machinery south of the Equator is also
capable of turning out the same parts by the
thousand, and can get on the job a; about.two
days’ notice. As a matter of fact, if the import a
tion of these parts were absolutely prohibited,
the 1 local supply could, in a up and
meet the demand, and the work
be a Svdney monopoly, for Sydney is ready,
and other cities are not. The works are there
though they can hardly be said to be working , and
the machinery is there, though, owing to he
Foreign-trade importing frenzy, the wheels c
hardly be said to be going round. Yet it is
the Sydney bilce-makers-not the Adelaide ot
Melbourne ones-who are crying bHteUy
the free importation of bicycle P >
they may destroy their own city s industries .
They say that the proposed duty will e


some firm to get a monopoly by becoming
sole agent for the British Small Arms Co.,
and The Coventry Cycle Works, Ltd. (both
in England). As usual they refuse to mention
the local industry or to know of its existence;
they cut it dead, and won’t even utter the accursed
name of the N.S.W. manufacturer. The making
of bicycle parts doesn’t represent a very high
grade of engineering, but the English firms above-
mentioned have got the market, and that fact has
created a superstition that there is something ex-
ceedingly wonderful and intricate about the busi-
ness. The best bicycle writer ever rode was made,
parts and all, in a little back lane in Dunedin
(M.L.); a turner named Scott did it all in his
spare time. And when the writer sees a fat man
in a silk waistcoat—a man who never handled a
lathe in his life, and who wouldn’t know a pattern
from a butter platter—explaining to the boy
reporter from the Waily Tale that “bicycle
parts cannot be made in Australia ! ” it makes
him so wild that he longs to tell that fat party he
is not only a liar but a traitor.
. 4
An Alleged Swindle on N.S.W.
Among the crazy grievances against the Common-
wealth, put forward by N.S.W. State Premier
Carkuthers in the course of that meeting at
Rockdale—the meeting that had straws in its hair
and a wild expression in its eye—was one to the
effect that the Commonwealth has taken over
from N.S.W. buildings worth some £3,000,000 or
so, which haven’t yet been paid for ; and that of
the accumulated interest on this £3,000,000 (over
£800,000) “not one penny” has been paid
either. It was one of those cunningly plausi-
ble tales which are calculated to take in
the ignorant. The exact situation is this. The
first Australian Parliament met about six
years ago, and very shortly afterwards nego-
tiations were started re payment for build-
ings transferred to the Commonwealth. Natur-
ally the first proceeding was for the States
to send in theiv bills ; the second business was the
checking of the bills; the third the settlement.
The Federal authority couldn’t take over every-
thing at once—in fact, the meteorological build-
ings, quarantine stations, and lighthouses haven’t
been taken over yet; so it was impossible to make
up the bills at once; in Sydney, for example, it
doesn’t seem to be certain yet whether the
Observatory building will be handed over or not,
so it may, or may not, go into the account. Also
the States were exceedingly gradual about the
job of valuing their innumerable scattered post
offices and such ; four or five years after the Com-
monwealth was founded a harassed Federal
Treasurer was still urging more expedition.
Meanwhile, though the exact amount which the
Commonwealth owed was not known, the N.S.W.
State Treasurer collected the interest punc-
tually, and mostly in advance. The Australian
Government paid N.S.W. regularly the three-
fourths of the Customs and Excise to which
it was entitled. It also paid N.S.W. vast
sums—something like £3,000,000 in all-over and
above what it was entitled to. Seeing that no
one knew exactly, till the bill was made up,
whether the year’s interest on money due by the
Commonwealth to the State was £lOO,OOO or
£200,000, it was impossible to take a separate
receipt from Joseph Carruthers for the interest.
The Commonwealth simply handed over to
N.S.W. in the course of nearly seven years about
£3,000,000 more than was set forth in the bargain,
and said in effect, “ Take your 6| years’ interest’,
whether it proves to be £500,000 or £1,000,000,’
out of that and keep the rest.” Of course if the
States in general want a separate settlement for
the interest, there is no reason why they
shouldn’t have it. There are two ways in
which this can be done. When the valuations
of the transferred properties are decided upon, the
Commonwealth will, of course, pay the bill by
relieving the States of a corresponding amount of
their debt, and it will then tax the people of the
States (they being also the people of the Com-
monwealth) to pay interest and sinking fund
on that debt. Thera is no earthly reason why
it should not also pay interest on the value of
the transferred properties since the beginning of
the Commonwealth by further relieving the
States of as much debt as will represent the 6k
or seven years’ interest. Then it would tax the
people of the States to pay interest and sinking
fund on that debt also. The same people pay
either way. But if Carruthers wants his interest
paid all over again in cash, there is no reason
at all why he shouldn’t have it that way.
The simple method is to tax the people of N.S.w!
£850,000 extra, and hand them back their
£850,000 interest out of the proceeds. The
Commonwealth has only the same crowd of
people to tax as the States have, and if the people
of the States want money from the Common-
wealth there is no earthly reason why the
Commonwealth shouldn’t take the money from
them and give it to them. Meanwhile, as far as
concerns the man in the street, the alleged wrong
about which Carruthers raves isn’t very ap-
parent. The Sydney G.P.O. stands where it
did. The same people run it inside as ran it
before Federation, and the same people post their
letters in it outside. The same debt is upon it, and
the same people pay the interest to the same old
creditors. Certainly the people of N.S.W
who formerly owned the whole G.P.O. in
their State capacity, now own merely a
little over one-third interest in it in their
Federal capacity. But against that they have
acquired more than a third interest, which they
didn’t formerly possess, in all the post offices of
Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania, S.A. and Wes-
tralia. They own more of the Melbourne G.P.O.
than do the Victorians themselves, and they have
been presented with a third share in the trans-
continental telegraph line. The circumstances
seem to justify them in keeping calm, even though
they haven’t yet taxed themselves in their Federal
or William Lyne capacity, to pay themselves, in
their State or Joseph Carruthers capacity, for
their own property. The circumstance may
aggravate Carruthers till he raves at large, but
why it should aggravate the people of N.S.W. no
one can tell.
Dead Land Grabs.
The mouths of Victorian Legislative Councillors
watered the other night, when Attorney-General
J . M. Davies related to them how big estates were
acquired in the Western District in the ’sixties. It
is ancient history, but it was good to hear it re-
lated to the hoary Tories who moan over the
“rights” of the land-grabbers. In those days,
one person could take from the unlocked lands a
block of 640 acres at £1 an acre, and an ad-
joining block of 640 acres at 2s. 6d. per acre,
payable in eight years. And this is how the
gentle “dummyer” worked. The banks, in
those palmy days, allowed the squatters huge
credit. The squatters, with overdrafts arranged,
summoned jaekeroos, boundary-riders, shepherds,’
and stray dogs of all sorts, and appointed them
selectors on the following terms. The squatter
was to provide the cash; the dummy borrowed it
from him ftT2O per cent, interest. At the end of
five years, the so-called “ selector ” cleared out,
leaving the two square miles in the hands of the
squatter, and receiving £5O cash as the price of his
agency. If the “selector” chose to stick to the
land, he could, but in that case he groaned under
the squatter’s 20 per cent. loan. Moreover, the
squatters found a way of getting the best of the
ballots, for, when there was competition for an
allotment, the grabber ran in about 20 applicants,
giving himself a 20 to 1 chance against anybody
else. In this way, says Davies, estates woffth
hundreds of thousands of pounds were aggregated.
These are ancient facts, but it is well to recall
them what time the owner of thousands of acres
waileth concerning his alleged right to be exempt
from the taxation which has been delayed too long.
Iron and a Bad Bargain.
The other week the South Australian Govern-
ment called for tenders for 5000 tons of pig-iron,
to be used in the factory where it makes its own
water pipes, and such-like castings. Sandford’s
people (of Litligow, N.S.W.) tendered Australian
iron made out of Australian ore, coal, and lime, by
Australian workmen, backed by Australian
capital. A low price was quoted, for already the
Sandford co. has a few thousand tons of iron on
hand, and it wants a market badly. Others,
however, know just as well that if Sandford’s co.
can be blocked for the present, it can be blocked
for all time; for a co. only has to be killed
once, and when it is killed it is dead.
Therefore the foreigner quoted lower—a paltry
ss. per ton lower; and, to its utter disgrace,
Price’s Government accepted the foreign tender,
and so, to “save” a poor little £1250, sends about
twenty times that much out of the country. Still,
though that is serious enough, it isn’t a patch
upon the very probable results of this sort of
‘ ‘ statesmanship.” For if the Australian iron and
steel industry can be killed now—and, of course,
it will be killed if Australia buys foreign iron and
steel—then presently Australia won’t have the
chance to buy the Australian article ; so the loss
of a 5000-ton contract now may very likely mean
that Australia will lose the work of making
5,000,000 tons in the future. It probably
doesn’t matter so much for the moment
whether Australia gets the job of making
5000 tons of iron or not. Work is plentiful ;
the seasons have been good, and the harvests
have been large, and prices for wool and wheat,
not to mention metals, have been phenomenal.
But nothing is surer than that these things will
change. There will be droughts and low prices
in the future, just as there have been droughts
and low prices in the past; and then an industry
that isn’t affected by a spell of dry weather would
come in very handy. If we haven’t got it, then,
as the drought-stricken country won’t be able to
employ the labor, the State will do the old
thing, and borrow money with which to put the un-
employed on shifting sand, painting park railings,
and carrying out similar “permanent and repro-
ductive undertakings.” After they have done
that, and fastened another load of interest on
their shoulders, South Aus. and the other States
will probably begin to wonder what sort of fools
they were not to have made a small temporary
sacrifice in their prosperous days in order to set
up a new and great drought-resisting industry
in Australia. Also if the new tariff, recognising
that iron and steel furnaces have been started in
Australia by a substantial co., had put the duties
on iron just as it put the duties on other things,
this 5000-ton contract would almost certainly have
stayed in Australia. Instead, however, of put-
ting the duty on at once, it held the duty up until
by proclamation the industry is declared to be
“sufficiently established.” The fact that there
are some thousands of tons of pig-iron already
accumulated at the works—iron admitted to be of
first-class quality—seems to amount to some
thousands of tons of proof that the manufacture
is sufficiently established now. If, however, the
Commonwealth is going to wait till the Aus-
tralian works can command the market without
the help of the duty, then the present provision
isn’t necessary, for the duty will not be wanted.
The Commonwealth Parliament need not expect
anything of that sort, though. The foreign
iron and steel makers won’t let Sandford
get that market so long as the market
is free to them. They know they are not fight-
ing merely for the present market; the future
market is the stake. They can afford to lose a
fraction on the present 5000-ton contracts if
thereby they crush a rival industry and secure for
themselves the many future 500,000-ton contracts
that Australia will have to offer. The big, out-
standing fact is that already the Australian iron
and steel industry is established beyond the
present demand—the demand that is possible
so long as the market is open to the cut-
throat competition of the foreigner; the accumu-
lation of stocks proves that. The result of this
S. Australian contract proves further that the
foreigner sees the weak place in the Commonwealth
proposals, and is going to make a desperate effort to
prevent the Australian iron industry getting any
“ forrarder,” and having any stronger claims for
Protection than it has at this moment. In these
circumstances it is evident that there is only one
best time to put on the duty, and that best time is
now. There was a better time—the time, a week
or so ago, when there was Australian iron waiting
for a buyer, and when the absence of the duty cost
Australia the job of supplying 5000 tons of it; but
that time is dead.
Reid and the Salvation Army.
This isn’t a “ Letter from Hell ”
George Reid, who once declared himself “ the chap to
save the country,” recently upended himself at a Salva-
tion Army shivoo of some sort, and, waving the dumpy
paw of insincerity, declared that the Salv’army was doing
much more for humanity than any of the parties of either
the Commonwealth or State Parliaments, and that when
he looked on the noble work in which it was engaged he
felt the littleness of his own work and also that of his
opponents. If such were the truth, Heaven help the
country. But it is not the truth, and Reid’s maunderings
were merely the cynical outbreak of a politician who has
ceased to believe in himself—if he ever did believe in
himself—and who is in the game for what it can bring
him. Also it was a cynical attempt to tout for the
support of a section of the so-called religious vote, al-
though no one acquainted with the history and methodsof
the Salvation Army would be likely to consider the Army a
religious organisation. It is a boodling concern, pure
and simple. Take the case of its alleged “People’s
Palace ”in Pitt-street, Sydney. To build and endow this
place as a shelter for the poor and broken in fortune, and
to provide them with good beds and wholesome food at
bedrock prices, enormous sums of money and large con-
tributions of food, fittings, bedding, and other things
were cadged from a charitable public ; and on the ground
that it is a charitable concern, the State was induced to
grant a subsidy, or donation, or grant of some sort. Yet,
no matter how wild the night, no matter how sick,
hungry, or infirm any deadbeat may be, he cannot obtain
food or shelter at this alleged refuge of the poor unless
he has the money to pay for it. Take a stroll round the
police courts of Sydney an}' morning, and if there is a
garrotter, a thief, or a miscreant charged with some vile
form of assault, the chances are that he gives his
address as ‘ ‘ The People’s Palace, Pitt-street! ” This sort of
scum usually has the price of a feed and a bed in its clothes,
and it is welcome at the Salvation Army’s doss-house while
it has. If it has no money it knows where to get it. But
one wild, wet night—a night in which a humane Pagan
wouldn’t turn a homeless dog from his door—there
came to the Salvation Army’s People’s Palace in Pitt-
street, Sydney, a decrepit old man. He had been staying
at this den of thieves for the best part of a week, paying
his way each night (he wouldn’t have stayed had he
not 1), but on this particular night he was a halfpenny
short of the price of his bed. He tendered what money
he had, but was told to clear out unless he could find
the other halfpenny. The old man expostulated ; surely
they could let him off one halfpenny. But the “ officer ”
was obdurate, and when the old man, face to face with
that tempestuous night, begged for mercy and shelter in
the name of the Redeemer, the ruffian took hold of him and
violently hustled him down the steps into the pouring
rain and biting wind. He died of exposure on the steps
of the People’s Palace, and lay there undiscovered
through that bitter night of wind and driven rain. This
is the charity and mercy of the Salvation Army ! This is
the organisation that George Reid declares is doing more
for humanity than either he or his party. In
another case, a respectable woman, stranded in Sydney
by the loss of her purse containing her money and a train
ticket, applied there for shelter, and was toid brutally to
go and get the price of the bed. The “ officer ” followed
up his instructions by the remark that she knew how to
get the money if she wanted it. All this in the name of
the Lord and Sweet Charity 1 George Reid spoke feel-
ingly about the way the Army takes in the dis-
charged prisoner. It does—if he is robust and
capable of plenty of work. But, if he is a weakling, or in
bad health, or looks incapable, the Salvation Army has
no use for him. It only takes the strong and capable,
and it takes them in thoroughly, sweating them in a
shocking manner, and working them for little more than
their bare keep. They are put to the splitting of fire-
wood, and the firewood is sold cheap to certain dealers,
who are thus enabled to undersell those who pay decent
wages. Or the discharged prisoners are drafted away to
the farms and country properties which the Army has
managed to induce weak-minded people to bequeath to
it, and there worked long hours under slave-like con-
ditions. The Army has its own clothing factories, its
printeries, laundries, and other commercial establish-
ments, all of which are subsidised by money cadged
and donated, and worked by cheap, almost unpaid,
labor, and through these advantages the Army
undersells men who pay decent wages, and thereby
does much to swell the ranks of the unemployed,
and to create more cheap labor for itself. 'The
Salvation Army is anything but a religious body, and
to include it among: the churches is an insult to the
latter. It is a boodling concern that robs the poor and
sweats the helpless, and it ought to be wiped out of
existence, if it cannot be gaoled for obtaining money and
property and labor under false pretences. France is the
only country that, up to date, has solved the problem of
how to deal with institutions of this kind, but France will
have imitators. Some day, when this country has
awakened to a proper sense of what religion is, it will
confiscate the whole of the accumulated plunder of the
Salvation Army, and apply it to the endowment of chil-
dren’s hospitals, maternity homes, and bureaux for the
preservation of infant life.
“An Industry Abandoned.”
Under the above heading the Argus of August
20 printed the following :
Lilydale : Mr. Robert Black, one of the largest milk-
producers in this district, is shortly giving up the dairy-
ing industry. He intends to follow sheep-breeding. The
main reason for this move is the inefficient supply of labor
available.
A couple of pages further on there appeared in the
same issue of the Argus the following advts.: —
TV/T AN, first-class milker, understands stock, capable
" LVJ - to manage dairy. References. £1 per week and
keep.
"V/TAN, young, strong, good milker, 17s. 6d. per
week and keep.
M EN > milkers, 155., 17s. 6d., 20s. week and keep.
This is the ruling wage for milkers, who work
from daylight (or before) till dark, for seven
days a. week. The value of board may
be put at from Bs. to 10s. per week, and
Mr. Robert Black (this paper takes it for
granted that he pays the ruling wage) is surprised
and grieved because of “the inefficient supply of
labor available.” It is a matter of astonishment
that there is any labor available, under the
conditions given. It never seems to occur to the
dairy-farmer that a good wage might secure him
a good man. It never seems to occur to the
Argus either ; probably because that journal is
too busily engaged in the congenial task of trying
to prevent the tariff from providing remunerative
work—eight hours a day and six days a week—for
young Australia.
Fighting for their Pockets.
The S. Aus. Legislative Council is the most
obstinate House of its class in the Common-
wealth. Although, at two general elections in as
many years, the Assembly constituencies have by
huge majorities decided in favor of an extension
of the Council franchise, the House of Fat re-
fuses to yield an inch. The last three elections
for the Council itself—all for the district of
Adelaide—also resulted in the return of franchise
reformers; but still the mob of Thirteen Fats
refuses to budge. The big franchise reform ma-
jority in the House of Assembly is all the
more remarkable because, while the Adelaide
metropolitan area (a radius of ten miles from
the G.P.0.) contains nearly half of the electors in
the State, it has only 12 members in the Assembly,
as against 30 returned for provincial electorates by
the other half of the people. In the Council the
city has but six representatives, as against 12
from the country. Yet, as already mentioned,
the last three by-elections for city seats were all
won by franchise reformers. The Council will
not even grant a referendum to its own electors on
the subject, unless it is provided that, in
addition to a majority in favor of the Bill,
there must also be a majority in three out of the
four Council electorates. If the block vote were
accepted, the franchise reformers would assuredly
win, because a majority lives in the capital and
the big towns; bub the Thirteen Fats consider
that there is something demoralising in the aggre-
gation of people, and they affect to believe that
the further a man is from the city the wiser will
be his vote on public affairs. Still they take care,
most of them, not to live far from the city them-
selves. The truth is they look upon the restricted
franchise as the most potent defence of their own
privileges. If that outwork is carried, the pro-
gressive land-tax, the compulsory repurchase of
large estates, and all manner of things may
happen. The Thirteen in the S.A. Council are
thus fighting, not in the interest of the country at
large, but mainly to defend the pockets of about
40 rich landowners ; but no leader in S.A. has the
pi .ok to put that irrefutable fact prominently and
straightforwardly before the country.
«
The Land Tax and the Ancient Toiler.
The fact appears plain, at a distance of several
leagues, that “closer settlement” will not be
accomplished in Australia until the Australian
Parliament has had the pluck to impose a land-
tax which will discourage the holding of huge
estates. The schemes of purchase pushed for-
ward in Victoria by T. Bent’s Government are
booming the price of land so much that it is
scarcely worth while buying for cultivation
at the rates demanded. When this has
been remedied by a properly-adjusted Federal
land-tax, it will be interesting to notice
the benefits which will be shed upon the Ancient
Worker for whom the Tory press is constantly
dropping crocodile tears. It is alleged that the
Aged and Slow Chap is difficult to place in the
industrial machine nowadays. But get a proper-
system of small holdings, and the Hoary One will
find chances of employment in the fields, where
there isn’t so great a hustle as there is in the
factory. In Victoria, about 40 per cent, of the
population is crammed into a big city, where the
Old and Dilatory Person naturally finds it hard to
get a job. The more the population is dispersed
in rural parts, the better will be the prospects
of the Decayed Progenitor. That this is not
mere theory is shown by the statistics in
Germany, a country where, in 1900, less than 19
per cent, of the population dwelt in big cities.
These figures show how the Whiteheaded Party
fared in the urban and rural districts of Germany
in a recent year :
Percentage in Percentage in
Age of Agricultural Industrial
Laborer. Employment. Employment.
Over 50 years .. 15‘80 .. 9'30 per cent.
„ 60 „ .. 7-31 .. 2-93 „
„ 70 „ .. 1-94 .. 0-53 ~
Thus the laborer who is too old and weary to
hustle alongside the younger men has, after he is
50, 1§ times as much chance of a job in the country
as in the city. After he is 60, his chance is
times as good ; and after he is 70 (by which time
he ought to have a pension, but the Kaiser’s
country makes him wait another year) his prospect
of earning a crust is nearly four times as rosy in
the country. Certain papers are always moaning
over the ousting of the Venerable Struggler
from industrial employment. They say that
legislation ought to seek to cherish him rather
than to down him. Therefore, in the interests of
the Antiquated Battler they should not keep up
any longer their opposition to a graduated land
tax.
Fiji and its Troubles.
“Bill Singh ” discusses Fiji from the inside: —
“A Recent Visitor to Fiji” lately save some of his
thoughts to The Bulletin, and some figures ; and the
thoughts were better than the figures. He said there are
80,000 Asiatics and 60,000 Fijians ; whereas the official
estimate for the Fijian group at Dec. 31, 1905, based on
the 1901 census, was 25,952 Indians and 86,816 Fijians.
Apart from the Indians, the Asiatic population amounts
to no more than a couple of hundred.
lie this Asiatic curse, “ Visitor ” suggests as a possible
remedy the annihilation of the Asiatic. It would have
been better if he had proposed the practically-indis-
criminate pole-axeing of the white population. With
hardly an exception, all barrack for the cheap nigger.
The tentaculate O.S.R. Co., whose methods so shock
White Australians, is no worse than the small planter,
the only difference is that the former employs thousands
of niggers while the small planters employ dozens. The
small planter—and there are several hundreds of him—
barracks just as vociferously for his dozen as the C.S.R.
Co. does for its thousands.
Roundly speaking, there are no white “ working men ”
in Fiji (i.e., the unskilled variety). Apart from a few
clerks, mechanics, etc., in the Sugar Co.’s employ, and a
very few shop assistants, every white man in the island
is an employer of some sort. When an unsuspecting
white man comes here in search of work (this happens at
intervals), he is looked upon as a huge joke ; and if he
doesn’t happen to have brought his return fare with him,
the only course left to him is to stow away on some out-
going vessel or work a passage.
To the Hindu immigrant, however, and the cheap
nigger generally, every inducement is offered ; and the
Government, through its Immigration Department, sees to
it that the supplyof Indian is keptupto the ever-increasing
local demand ; and the same Department endeavors to
make the docile Mohammedan as comfortable when he
arrives here as circumstances will permit—until the
planter calls for him.
The Fijian legislator also protects the nigger. A duty
to encourage any local white man’s industry or produc-
tion is out of the question—we must have things cheap,
they say, on account of our Indian population.
For the indentured Indian Fiji is no doubt something
of a Gehenna, but when his term of semi-slavery expires
and he becomes “free,” he promptly sets about acquir-
ing a bit of land, on which he settles down comfortably
and multiplies exceedingly. Then the local newspapers
refer to him as “ Our Indian Settlers ” and “ Our Indian
Colonists.”
There is one lofty point of interest here for Aus-
tralia, anyway. The discolored labor party’s
favorite argument is that it really doesn’t like
the tinted workman ; but with pain it consents to
employ him because it means so much more work
for the white, on whom its affections are really
centred. Here, however, is a Possession which
gets all the tint it thinks it wants —and the white
working man is a joke ! It is a hard and knobby
lump of practice for a beautiful piece of brittle
theory to bump against.
“ Plumbob ” in reply :
“ Mallet ” (B. 20/6/’O7) may not be a Stinking Fish, but
his pessimistic generalisation on Westralian land settle-
ment renders him more irritating than the afore-
mentioned denizen of the ocean. He is not altogether a
liar ; still he must have put in many an evening planning-
how he could make a speck of truth go as far as possible.
The politicians he mentions have not been shining lights ;
but they are at least to be congratulated on the way they
have pushed land settlement ahead. There are no State
lands to be obtained within 20 miles on either side of the
main lines, simply because the country has practically
all been taken up by small farmers within the last few
years. The big landowner in Westralia is hardly worth
worrying about, there is, comparatively speaking, so little
of him. The Federal graduated land-tax would hardly
touch any of him except the Midland Railway Co., and
even that is parting with its land on fairly reasonable
terms as quickly as it can find purchasers. All along
the Perth-Albany railway, townships have sprung up
with a suddenness unparalleled, except on goldfields.
Places which, four years ago, consisted of a dozen houses
are now municipalities. I know scores of men who
started a few years back without capital, who could now
obtain (if they were desirous of selling), anything from
£IOOO to £ISOO, and they have kept themselves and
families in the meantime. The Moore Ministry has con-
structed several spur lines to extend settlement during
the last 12 months, and several more are under considera-
The Insect Insurrection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Carruthers is defying the Commonwealth
Government, and Fremantle (W.A.) Council is
talking secession. “There are 250,000 people
here, and if we fight we will be out of the Federa-
tion soon enough,” said one Fremantle councillor.
There is a story of a dog flea that attacked an
elephant, and met with no opposition. “ Why
don’t you show fight, you cur ?” said the flea.
There are enemies approaching,
Not in silence and with stealth,
But with murmurs dire encroaching
On the smiling Commonwealth.
Grim mosquitoes in the gloom
Buzz her threnody of doom,
And the fierce grasshopper’s spume
Threats the careless nation’s health.
Fleabite councils and committees
Scent afar the gory rain,
And they see the streets of cities
Blocked with barricades of slain.
Let us haste the new defence.
Not an arm&d force immense,
But an engine to dispense
Blasts of good insectibane !
VIO.
SNELL.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show vou how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
t.ion. “Mallet” is particularly snortful because the
Selectors’ Guide calls tracks roads. But, as said tracks will
serve all the purposes of roads, what is his grievance? I
have been through the country referred to with heavy
loads of camp gear before there was a track at all, and
experienced no difficulty. What does “Mallet” want?
He can get land for practically nothing. He has a good
prospect of making a comfortable living off it, with a
very small expenditure of brain power. They only
charge him half the survey fee, and wherever a few
settlers are gathered together the Government builds
them a railway. Then, for the first few years, they keep
the settler while he gets his farm in working order. I
advise “Mallet” to go on the land in Westralia without
delay. He doesn’t deserve such good fortune, but it will
cheer him up.
There is still much commotion in Victoria over
a Government proposal to limit the weight of
wheat bags to 2001 b. Although it has been
pointed out that all the Argentine wheat —
hundreds of shiploads—is exported in 1741 b.
bags, and that flour is exported by hundreds of
tons to Asia in 501 b. bags, the farmers are still
furiously contending for the old benighted
custom. They haven’t to hump wheat half the
year, as the lumpers at the ports do, and they
decline to consider the latter because the lumper
isn’t a “ producer.” It is therefore refreshing to
find one district with a heart—though it is
apparently the only one. The district is Boort,
a big wheat-growing centre in the Mallee. At
Boort the proposal to reduce the size of bags was
considered by the Agricultural Society, with the
following results:—
It was unanimously agreed that a reduction in the size
of wheat bags would be materially in the farmers’ favor.
The meeting gave a few of its reasons :
Mr. L. Brown, a representative farmer, said the reduc-
tion in size was inevitable. Farmers had a difficulty now
in getting men, owing to the scarcity of men who could
handle such heavy bags.
Mr. Owen, another wheat-grower, said that in Cali-
fornia shipping was much facilitated by the adoption of
the three-busliel bag.
Mr. Coutts reckoned 2001 b. was quite enough to cart
up to the top of a stack, with the temperature at lOOdeg.
or thereabouts.
It is to be hoped that the farmers who are
opposing the innovation will read this report.
Then they will realise that they are not only
selfish, but foolish as well. For the foolishness,
much reading of the Argus is probably respon-
sible ; but the selfishness seems to be a natural
gilt.
A favorite trick of the Foreign-trader in the
attack on the new tariff is to quote 1906 prices
alongside to-day’s prices. Under which circum-
stances it is just as well to note that, according to
the official “N.S.W. Monthly Statistical Bul-
letin,” the general “price level” for July, 1906,
was £1270, while for July, 1907 —before the tariff
arrived —it was £l4OO. In other words, goods
that on an average cost £1270 in July, 1906, had
gone up to £l4OO in July, 1907, without any
increase of duty. Flour sprang from £7 15s. to
£9 per ton (wholesale), butter from lid. to llj-d,
cheese from 6d. to 7|d. —all part of that same
almost universal move-up in prices, which sent up
the “index” of Australian metals from £976 in
July, 1903, to £1573 in July, 1907. If it’s the
tariff that has put up butter a farthing, it must
also be the tariff that put up copper
£5O or £6O. The rise never started in Australia,
but always in Freetrade England. Australian
wheat went up there from 30s. 9d. per quarter in
August, 1906, to 355. 3d. in July, 1907; flour
jumped similarly from £7 17s. to £8 16s. ; tallow
from 295. to 345., and most other things whooped
up to correspond. And the Foreign-trade paper
was glad down to the soles of its boots, and said :
“ See what heavy prices our producers are receiv-
ing, and the consequent prosperity ! ” Then the
tariff came, and the same paper glared at the
same prices and said : “ See what dreadful prices
our consumers are paying, and the consequent
ruin ! ”
•
“ The Gun yah ” writes from Melbourne :
“ Vigil " (B. 8/8/’O7) hits with the strength of a Squires
and the accuracy of an Addison at the root of the late so-
called Patent Office Muddle. The real reason for the con-
tinual mud-throwing is that the Commissioner will persist
in taking the view that his department was established
for the benefit of the whole of the people of the Common-
wealth instead of for a Select Few. He is a Coarse,
Brutal Hog in the eyes of some people—quite naturally.
As nearly the whole of the 49 registered Patent Attor-
neys are centred in Melbourne, competition is much felt,
especially by the older members of the profession, who,
in pre-Federation da\s, ran the different State offices to
their own advantage, and found the Commissioners a
harmless lot who fed out of the hand.
Another injustice to the Select Few is the fact that the
present Commissioner is a dexterous user of a large blue
pencil, which he employs with marked ability when the
Attorney’s costs come before him to be taxed, and his
pruning keeps the inventor on the dry side of the Bank-
ruptcy Court.
After three years of continual fighting Australia has
been brought under the wings of the International Con-
vention in regard to patents. This is yet another hard-
ship to the Select Few, although of great benefit to the
inventor. Prior to this important step, it was necessary
for a patentee in Australia to make application in all the
important countries of the world at one and the same
time. At the present time, and under the terms of this
Convention, an inventor who files his application in Aus-
tralia is given the privilege of using-, manufacturing and
gazing on the financial side of his invention for a period
of twelve months before going to the expense of filing his
application in the other countries belonging to the Con-
vention. Should his device prove financially bad, he can
drop same there and then ; and, while he has the advantage
of testing his idea in foreign countries, he need only lodge
his patent in Australia, instead of in each country as
formerly.
Taken altogether, the Commonwealth Government is
to be complimented on the manner in which its patent
officers look after the welfare of the general public in
such a large and Important department, instead of allow-
ing a select few to rule the roost.
The Patent Office has been established on a liberal
scale, and the Commonwealth Government, instead of
taking the surplus—for the income is thrice the ex-
penditure—and adding it to the revenue, is doing all in
its power to establish an Australian Patent Office on the
lines of progressive U.S.A. and in keeping with the motto,
“ Advance Australia.”
This appeared in the S.M. H srald of August 12,
and was headed “Tho Snow call of Debt” :
Few people worried over the fact that during the week
Parliament passed a Million Loan Bill. This kind of
thing, in fact, is so usual that even members themselves
confine their attention to a criticism of the portion of
the loan money which is proposed to be expended in their
own respective districts.. .. None was bold enough or
wise enough to challenge the principle of continuing to
speed along the enormous snowball of debt. What
criticism there was of the financial methods of the
Government was devoted to more or less futile remarks
about the methods of raising the money, and the rate of
interest to be paid. Not one member appears to have
thought for one moment that it would be better to raise
this million —if it be all needed, which is doubtful —by
direct taxation, and thereby save t he interest and cost of
brokerage, while inaugurating a policy of genuine self-
reliance. ... If the Government, Parliament, and the
country decided to cease borrowing at once... all the
funds required could be quite comfortably raised by
direot taxation It would mean an enormous and per-
manent saving in interest, and, what is more valuable
than all else, such a policy would eventually have its in-
fluence for good in the private life of the whole popu-
lation.
These are noble sentiments, but (alas!) it was only
Maoriland that the Herald was discoursing upon.
It is the old policy of being terribly angry about
political corruption in Greenland. As regards
N.S.W. the Herald was one of the papers which
demanded that the “surplus ” should be devoted
to the reduction of State taxes, not to the aboli-
tion of borrowing. And its voice doesn’t rise in
the N.S.W. anti-loan cause worth a cent.
+
Miss Jessie Ackermann, the wandering English
journalist, who says that the poverty and misery
in Freetrade Britain are beyond belief, spoke to the
S. M. Herald last week about the sinfulness of
Protection and the advisability of following in
Britain’s footsteps:—
They have tried a similar experiment [Protection] in
Italy, where sugar is Bd. per lb., and tea ss. What is the
result? The day before I sailed from Naples, I visited the
great ships carrying over 8000 emigrants, 80 per cent, of
them from the rural districts, to Canada and the United
States.
This sets one wondering over a lot of things. For
instance :
(1) If it is Protection that is driving these people away,
why are they rushing the countries where they will get
still more Protection ?
(2) Seeing that tea is free under the Australian
tariff, and sugar isn’t affected by it because we make our
own, how do the alleged tea and sugar instances affect us?
(3) If Freetrade is the thing to keep people at home,
why is Freetrade Ireland the world’s one horrible example
of depopulation ?
And (4) Miss Ackermann is pre-eminently the Woman
Who Doesn’t Know. She has looked on the awful misery
of London for years, and all she can tell about it still is
that she isn’t aware of the cause, and has no idea about
the cure. Therefore, would she not do well to be humble
instead of loud, and to learn instead of trying to teach ?
Australia and Maoriland, with arbitration laws, old-age
pension laws, minimum-wage laws, schemes for the sub-
division of big estates, exclusion of the worst class of
cheap labor, Protection (coupled with provision for decent
wages in protected industries), State railways, and many
other devices, has made a beginning at treating the disease
before which Miss Ackermann sits down helpless and
aghast. It doesn’t want to be interrupted by the Help-
less Woman, unless she has something better to offer than
the old fiscal fetich which is associated with the dreadful
misery of London and the emptying of Ireland.
The Anti-Federal press has, of late, been greedily
publishing a howl from certain chemists against a
recent order of the Customs, limiting the quantity
of opium which may be sold to any one drug re-
tailer. In July, 1906, the new Commonwealth
laws restricting the importation and sale of the
poppy poison came into force, to the heartfelt joy
of the Chinese, who, even in China, applauded
the effort of Australia to grapple with the opium
curse. The Customs found, however, that an un-
scrupulous section of the chemists had started to
evade the Act in a wholesale fashion. Careful
inquiry showed that, previous to July, 1906, a
fair annual sale by a city chemist was 7oz. ex-
tract opium, and |lb. of gum opium. Lately a
chemist was discovered buying 41b. of the drug every
month,; that is to say, it seemed that in his case the
allegedly legitimate demand for opium had risen
9600 per cent, above the average. More inquiries
revealed another chemist who bought l|lb. of
opium per week; his trade seemed to have
jumped 10,000 per cent, above the average.
There were many more of the same kind ;
in fact, they were found in all directions.
Then the order was issued, restricting the
amount of the drug that could be sold to
each chemist to something like the amount
he used in the days when the opium-fiend got his
supply down in Chinatown. Promptly the chemist
shrieked in the ear of the anti-Federal paper.
He showed it the amount of opium he used last
month, and asked if the restriction wasn’t a mad,
bad, wicked, foolish act ; and the anti-Federal
paper, on his mere say-so, shouted that it was. It
never asked to see the chemist’s opium sales of,
say, a year ago, or verified his statements in any
way. And when the Australian Government
explained its reasons and proved the fair-
ness and sanity of its action, the anti-Federal
papers didn’t apologise for their lie—they just
dropped the subject.
The Darling Harbor Pantomime!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Supposing it happens rich squatters require,
For fencing their holdings, some netting of wire ;
It should be apparent
To ignorance arrant
That Government ought to supply the desire !
With equal diplomacy, similar tact,
The Government ought to be willing to act
As agent for Jones, for Peapes, and also
For Anthony Hordern and Dawson and Co.!
And all of the rest of them,
Least and the best of them;
That, I submit, should be certainly so !
Nobody, surely, would dare to say “ no ? ”
Our butchers and bakers
And cabinet-makers
Should also, for guidance, to Government go 1
Because, if the Government claims (as it may)
It hasn’t, on goods, any duty to pay ;
Why merely wire-netting,
When it could be getting
Free goods of all character in every day?
Why not (just for instance, to make the thing
clear)
A shipload of blankets and brandy and beer ?
And blacking and bacon and bluchers in pairs ?
And bedsteads and sofas and tables and chairs ?
And motors and tricycles,
Launches and bicycles,
Birmingham chains for our numerous mayors ?
Kettles, and carpets to lay on the stairs ?
Saltpetre and sickles,
Pearl powder and pickles,
Pianos, pyjamas, and similar wares ?
“ A good deal of nonsense,” said somebody’s pen,
“ Is relished at times by the wisest of men ! ”
And if they are letting
Us smuggle wire-netting,
The whole of the duties should come in our ken !
And Joseph Carruthers, whom some have
abused,
We’d honor for keeping us highly amused !
For various reasons, it seems quite a while
Since Joseph has lent us occasion to smile !
There wasn’t much risible
Evidence visible—
Mirthfulness wasn’t exactly in style!
But this coming after
Has loosened our laughter!
(I’m told comic opera’s good for the bile !)
N.S.W.
W.T. GOODGE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Tom Moore.”
Royal “A Warning to Women.
Criterion “ The New Clown.”
Palace “Miss Lancashire, Limited.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Robin Hood.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Spring Chicken.
Royal “ Riding to Win.”
New Bijou “Two Little Vagabonds.
OrERA House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Exhibition Building. .. Besses o’ th’ Barn.
♦
“ A Vaughaning to Women” (this is the
really correct stage pronunciation), which opened
at Sydney Royal last Wednesday, is a Jehad,
Jud, or sustained moral plaint against (1) Drink,
(2) Morphia, (3) Race Suicide, (4) Bridge, and
(5) Naughtiness generally. Squire Kennion,
of Oastle Manor (Ireland), is one of the fine old
school. He has two fair daughters, Moira and
Sheila ; a host of friends who make free use of his
Manor for purposes qf argument, love-making,
comic knockabout business, and the like; also a
tameand devoted minstrel, by name Shaun. On the
surface all appears well enough with the squire.
But in the immediate offing lurks a canker worm ;
in fact, a crawling mass of him. Money difficul-
ties threaten the squire. Again, his wife has died,
“ raving,” it is intimated, “in the throes of dipso-
mania.” Understanding that much, the audience
views without surprise the deplorable enthusiasm
with which the elder Kennion girl (Moira), during
the toasting of herself and her future husband
(F. McNaghten), swallows glass after glass of
what appears, from the body of the house, to be
either neat whisky or light sherry. Apart from
the indifferent taste displayed by Moira in drink-
ing her own health about four times to everyone
else’s once, the onlookers, who in many cases (so
is the social conscience of the people quickened
these days) favor full local option without com-
pensation, consider it low on her part so to exceed
the liquor-speed limit; and she is sternly counted
out as a fitting spouse for the handsome
and virtuous young moderate drinker, F.
McNaghten. While all hands are wassailing
at Castle Manor, enters suddenly The Stranger.
His name is Marcus Dread, and he is
of the medical profession. In appearance
The Stranger is indescribable. He carries with
him an air of tomblike gloom and a vague sug-
gestion that the Missing Link has arrived from
Java in his middle age, pausing only on the way
to borrow King O’Malley’s hat, the coat and
trousers of a Methodist clergyman, a black satin
opera-cloak, and the dark suspicions of the Even-
ing News about a conspiracy against the Ma
State. Shortly after The Stranger’s arrival,
Moira, becoming irritated at his manner, throws
a large quantity of vitriol at him. Womanlike,
she misses and, instead, hits F. McNaghten, ,
who happens to be behind her. The curtain
descends on the painful spectacle of the young
man who has stopped the vitriol, prostrate, with
eyes firmly closed (signifying total blindness), and a
sunset pink effect about the eyebrows, while Moira
convolutes in an agony of remorse near by. In
the background, smiling devilishly, towers Dread.
A thrilling tableau. The main warning to women
contained in Act I. may be summarised in the
pbrase, “Always ascertain the whereabouts of
your young man before reaching for the vitrol
bottle.”
ANDREW MACK , COMEDIAN.
In Act 11. The Stranger gets fairly into
his Infamous and Degraded Stride. He would
marry Moira and take her to London. He holds
mortgages over her father’s estate. He threatens;
then offers destruction of the mortgage deeds in
return for the lady’s hand. There is general un-
willingness to receive this amazing man into the
Kennion family, besides which Moira is engaged
already to the unfortunate F. McNaghten, who
owes his blindness to her faulty practice with the
vitriol. However, Dread prevails, and the lady
prepares to depart —not, however, before several
unpleasantly significant incidents have occurred.
The doctor is devoid of any vestige of bedside
manner. Called upon to attend the crippled son
of the “wise woman,” Molly O’Moore, he
straightway delivers a blistering oration on the
shrinking birth-rate proposition, demonstrating
just why the lad is deformed, and laying the
whole blame on the mother. She, with extreme
fury, rebuts the charge, and lays a curse across
her detractor. Stage curses have a way of coming
home to sit on the perch in the fowlhouse, and
every experienced playgoer in the audience recog-
nises that the medico has made a false step.
Later, Shaun threatens to murder him if a hair of
Moira’s head is injured by his agency, and all now
perceive that his painful end has become a matter
merely of scenes.
* * * *
The rooms of Dr. and Mrs. Dread at the
Hotel Cecil, London (Act III,), are shown reeking
of vice and mystery —from the occasional chairs,
upholstered in violent red plush, to the skull,
which glares dreadfully from a desk. Off stage a
society Bridge party is in progress. Intermittent
howls signify that one or other side has lost all
its money and has been driven to forge a cheque
to go on with. Moira staggers in hopelessly “under
the influence,” waving a roll of bank notes.
Plainly she has had a good evening, and has
scooped the pool. At this stage the drama grows
incoherent. The doctor loses his temper. Turn-
ing suddenly on his guests, who have trooped in
after Moira, he announces (1) that he is the son
of an abandoned female, and lllegitim »
(2) that Moira is not married to himbut _
mistress, and (3) that he has infected the
London with a bottled virus (sample produced,)
which will wipe the inhabitants of that ci y
the earth. “ Lady Coiner’s carriage,’ observes a
footman coldly, and the company disperses-
Various other things now happen. The Strang:
erring mother appears, proves her icien y
by means of the usual locket, and promp y
suicides. The comic nobleman, Lord Evesleig ,
wanders to and fro with a scent spray disinfecting
all and sundry. And F. M'Naghten recovers Ins
eyesight and marries Moira’s teetotal sister, w
time Shaun, with the hearty approval of all pre-
sent, assassinates Dread and throws him into t
sea.
* » * *
The acting and staging of this preposterous
play is so far above the normal that the blank
idiocy of the “book’’ is weirdly accentuate .
Miss Hildyard gives a really powerful representa-
tion of the morphia-injecting dipsomaniac, Moira.
Mr. Herbert Leigh handles the thankless part or
Squire Kennion with skill, and Lord Evesleigh
(Mr. Lindsay) is a quite convincing aristocrat.
Mr. Charles Vane, as the Awful Dread, does
horrifically well; and that bright, little local Pro-
duct, Lizette Parkes, shows much promise m the
part of Myles O’Moore, the lame boy. Arid so
with most of the others in a long cast. If the
players in “A Warning to Women” have no
legal redress against the author, for damaging
their sense of humor and tearing their theatrical
uniforms generally, they ought to have.
*• * *
Meynell and Gunn have decided to give a
farewell week’s performance of “The Fatal
Wedding,” at Sydney Royal, commencing on
September 7. They wouldn’t do this calamity
but for the fact that they are unable to produce
“Her Love Against the World” on the date
intended. “ The Fatal Wedding” is a tragicsort
of comedy, which should just suit Sydney these
times.
** * *
“Mr. Hopkinson ” was due to bound off
the Sydney Criterion stage on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday “The New Clown” was to be
revived for three nights ; and the management
plans to close the season with “ The Man from
Mexico.” To-night (Thursday) is announced as a
special military night; a soldier playlet will be
staged, and reductions in the tariff made for the
man who would defend his country only that he
isn’t nearly numerous enough. In fact there is
hardly enough of him to go out and block Car-
ruthers’ policemen when they are embezzling the
wire netting.
** * *
This (Thursday) is the last night of the
Comic Opera Co. in Sydney ; after the house has
been vacant for a day—to let Her Majesty’s lose
the echoes of the Polite Lunatic, asking for the
pleasure of the gore of Bronson —Andrew Mack
will begin a short season of blarney, starting with
“ Tom Moore ” on Saturday night.
State Ex. Rawson and Miss Rawson will
tread the red carpet en route up the marble stairs
of Sydney Palace, next Saturday, to see “Miss La-
ncashire, Limited.” The tempestuous maid-of-all
work still rages as a perfect lady, and some new
songs are introduced. Mr. Gregan McMahon has
joined the co., and helps to upset things—gravity
included —in the part of Moses Goldberg.
Miss Maisie Schell, a young German-
Australian pianiste from Mayence, gives a recital
in the Centenary Hall, on September 11. She
studied under "George Liebling and Freder.c
Yoss.
#* * *
Juggling is the fashion of the moment, and
whether J. Carruthers caught it from the Sydney
Tivoli, or the Tivoli caught it from J. Carruthers
will have to be decided by the High Court. What
between the Svengalis, the Geraldos, and the
newest-comer, Ernesto, the Tiv. holds a. strong
hand ; but Carruthers’ feats are more daring and
amazing. His present star turn consists of a
modern sample of the old Hindu fakir business.
You take half-a-crown out of the right-hand
pocket of the farmer and call it. Customs duty ;
then you put the half-crown back into the farmer’s
left-hand pocket in Federal surplus and reduced
railway rates. You know quite well that the
farmer isn’t any worse off than he was ; yet, after
the Fakir has worked them up to the proper
state of mind, he makes his dupes believe
that the farmer is ruined, and they see a poor
backbone-of-the-country all crumpled up under
the weight of a ton of wire netting, and with
7,954,321 wild rabbits eating his vitals out. The
Svengalis have been doing wizard business for
some time, and they seemed all right till Car-
ruthers produced his little box of tricks. Now, in
the presence of a greater Fakir, they are flat
stale and unprofitable, and they go this week.
Ernesto, however, is struggling to keep his end
up. He climbs a ladder, balancing various things
on his features, and playing two concertinas.
This, of course, though clever, is still merely a
plagiarism of Carruthers’ well-known act—the one
in which he gets up on stilts, and blows his own
trumpet. There really ought to be some copy-
right in these tricks. It is monstrous that a
politician should spend all his spare time between
elections thinking out new turns, and then find
them instantly grabbed and exploited by rivals in
the variety-show business.
*# * *
The whole of Melbourne’s present array
of melodramas will be withdrawn from observa-
tion this week, and as many other melodramas
will take the field on Saturday. At Her Majesty’s
where Mack to-night concludes his feast of Irish
sentiment and his flow of Irish brogue (he con-
cludes it with “ Arrah-Na-Pogue,” so that he
may warble the “Wearing of the Green” to a
heated body of sectarian admirers)—at Her
Majesty’s the sacred lamp of melodrama
is to be blown out for a while. The
Royal Comics are returning, and the first
week of their return is dedicated to “The
Spring Chicken,” a comedy which seems, per-
haps, rather more sincerely French than it ought
to be. All the same there is a higher moral satis-
faction in hearing “0, so gently ” or “Of course
I don’t know, but I guess,” than in being assured
by Andrew Mack (who professes to have got the
news from another man) that England is hanging
women for wearing of the green. Looking at this
color question from a purely aesthetic point of
view, one would say that England should hang no
woman for wearing green unless the shade is in
itself a capital offence and she has been officially
warned on at least three previous occasions.
* ■* * *
But before “The Spring Rooster” flaps
his wings, an amateur performance of “The
Tyranny of Tears” is to transpire at Her
Majesty’s on Friday (30th). The amateurs in
this case are either proved, or suspected, of con-


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Insure
with the
*&< INSURANCE SOCIETY,
♦ PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE Mams-er
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. ’ S *
Important to Land Owners, Municipal
Aldermen, and Others. — Under the Local Government
Act, all noxious weeds are to be immediately eradicated
or Police-Court prosecution will result. The owner of
any section of land found infested with Cryptostemma
Oalendulacea, Onopordon, Acanthium, Xanthium Stru-
marium, Carduus Lanceolatus, is liable to all sorts of pains
and penalties. To avoid gaol, it will be wise to invest in
a Tyree Sprayer ; this, with the No. 34 Mixture sprayed
on carefully, will quickly clear the ground of any of the
above pests as well as Prickly Pear, Lantana, Black-
berries, Briars, Poison Plant, etc. The machines range in
price from 245. upwards, and can be worked by any
person of sound mind without instruction. Send for
Printed Matter to TYREE Ltd., 314 George-street
Sydney, N.S.W.* ’
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l£d.
siderable ability for the stage. If they were posi-
tively bad amateurs, they would be worth hearing
in these days, when plays as bright as “The
Tyranny of Tears” are rarely acted by profes-
sional companies.
Df * # #
Notwithstanding the testimonial of a
prominent clergyman, who stated —in an advt.—
that the drama had done him more good than six
of his own sermons, the Geach production of
“Human Hearts ” struck Melbourne at the wrong
theatre and the wrong time. In a house where
the auditorium consisted of one vast amphi-
theatre, and tender-hearted matrons of limited
education could be induced to buy season tickets
for nine shillings a dozen, “Human Hearts”
would fill the bill admirably. The Princess’s and
its regulation prices are better suited to the forth-
coming season of Julius Knight and Co. The
super-gallant Julius starts on Saturday with
“Robin Hood.” “Raffles” and various other
things are to follow, but it is in the god-
like character of Mr. Hood that the popular
actor will re-introduce himself to his old idola-
tresses after an absence of two years.
* « *
The Bijou re-opens again—with melo-
drama. The Holloways, who played “Two
Little Vagabonds ” at the Princess’s a while
ago, are going to repeat Wally and Dick afore-
said at the smaller theatre at smaller prices.
Also, any halls that have closed will re-open on
Saturday with Living Pictures, the stages not
being spacious enough for melodrama.
* * *
Unfortunately, the congested state of the
Melbourne melodrama market has decided Bland
Holt to close the honorable innings of “The
Bondman”on Friday of this week. On Satur-
day, he will revive “Riding to Win” at the
Royal, out of regard, probably, for Agricultural
Show visitors, who have not yet known the
delight of witnessing a bicycle race in which the
background sets the pace.
* # *- m
Clara Butt the Colossal—“the custodian
of the voice of a century,” as the advertisements
say—arrived in Melbourne on Monday, and Mel-
bourne stood on a box and shook hands with her.
The very tall vision will rest (in the intervals of
being receptioned) until September 10, when she
will boom her great voice to an array of guinea-
pigs and half-guinea-pigs, and any others that
manage to find standing-room in the Town Hall.
Husband Kennerley Rumford “ stars ” in the pro-
gramme. Violinist Carl Barre and pianist Frank
Merrick, with the pervading background of accom-
panist Arthur Godfrey, make up the imposing com-
pany. The season will be continued with concerts
on the 12th, 14th, 17th and 19th in Melbourne, and
Sydney will be visited at the beginning of October
if the secesh revolution hasn’t started by that
time, and the city isn’t burning in ten places.
Miss Ethel Hook, a sister of Miss Clara Butt, is
with the party, but will not appear professionally.
She and another sister, Pauline, sing duets on
London concert platforms. The Hook is assumed
to prevent confusion with the divine Clara. A
pleasing derangement of names might have been
arrived at if the sisters had called themselves Tank.
* * *
“ Sundry Shows ” last week mentioned
that the Besses o’ th’ Barn would return to Mel-
bourne and give a concert in the Exhibition with
a charge of 2s. admission. The management
worriedly announces that only bloated millionaires
who want reserved seats need pay a florin ; and
the multitude may hear the brassy sirens for two
plain sixpences.
* m
The Coward Pops, at the Town Hall,
caught a large audience for the second time with
the original artists and a varied programme. The
promoters promise to continue their spec, just as
long as the public can find it in its heart to
exchange Sunday’s beer-money for Saturday
night music.
#* * *
The placid stream of Melbourne Opera
House entertainment was agitated on Saturday
by a much-needed cyclone. “The Molassos,”
a party of “Continental cyclonic dancers,” made
a first energetic appearance. The frilly half of
the quartet has nice enough trimmings and
sufficient vim to make a welcome disturbance
by itself; and the conventional-looking young
men do solo-deeds that would outwhirl a dancing
dervish at his own specialty. But when the
cyclone gets going in four parts, and performs
what one piquant flash of lightning describes as
“de valze and de verlvind danse,” it creates
a splendidly graceful and agile tornado.
The male Molassos wave their partners about like
flags, and, making the girls their axis, fling them-
selves through the atmosphere at astounding
angles. The turn is a nice illustration of what
the Dartos would have done had they been
younger and a good deal more ingenious. Edward
Cranston is responsible for another vapid interval,
in which the humor is of the Pink ’Un brand,
grown over-ripe; and, for the rest, Carden
Wilson and his quick-change editions of actor
folk, and balladists Eileen Lyons and Reeves
make bright spots in a murky sky.
** * *
The “ Besses ” have been roaring as gently
as a baby dove in Adelaide Town Hall, and anon
filling it with brazen harmony—all this twice
every day for a week. They have now gone to
Broken Hill, but promise to return. (In fact,
they cannot get away from the Hill without
returning, unless they take the swagman’s track
to Cobar.) Concerts are everywhere. Another
distinguished stranger from Europe, Aida Loman,
has given two of them, and the Women’s Work
Exhibition, which is a steady day and night suc-
cess at the Jubilee building, sandwiches in musical
shows with its hockey, jam-making, and needle-
work. Also Leslie Harris keeps going at the
Theatre Royal, together with the ‘ ‘ Paris ”
biograph pictures—which are much steadier than
the city they represent is understood to be.
Thomas Bent’s remarks about Paris have created
the impression that that city flickers a good deal.
‘ Sir or Madam, —I notice in one of your
issues you inform some poor, young, misguided
artist to use Indian ink, and Chinese white, and
to draw on Bristol board. Now, how about your
White Australia, eh ? How about it ?—-Dis-
gustedly yours, Mr. Gyre.— P.S. If I get paid
TA-thi® as a P ar I’H Australian beer, not
Indian beer, or Bristol beer, or Chinese beer,
I m Australia for the Australians, lam.—Mr. G.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ J.P.” (Maoriland): Tom Pollard, the best-beloved of
Maoriland, who for so many years provided the youth of
that land with delightful leg-shows of the comic opera
brand, has just broken forth again with a juvenile opera co.
recruited from Australia. Tom has known ups and downs.
His beans have been a minus quantity, and he has also
tasted of the affluence that rewards successful theatrical
ventures. He started, Heaven knows how many years
ago, with a Lilliputian co. that was highly successful. It
produced May Beatty and W. S. Percy, amongst others.
It eventually grew up, and success grew with it. Then it
fell partly to pieces, to revive again later on. Tom then
carted it-across to Chowth Africa, where most of it got
married, with the result that it fell right to pieces. Here
we lost Tom for an indefinite period, until he turned up
smiling to become Director of Entertainments at the late
Maoriland Exhibition. There he ran the orchestra, the
Besses o’ th’ Barn, sundry flickergraphs, and the Fijian
firewalkers. Afterwards he became business manager of
a reconstructed theatre. But his heart has ever yearned
for the sweet maidens who wave their white hoofs in the
airy dance. So at Christchurch he has caused “ Blue
Bell in Fairyland ” to blossom like the rose. It is drawing
big houses. Some day the new juveniles will grow up,
and then Tom will awaken to find himself with a real
opera co. again, and it will also want to get married. In
the meantime, good luck to him !
“Ruru” (Auckland, M.L.): The grand opera co. has
passed on its way like a disturbing element, leaving
Auckland to settle into its usual easy-going self. The
Auckland season was extended. Musgrove dare not risk
a tour through the small towns with his erratic Germans.
Strangely enough, during the latter part of the season
they managed to get on the advertised opera every night,
which gave an altogether false impression of a settling-
down in the co. But the advertised cast seldom
appeared. Massimi replaced Studemund on several
occasions, and presented a most unromantic, unpictur-
esque, unsatisfactory Lohengrin. No fewer than four
understudies replaced principals in “ Hansel and Gretel,”
and the cast was more or less juggled with on almost every
occasion. When Miss Heinze developed “that tired
feeling,” Musgrove had to fall back on the services of a
local singing-teacher, one Miss Carlotta Bouche, for
Venus in “ Tannhauser.” Same lady filled the breach
when Sara Anderson backed out of playing Senta. (It
seems to be a part Miss Anderson doesn’t cotton to.) By
the way, Elsie Spencer, the Australian girl who sings
Gretel, is like enough to beauty-actress Edna May to be
her twin-sister. Further, Elsie has a better voice and
considerably more go than the American.
Remarks appearing below a portrait in Greenroom
Gibberings (London), or some such paper :
“MISS MARGIE WILKINSON,
the clever and versatile variety artist who received,
but owing to domestic reasons had to resign, such a
flattering offer to ‘ star ’ in the leading cities of Aus-
tralia at the suggestion of a leading colonial states-
man recently in London.”
Who was that “ leading statesman ” ? Could it be
Tummas Bent?
“ Melb.” : Czerny is Lumsden, a former member of the
Victorian civil service, noted as an amateur conjurer.
The civil service gave him a special night at the Bijou.
All this is admirable enough, but please remark that he
is presented as a Pole, or some such foreigner. Also that
his fine picture-posters, equal to the stamp of London,
Paris, or New York, have no imprint on them. Why?
Because they are done in Australia, but the illusion must
be conveyed that they also are foreign. Well, the
patronage was by no means up to Czerny’s merit. It
might have been better if he had remained Lumsden.
“ Blue Peter ” : I went to “ Human Hearts.” It was a
boshter idiocy. “My husband will kill me,” remarks
the villainess. “Oh, call him here,” says the villain,
casually producing a large knife from his trousers pocket.
“To-hom,” quavers the villainess. Out dodders a white-
haired old man—obviously not Tom. Is the villain one
of these fault-finding, discontented men? No! Tom or
his pa—it is all the same—and he jabs him in the back quite
contentedly. The casual villagers, knowing what a noble
animal Tom is, and how fond of pa, throw him into gaol
for the murder. Tom does not demean himself by deny-
ing it. He knows that he is the hero, and will be all
right in the last act. “ Please pardon Tom,” quavers the
blind mother to the stern governor, “ and here are
some yellow roses off our porch.’’ “ I once had a
porch with yellow roses,” says the governor, wiping away
a tear ; “ here is your son’s pardon.” Next act, thq vil-
lain, villainess and cheeild are strolling along a street
composed of two houses and a red curtain. “ By-the-
bye,” says the villain in his elaborately off-hand
way, “the old man left his monev to that
brat. If she were dead, we could get it.” He
makes a swipe at the cheeild with his cane, and
misses. He is prepared to stroll round the street all day
until he does hit, but the villainess tactfully suggests
that they go and “ ger-loat ” over Tom in prison. The
villain thinks that would be nice—and off they go. That
ends the second act, and, feeling unequal to the in-
tellectual strain of the rest, I made the woman next to me
get off my hat, and made tracks for home.
London is going to have a playhouse after the style of
the Guignol in Paris. It is to seat only 300, and to be
called the Little Theatre. Prices : 10s., 7s. 6d., and 55.,
with occasional “ students’ nights ” at lower figures.
The plays given will mostly be short, and such as are
either too subtle or too sultry for the ordinary stage.
“ Blue Peter ” : “ Comic relief ” in drama is like onion
in salad. It has to be put in carefully arid sparingly, so
as not to spoil the whole thing. Nine times out of ten it
strikes a jarring note. For instance, we all like Bland
Holt, but in “The Bondman” he is an excrescence, and the
fine scene in the sulphur mines at Mount Stromboli is just
ruined by two painfully unnecessary and inappropriate
comic convicts. “ The Bondman ” is streets ahead of the
ordinary Bland Holt show, and does not deserve to be
spoilt.
“Albert” (from London): When J. C. Williamson
arrived in London, I was invited by a certain paper to
make some remarks about Australian theatres. The talk
drifted round to J.C.W.’s ill-fated production, “Ben
Hur,” the big chariot-race play that fell to ashes with
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Said the interviewer with the
fountain pen : “ Is it true that Australian managers lose
their heads when striving for realistic effects? Is it a
fact that real lepers were introduced into ‘Ben Hur’?
How did you arrange for them to leave the local lazar-
ettes ? ” While allowing the interviewer to pay for the
dinner and drinks, I was compelled to admit that Aus-
tralian managers did not rush real lepers into the star
parts when the livid imitation could be obtained at the
usual moderate figure. I was a personal friend of one
leper who used to claw the air on the Mount of Olives.
His yearning for long drinks made him terribly uncon-
vincing when called upon to do his leper turn.
“Snell”: This week (I write on August 22) there are
five theatres going in Melbourne, and at four of them the
little “cheeild” is a prominent item in the entertain-
ment. The fifth is occupied by a sleight-of-hand per-
former and illusionist, and he can’t very well crowd in
the “ heart-interest ” which “me cheeild ” is supposed to
impart to a show. Andrew Mack works the “cheeild”
almost as industriously as he canvasses the Hibernian
bodies. Bland Holt’s “Bondman” contains superfluous
infants who pray and prattle. “Human Hearts” depends
largely on a wee girly in a scant frock—who looks wonder-
fully like an open parasol—to stir up the emotions of the
crowd. At Rickards’ a pretty and precocious serio of
about six is singing and dancing, and exhibiting' quaint
baby ways. I suppose there must be a popular demand
for kid on the stage, otherwise managers would not go to
the great pains necessary to pervert an ordinary child
from its natural childishness, and make an absurd under-
done prig of it for show purposes.
Judkins’ propaganda against the liquor traffic at
Broken Hill was a failure. At his meeting on Sunday
(17th), at the Town Hall, the back of the house resolved
itself into a chorus, and sang “ Waiting at the Church ”
and “We Parted on the Shore,” with much vigor. These
choruses are the remnants of the visit of “ Mother
Goose,” and doubtless Judkins will lay this sin also at
the door of the Stage. On Sunday night he endeavored
to command a hearing at the Trades Hall, but the mob
called for Percy Kelso, the street orator. Kelso was
denied the platform. The crowd then broke a few
trifles, and some of the lights went out. Judkins escaped
to the Methodist Church opposite, where, under bobby
protection, he abused liquor to an audience that was al-
ready teetotal. The crowd raged outside, for a while,
but finally dwindled away into the bars of sundry hotels
where the back-doors are kept open for travellers and
lodgers.
NO JOKE.
Mr. Reid explains that his remark in the House, last
week, on th sparsity of his Parliamentary attendances
was not made jocularly, as we assumed.
MRS. D.T.: “O yes, that’s all werry well. But
wot were they Perteckshinists larfin’ at ?”
“Star”: Again, in the case of the “ Human Hearts ”
co., the local actor is enabled to assert himself somewhat
to the disadvantage of the imported article. Berkeley,
an Australian comedian whom we have seen in a liberal
range of characters, from pantomime to high-class
comedy, without paying him much attention, is given a
tramp part, originally of no particular consequence, and
he builds it into the most interesting feature of the
show. As an effort of caricature, it is distinctly good,
whereas the work of the principals runs without distinc-
tion in the common groove of graceless melodrama.
Miss G. Quinn, a Melbourne girl who is moving up, plays
the amiable backwoods maiden with much more effect
than the imported adventuress contrives to throw into
her role, and it would not be hard to find half-a-score of
Australian pros, who would certainly have made the
villain a fairly convincing bold bad man, whereas the
specialist from “ home ” looks and acts very like a trim
young salesman from the cotton-sock counter, who is
driven to crime by his unmarried aunt.
“ N.” : Ellen Terry has just put forth the first batch of
her autobiography. While critics are invited to give
Ellen Terry’s reminiscences in their own words, the
knights of the scissors, your Pitchetts and Judkinses, are
explicitly warned off. Well I remember how Stead
expressed his horror at “ Trilby ” and “ The Woman Who
Did,” and then sliced out big slabs of those books.
Ellen Terry leads off with a lot of stuff which one
reads with lazy pleasure, though with a suspicion
like that of the Beak who said ‘*l fancy I’ve
seen you before.” Then she leaps up all at once
into the most extraordinary interest when she deals with
her marriage to artist Watts, she being 16 and he 48.
She protests that the affair has been misapprehended. Yet
she does not straighten it quite out. She was not a stage-
struck person. She did not like the stage, though she
had, even at less than 16, obtained the position of second
lady at the London Haymarket, with Buckstone, playing
characters like Julia, in “ The Rivals,” Hero, in “Much
Ado About Nothing,” and Mary Meredith, in “ Our Ameri-
can Cousin.” She protests that she slummed her work. In
the middle of the run of “ Our American Cousin,” she was
taken away from the stage to marry Watts. This met with
her entire approval. A glamor had been thrown over her
by mixing in the happy and luxurious family life at Tom
Taylor’s house—he was the author of “ Our American
Cousin ’’—and by visits to the studio of Watts, who did
the fine paintings of the sisters Kate and Ellen Terry.
Having been reared in comparative poverty, Ellen longed
for a luxurious home, with no acting. It is somewhat
difficult to disentangle her account of the separation.
They both found the mistake. Yet it appears that Ellen
wished, after all, at that time, to stay with Watts. The
impression she gives is that the separation was agreed
upon between her relatives and Watts, without consult-
ing her. She appears to have had tantrums, but
repented. Doubtless the contrast between the two homes
weighed with her. While under the wing of Watts she
became acquainted with Gladstone, Disraeli, Browning
and Tennyson—the last-named more particularly.
Her family evidently awoke to her histrionic powers, and
the profit to which they could be turned. She does not
write at all kindly of her relatives at this era. Return-
ing home, she was miserable, and draws a dismal picture
of herself darning Brother Charley’s socks upstairs,
while Kate played Beethoven on the piano below. Here
the chronicle stops, in continuous events, but she wishes
the public to understand that Watts always cherished
kindly feeling towards her. He wrote her a number
of letters at various times, after their separation. They
only spoke once. It was in a casual meeting at Brighton,
when he said, “ Surely you must have grown.” The only
other occasion when they met was with a hedge between
them. She happened to be next door to Watts’s house.
He pushed a letter to her through the hedge. I have
referred in these columns to a statement which ap-
peared in a book published in London, and was never
contradicted, to the effect that Ellen Terry, after the
separation, ran away from home, and was not heard of
for five years. Also, that her brother-in-law, Lewis,
thought he recognised her in a body fished out of the
Thames.
Australia’s mermaid, Annette Kellermann, was at the
Chicago (U.S.A.) big “White City” amusement resort
when last heard of, and (according to the local Tribune)
her adorable, plump brownness was making the city “real
glad”:—“Miss Kellermann’s concession is near the en-
trance of the park. To this is due the fact that many
visitors—mainly of male persuasion and bald-headed—
never see the greater part of White City, Miss Kellermann
catching them at the outset. A man must be pretty far
gone who does not thrill at the sight of Annette, for
Annette, freshly risen from the waves, like Aphrodite, in
a skin-tight swimming suit, is a sight to please the eyes
of critical gods, let alone common, 10-cents-a-head mortals.
Miss Kellermann dives into a tankful of water half-a-dozen
times. This is a mere incident to her exhibition. The
important part is Miss Kellermann, as most of Chi-
cago’s population will have seen before the summer is
over.”
F.H.” : Jessie Maclachlan, in flame-like attire, breathed
a tunefully tender farewell across the footlights at
Dunedin (M.L.) for four nights only. Though the Pres-
byterian mind has resigned itself to the death of Burns
and is developing tendencies towards comic opera, there
was a real live Scottish chief in a front pew of the dress
circle, and he assumed a royal demeanor and beamed
graciously on the singer as she filled the void with
melody and “ Scots Wha Hae.” The great hit
was a song about a hundred pipers, who swam a
river and danced themselves dry on English ground to
the sound of—ye gods ! —a hundred bagpipes. The Eng-
lish, as the song naively puts it :
Dumfounded they heard the blaw, the blaw,
Dumfounded they a’ ran awa’, awa'
Frae the hundred pipers an’ a’ an’ a’.
The patriotic burst of cheering that followed this
announcement showed the marvellous dexterity with
which the audience missed the point. The song was
evidently written to show that the bagpipes are a
horror, and calculated to drive away population.
“ Detonator ” : June number of the London Magazine,
in an article on “ Famous Actresses,” has the following
re one we all know :—“ Miss Carrie Moore would make a
charming farmer’s wife if she had not gone on the stage.
Brought up on an Australian farm, her early years were
spent amid the lowing of cattle, the tinkle of the sheep-
bell, and the practical emblems of harvesting and land cul-
ture.” Now, Iknew Carrie well when she was an unsophis-
ticated milkmaid at the old station on the Lachlan. She
knew all the sheep by name, except one—there were
60,000 of them—and she just loved to tie the dinner-bell
round their necks ; also the breakfast-bell and the tea-
bell, and the lunch-bell, and the church-bell, and the
bluebell. And when the cold, drear} 7 , Lachlan winter set
in, and the ground lay 10ft. deep in snow, she could be
seen each evening, wrapped in plaid and shawl, going the
round of the stables after the sheep were brought in, and
counting her wee lambs to make sure that none were
missing. Julius Knight and Harry Rickards were fellow-
toilers on the farm, in those early days, and many a time
were the rouseabouts and jackeroos, and other local flora
and fauna, amused of an evening with song-and-dance
turns by the gifted trio.
“Hamer”: The theatrical pirate has been dealt with
in many phases (occasionally the law has dealt with him),
but I have never seen any mention of the theatrical wrecker
whose line of art is company breaking. There are several
mummers in Australia whose company-breaking is no-
torious, and they are all such bunglers that they break
themselves with the co. They seem to do the breaking
from pure cussedness or force of insurrectionary habit.
Their excuse may be, indifferently, lack of salary, missed
nights (during which salary is also missed), the manager’s
immorality, or any other thing that happens along.
On this excuse disaffection is spread amongst the
crew, and the theatrical master mariner is deposed. He
happens on an indignation meeting in the hall where
he hopes to present “The Beheaded Feet” that same
evening, and the company tells him that it intends to
travel without him, and calmly enters into possession of
as much of his property as it can commandeer. Mostly,
he can save his printing and his scenery (if he has any),
but some members of the company generally manage to
annex a few hundred bills with which they drift through
one or two towns, and then the theatrical ship goes down.
Occasionally, when the manager knows his man, the in-
surgent ringleader is himself cast overboard; but
usually the boss pirate poses as the friend of the
management, and the unfortunate entrepreneur feels
that he must indeed have sinned when his right hand
man, still in a sneaking wail of regret, condemns him. I
have met this theatrical wrecker myself. He prematurely
smashed a co., which, for the last few weeks of a pretty
successful tour, was being run on a share basis for the
benefit of the foolish mummers. I told my insurgents
that they could go to a place where frosts were unknoun ;
but they went to another place where frosts were known,
and met one. It was the only thing they did meet, so the
sorrowing Bung told me on a subsequent visit. Person-
ally I took three faithful followers to a billed town, where
a £3O house was expected to witness “The Colleen
Bawn,” and reaped £l5 on a variety programme—and £l5
among four was better than £3O divided among fifteen.
The people who had been anticipating the Irish play with
much enthusiasm made facetious remarks about the
Colleen not been Bawn yet; but they accepted my explana-
tion that owing to the company’s popularity in the last
town the bulk of it had missed the train, being too drunk
with presentation whisky to catch anything. The
wrecker was the first one to ask me to take him on again,
and his explanation of how he had been led astray was
like a Salv’army man’s description of his fall from grace
and the thud with which he struck the roof of the
Bottomless establishment.
The Yellow Pup has officially slapped the
floor with its tail, and has raised the sectarian
issue in a special manifesto, in which it urges all
Protestant electors to vote down the Labor party
on the ground that it is identical with “Rome,’’
and Cardinal Moran, and the Flames of Smith-
field ; and calls on them to stick to the Carruthers
Ministry as a pure Boyne Water institution.
Considering that most of the leading R.O.’s are
supporters of the present N.S.W. Government,
and two of them are in the Carruthers Cabinet,
this yelp has given dire offence in some unex-
pected quarters.
Sickness or accident mean extra expense, and
very often a serious reduction of income, and every man
owes it to himself and those dependent on him to make
some provision for such contingencies. Money put into
the bank has sometimes to be withdrawn, and occa-
sionally the circumstances make saving impossible. But
anyone can afford a couple of guineas per year, and that
spent with the South British Insurance Co. of Maoriland
will secure a substantial little income during temporary
total disablement by either accident or certain specified
common diseases. Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge-
street, Sydney.*
Jules Joubert, who, in his lifetime, was
connected with some fifty exhibitions in various
parts of the world, died on Saturday at Mel-
bourne. He invested his savings in the Alex-
andra Theatre, now Her Majesty’s, but the ven-
ture was not a success; and he had many other
ups and downs. But even in his moments of
deepest depression news of a fresh Exhibition
always roused him to new energy. A born show-
man in his own particular line was Jules, and old
as he was he would almost certainly have put off
dying if he had seen another exhibition imme-
diately ahead.
“ Martin Luther ” writes :
The latest “ reformer ” of Australia is “ Dr.” Wilbur P.
Crafts, who comes from America, where, of course, there
is nothing to reform. The man with the shrewd name has
established a branch of the “ International Reform
Bureau ” in Melbourne, and the council thereof includes
what S. M. Herald calls “ political, commercial and
moral leaders.” The names of these show that “The
International Reform Bureau ” is the same old Yellow
Pup—Balfour, M.L.C.; Archdeacon Hindley, a violent
old gentleman who is almost wild enough to burn Roman
Catholics, if he could get the chance; Hoadley, a jam
man ; Griffiths, a tea person ; and others, including three
of the scoundrels who make daily accusations against
men and institutions, and when the accusations fail, lie
low and say nothing. Three irrelevants Woodfull, and
Pearce Carey and little Willie Judkins, finish the list.
Among other things, the American-born reformation
requires the abolition of all Sunday excursions,
and it is to issue posters on alcoholism and
physical degeneration. If alcoholism is the only
cause of physical degeneration, the ancestors of
some weaklings of the reform “council” must
have been six-bottle men in their youth. The Vic-
torian Labor party once mistakenly introduced a
tinkling cymbal named Mann as organiser, but it soon
bitterly regretted the fact and remedied it. Dr. Wilbur
T. Crafts gives his game away by coming here. U.S.A.
is an infinitely dirtier country, privately and publicly,
than is Australia, but these reformers are so depreciated
where they are known that they have to travel far to get
a good job. Dr. Wilbur P. Crafts is hereby advised to
get in some of his work against “ impurity ” (as adver-
tised) on the Thaw case.
AFTER THE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Deserted are the streets, and stilled
The rattling pavements that all day were filled
With spurred humanity. Weird silence reigns,
As though the despot Death, his foulest mains
Had surged, until —his beaches over-leapt-
A great plague-wave had rolled and swept
All life into its ocean. The low’ring clouds
Of mystic storm, like floating shrouds
Of unknown Shades, with sleep-dispelling power,
O’ercast the night, and pall the wakeful hour.
The long white line of flickering light
Illumes the street a pallid ghostly white.
The great electric globe, that upward stares,
Is suddenly possessed. It pales and flares,
Shudders and chutters, while with low, infernal wail,
An all-night tram swings round some curved rail.
N.S.W.
AIMER.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CUBED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises. , ,
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes“ For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and am simply delighted with it.”
DR P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.C., writes “ I Cheerfully
endorse the ‘ EAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.” ~ ~ ~ _
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address
« EAROSCOPE " Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
EDUCATION BY POST
fghkfgkfg
ĝfkfg
ĝf gƒg
Improve your position by taking
a Postal Course of Tuition from
STOTT & HOARE’S Business
College, Moore St., Sydney.
1 Home Study,” Post Free.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Rev. Woodful, the Victorian parson who
competes with Judkins for the leadership of
the “ Anti ” brotherhood, has been lamenting the
awful demoralisation of England since limited
Sunday trading was permitted to the pubs.
Woodful is, seemingly, under the delusion that
hotels in England were formerly kept closed all
day on the blessed Sabbath. As a matter of fact,
Sunday trading, limited to two hours in the after-
noon and four hours at night, has been the rule
for 50 years or so. Previously there was no limi-
tation at all, and the Sunday beer raged all day
and far into the night.
THE SAXON TONGUE.
WILKINS : “Is there anything between
Percy and Miss Tonkins? ”
S YMTH: “ Well, there was for a time, but
d’ye see something came between them,
so now there’s nothing between them.”
WIKINS (enlightened): “Oh, I see!”
The central authorities in Melbourne send
out “flying gangs” of four or five swift young
“bobbies,” mounted on bikes, to raid suburban
hotels on Sundays in search of unlawful drinkers.
If the flying gang makes captures its successes are
regarded as a reproach to the local “ trap,” and if
the raiders score often the local “John Hop” is
likely to hear something to his disadvantage. So
the stationary policeman looks upon the flying
policeman as his enemy, and is just as anxious as
Mr. Public-House that his movable colleague
should fail in his pursuit of the unholy grail. A
fellow feeling makes us wondrous drunk, and if a
flying gang is lurking somewhere handy, waiting
for the crucial moment to charge, Bung generally
gets the “office,” and the gang gets nothing.
Some news comes south about Gilbert
White, the vigorous young man who probably
knows less about what it feels like to wear gaiters
and an apron than any other Anglican Bishop in
the world—his Bishoping is done in the neighbor-
hood of the Gulf of Carpentaria, with “Thirsty ”
Island for a starting-point. Lately, with parson
Ebbs, he took a trip to the Roper River, on the
Northern Territory side. They had the little
“Francis Pritt” between them and the ocean ;
and they had to sneak behind islands and
shelter for days at a time from storms. But
they found out things during those shelter-
ings: “Malays come across in their proahs,
without reporting anywhere, bring drink to the
men, and carry off the women.” The Bishop
doesn’t mention anything about opium; but
another man, not at all in the missionarying line,
lately told The Bulletin that the same proahs,
“ reporting nowhere, ” drop that drug into Aus-
tralia in large quantities along that coast (there
are Chinese waiting for it); and the Bishop’s
story is something in the way of corroboration.
Anyway, whether the revenue is being swindled
or not, it is absolutely certain that horrible things
are happening along the northern coasts of the
Commonwealth.
Gilbert White, Bishop and battler, doesn’t
sprinkle his diocese with Bibles. He mentions
that, when he and Ebbs got the chance, they ex-
plored the almost unknown Groote Eylandt, and
“ left gifts of tobacco and knives behind, which
will doubtless create confidence.” Afterwards
they pushed up the Roper, to the police station.
When the constable at the Roper wants to report
a matter to headquarters he just rides over to the
Katherine, 200 miles. At Hodgson Downs station
the Bishop undertook to hold a service. Where-
upon the manager’s little son—“l think it that
fellow man make big corroboree to-night.” That
is English as she is spoke up there —it is even
drawing-ropm English to the second generation.
• • * *
Mrs. Walter Withers, wife of the clever
landscape painter, has burst forth as the authoress
of a simple melodramatic story of child-life,
entitled, “Boarded Out.” The first purpose of
the book—which runs to nearly 200 pages, and
has an effective Lindsay illustration on the paper
cover—is to get a lot of readers at Is. per copy,
and, having found the readers, to enlist their
sympathy in the work of reforming the manage-
ment of the Neglected Children’s Department.
The N.C.D., under the nominal control of the
Vic. Chief Secretary, spends £60,000 a year in the
fostering of youngsters committed to its charge
by the police courts. The “ fostering ” thus far
has been of a very perfunctory character, and the
annual £60,000 doesn’t seem to give the State
a satisfactory physical and moral result for its
money. At the present time, as many as 2129
neglected children are boarded out in private
homes, the supervision of their welfare being left
entirely to the police. Mrs. Withers pictures
with considerable art the unhappiness of three
orphan sisters confided to a moderately brutal
caretaker, and, in the successful endeavor to make
her story interesting, she never gets out of her
depth or overstrains the truth.
* » * ■*
Some Melbourne citizens —one in particu-
lar—lately got considerable light on the manners,
customs, and possibilities of motor-cars. A doctor,
driving his own car, which was run by benzine,
found the reservoir leaking, but he hastened on
and chanced a disaster. It came all right when the
contents of the leaking reservoir dripped on to his
gas jet, and in a moment the machine was like unto
Nebuchadnezzar’s furnace. The stipendiary re-
pairer of the human frame jumped all he knew,
and landed safely ; but the flaming car sped on.
Then the healer ran like a swift demon
to grab the brake. He managed to do this
before the burning machine reached a crowded
street; and after that he stood alongside and
watched while his few hundred pounds’ worth of
mechanism was grilled. That was all the damage,
as luck happened ; but if the conflagration had
occurred in a crowded city street instead of a
quiet suburban one, the blazing vehicle might
have raged through drapery emporiums, and in
and out of plate-glass windows, and had a great
time.
* * * *
A number of ancient ghouls lately met
in the vicinity of Watson’s Bay (Sydney) to cele-
brate (of all things) the 50th anniversary of the
wreck of the Dunbar. There were only one or
two of the aged and infirm who had really seen
anything of the wreck, and they disagreed a good
deal about its location, and about how long it
took to sink, and about almost all the other de-
tails. Among them, too, considerable gloom and
aspersion were cast on the alleged anchors of the
Dunbar, which same are said to have been lately
seen thereabouts. Moderately bad authorities
allege that there are about 15 anchors below the
signal station, and quote the wrecks of the Eva
and the Katherine Adamson as some of the
probable causes of all this ironmongery and marine
store. They point out(l) that itisn’t certain that the
Dunbar was really wrecked just where the anchors
are, and (2) that a celebrated wreck, with great
loss of life, doesn’t necessarily leave any more
anchors than a peaceful little wreck that drowned
nobody. And some of them say frankly that they
think the Dunbar is being overdone.
* * * *
A meeting of mistresses was held in Mel-
bourne Town Hall, the other day, to consider ways
and means of improving the supply and quality of
servant girls. It was proposed that an Alexandra
Home be established, to which girls, after the
purity of their morals had been guaranteed, would
be admitted to receive such training as is neces-
sary to the making of the willing, obedient,
and fully-qualified Polly Anne. The perfected
articles, said the conspicuous dame in charge,
should be called “ Alexandra Maids,” and be pre-
sented with diplomas, without which none
should be considered genuine. This is very
well so far as it goes, but it is “up
to ” the domestic servants of Melbourne
to call a meeting in their turn, and devise an in-
stitution for improving the character, quality,
manners, and general up-bringing of mistresses,
no mistress to be recognised who is not possessed
of the diploma of the institution, demonstrating
that she has satisfied the examiners in good-
temper, honesty, charitableness, and decent con-
sideration for her fellow-woman. These matrons
might be called Alexandra Dames, or they could
be ear-marked, or branded “ A 1 ” conspicuously
on the off shoulder. There is a dire necessity for
improvement in the breed of servants, but there
is also room for hoisting the missus on to a higher
plane, and her elevation ought to start right now.
* *
He tossed on the bed at midnight
As the clock was striking the hour ;
And he hoped that he get rid might
Of the cough that made him so dour.
Hot gruel and slops they gave him,
But such treatment he did abjure,
There was only one thing that could save him,
’Twas Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The amazing finger-print of coincidence !
A Surrey (England) man was lately identified as
dead by five grown-up sons and daughters. He
was bald on top of the head, of medium height
and muscular build, and had a reddish moustache.
Also the senior toe on the right foot was damaged ;
and the patient had a mark on the forehead where
a piece of bone had been removed, and a broken
nose, and was blind in the right eye. The body
found in the Thames had all those peculiarities,
and yet it wasn’t the missing father, for he turned
up again, alive and well. What would be said of
a novelist who made things happen like that?
WHAT WOULD A GENTLEMAN DO
Having a large thirst and one small silver coin!
Down near Corowa (N.S.W.) a shire
council has let a road-clearing contract to our
black brother from India for £l2. The cheapest
white man asked £7l. It is things like that which
make people named B. Smith, and weighing
18 stone, clamor for unlimited black labor.
And it is because of the same kind of thing that
B. Smith’s “learned friend” in India hangs put
the sign, “Chunder Dass, Pleader,” in the by-
ways of Delhi and Lucknow—places that look
worse than even old Wexford-street, Sydney.
And it is for the same reason that the rising young
brown William McMillan, of Lahore, shares a
single room with three other rising young mer-
chants (Sammy Lancaster of Kyabrarn, Buckley
of Buckley and Nunn, and Hoffnung) until he
grows rich, as wealth goes thereabouts, and
marries, and then he and his wife have one room
to themselves. For the man who gets £lO a year
can’t buy recklessly from the William McMillan
of his country ; and when he goes to law the local
BruceSmithwhoappearsfor him hasto be very well
satisfied if his brief is marked “55.” Everything
has to be cut according to the size of the material,
and it is impossible to get a gallon of trade out of
a native with a pint salary. Even to the one
little matter quoted above the rule applies.
When the nigger with the £l2 contract calls at
the store at Corowa to buy rations, it will strike
the storekeeper that a white man with a £7l con-
tract would have been a very much better cus-
tomer. Also, he will probably be glad that the
local working population isn’t all nigger working
on a £l2 basis.
“Dew R. Bull”: I’m willing to let
humanitv have the advantage of a great discovery
I made.* I'm not one of those greedy persons
who want to keep everything useful to them-
selves. It’s an infallible method for telling a
Wesleyan when you meet him, .and-so averting
endless trouble. The Methodist face, boomed by
the Rev. Fitchett, is a fairly useful test, but it
doesn’t always come off, while my test does. Get
the suspected Wesleyan into a quiet place and
turn the conversation round to the subject of
Wesleyans; then listen carefully to his pronun-
ciation. If he is a Wesleyan himself, he will
pronounce the word “ Wez-leen,” with the accent
on the “wez.” But should he pronounce it
“ Wes-lee-an,” with the accent on the “ ee,” you
can breathe freely. He isn’t one.
# * * *
Tickling in the throat seems trifling, but
you know these little, insignificant complaints
gradually develop into the most serious,- unless
checked in time. Nature invariably sounds the
alarm, and if you don’t heed, disastrous results
generally follow. When there is a tickling in the
throat you may rest assured there is some cause;
some foreign substance lodged or some inflamma-
tion. You must take Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. You can feel at once its soothing,
quietening, and healing influence. It is no ex-
periment. Not only does Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy reduce the inflammation, but strengthens
the delicate lining of the throat; makes it
stronger and more able to throw off pulmonary
diseases.*
Even on the rare occasions when they
turn their minds more or less in the direction of
holy things, the wire-and-whipcord North Queens-
land back-blockers are liable to get out of the old
ruts. One little W.C.T.U. crowd at Charters
Towers is in a terrible way because it lately found
out that at a Church of England bazaar, or some-
thing such, they ran an oysters-and-stont depart-
ment ; and now from further out comes word tnat
the Mitchell River Anglican Mission doesn t try
to put clothes on its nigger—it just lets him sing
hymns in the altogether if he thinks he can under-
stand hymns better that way.
Sydney Water Police Court on the occasion
of a seamen’s row makes the casual visitor think
of evil-smelling, Babel-tongued Port Said. The
brutal assaults of skippers and mates on the tars,
or of tars on their bosses or on each other, almost
all concern foreign-owned, foreign-officered and
foreign-manned vessels, and the swearing and
counter-swearing have to be interpreted to the
harassed, bewildered “beak.” For a novelty,
the other day, the master of the troubled ship
was a Britisher, but one after another the crew
needed interpreters—all manner of interpreters—
to make themselves understood. In one language
they swore their tucker was bad ; in another
tongue they declared they were kicked ; in a third
lingo they said they had no sleep. The varieties
of color were as numerous as the dialects. And
the smells were also numerous, for the Turk
smells unlike the Chow, and the Chow smells
differently from the Japanese, and the Lascar’s
smell isn’t the same as either of them, and the
Malay smells like himself, and the Arab smells
like something burning, and the Levantine smells
like the devil.
DEATH BEFORE DISHONOR.
Police surprised a “two-up” school at the foot of
Liverpool street (Sydney), on Sunday morning, and took
several names. One man escaped by diving into the
harbor. —Daily Payer.
Yery characteristic are the comments of
the Freetrade Anti-Australian press on the speci-
fications for the Commonwealth trawler. The
Government proposes to make it a comfortable
sea-boat with clean cabins (!), linoleum on the
floors (!!), and white ceilings (!!!). The Foreign-
trader’s idea of a sailor’s accommodation is some
dirty dog-hole between the engines and the bilge.
The idea of making the seafarer comfortable is to
them absolute folly.
RABBIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A remark that 30per cent, had been put on wire netting
roused him (the Vic. State Premier) to an expression of
opinion. “That’s not fair,” he said. “These rabbits
must be kept down.” —Arbus, 14/8/’O7.
Wild rabbits, swarming through the grass, with odd
sheep in between;
Wild rabbits, chewing early oats
All down the meanly-populated scene ;
Wild rabbits where the thistle floats
Along untidy flats, and where the juicy worts are green ;
Just look at Mister Station Smith, and wild old Farmer
Brown,
Rushin’ around with bits o’ wire to keep them rabbits
down!
Across the padlocked paddocks of the idle plutocrat—
The acres of the brummy farm—
Wild rabbits wolf the pastures, waxing fat,
While, voicing his annoyed alarm,
The owner sees the landless waiting dogged on his mat,
And, swearing somethin’ dreadful in his whiskers long
and brown,
Goes forth, half-crazed, to try and keep these men and
rabbits down.
But all the summer bunny dies against the “rabbit-
proof ”;
He dies in bunches by the fence,
And builds a tower from whose malodorous roof
His family, a horde immense,
Descends, a hungry mass of full-blown appetite, to spoof
The futile fodder-fancier ; wild rabbit does him brown,
As will, some day, that landless lot— they’ll keep the
rabbits down !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.
RARA AVIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Celia’s hat a fowl reposes
That is a fearsome mystery.
Enthroned amazingly in roses,
In Celia’s hat a fowl reposes.
By him that piped before old Moses,
It’s like is not on land or sea !
In Celia’s hat a fowl reposes
That is a fearsome mystery.
QUEENSLAND.
MACHETE.


RHEUMATISM
Or Neuralgia, Gout, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Lumbago,
Anaemia. Insomnia. Etc.,
ABSOLUTELY CURED BY . , .
RHEUMAffIETIC Treatment
(Patented.)
Recent development of Medical Science. Adopted by
Medical Men. If not yet available at your Chemists
write direct for particulars to
THE RHEUMAQNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45*47 Melville Street, Hobart.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
mJhO
The Latest Shirt
THE latest idea in Shirts is the
* style we illustrate made of
the New Crepe Material—a hand-
some fabric giving elegant appear-
ance and long-wearing qualities.
It is THE Shirt for Summer —
has a soft detachable collar and
turned back cuffs.
We also have this material in
another style of Soft Shirt with
stiff cuffs.
ICitHer SHirt 5/0 each.
Postage 6d. Extra.
Peapes & Co* Ltd**
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
Crepe
“ Melb.” : Our local Punch has just
yielded its jubilee number. To be sure, it is two
years late, Chaiuvabi having been founded in
1855. It splashes with a gorgeously emblazoned
cover, which may lead a critic to diagnose the
usual inward weakness. The paper wants strong
writing, and will never get it till it throws Toorak
overboard. In regard to Freetrade, it is like
Crusoe’s man Friday, when that pious nigger han-
kered after the fleshpots left by the cannibals. In
flour, there is the premier quality and that called
“seconds.” Charivari may take up good writers,
but it only gets their seconds. Why ? Because
every Australian writer worth his salt is a Demo-
crat.” He will do no good unless he can write accord-
ing to his conscience. Charivari had the cheek
not long ago to advise its poor old London dad
to adopt its example, and change lock, stock,
and barrel. It hasn’t done this itself, but
it is exactly the physic it wants. If Mel-
bourne had one paper that supported Aus-
tralian Federation up to the haft, that put
its hoof on State-ism, and that didn’t mistake
Bent for Cincinnatus because he was taken to
school in an agricultural implement, bound and
violently protesting, in his youth, and grew
cabbages in his middle age, and grew fat when he
was old—then there would be ructions in Mel-
bourne. But Charivari will never ruction any.
It is a tepid elderly person with an old laborious
humor and a middle-aged umbrella. It doesn’t
fizz, because to fizz it is ashamed. Moreover it
never fizzed in its life.
* * » *
“K.” : I once declined to take notice of
those pessimists who croak about the decadence
of the Englishman, but if this —from the Pall
Mall Magazine—is correct, lam afraid I shall
have to reconstruct my ideas :
It may come as a surprise to many readers to learn that
the annual corset bill of many a smart man is much larger
than that of an average smart woman. ... A leading
corsetifcre puts down a good customer’s bill at £l5O. The
majority of wearers are military men. . . . Others are
ordinary well-dressed men. . . . Hunting belts are made
of strong elastic, strapped with fine kid. . . . The riding
corset is of handsome brocaded silk. ... A man’s
evening corset is made of exquisitely soft kid. . . . Then
there is the golf corset.
But enough. I don’t think I ever read anything
that made me so bad as the foregoing ; but I
wanted to know the worst, so I plugged through
it. I feel bad still. “Strapped with fine kid ! ”
Moses!
HE SPOKE IN HASTE.
HE (anxiously): “Crying again , Louise? Never mind, you shall have the gown you want
so much."
SHE: “ How good you are, Edward! I only have a toothache! ”
Mossman (North Queensland) has had its
own Bilanderson melodrama :
Act I. —Rum Singh, loping around, sees a parcel of
flour lying open in a dentist’s shop. He sneaks it.
Act ll.—Rum Singh’s camp. Rum Singh, to escape
detection, mixes the stolen flour with his own flour.
(Twenty-four hours elapse.)
Act 111. —The hospital. A very sick Rum Singh. The
doctor pronounces it acute indigestion. Rum Singh goes
green.
Act IV.—Police station. The dentist calls to complain
that some miscreant has stolen his plaster of Paris.
Thus, if Virtue isn’t rewarded, Vice at least gets
a bad pain in its pinny.
EXPLANATION.
REGGIE (to friend who has been congratulating him on his marriage) : “ Well, don't yer
know, old chappie, I couldn't possibly do less; the old people treated me so doocid
well, don't yer know.”
The ancient of 100 and upwards is
probably not all a myth. The Maoriland
Pensions Department goes to a good deal of
trouble to verify the alleged ages of its oldest
inhabitants, and it has satisfied itself that seven
of them are over 96, and of those seven three, it
believes, are over 100. Of the last three the
patriarch isn’t as lively as he used to be, but the
other two—youngsters of 103 and 104—turn up
personally every month to draw their dole. But
f, Ll f nn „ p ~h <.,.. lrtpd tr. e-ive
ttie ldea t /? at > onc ? ttle State Started to give
pensions, the pensioners would, out of sheer
cussedness, go and live for ever, as Darius the
King was told to do, doesn’t get much support,
notwithstanding these records. The O.A.P. Act
was passed only nine years ago, and already of
those who got on to the books in the first year’s
rush 62 per cent, have gone where the Pension
Department can’t reach them without putting
itself to some discomfort.
Rev. Worrall, who is trying hard to out
Judkins for the heavyweight conversation cham-
pionship of Australia, has been making another
bid for notoriety by reviling Bendigonians for
their gold-stealing proclivities. He stated that
£lO,OOO worth of gold was stolen “ within a given
period.” Which is probable. If you take enough
given period anything may be stolen. Yet
Worrall ought to be careful, or a policeman may
step into his church some Sunday morning to
collar the pulpit and arrest the deacons on a
charge of receiving stolen property. For many
years past it has been a matter of common talk in
Bendigo that every Wesleyan church in the dis-
trict was built out of stolen gold. The most per-
sistent and astute gold-stealer in the history of
Australian mining is the Cornishman, who com-
prises, with his descendants, fully two-thirds of
the mining fraternity of Bendigo, and who is
mostly a Wusslean of the most fervent type.
And he is said to compromise with his conscience
by putting a tithe of the ’weights taken home in
his hollow tooth into the plate on Sundays.
* * * *
An eminent lung specialist stated in a
lecture before the British Conference on Con-
sumption that “nothing goes right while the
stomach is wrong.” All authorities agree that
there is no lung remedy equal to Angier’s Emul-
sion for keeping the digestive organs healthy.
Pleasant to take, it promotes appetite, aids di-
gestion, and improves nutrition. It is unequalled
for all lung affections. In three sizes, of all
chemists.*
N.S.W. S’African agent Yalder seems to
be sadly lacking in the tact required by such an
official, judging by his utterances at a Sydney
Commercial Travellers’ shivoo the other night.
Faced by a body that is mostly Fat in its sym-
pathies, Yalder was moved to take sides in South
African politics. He took up the cudgels in
defence of the importation of Chinese to work the
Johannesburg mines, and went to pains to deny
that such a thing as slavery existed. Then,
impelled by the cheers of the stout drummers
who were feasting him, he went on to assert
that the mines could not be worked but
for the amiable Chow. Premier Carruthers
should have a word to say to Mr. Valder on this
subject, if he has time to spare. The arguments
in favor of the importation of the murderous
Chow to South Africa apply equally to the im-
portation of the same person to Australia. Valder
should be instructed that the agent of Australia
abroad should keep clear of party polities, and, if
his own ideas are out of touch with those of the
country which pays his salary, he should keep
them to himself, instead of flaunting them to gain
the applause of a little coterie of Tory bagmen.
It was notable, by the way, that even Valder
knew enough to avoid recommending the Chow as
a first-rate commercial traveller.
•* * * *
A lawyer writes :
The High Court has settled a disastrous piece of litiga-
tion by dismissing the appeal of the Bank of Australasia
v. Hall. The person most concerned was one Charles
Phillipson, master mariner, who arrived from North
Queensland some three years ago in command of the
steamer Kingswear. On reaching Port Jackson the vessel
was visited by a Government surveyor, who put his foot
through a plate, or something like that. The Kingswear
was arrested on a charge of being a coffin ship, and
enthusiastically condemned. It is now used as a lighter.
The horrified Phillipson fled back to Queensland and sued
one Robertson, who had sold him the box of tricks.
He easily secured a verdict for £7OO, deposit paid for the
ship, £9OO damages, and £6OO costs. Then his troubles
commenced. Robertson went bankrupt, and Hall, the
official trustee, discovered that his mortgages and assets
had been transferred to the ’Asia as security for a debt
of £1254. Hall has spent the last months of his life in
proving before various tribunals, with uninterrupted
success, that this assignment to the bank was bad in
law. When the case reached the High Court the
lawyers wrangled before three Judges to such an extent
that the trio became fogged, and the case had to be
re-argued before the full Bench of five. Its decision was
also against the bank, with costs. The point that the
High Court had to decide was a musty technical one,
dealing with the rights of debtors and creditors. The
rights of Phillipson never came up, and it is very doubtful
if he will get any benefit from the decision, though his
lawyers will. Meanwhile he is glad that he is alive. If
he had struck anything more than a ripple on his famous
voyage down the coast in the coffin-ship, the case would
have been heard in the marine court of David Jones—no
costs and no appeal.
The same little short-skirted damsel with
the same old tale of alleged assault happened into
Melb, Criminal Court again the other day. She
was only 13 this time, and was a nurse-girl or
something at Caulfield. One day when the other
part of the household was out, the laundry Chow
called. Her tale at the Caulfield court was that
Ah Sin had attempted to assault her, had offered
her 55., and had then threatened to cut her throat
if she persisted in defending her virtue. At about
that stage, she said, the fish-hawker transpired,
so Ah Sin put off cutting her throat till it was
more convenient. As the fishmonger corroborated
the tale so far as to prove that John was in the
back kitchen, the matter began to look serious
for Confucius. But after he was committed, the
damsel unwisely set out to back up her narrative.
She was found one evening lying on the floor at
her mistress’ house, in a pool of blood, with
a carving knife beside her; and she told her
mistress, a constable, and a doctor that Ah Sin
had once more called on her, and, when she
wouldn’t have anything to do with him, he had
tried to slay her. It was a fearsome tale, but it
didn’t hang together. For one thing, the
damsel’s employer happened to be about the
house all the time, and saw no Chinkie there, and
heard no commotion; also all the wounds were
mero scratches, and the doctor said the carving
knife had been smeared with blood by the fingers.
Then little Miss Mischief owned up. The jury
also discharged Ah Sin. As for the interesting
child, to whom nothing happened, she will proba-
bly do better next time. She won’t make the
mistake of trying to prove more than is neces-
sary ; and with the practice she has already had,
her villainous yarn may hold together long enough
to hang someone.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Melbourne Foundling Hospital
seems to be managed by a catmittee of much
the same type as the one that is, or was,
associated with the “maternity” ward at the
local Women’s Hospital. The mother of
an illicit baby is treated as a shockingly in-
teresting exhibit, and although she is able and
anxious to leave her infant and find employment
outside, she is kept practically a prisoner, to be
stared at by visitors, under the catmittee plea
that mother and child ought not to be separated.
For the woman who enters the Foundling
Hospital, the only hope of an early escape is in
the possibility that she or the baby will die. An
institution to check the growing habit of infant
mortality was a very good thing, but when it be-
comes known as a place which is more easily
entered than got away from, the limited accommo-
dation will not be rushed.
* * * *
“ The Mole ” writes
The Sydney dailies made much fun of the Customs
clerks who handled the wire-netting, describing them as
pale-faced, white-handed, spectacled young men of the
“ haw ” and banjo-playing variety. As a matter of fact,
the Customs clerks abhor “ dog,” and on the average are
as sturdy and muscular a band as you could find in any
walk of life. It was only a few weeks before the wire-
netting episode that they sent two teams of rollicking
footballers into the field in one day, and nearly wiped the
opposing forces off the face of the earth. Amongst
the crowd which rescued some of the wire from Joey Car-
ruthers’ thieves was an object approaching 7ft. high that
carried two rolls of wire at once, and though he was
above the average, yet the average was very good. Also,
there was in the company a one-time leader of a Surry
Hills push, whose fighting jaw would frighten a sick
policeman to death, as well as another who has distin-
guished himself as a wicket-keeper, and a good
wicket-keeper is no coward. The contingent only
needed to smell blood to make it form itself
into a scrum, and hurl the police and the State Govern-
ment into the cold, wet water. There is one amongst
them who is proud of the fact that he is the first to shed
his blood for the Commonwealth. The blood came from
his hand, which was badly torn by the nasty end of a
netting roll. Still he’s prepared at any time to shed
some more blood for the same cause. The Customs
clerks threaten to challenge the reporters of the daily
press to a football match, and reckon that if they accept,
the papers won’t be able to come out for a week. This
would be a great relief to the country.
* * • *
The Queensland Government is going to
harness up the Barron Falls, and make them
generate some electricity for a living. For all the
power that can be produced—anyway, until some-
thing large in the way of damming is done—there
is a buyer who has got first call on it from the
Government. Though the scheme isn’t yet per-
fected, it is most likely that the new industry
which will be started at Cairns, with the help of
the Falls and the tariff, will be the manu-
facture of carbide of calcium—the stuff that
they make the smelly acetylene gas out
of. So far, Australia’s carbide supply comes
mainly from Sweden and Norway, where there
is abundance of cheap power to generate
the electrical heat, that is the most im-
portant thing in connection with the industry.
Carbide is really only coke and lime fused at a
tremendous heat —such a heat as only electricity
can in practice furnish. The energetic Yankee
gets all the power he wants alongside Niagara ; he
began there making carbide, and now he has gone
on to the manufacture of a nitrogenous manure
possessing qualities altogether remarkable in
fertilising power ; and if something of that sort
can be fixed up at Cairns, in the very heart of the
sugar country, it ought to do a bit more to sim-
plify what used to be called “the problem of
white labor in the canefields.” As for lime, there’s
plenty of that.
A CORNER IN GRACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Parson Marshall, of Melbourne Scots Church, hastens
to point out that his reproachful remarks about the
scarcity of churchgoers were addressed to professing’
Christians onty. “ Others,” he says, “ need not trouble
to advance excuses; their presence is neither expected
nor required at the gatherings of those who regard Jesus
Christ as their Master and Saviour.” Somehow this sen-
timent does not seem to go well with the principles of
the Master. He seemed most anxious to come into con-
tact with the unbelieving sinner.
All sinners note—there is no need
For you to seek the church’s gate,
The house where good men pray, and read,
And drop their pennies in the plate—
The sacred pile, the cushioned pew,
Are not for hardened brutes like you.
The blasfi preacher has no time
To deal with unbelieving louts ;
He wants the saint who’s past his prime,
Too old and tired to harbor doubts.
Why should the pious clerics grieve
O’er worried fools who can’t believe ?
Salvation’s for the saints. The church
Retails the article with care
That leaves the wicked in the lurch.
The business principle is fair —
“ We’ve got a good thing—Grace, to wit—
Oh, brethren, let us corner it! ”
VIC.
S.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
runton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails.
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Fuel Economisers.
Locomotives. Tramway
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The amalgamation of the Mutual Life Associa-
tion and Citizens’ isn’t really as surprising' as it looks at
first glance. It is true that the Mutual Life is about the
most conservative of Australian offices, while the Citi-
zens’is about the most aggressive. But it was the very
conservatism of the M.L.A. management that led it to
turn an attentive ear to the proposal for amalgamation.
The Citizens’is, at bottom, a Private Enterprise office.
That explains a good deal.
But, having said that it is Private Enterprise,
it is necessary to add that it is Private Enterprise with its
claws clipped. And, though the amalgamated concern
will be a proprietary office, too, it will have more safe-
guards even than the Citizens’has had. The shareholders
will still manage the business, but there will be added a
Board of Trustees—a feature which it was here announced
some time ago that the Citizens’ was thinking over. The
old Citizens’ Board (elected by Citizens’ shareholders)
will continue in office, and to it will be added Dr.
M’Laurin (the M.L.A.'s chairman) and J. O. Remington
(M.L.A.’s general manager). They hold office till 1911.
But apparently they must “ qualify ” by becoming
Citizens’ shareholders. After 1911 no special M.L.A. repre-
sentation is provided for. The most interesting feature,
however, is that until 1910 the M.L.A. Beard will act as a
Board of Trustees, and after 1910 the general body of
policy-holders will elect such a Board annually. Its
functions are not clearly set out; but apparently it is
to be the policy-holders’ watch-dog. It will have an
auditor of its own, and its business will be to see that
the co.’s contract w th its policy-holders is carried out.
It will presumably have no say in the management, but it
will bark if anything goes wrong, or seems to tend that
way.
Both lots of policy-holders should gain by the
amalgamation. Put in a word or two, the Citizens’ gains
prestige and the M.L.A. gains “hustle.” Each needed
what the other will bring. The Citizens’ began in a little
way and worked on lines unfamiliar so far as Australia is
concerned. It was thus unable to get financial “ big ”
names to bait its hooks with. Being aggressive, it also
trod on many toes and made many enemies; and
some of its earlier actions gave its enemies good
material to work on. As a matter of fact, it
has been managed for years with conspicuous
ability ; and, knowing what it lacked, it has struggled
before all things to make itself solid. Therefore, in
making its valuations, it adopted a lower rate of assumed
earnings than any other office in Australasia, and it put a
larger proportion of its funds into gilt-edged (public)
securities. By pursuing this policy it might gradually
have worn down prejudices; now it practically gets the
certificate of the most conservative office in Australia,
and that will sweep away prejudices in a wholesale way.
As for the M.L.A., it couldn’t hustle —it wasn’t built on
those lines. Its expense rate last year was £lB Is. Id.
per cent, on total income, while the Citizens’ was
£l2 10s. 2d. per cent. Last year, of the Citizens’ total
premium income, 14'6 per cent, was new-premium income;
the M.L.A.’s proportion was only 11 ’9 per cent., in spite
of a much larger outlay—and in spite also of the fact that
the M.L.A. can always get a certain few big policies
which even the A.M.P. can’t command. (The chairman
of the M.L.A. is Chancellor of the Sydney University, and
the general manager was for years grand panjandrum of
N. S. Wales Freemasonry.) So the M.L.A. gets an in-
terest in a “ live” concern.
The M.L.A. policy-holders, if they adopt their
directors’ recommendation, will give up the manage-
ment of their own business. They will no longer be
policy-holders in a mutual office. That is the sacrifice
they make. The extent to which policy-holders do really
manage affairs in a big mutual office is another matter;
in practice they don’t do much management, though
they certainly have the power. The exercise of it is the
difficulty. In return they get a guarantee that “the
expense rate chargeable against M.L.A. policies is to be
15 per cent., and no more, on the premium income for
1908, 12J per cent, per annum for 1909, 1910, 1911, and
1912, and 10 per cent, thereafter.” Last year the M.L.A.
expense rate was £24 11s. 9d. per cent, of premium in-
come. Nor has it been diminishing in any marked way.
Still, if it were merely a matter of the Citizens’ taking over
the M.L.A., and managing its business, this would not
be much of a guarantee. To manage the existing busi-
ness should not cost more than 7 per cent. But the pre-
sent M.L.A. policy-holders are to share in the profits of
the amalgamated business. No matter what it may cost
to get that business, present M.L.A. policies are only to
be charged with expenses at the rates named above.
Also, the whole of the profits from the present policies
are to belong to policy-holders. Out of the profits on Citi-
zens’ policies, and on the new policies in theamalgamated
office, the shareholders (whose capital guarantees that the
expense rate shall not be exceeded) get one-fifth ; but this
deduction is not to apply to the M.L.A.’s policies. If
the shareholders make any profit out of them it will
be by managing the business for less than the 15,12 J, and
10 per cent, mentioned above. If the figures of the past
are any guide at all, the M.L.A. policy-holders will cer-
tainly be better off in the matter of bonuses. Citizens’
policy-holders will probably gain also through the greater
volume of new business got at a low rate. As to present
assets “any profits or losses shall be credited or debited,
as the case may be, to the future surplus of each” office.
That is to say, each office guarantees its assets to be
worth 20s. in the £—no more and no less.
If the M.L.A. policy-holders say “Yes” to
the scheme, the new co. will work from the Citizens’
office, and be known as the Mutual Life and Citizens’ Life
Assurance Co. It is a clumsy title. It was, however,
either that or a new name altogether. Economic,
Federal, Commonwealth, Alliance, and various others
were suggested and discarded for one reason or another.
So the clumsy mouthful represents a compromise, and is
as unsatisfactory as compromises so often are. It will
promptly no doubt be boiled down to M.L.C. As to the
staff, John J. Garvan, managing director, and A. M.
Eedy, general secretary, of the Citizens’, will continue in
those offices. J. C. Remington, general manager of the
M.L.A., joins the Board, and is also “ managing trustee.”
B. R. Gelling, secretary of the M.L.A., becomes manager
of the property department; and R. D. Miller, actuary of
the M.L.A., becomes actuary of the amalgamated co.
Staff officers whose services will not be required will get
a retiring allowance equal to one month’s salary for every
year of service.
In point of size, the new office will rank as
follows (figures are mostly those as at December 31
last): —
New Renewal Total
Premiums. Premiums. Income.
A.M.P. .. .. £164,250 £1,716,721 £2,932,755
National Mutual .. 101,840 478,517 824,624
MutuaULife ."} 61 > 658 402 > 926 611 ’ 385
Colonial Mutual .. 48,314 299,752 466,126
Widows’Fund .. 21,948 162,273 259,370
Temp, and Gen. .. 18,468 61,731 98,666
The others are less (these figures are for ordinary busi-
ness only). The combined office will thus be an easy
third; including 1 industrial business it will at once
rank second. In the matter of Australian ordinary
business it may also be second, for the National Mutual
is said to be doing almost as much new business in S.
Africa nowadays as in Australia. There is room now
for another amalgamation—perhaps two. The Widows’
Fund and Temperance and General could, perhaps, the
most easily come together, and with the greatest advan-
tage. If this present amalgamation turns out all right,
it may force the others to it.
» * * *
The Union Bank op Australia
Written Ke-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Aug., 1901 £95,681 8 p.c. = £60,000 £35,000 £1,024,499
Feb., 1902 96,714 S „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
Aug., 1902 93,931 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
Feb., 1903 109,649 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug., 1903 126,330 10 „ „ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., 1904 112,182 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Aug., 1904 115,830 10 „ „ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905 100,374 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,052,509
Aug., 1905 100,767 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1903 100,879 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
Aug., 1903 152,251 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb., 1907 227,904 14 „ „ 105,000 70,000 1,204,310
After the crisis of the early ’nineties this bank set to work
hard to get its house in order. Though it didn’t have to
reconstruct —and that fact alone was a big thing in its
instant favor—it brought its dividend down to 5 per cent.;
and, though its profits mounted steadily, it kept the
dividend at 5 per cent, for some years. These two things
between them, no doubt, allowed the Union to gradually
write its securities down to bedrock or a bit lower. Now,
therefore, when good times come, instead of having to
turn large amounts of profits into the sink, without
showing them as profits at all, it is able to show them all
as profits. It is not suggested, though, that the profits
of every bank have jumped like those of the Union.
There has been a very fine profit in foreign exchange
business during the last year or so ; and the Union has
been unusually well situated to do that business. Also,
having its head office in London, it has been very well
able to take advantage of the high rates ruling there for
temporary accommodation. Things couldn’t easily have
happened better with regard to the London demand
for money than they have, so far as Australia is
concerned. Mostly Australian banks, whose custom-
ers are so largely the creatures of rapidly
changing seasons and conditions, use current account
money very sparingly. The phenomenal London demand
occurred at a time when Australia was unusually flush of
money, when the Australian current accounts were un-
usually large, and when Australian prospects were so
good that there was hardly any risk in using in London
a much greater proportion of this free money than usual.
So between its own special advantages and these general
ones, the Union has had this amazingly good time.
The balance-sheet figures would, nevertheless,
by no means suggest such a spring in profit-earning
power :
Feb., 1906. Feb., 1907.
Notes .. .. £483,431 £539,828 Inc. £56,397
Bills, etc 1,925,227 1,633,688 Dec. 291,639
Deposits .. •.. 18,683,209 19,367,502 Inc. 684,293
Liquid Assets .. 10,780,702 10,485,664 Dec. 295,038
Advances .. 12,351,530 13,240,729 Inc. 889,199
Premises, etc. .. 648,788 623,935 Dec. 24,853
There is nothing there to suggest why profits should be
more than twice as great in one term as in the other.
Still, apart from the favoring conditions mentioned pre-
viously, the figures would suggest somewhat larger profits
—the move in advances, for instance. The total debt to
the public is £21,541,018 ; the bank’s own funds are
£2,704,310. That is, the bank owes £7 19s. for every
£1 of its own. The proportion is larger than is generally
deemed prudent in Australia ; the two big Sydney banks
increased their capital lately in order to maintain a pro-
portion of about one to seven at most. But a bank may
have reserves without showing them ; it may write
down its assets instead of building up its fund. Thus in
the last five years this bank has written off £302,000 of
profits, most or all of which some managements would
have preferred to show as reserves. Another result of
this policy is that earnings on the basis of capital and
reserves are high ; last half-year they were at the rate of
no less than £l7 3s. 9d. per cent, per annum, which will
probably be somewhere near the top of the list of Aus-
tralian bank earnings for the term.
* * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Australia’s
greatest metal producer: —
Ore, Silver, Lead, Gross Divi-
tons. oz. Tons. Profit, dends.
May, 1901.. 296,389 3,009,164 27,869 £102,505 £120,000
Nov., 1901.. 305,628 2,683,946 30,457 56,293 48,000
May, 1902.. 308,878 2,554,169 32,289 68,236 48,000
N0v.,1902.. 334,709 2,798,020 33,522 73,459 48,000
May, 1903.. 289,263 2,419,367 32,029 77,963 48,000
Nov., 1903.. 283,282 2,462,776 30,808 91,999 48,000
May, 1904.. 305,512 2,525,576 34,280 126,874 120,000
N0v.,1904.. 324,535 2,564,342 35,552 158,274 96,000
May, 1905.. 297,827 2,705,929 34,747 170,149 144,000
N0v.,1905.. 309,971 2,896,585 34,479 227,300 144,000
May, 1906.. 229,247 2,202,364 27,865 253,473 192,000
N0v.,1906.. 293,271 2,413,066 29,383 345,622 240,000
May, 1907.. 290,088 2,695,500 29,427 331,125 240,000
Out of that £331,125 of gross profit £22,887 is written off
for depreciation, bringing the net profit down to £308,238.
The reserves total £982,285 ; in addition, there is £60,000
provided to cover a possible backwardation in zinc ; the
co. is paid on prices agreed upon at intervals, and to pro-
tect itself against a slump between production and these
dates of agreement, this reserve was established some
time ago. The surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
was £686,420 at the end of the half-year, an improvement
of £71,738 after paying £240,000 in dividends.
For many years this co. depended wholly upon
its lead and silver; it produced also a little gold
and antimony, but they were immaterial. To these
zinc is now added. The co. does not state the
exact revenue derived from the zinc-bearing pro-
duct (no metallic spelter is produced) ; but no
doubt practically the whole of the item in work-
ing account—" Ore and concentrates, £90,139,” relates to
zinc concentrates. The quantity of these concentrates
produced was 25,353 tons, the product of 116,240 tons of
“tailings.” The average grade for the six months was
41’81 per cent. zinc. Consequently there were 10,600
tons of metallic zinc in the concentrates. Even assuming
that the whole £90,139 was derived from zinc concen-
trates, it would mean that the co. got £8 10s. per ton for
the zinc, while the market moved during the six months
between £24 17s. 6d. and £2B. Put in another way, the
zinc alone in the concentrates was, at £25 per ton, worth
£265,000 ; and the co. only got £90,139 for its concen-
trates, which contained good silver and lead values as
well. These concentrates are shipped to Germany
and Belgium for treatment. And the German and Bel-
gian workman gets the work, and the German and Belgian
smelter gets the profit, that the Australian workman and
smelter would get if the zinc-smelting business were
transferred to Australia. This co. is, however, a cold,
commercial concern, and it sells its stuff to the foreigner
because it can make more money with less risk than if it
put up works of its own. The co. (more than half an
absentee nowadays) is not the only one to be considered,
however. We want the great natural resources of Aus-
tralia to serve as the foundations for an Australian popu-
lation, not for a German or a Belgian population. An
export duty on crude concentrates plus a bonus on
metallic zinc production might make all the difference.
After deducting realisation charges the net
price the co. realised for its lead last half-year was
£lB 6s. sd. The mean of the half-year’s averages for the
past seven years has been £12125. The half-year’s output
of lead was 29,427 tons. The difference between the
half-year’s average, and the average of the past seven
years is, therefore, £5 14s. sd. per ton ; and on the half-
year’s lead output, that means £168,400. Had lead, then,
ruled during the half-year at the average of the past
seven years, the net profit would have come down from
£308,238 to £139,838. With a normal lead market, lower
prices are also practically certain for spelter, and pos-
sibly for silver as well. That would bring the profit still
lower. And it must be remembered that the £l2 12s.
net for lead mentioned above is the average ; the mini-
mum obtained is, of course, much lower. In the second
half of 1902 it was £9 17s. 6d., or £2 14s. 6d. per ton lower,
which would clip off another £BO,lOO. Whether the lead
market is going back to £lO, or £l2, or £l4 nobody
knows ; those who reckon upon present profits being
maintained take the big risk of assuming that it is going
to stay at about 40 per cent, above the average of the
last seven years.
*• * * *
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney),
publisher of the Australian Star, the Protectionist
paper that rarely mentions Protection, and the Sunday
Sun
Expenses . ,
(including Nominal
Gross Depre- Net Re-
June, Earnings, ciation). Profit. Dividends, serves.
1899 £29,064 £28,142 £922 4 p.c. = £l6OO £l5O
1900 26,611 24,648 1963 5 „ „ 2000 113
1901 25,921 23,915 2006 5 ~ „ 2000 119
Loss. Deficit.
1902 21,964 23,383 1419 Nil 1300
1903 21,592 22,975 1383 Nil 2683
1904 21,381 24,053 2672 Nil 5355
1905 23,370 23,933 563 Nil 5918
Profit.
1906 24,405 24,322 83 Nil 5835
Reserves.
Assets written up, £5918 83
1907 28,372 26,956 1416 Nil 1499
That is one way of putting it. The other way is to wipe
off the whole goodwill item, and so present a deficit
of £23,263. Previously the goodwill item—purely a
paper item, of course, represented by nothing that you
can weigh in scales or measure with a pint mug —stood at
£18,844. Then there was a succession of losses, until the
profit and loss debit reached £5918. A few months ago
the amazing idea was struck of transferring this loss to
goodwill account —in other words, treating it as an asset
—and explaining that it fairly represented the goodwill
of the Sunday Sun, established three or four years ago.
That was ingenious ; only it has to be observed that,
though they write up the goodwill of the Sun, because
they say it is profitable, they leave the goodwill of the
Star just where it was, though for years past it has
shown a loss ; and if you want to make a loss you really
needn’t pay anything for the goodwill of a business in
which to make it. The whole thing is finance of the sort
that calls for severe treatment. The true explana-
tion no doubt lies in the fact that shareholders
are now invited to put up more money. The
terms offered are the best proof of the hollowness
of this juggling with the goodwill item ; shareholders are
invited to apply for shares not only carrying 5 per cent,
cumulative preference, but entitled to rank for dividend
equally with ordinary shares after the latter have also
got 5 per cent. Whether the other assets have been
sufficiently written down from time to time it is impos-
sible to say ; it is, however, to be noted that the new
capital is to go into new plant, from which it may
be fairly deduced that the old plant is not suitable for
what are regarded as the present requirements. This
“plant, furniture, stock,” &c., is down at £16,163. Five
years ago the corresponding items represent £19,168, so
that nothing severe in the way of writing down has been
done. Regarding this new issue of shares (£lO,OOO is to
be got in now, £5OOO being held in reserve), it should be
noted that it is not proposed to adopt the usual plan
with regard to new issues. That is to say, shareholders
are not entitled to apply for one new share for every four
old ones. They may apply for as many as they like, but
not less than 50; then, if too many are applied for, there
will be a reduction “in proportion to the number to be
allotted.”
* • • *
The Melbourne Steamship Co.
Dividends on Added Nominal
Capital to Re-
Profits. Actually Paid. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1901..£16,701 12* p.c. =£3,750 £12,951 £80,695
June, 1902.. 16,015 9* „ „ 3,000 13,015 93,710
Dec., 1902.. 15,090 13* „ „ 4,500 10,590 104,300
June, 1903.. 10,501 17* „ „ 6,000 4,501 108,801
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 „ „ 3,000 4,885 113,686
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 „ „ 4,500 8,381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 „ „ 3,750 9,624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ „ 3,750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 „ „ 3,750 5,017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,675 30 „,, 11,250 2,424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 „ „ 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, 1907.. 18,202 30 ~ ~ 11,250 6,952 36,471
That makes 20 per cent, for the year on the capital
actually paid, or 10 per cent, on the capital as it appears
in the books—that is to say, with the £75,000 of capitalised
reserves included as capital. Of the present reserves
£21,000 is a depreciation fund, and £BOOO insurance fund.
These are not the best of reserves; they represent wear and
tear which has actually occurred, and risks which are still
current. In fact, the insurance risk is something very
substantial; the directors mention that “the co. runs its
own marine and fire risks to the extent of £60,000.” It is
to be observed, by the way, that it is quite the proper
thing for cos. like this to do their own insuring ;
yet when the State, which is a much bigger
property-holder, adopts precisely the same policy, it
is “Socialism” and other dreadful and improper things.
Mr. H. R. Reid, also by the way, is chairman of this co. ;
and brother G. H. is billed as standing counsel. Thisco.,
unlikeseveralothershippingcos.,is apparently notstufflng
away any of its profits by paying for new ships, etc., out
of revenue and saying nothing about the transaction ;
all steamships, freehold and leasehold properties, etc.,
are set down at cost to this co. Therefore the reserves
have to carry the whole of the depreciation ; so also the
profits set out above have to carry all the current wear
and tear. The line, “ Steamers, freeholds, etc.,” in the
balance-sheet stands at £175,508. If depreciation is 5 per
cent, all round, it would amount to £8775 a year ; and it
will be seen that the additions to reserves for the past
year have amounted to £12,389. The dividend, though
high, thus appears to allow of ample provision for depre-
ciation ; yet, for the reasons stated above, the additions
to true reserves are much less than the figures would
suggest. *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney)
Net Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £494 10 p.c. =£64B £4,587
June, 1902.. 1031 10 „ „ 648 £383 4,970
Profit on Sale of Forfeited Shares 367 5,337
Dec., 1902.. 272 7*p.c.= 616 4,993
Profit on Sale of Forfeited Shares 247 5,240
June, 1903.. 309 5 „ „ 410 5,139
Dec., 1903.. 643 5 ~ „ 410 233 5,372
June, 1904.. 753 7* „ „ 616 £4675 834
Dec., 1904.. 972 7* „ „ 616 125 1,065
June, 1905.. 932 7*,, „ 616 316 1,381
Dec., 1905.. 958 7* „ „ 616 342 1,723
Premiums on New Shares 3294 5,017
June, 1906.. 1726 10 p.c. = 1419 307 5,324
Premiums on New Shares 5000 10,324
Dec., 1906.. 1046 10 p.c. = 2000 9,370
Premiums on New Shares 262 9,632
June, 1907.. 2022 10 p.c. = 2000 22 9,654
The published profit and loss account is a mere skeleton.
Expenses are lumped together, “ including deprecia-
tion ” ; the amount of depreciation allowed for cannot be
computed. Ship property (£41,868) has been increased
during the half-year by £1869 ; if more than that has
been spent it has, therefore, been spent out of undis-
closed profit, and that amount (whatever it is) has been
written off for depreciation. The list of steamers is the
same at June 30 as it was at Dec. 31, except that the
Drummovne has taken the place of the New Era. But
the directors say that the Lady Carrington has ken
launched, and will be “ on the Lane Cove service early in
October”—presumably it is being imported, and by a
Balmain co., of all cos. in Australia. But how much of
the Lady Carrington was paid for during the half-year
isn’t mentioned. The share premium account has been
increased from £8292 to £8555 during the term. Never-
theless, the share capital remains at £40,000.
Apparently, therefore, the premiums were paid on pre-
viously subscribed capital. It is a curious proceeding.
The liabilities at June 30 were £29,510, against which
were liquid assets £1755, leaving a net liability of £27,755.
But the co. has, since June 30, “ disposed of the upper
portion of the Pearl Bay estate, which will have the effect
of releasing more than half the capital locked up in the
property.” What the amount is isn’t mentioned either ;
this co. has developed a fine capacity for being indefinite.
“Freehold properties,” however, stood at £38,096 on June
30. Because of the co.’s indefiniteness, no opinion can
be formed as to its true position and progress. The only
thing certain about it is that it carries a very heavy lia-
bility, in spite of which it has in the past 12 months
divided £4OOO among its shareholders while disclosing
profits of only £3068 to do it with.
The Brisbane Gas Co.
Dividends and To Be-
Profits. Dividend Tax. B ®*ves. •
Dec., 1902.. £9,658 11* p.c. = £8446 £1242
June, 1903.. 9 054 11 „ „ 8085 969 22,884
Dec., 1903.. 11,762 11* „ „ 8452 3310 26,194
June, 1904.. 31,042 11* „,, 8452 2590 28, /M
Dec., 1904.. 11,634 11* „ „ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1905.. 10,309 11* „ „ 8452 ,1857 fo’jK?
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital aw\
Dec., 1905.. 10,898 10 p.c. = 8400 2498
June, 1906.. 10,768 10 „ „ 8400 2368
Dec., 1906.. 11,227 10 ” „ 8400 2827 21,616
June, 1907.. 11,223 10 „ „ 8400 2823 24,389
But if the dividend is calculated upon the capital actually
paid, exclusive of reserves capitalised, it is sorn ®, ”
over 11* per cent. In addition to the reserves s
above there is “ £sloo—Land : suspense account tor ijivi-
dend Reserve.” This seems to be profit expected t
realised on the completion of a land sale to the Dr is
City Council. Pour years ago £22,000 was owing to
co. on that account; the item has now been reducea
£6OOO. The money thus received has gone into nx
deposits mostly ; the co. has £26,179 thus invested, a P' ®
from £6236 at current account (this was before P a y* K
dividend). Something is written ofl plant, etc., out '
profits; but what it is cannot be ascertained from tne
meagre accounts published. Still it is plain enough that
the co. has lately been doing remarkably well. Here is a
comparison :
June, 1903. June, 1907. Increase.
Liquid assets .. £34,576 £43,788 £9212
Liabilities .. 3,544 3,868 824
Surplus .. £31,032 £39,920 £BBBB
The City Council’s debt is regarded as a liquid asset.
While this improvement in the cash position has been
taking place, £7967 has been added to the fixed invest-
ment (plant, mains, etc.); and, of course, the regular
dividend has been paid. Possibly something considerably
more than £7967 has been added to plant, etc., the bal-
ance being paid for out of revenue; but there is no
evidence as to that one way or the other.
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.): —
Written To Re- Re
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1902 £1462 5 p.c. = £lll7 £465 £2586
Dec., 1902 1524 5„ „ 1117 324 £B3 2669
June, 1903 1525 5 „ „ 1117 407 1 2670
Dec., 1903 1769 6„ „ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904 1831 6„ „ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904 2097 6„ „ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905 2172 6„ „ 1340 275 557 4190
Dec., 1905 2428 6„ „ 1340 269 819 6009
June, 1906 2285 6„ „ 1340 386 559 5568
Dec., 1906 2328 6„ „ 1340 439 549 6117
June, 1907 2183 6„ „ 1340 408 435 6552
The amounts shown as written off are sums spent on re-
pairs and renewals. General depreciation has to be
covered by reserves, except for a sum of £3109, which
was written off some years ago. Therefore, if the plant
and buildings, in their patched and renewed state, are
worth upwards of £3109 less than they were when the co.
bought them, the reserves are not entirely real. If they
are worth £3109 plus £6552 less, then there are no
reserves at all. The plant and buildings cost £48,684;
and as the bulk of the works, apart from the renewals,
are at least 20 years old, the depreciation is certainly
substantial. Pretty evidently a large part of the reserves
is therefore merely provision for the replacement of
partly worn-out capital. These reserves are used in the
business; including current dividend, the liabilities ex-
ceed the liquid assets by £2090. Stocks on hand (£1199)
are not included in that reckoning of liquid assets.
Vale of Clwydd Coal-mining Co. (N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 .. £1899 10 p.c. = £l5OO £389 £1202
June, 1902 .. 1794 10 „ „ 1500 294 1496
Dec., 1902.. 1518 10 „ „ 1500 18 1514
June, 1903 .. 1541 10 „ „ 1500 41 1555
Dec., 1903 .. 1880 10 „ „ 1500 380 1935
June, 1904 .. 1618 10 „ „ 1500 118 2053
Loss.
Dec., 1904 .. 157 5 „ „ 750 1146
Profits.
June, 1905 . . 1606 10 „ „ 1500 106 1252
Dec., 1905 .. 2269 10 „ „ 1500 769 2021
June, 1906.. 1720 10 „ „ 1500 220 2241
Dec., 1906 .. 2688 10 „ „ 1500 1188 3429
June, 1907.. 1835 10 „ „ 1500 335 3764
Evidently something is written off freehold and leasehold
land, unless there have been sales recently. Six months
ago the item stood at £14,687; now it is down to £14,000.
The surplus of liquid assets six months ago, after pro-
viding for dividend, was £12,532; it is now £14,024,
an increase of £1492. Meantime, however, plant and
machinery have gone up from £6OOO to £7OOO. Presum-
ing that £lOOO, no more and no less, was put into
machinery, then apparently the profit for the six months
was £2492less depreciation, which would mean that £657
—the difference between £2492 and £1835, the net profit
—has been provided out of revenue to cover wear and
tear. In addition a few pounds—£2B—have been made
arid added to other assets not liquid. As to this pro-
vision for depreciation, it has to be remembered that a
coal-mine is a wasting security, so that it calls for
a large provision of this sort. Something may also
have been written off for wear and tear of machinery ; in
other words, something more than £lOOO may have been
spent on new plant; but that cannot be traced. For
two years past the aggregate results are briefly these :
A 10 per cent, dividend has been paid, £lOOO (probably
more) has been added to plant, and £3105 has been added
to the liquid surplus.
* * * •
Victorian Butter Factories Co-operative
Co., Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
Dividend Bonus to Written De-
Aug., Profits. (10 p.c.) Clients. Off. ficit.
1900 £163
April, Reserves.
1901 .. £914 £149 602
1902 .. 1603 164 £lOO6 1035
1903 .. 2513 191 1612 1745
1904 .. 3072 201 2593 £2O 2003
1905 .. 2882 205 2483 20 2177
1006 .. 4278 212 1947 571 3725
(5 p.c.)
1907 .. 3006 133 2372 748 3478
Originally this co. was formed for the simple purpose of
co-operative marketing. Later on, however, other en-
terprises to help the co-operating factories were
organised; and the capital, which might have been
sufficient for the original purpose, became much
too small for the secondary purposes. The two
big enterprises the co. organised were butter-box making
and freezing. Twelve months ago the directors proposed
to set aside £lOOO as a property reserve. Subsequently
this was turned into the Butter Box Bonus Fund—appar-
ently a fund out of which to pay for bonus shares to
shareholding factories “paying the higher rate for butter
boxes during the season.” It isn’t very clear what it all
means ; it looks a new way of getting in more capital—
the customer pays for the shares by paying an extra price
for his boxes. That being so, the alleged profits, arising
out of this extra price for boxes, are really not profits at
all; and the figures above have to be viewed accord-
ingly. The same practice, it is announced, is to be
followed this year. The co.’s paid capital is only
£2660 ; add reserves, £347B—total funds, £6138. Against
that there are assets totalling £46,011; so the
liabilities are very heavy—over six times the
weight of the shareholders’ own funds. Moreover,
most of the assets are liable to heavy depreciation-
freezing works, stock at freezing works, and sundry
debtors (£19,491). Under these circumstances it isn’t at
all pleasant to find an actual reduction in the reserves.
The dividend certainly has been reduced; the bonus to
consignors (£1879) ought to have been reduced also. The
co. rushed into expenditure far beyond what its capital
justified. Unfortunately, that expenditure lest year
turned out badly ; on a capital outlay (borrowed or owed)
of over £19,000, the factory and freezing works’ trade
account showed only £6O profit, and depreciation isn’t
provided for in that account. The future must be causing
the directors a deal of anxiety.
* * * *
G. P. Doolette at the recent Great Boulder
meeting: “In a little over 12 years our mine has pro-
duced over £5,250,000 in gold, and has paid its share-
holders over £2,500,000 in dividends; and I cannot for
the life of me see why, during the next 12 years, it should
not maintain that rate of production and percentage of
profit.” Also: “ During the year we have treated
149,940 tons of ore, in addition to 28,597 tons of tailings,
for £554,797, as against 132,052 tons of ore and 31,942
tons of tailings for £545,087 in the previous year; and,


"t,'
our
So that it
Will he
Carried
Out
a*.
-V'
A.
pi
i
''■-:::'Sii'Si
g&J
Appoint
■ •'T-sjur r
Tiff.
(IIMITEB)
-
SPRING ST..SWIE
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report re wool:
A very firm market ruled at the auction sales held last
week, competition being keen for all good greasy and
scoured parcels at prices slightly in advance of last
month’s rates. Many buyers have now returned from
Europe, and next month the full buying strength should
be in evidence, when offerings will assume much larger
proportions. A better demand also exists for locally-
fellmongered'scoureds. During the last few days we have
been instrumental in placing several lines at highly satis-
factory prices.
notwithstanding, we have added to our reserves nearly
100,000 tons. So the ore developed during the year has
been in round figures 250,000 tons.”
* » * *
Some Westralian results for July :
Value
per
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit. ton.
s. d.
Great Boulder .. 13,594 £46,605 £24,217 68 7
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,539 53,596 23,150 43 8
Great Fingall .. 22,476 30,159 14,126 31 3
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,223 30,005 16,701 53 6
Perseverance .. 16,931 29,225 9,711 34 6
Bom of Gwalia .. 13,345 18,977 4,794 28 5
Ivanhoe I. 19,031 44,621 21,011 46 10
Lake View Consols .. 11,358 13,679 1,502 24 2
Associated .. .. 10,020 19,109 4,134 38 1
Kalmirli . .. 9,4i5 26,832 14,1<6 57 0
Golden Ridge .. 1,274 2,895 1,147 45 5
Associated Northern 3,730 14,200 9,859 76 2
Ingliston Extended.. 1,300 2,200 67 33 10
South Kalgurli .. 7,610 9,624 6 25 3
Northern (East Mur-
ehison United) .. 9,275 7,006 10 15 1
Cumberland .. .. 791 2,840 711 71 9
Golden Pole .. .. 1510 3,455 607 45 9
Losses for the month included North White Feather,
£257 ; Vivien, £2OO ; and Red Hdl VVestralia, £44. Bullion
valued at £10,379 was won from the Lancefield ; but as
costs are still kept secret, it is impossible to say what the
net result was. It may, however, be accepted as certain
that the accounts now show a profit ; also it is alleged
that graphite is not seriously interfering with the ex-
traction, as it was said to be. 8., M. & Co. confirm this.
The month’s Westralian results present two
features worth noting. The first is the profitable work-
ing, by the Northern (East Murchison United), of ore
giving a return of only 15/1 per ton. As the mines
owned by this concern are 100 miles from the nearest
railway, and over 600 miles from P. rth, the management
is entitled to blow its little trumpet, provided nothing
has been kept back. The other feature is the sudden
drop of £2OOO in the profit earned by the Perseverance.
Some weeks back it was said here that this stock would
shortly get a shock. It has got it.
* * m *
By guaranteeing the reconstruction of the
Boulder Deep Levels, the Hannan’s Star Co. (W.A.) has
rendered itself liable to be plugged with something under
£lO,OOO worth of shares in the new concern. If the
arrangement for jointly working the two mines leads to
an amalgamation, the cash capital of the combined cos.
will total about £40,000 ; but as the cost of a new plant
has been set down at £28,000, only £12,000 or there-
abouts will be left for working expenses. It seems hard
to believe that the Star directors mean business with
their own and the Boulder Deep leases. Anyway, the
fact that they are still harping on the necessity for
acquiring an entirely new property looks suspicious. At
the shareholders’ meeting in London, recently, one of the
board members (Oordner James) expressed surprise that
fully-paid Star shares were only worth Is. in the market,
whereas the co.’s cash was equal to 2s. 4d. per share, and
other items brought the value of the assets up to ss. But
ss. is only worth ss. to you when you can get it. A
shareholder who had' purchased at £2, realising that fact,
suggested that the co. be wound up while there was ss.
to wind up for; but the chairman said sharply that
liquidation was no part of the business of the meeting.
There is a chance of shareholders recovering something ;
but, in view of the way in which the cash resources of
the co. have melted away, it isn’t a brilliant chance.
» * * *
On March 31, South Kalgurli (W.A.) had
105,885 tons in reserve of an approximate gross value of
£163,000. Allowing 225. 6d. per ton for working ex-
penses, this leaves a profit in sight of about 4s. 3d.
per share. During the half-year which ended on the
date mentioned, the mill gained on the mine to the
extent of about 7000 tons.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans (W.A.) is to be resur-
rected by a prospecting syndicate, with a capital of
£lO,OOO. Shareholders in the present co. are to have the
first invitation to find the money ; if they don’t fork out,
the directors have someone on hand who will. The new
syndicate undertakes to pay outstanding accounts (£7500),
and for doing this it gets a working option, or free
tribute ; also, the right to buy the property at any time
prior to 31st December, 1908. In the event of this
right being exercised, shareholders in the existing co. are
to receive in fully-paid shares 25 per cent, of the capital
of any new co. that may be formed.
■*•**•#
Red Hill Westralia shares are receiving some
attention in the West. The co. owns 96 acres about half-
way between Ooolgardie and Norseman, and, if official
reports can be relied on, this area has the makings of a
mine. One shoot, 550 ft. in length, 30in. in width, and
worth about 12dwt. per ton, has been blocked out to a
depth of 100 ft., and some shaft-sinking done below this
point indicates that values go down. This is the best
asset the property has so far; but there are others,
including a deposit of scheelite. All the profit that at
present comes from ore treatment is being spent in de-
velopment, and the management is sorry there isn’t more
available for the same purpose. Ore reserves total about
6000 tons, which should yield a net profit of about £1 per
ton. If, however, the work now in progress proves values
to last, the profit in sight will jump very quickly. Mean,
time shares at 3s. 3d. are a gamble.
* * * *
Another attempt is being made to put hope into
the shareholders in Queensland Menzies(W.A-). This time
there is a yarn about improved prospects and the early
payment of handsome profits. To keep the pot boiling,
though, shareholders must shell out more money, they
are told. Unfortunately there is no reason to think that
the mine will ever be anything else but the “ rotter ” jt
has proved so far.
* * * •
Hidden Secret (W.A.) is now being prospected
at 400 ft. Outside the small vein of telluride, from which
all the rich smelting returns have been got, there is very
little to blow about. For a long time the local papers
led the public to believe that another Brown Hill shoot
had been discovered, but the result of 8., M. and Co.’s
sampling proved otherwise, and the fact that a five-head
mill has been considered sufficient for present require-
ments shows that the owners agree with them.
* * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) half-yearly report esti-
mates ore reserves above the 300 ft. level at 7500 tons,
valued at £37,500. Allowing for losses in residues, cost
of production, and outstanding liabilities, the co. should
derive from the treatment of this ore about £25,000, equal
to a shade under 40 per cent, of the mine’s present
market valuation. Other reserves are mentioned, but
the management very properly declines to take them into
account until further work has been done. The report
states that the mine will “ reimburse all expenditure
many times over.” It is hoped that this prediction will
prove correct, as the shoot passes into the Sons of Gwalia
lease at a depth of 600 ft. or so from the surface, and then
Gwalia South shares will be unsaleable, unless a new mine
is acquired before then.
• * • *
The North Broken Hill treated 53,433 tons ore
during’ the six months, and the metal contents of the
concentrates were 6532 tons lead and 178,017 oz. silver ;
the zinc, not being paid for, may be discarded. The net
profit (£37,942) was thus at the rate of £5 16s. per ton of
lead contained in the concentrates. The average price
of lead during the half-year was £l9 17s. Id. That means
that expenses and depreciation absorbed all the silver
and £l4 Is. Id. per ton of the value of the lead. The
mine that can’t produce at a lower price than that is
liable to have a bad time. Certainly, when times are
bad, a co. like this can reduce the amount it writes off ;
in fact, it is writing off heavily now so that it won’t have
to do so much in that way later on. Take the profit,
then, at £so,ooo—that is to say, write off only £4167,
which is much less than was actually spent on mining
work charged to capital account. Then, on that basis,
the profit was £7 13s. per ton of lead ; which would mean
that all the silver and £l2 4s. of the value of the lead
went in expenses. According to the Broken Hill Propri-
etary’s statistics, in 18 years out of the 22 of its life lead
has fallen to £l2 ss. per ton or lower (in 14 years it has
fallen lower) ; and there isn’t much comfort to be got out
of those figures. Like the others, the North is
making fine profits; but it is wild speculation
to assume that those profits, or anything like
them, will be maintained. It may, no doubt,
cut expenses a trifle when adverse conditions arrive ;
also there is a possibility of some profit coming
from zinc. But these are no set-off to the practical
certainty of a heavy fall in lead sooner or later. Fortu-
nately, the market has realised that to some extent. Six
months ago this co.’s shares were up at about £4. In
November last year they were actually up to £5. The
present value is about £3 ss. There has been at least
some awakening.
• # » *
Block 14, Broken Hill, should be able to put a
pretty cheerful face on matters at the end of its current
half-year. Nothing short of a calamity can now stop it
getting out a total of 10,000 tons of carbonates for the six
months ; and that lot should be worth £40,000 to the co.
A peculiar feature of this carbonate extraction is that
the ore in sight at the end of the last half-year was set
down at 5000 tons. The next estimate of the carbonate
reserves will probably be nearer 20,000 tons. This is
owing to the way in which the 100 ft. and 200 ft. levels
have been opened up during the past five months. The
mine was a woeful derelict when operations was restarted,
a few years ago, after being badly pig-rooted in the early
days. But, apart from the fact that it is hopeless to
expect this valuable carbonate ore to go down much
below 200 ft., the co. doesn’t find it so easy to get
up a smile when it turns the light on the other end of
the mine, where there are only sulphides. In spite of
much diamond drilling round the end of the 600 ft south
drive, the situation hasn’t in the least improved. The
lode may have split in coming down from the 500 ft level,
in which case the continuation of the body may yet be
found to the southward, riding over the huge mullock
intrusion ; but at present, if it exists at all, it can’t be
found.
• * «
The building which was put up on the Block 10
lease, Broken Hill, to conceal from scornful eyes what
was known as the Gillies plant, has for weeks past
looked like ruin and desolation. Now things are
becoming more ship-shape again. Some of the de-
parted Gillies glory is lying about among the chaos
of tailings, slimes, etc., while those pans that still orna-
ment the inside of the building will probably be utilised
in an oil-acid process which is to be installed. The
Cattermole process is turning out a zinc concentrate
assaying from 43 to 45 per cent., with about 12 per cent,
of lead. The lead will be taken out by putting the con-
centrates over tables. A feature of the oil-acid process
is that it seizes on the slimes and deposits them, so that
they can’t give trouble by getting mixed up with the
product during the process of flotation. *
There are now practically only two zinc-concen-
trating processes that command disinterested friendship
at Broken Hill. One is the Elmore ; the other the De
Bavay. The former is an oil-acid process, helped by a
vacuum, as described some time ago; the other is a
water-flotation process. The Elmore process, which
belongs to a mostly-English co., has been doing experi-
mental work for months past at the old Australian Metal
Oo.’s works ; and the most practical result up to now is
that the Zinc Corporation has resolved to put in 15
machines. Meantime the Zinc Corporation has shutdown
all its other plant. The test was a very thorough one,
made on stuff from all the dumps that the Corporation
has bought or bonded. It is alleged that the tailings fre-
quently showed only 2 per cent, zinc after the machine
had done with them. On the other hand, the Elmore
machines, running at the Pinnacles, are not giving satis-
factory results ; but this may be due to defective crush-
ing or feeding. » , *
The Cobar Gold Mines directors are at last
going to do something ; this mail brings shareholders a
circular from London, and the document states that
“your directors have, after careful consideration, entered
into an agreement with the Australasian Ore Concentra-
tion Syndicate, Ltd., for the use of its oil process at the
co.’s mine in conjunction with the present plant.” A
three-unit plant (120 tons a day) will go in for a start.
This is the Elmore process ; and that sounds hopeful, for
the Elmore people are pretty careful that their machines
go only to mines where they can show favorable results.
Years ago there was an Elmore oil process—much the
same as the present one—but it had the bad luck to be
tried where it didn’t suit; and the consequent failures
made the present co. careful. Using the Elmore process,
the powerful battery now on the mine will come in handy
for the necessary fine crushing. The co. has still plenty
of funds in hand.
$ ♦ # #
The Harden (N.S.W.) gold mine under the
present co.:—
Written Ke-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1905.. £468 Nil £468
June, 1906.. 4,589 Nil £327 4730
Dec., 1906.. 6,028 £2500 545 7713
June, 1907.. 10,263 7500 562 9914
The capital is £50,000 in £1 shares ; so to the end of June
4s. had been returned to shareholders, and there was
then a surplus of £2456 of liquid assets, apart from stores.
As to the profits shown above, however, it has to be
added that £2688 spent on mining (development) has been
charged to capital account, and now remains to be pro-
vided for out of future profits. The ore mined and milled
last half-year totalled 5795 tons, worth £3 15s. lid. per
ton; the reserves at June 30 were 9909 tons, worth
£4 14s. 2d. per ton. On that basis the reserves ought
to be worth something over £17,500 in profit to the
co. ; and there are, in addition, the liquid assets, the
slimes (2610 tons, worth £1 6s. sd. per ton), and the low-
grade ore in the east end of the mine—the latter barely
payable. The No. 3 (bottom) level has been disappoint-
ing—disappointing, anyway, to those who did not keep
steadily in mind that Harden reefs are notoriously un-
reliable. The reef going underfoot at No. 3is very poor
and small; yet apparently the co.’s one hope after, say,
12 months from now is to develop something under No., 3,
and the prospects are not rosy. As to. that the manage-
ment is just as frank as it has been all through.
* * * m
‘ * Follower ” : Lloyd’s has had to completely
close down for want of fuel. With copper at £lOO, Cor-
bould tried to work drays at the “starvation rate" of
7s. per ton. Only Burraga drays stuck to it. Now that
copper is under £BO, and he knows it is impossible to get
wood in, he throws Bs. per ton at them- He should have put
in a good supply during summer months at Bs., a reason-
able rate compared with that paid by other mines. The
recent “ fault ” in the mine was only what might have
been expected, and should not account for the slump in
shares. Copper at £BO leaves a fair profit on cost of pro-
duction. The Sydney market followed the London lead,
where no doubt the financial position is known. The last
Is. div. cut things too close.
* * * *
Walhalla (Vic.) has always had two mines, and
it is now only a memory of the past that it had also two
colossal duffers. The mines are the Long Tunnel and the
Long Tunnel Extended ; the failures, the South and the
North. To make things even, the Long Tunnel took the
South and the Extended took the North. Long Tunnel,
knowing how hard it is to struggle with a bad mine, is
content to let the South alone ; but the Extended is
seized with a grand ambition. It wants to re-create the
North into a mine, little recking that it may be bringing
into life a Frankenstein. Had ex-chairman Mason been
still alive, he would never have sanctioned testing the
eo.’s luck in the North. Over £120,000 was sunk there
hy him and his associates. They tried the ground right
on the Extended boundary down to 1000 ft. ; they
then amalgamated with the Consols co., and went about
2000 ft. north, to the shaft there, and crosscut Cohen’s
reef at 1900 ft. and 1700 ft., and found nothing. After
that, they drove south to the Long Tunnel
boundary, and got nothing worth putting into a
nut-cracker. Then they went away south on the
1900 ft. level, and sank 600 ft., making a total depth
of 2500 ft. They got the reef, but no gold. Shares, which
were up to 305., smashed down ; and, although the co.
had another try at the stone on the Extended boundary,
putting up a 10-head battery for the purpose, the fiasco
was only made the worse. Peter Finiayson’s luck may
help him again, but it is drawing rather heavily on that
commodity to hope that such an arrant mining rogue as
the North Long Tunnel mine is going to change its
character. More than that, there is not the least bit of
evidence to show which way the shoot of stone in the
Extended and Long Tunnel is pitching. Not long since
it was south. It is dangerous work prophesying; still
there isn’t much risk in saying that it will take all the
Long Tunnel Extended’s reserve, and a big bit more, to.
get fairly going in the North.
* * * *
One of the mining mysteries of S’melbourne.
is the Maude and Homeward Bound, up Glen Wills way,,
of which one Livingston is chairman of directors. Said
Maude has turned out £BO,OOO worth of gold and paid
£lO,OOO in dividends on £3OOO application and call money.
Results like this should have stimulated a little enter-
prise. But for years past tributors have done all the
work and got most of the gold, their receipts amounting
to £16,000, as compared with percentages aggregating
£ll2O. The country is certainly hard and the shoots
short; but the tributors have made the show pay, and
the co. has done nothing. Therefore it would only be
even-handed justice if the Mines Department took the oil
from the sleepy Virgins and handed it over to the others.
This may be easier to write than to do, though ; for A. J.
Peacock is legal manager.
* * # *
Few mining “stringers” can compare with
Great Southern Consols, Rutherglen (Vic.). It has had
good management, good backers, and good office work.
Yet, look at the figures :—Gold, £228,913 ; calls, £41,500;
total receipts, £270,000; divs., £16,000! The rest, ex-
penditure. This from a show that has been going for 12
years at least. Narrowness of the runs of gold in
a big lead was the trouble, until that was
capped by the far greater .one of the gutter
trending into the Great Southern claim. This means a
long crosscut pretty well at right angles to the old level,
to pick up the lead where it is supposed to re-enter the
Consols claim. How' the geld runs in the lead is worth
stating. At the north end of the mine about 200 ft. a.one
carries the yellow metal. At the east end of No. 2 shoot
the payable wash is 150 ft. wide ; and in No. 26 rise it is
100 ft. wide. The result is that last half-year the yield
fell to an average of just about lldwt. It speaks volumes
that, with all the dead w'ork necessary, the co. really
made a little on the half-year. To do this at Rutherglen
with the heavy ground and long drives is excellent. The
co.’s hope is that the iead will make for about a mile in
its claim when it re-enters it from the Great Southern ;
also (and all important), that the runs of gold will widen.
* * * *
Welsh and Slater’s, Rocky Lead (Vic.), which
Alec. Peacock and Buchanan, of Ballarat, promoted, is
not being allowed to die out of memory as quickly as the
yields faded away. Stories are afloat that the prospec-
tors’ returns were from picked ore. Well, who expected
otherwise? Only greenhorns, surely. Prospectors have
to pay for carting and crushing, and are not such fools as
to send mullock to the mill. The host of little floats
around the Rocky Lead are being allowed to collapse
quietly for the most part. Money is being returned in
some cases. But the Welsh and Slater crowd seems to
have had a fine capacity for swiftly passing on the baby
for someone else to nurse, and the poor little refunds are
not anything like the sums the present shareholders paid.
* * * *
“The sink has gone down dry in favorable
country.” This is a little pearl from the store-house of
literature about the Nuggety Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.).
The Nuggety is a mine that has put up a 10-head battery
and provided a high-pressure boiler and other luxuries to
operate on a shoot of stone as to which very little has
been said, save the usual vague things about “good
gold.” The probabilities, however, are that like all the
Daylesford mines, it won’t take long to work down into
a low-grade show. Then, though the sink has “gone
down dry,” someone will be in the wet.
• * * *
Jubilee, of Scarsdale (Vic.), has just finished its
seventh year of production under the present co. Into
this co. £36,000 was put, in pound shares ; total divs. to
date are £107,100, so that only another sixpence per
share is needed to make up the divs. to £3. Costs have
been got down to 16s. 6d. per ton—mining, 12s. 5 - 6 d.;
milling, Is. 10'3d. ; cyaniding, 2s. 2'ld. The mine is
worked according to the modern idea, which Bendigo
finds it so hard to lay hold of, that nothing is to be gained
by dawdling—that gold left lying in the mine isn’t earn-
ing interest for anybody. So another 10-head of stamps
are being got i n. Stone last half-year averaged an extrac-
tion of 7dvvt. 15-2 gr. (£1 11s. o£d.) per ton ; so there was
14s. 64d. per ton to -pay the moderate management ex-
penses and provide divs. The profit worked out at
£11,472.
* * * •
Re some Mount Lyell calculations (B. 22/8/’07):
It was stated that already “ there is a shrinkage in in-
come of £234,000 on the basis of last half-year’s output.”
It should, perhaps, be made clear that that shrinkage
is for a year, not a half-year. Also, there is still con-
siderable difference between present quotations for
“ Chili bars ” and “ best selected’’—the co. markets the
latter, so the difference is in its favor.
* * * *
There isn’t anything of the whip-poor-Will
business about the management of the Austral Valley
silver-lead mine, Zeehan (Tas.). Alex. Campbell,of Broken
Hill Block 10 fame, is the chairman, and he writes the
Board report with the same light heart that he would
toss the caber or swim ashore from an upturned boat.
“ Although the results so far have not come up to ex-
pectations, there is no need to lose hope, as all the mines
have had their hard times, and some have lived through
their troubles and come out on top in the end without
apparently any better chances than we have.” What
Mark Tapleyism in a few words ! Even manager Vandeau
is infected in the same way ; “ I am still hopeful, and
fully believe that, if we are able to keep punching, we
will come out on top.” None of your Bill Squires’ “ I
want to go home ” about this. Also : “ There are several
things on your property that are well worth a trial, and
I am hoping to obtain (at least) sufficient capital from
ore in sight to give them a chance.” The bracketed “at
least” must have inspired Campbell to write that he
trusted shareholders would not be again called on to con-
tribute. It sets one thinking. If he and his manager can
be so cheery over three-inch seams of ore, what bouncing
hilarity they would show over six inches and a div. 1
" * « * *
The recent development at the Daisy, at Duck
Creek, Cloncurry (Q-), is very encouraging. Here a 4ft.
lode, which down to 60ft. was nearly all quartz, has at
83ft. made into almost solid sulphides worth 26 per cent.
At the Exploration Co.’s Great Australian mine, rich grey
ore has been struck at 200 ft., and also heavy bottom
water, necessitating a pump, which is now being fixed.
At the Hampden Consols 2ft. 6in. of good sulphide has
been struck, and in the Hampden it is reported there is
a favorable change. Mt. Elliott is looking well, a fresh
ore body having made at 185 ft. level; and on the whole
the prospects of the field are very much better than they
were a while ago. Should the experience of the Daisy be
repeated at other quartz-capped lodes, the field will be a
big one ; and it will be interesting to watch the progress
of the diamond drill on the Argylla, Chinaman, and other
big lodes of this description. * #
Charters Towers’ July gold yield got down to
11,6840 z. fine, as against 18,4840 z. in July, 1906—and
even that was a bad slump. The Towers is one of the
few places that feel good over the nasty bumps in the
copper and tin markets. “ Now,” it says in effect,
“ perhaps we’ll have a chance to get in some money to
explore our deep and untried ground.”
* * * *
Last month Vulcan tin (N.Q.) crushed 487 tons
for 24 tons of concentrates, worth £1764. That isn’t
enough to feed 264,000 shares. The area is only 39 acres;
if the management had been as handy, at pegging more
ground, or buying it, as it was at increasing the shares,
the rich shoot now being worked in the Tornado, close
by, would have belonged to the Vulcan. Diamond-drilling
has discovered nothing of much consequence. The. shaft
is to be sunk deeper, and it is quite possible that the pipe
of ore may prove payable if tin maintains a high price. If
the good ore is plentiful in the lowest level (as was alleged
some time since, when shares were worth double their
present price), it is strange that there are so few men
sloping. It looks as though there were no room for more.
* * * *
Gilmore’s (31 acres, 90,000 shares), situated a
mile or two off the Mount Garnet Railway (N.Q.), has got
a quantity of ore waiting for trucks. The crushing
should follow close on the heels of the dividend. The
show is well spoken of, but one has only to look at these
short patchy tin shoots and divide by 90,000 to under-
stand what a gamble lode tin shares are.
* * * *
Kempsey : Wait a week or so; the Auditor-
General’s report will be out then Nomad: fi) Wal-
laroo and Moonta ; (2) in the long run, people who buy
at that price will probably get their money back ; but
the market isn’t likely to stay up where it is S.F.G.:
Liability of 38s.
• * * »
The copper boom has turned attention to the
Macarthur district (Northern Territory). Two experts,
representing Melbourne capital, visited that district
lately to inspect a show found by Wilson and Lusk. No
business eventuated. The lode was too small. That is
the trouble all through—the stuff is rich, but there isn’t
much of it.
• * *. •
One of the gold-dealing gentry, more daring
than others, lately advertised in a Ballarat paper—“ Gold
bought; no questions asked.” The police gave him a
hint that led to the withdrawal of that frank invitation.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Broken Hill, seems
to have paid too much for the Block 10 slimes. The
granulation plant erected near the old Extended shaft
to treat this stuff is not yet doing payable work, and
the difficulty of getting the zinc out of the concentrate
is one that won’t be easily overcome. When the Central
mine hadn’t to pay anything for its tailings, and could pick
and choose, the granulation process showed a nice profit;
but with slimes at 10s. a ton to treat, the horse’s com-
plexion is different.
* • « «-
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
lor the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lainpriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
• * • *
One set of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, is at present being constructed for the Berry United
Gold Mines, to the order of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and
Company'. The set will consist of 3 lifts, each of 200 ft.,
the total lift being 600 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in
diameter and 10ft. stroke, and the discharge 2,500,000
gallons per day. The valve boxes are made in sepa»ate
pieces, instead of forming part of one H piece, and the
valves are of the compound flip type. The total weight
is 110 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
this work in hand. This Company has constructed and
erected most of the big volume, deep alluvial plants now
working in Victoria.
• • • •
The Journal of Commerce (Liverpool) in its
issue of 4th September, 1906, wrote regarding The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ In
these days of severe competition, when some of the best
known offices find the fight for new business so hard as to
justify them in seeking absorption, it is refreshing to
come across an institution which manages each year to
add to its productiveness.”*
* * * »
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marr . Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * * i
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbjsrbkro and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• • • *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the'-e was not £lO of
extras.”*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
« * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 37).


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents.
David vStorer (Q. iSons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
<& BLUE.
&
Kept by . . .
ALL MERCHANTS
(£b STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
gfkfg
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
The Royalists.
The Royal Art Society of N.S.W. has evidently
put no tariff upon the “rotter”—or possibly
some of the exhibits that disgrace its walls came
in disguised as wire-netting. Some of them look
remarkably like wire-netting. It is a pity that
the hanging committee was not more kindly
cruel to the immature student-work with which
the good work is diluted. A smaller show would
have been a better show. For, while lacking the
youthful audacity and virility of the Secessionists,
the Royalists have on view much praiseworthy
and excellent work. Among the many portraits
the picture of a lady by Norman Carter makes
the biggest bid for success, and fails. In this
Whistler effect of a lone lady in a big, bare room
Carter has failed in the management of his planes;
some of the accessories of the background are
nearer to the spectator than the lone lady. The
face is insufficiently modelled and too smoothly
finished, but the hands and costume are more
broadly treated. Carter, who has done better
portraits, and with more experience will do better
still, is on the whole to be congratulated upon a
“big” work conscientiously handled. Florence
Rodway shows two head studies, noteworthy for
their broad treatment and crude strength. They
are chopped out with a meat-axe, but the meat-
axe is wielded with strength and verve. Miss
Rodway has possibilities that work will bring to
fruition. She begins with strength ; the more-
assured technique will come. Helen A. Peters
has a quite convincing impressionistic portrait
study of an old woman that is worth much more
ambitious stuff. That the artist has her limits is
evident from her “Day Dreams,” in which the flesh
tones of the girl are bad and the dress in-
effectually handled, butin herother studysheknows
these limits and triumphantly keeps within them.
Her old lady is an achievement. J. S. Watkins
has done a big thing in a small way in his “ For-
tune Teller.” The finicky handling of drapery
and flesh is as annoying as the lack of expression
on the model’s face. The same painter’s portrait
of Dr. Maitland is an exquisite portrait of Dr.
Maitland’s creased trousers, and Dr. Maitland’s
boots. In another canvas, Watkins asks whether
his model is “brune, blonde, ou rousse?” Some-
how, we don’t mind much, and evidently the
artist doesn’t know. Henry J. Crisp has
attempted a transcript of a well-known Philip
Fox picture. We prefer the Philip Fox. L.
Alma-Tadema would be surprised if he saw L.
Bernard Hall’s “Sleep.” All we can say to it is
“ What Ho !” What L. Alma-Tadema would say
we can only remotely imagine. These modern
Milos are clothed in what looks like silk, and is
meant for flesh. It seems a pity the artist didn’t
make his picture all tessellated floor. It is a real
tessellated floor. You could strike matches on it.
Harry Garlick has several studies of horses, dis-
tinguished for keen observation and capable
drawing. But he still has his tendency to give
his animals coats of shot-silk.
Lister Lister sends some vast acreages of faith-
ful nature-transcripts. He paints Australia with
a “slickness” of technique and a lack of inspira-
tion that arrest attention, but cannot keep it.
Attention gets out on bail or something. His big
picture of the bush has a truth almost stereo-
scopic; the incautious spectator should beware of
approaching the work too closely, or he will bump
into the big gum in the foreground. The com-
position is rigid, and the mass of dead limbs in the
foreground purposeless and confusing. This sec-
tion of the bush is merely the bare, brazen truth.
Lister’s seascape is infinitely a finer thing, charm-
ing in color, the water excellently handled.
But the rocks in the foreground look as if
cut out of paper. His “Bend of the River”
is somewhat characterless. Hans Heysen has
a view of what are evidently fierce india-
rubber gum-trees in an indefinable light.
Some of Will Ashton’s little low-toned landscapes
are pleasant, satisfying things ; his Parisian Bou-
levard is a good example of the modern French
landscape school; but his metier is not the large
canvas. His “ Peaceful Eve ” wants a little more
painting in it for the size and the money. It sus-
piciously resembles, too, an Arnasby Brown. But
his work, as a whole, is on a high artistic level.
The curious may look with pleasure at Kong
Sing’s quaint color-notes. A. L. W. Burgess
shows a navy scene that is quite as well painted
as the usual illustrations of this nature in the
London Graphic. “Moored,” by Chas. D. J.
Bryant, is conscientious work. J. A. Bennett’s
big picture, “When the Heart is Young,”
attempts much and achieves little, and his water-
color portrait shows an uncomfortable lady evi-
dently distressed at the poor progress of her
picture. Among the black-and-white, Hugh
McCrae’s two imaginative studies, and one of
Florence Rodway’s crayon portraits, are beyond
criticism.
In the water-color gallery B. E. Minns shows
some attractive work. “The Lilac Gown,” “Sand
Dunes,” and “A Dutch Shepherd” show his
charm of composition and sense of color at their
best. B. E. Minns, unlike many of the less-
skilled exhibitors, mixes no mud with his paints.
A. Henry Full wood also shows some good work.
His “Valley of the Medway’’and his “Peter-
borough Cathedral” are solidly and finely painted,
while in his artistic monotypes he gets some
remarkably pleasing effects. Gerald FitzGerald
has much interesting landscape work, of which
“ Twilight Moon ” is a fine example. It is
marred, however, by a distressingly mottled
sky. John W. Tristram’s delicate vision
of beauty is apparent in a number of
poetically treated landscapes, characterised by
much charm of color, which does not conceal his
occasional weakness of handling. His “Sky
all Silver-shine” is spoiled by the harsh treat-
ment of the clouds. But his work on the
whole is more than merely pretty. J.
Muir Auld's pavement study is too photo-
graphic. Albert J. Hansen and Hans Heysen
have some excellent landscapes; while two
masterfully handled sketches by D. G. Commons
are the real thing. Henri Tebbitt has a Tebbitt
that 1 jks just like a Tebbitt. Beatrice Edwell
shows some mediocre miniatures, and the Misses
H mbidge show some larger work that is painted
w'th a painful smoothness in miniature style.
We regret that we cannot recall the nature of
any of the four pictures that the trustees of the
National Art Gallery have purchased. Doubtless
these pictures are somewhere to be found on the
walls.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A BACK-DOWN.
HIGHLY INDIGNANT PARENT : “ How dare you come home at this time of the night , and in
such a condition?”
ERRING OFFSPRING: “'Sail right. I’ve just brought home your gingham that you left in
Johnson’s private bar.”
PARENT (hurriedly): “S’hush I Come in quietly, my dear boy, or you’ll wake your mother."
There are stories circulating in Sydney to
the effect that a new disease has broken out among
the rabbits in the west of N.S.W., and it is not
only said that they are dying in thousands, but
that cattle and sheep are also being killed off by
the nice fresh complaint. The local squatters, it
is alleged, know little or nothing about the
nature of the disease, which sprang up very sud-
denly and very mysteriously. A Sydney paper
hints that Dr. Danysz’s serum may not have
been such a failure after all. If the new disease
has been spread by some means from Broughton
Island —and if the virus can attack cattle and
sheep, it is quite possible that it can also fasten on
birds and be carried about by them—then another
colossal infamy has been perpetrated on Aus-
tralia. If a virulent disease takes hold among
the rabbits of the back country, and by any
means the virus becomes changed in its action,
owing to climate and environment, so that it can
attack life wherever life is found, it is easy to
imagine a depopulated Back Country in a few
years. It would be another example of the per-
son who “didn’t know it was loaded,” just as with
the sparrow, and the starling, and the fox, and
the miserable old rabbit itself. The pseudo-
scientist is the man who knows something for cer-
tain to-day, while to-morrow he discovers that he
knew nothing yesterday, and he is always finding
out when it is rather late that what may be harm-
less in one hemisphere may be a deadly plague
under wholly different conditions in another.
The rabbit is encroaching on to the
Northern Territory, and a few have been found
at Lawn Creek and the Rankine. The Queens-
land Government is building a “proof fence”
20ft. inside the border line, running north from the
border of New South Wales to Point Parker, a
distance of 800 miles. It is a costly business—the
job out in that remote part runs so near to £lOO a
mile that it can hear the century breathing.
* * • *
“ Peto ” : Re shell deposits mentioned by
“Itan” and “Rhaupo” (B. 25/7’07). At various
spots on the S. A. coast circular patches of (mostly)
cockle shells occur, but for these our black brother
of an earlier day was responsible. These patches
are known as “ kitchen middens,” and the broken
shells represent the remnants, the dead marines
so to speak, of many bygone feasts. At the
appropriate cockle season the tribes used to make
for the beaches, and, after gathering mighty loads
of shellfish, they would sit in circles cracking the
shells between stones and eating the cockles in a
raw state. A quaintly conservative person is
black brother, and year after year—most likely
century after century —he came and sat on the
same spot, and consumed the same kind of victual
till the stacks of debris grew mighty along the
shore. A little grubbing in these middens will
bring to light bones of kangaroos and other game.
I don’t suppose these present any resemblance to
the deposits that “Itan” and “Rhaupo’’were
haggling about, but I throw them in on general
principles.
“ S.D.” describes the struggle for a
“doss” at Broken Hill—the place that booms to-
day and bogs to-morrow: —
If you can get enough old packing-cases and second-
hand iron to make five dog-kennels with, you bring the
stuff along here and earn 15s. a week with it. It won’t be a
private house ; it will be a boarding-house almost for
certain. Fifteen shillings a week rent is too much to
pay ; so the family crams itself into two or three small
rooms, and the rest of the five-roomed dog-kennel is
“ furnished ” and let to lodgers. The usual way is to put
three to four “ stretchers ” in each box, and charge from
3s. 6d. up to ss. per stretcher per week. An enterprising
undertaker cleared all his ready-made coffins and tools
out of his workshop, dumped them down in the yard, and
turned the shop into a sleeping place. Nineteen
stretchers, they say, were crowded in, side by side, and
they went like hot cakes at 3s. 6d. each a week. And yet
we have a Municipal Council here, with three sanitary
inspectors.
“ Hamer ” : They worship the golden cow
with even greater intensity in the Taranaki dis-
trict (M.L.) than they do where they milk the
juicy animal for the benefit of the Australian
landlord. One time a New Plymouth paper, in a
paragraph lamenting the death of a dairy-farmer’s
daughter, thought its sympathy could best be
shown by condoling with the parents on the loss
of their best milking hand. I happened whilst in
that district to give offence to a probationer priest
or curate of the cow, who spoke a great deal of
fight, but didn’t approach any nearer the subject,
and I had no desire to assist him. He spattered
my character, however, with much dirt and
decayed cow bedding. Amongst other things,
he said I wouldn’t know a cow from
a working bullock, and that I was only
fit to clean milk-cans, and further, as a bit of
bitter sarcasm, that I probably thought I was the
manager of a butter factory. He seemed to think
these things would cut into my soul deeper than
an axe; but I was upheld by a happy innocence
of cow. Finally, as a declaration of superiority,
he said that he could milk more cows than me
anyway, and left in an atmosphere of cowyard
and glory. I suppose that if I had been brought
up in a cow district I would have been
thoroughly crushed. As things were, I wasn’t
even cowed.
* * * •
“T.S.R.”: Re the colt that shot himself at
Killara (Vic.) the other day. A mate and I were
working a small sawmill oncedownGippsland way.
A near-by cocky owned a bullock of morbid and
gloomy aspect. He shunned his own kind, and
in a distant corner of the paddock pondered
over his grievances. Twice the engine of the
Bairnsdale train had to slow up and push him
from the railway line, and once we got ropes and
hauled him from an abandoned shaft down which
he had thrown himself. But in the end he beat
us. We were about 50yds. from the mill, loading
some timber, when the beast sauntered, in a dis-
interested manner, on to the mill platform which
was level with the ground. He pretended to rub
himself against the bench, which, of course, slid
at once into the saw, running at 2000 revolutions
to the minute. We ran over in time to see the
morose bullock beheaded. He died by his own
hand, and on his severed countenance was the grin
of the suicidal maniac who has succeeded in his
life’s aim against long odds.
“Pick”: In my district an old horse
kicked a hole in the N.S.W. Local Government
Act by dying on a small bridge that spans the
small creek which separates two shires. He was
a small horse, but he was quite large enough.
Trouble commenced next day when cookies and
dairymen wanted to pass that way. The road-
man from each shire disclaimed the horse on the
ground that it wasn’t in his length. Impassioned
appeals to them to saw the carcase in two and each
take half failed to move them. The police in-
quired, and found that the deader was a circus
derelict, abandoned some weeks previously when
the caravan moved on. No one could learn where
the caravan had moved to. Meanwhile the horse
wasn’t becoming any younger. Some dairymen
climbed over the relic; some cockies scrambled
round it; and all the time earnest inquiries were
made in all directions as to the exact
location of the responsibility. Meanwhile age
was still growing upon the horse. Then one
morning Cockyville woke up and found the
obstruction had departed. Some public-spirited
person had buried it in the night, and he doesn’t
even propose to stand for Parliament on the
strength of his good deed.
* * * *
Can any other district of N.S.W. boast so
many decayed townships as Bathurst? Between
the Turou and Bathurst the ghosts of
what were formerly Hill End, Sofala, Turon-
dale, Palmer’s Oakey, Wattle Elat, Duramana,
and Peel remain to mark the tombstones of
the early gold diggings. Southward languish
Trunkey, Cow Flat and Tuena. To the gold that
has gone and the land monopoly that remains is
due this Golgotha of dead settlements.
ALL LI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The threat of industrial legislation against the Chinese,
as outlined by Mr. Peacock on the 10th inst., has been
brought before the Chinese ambassador in London, and
has drawn from him the reply, “ Your message will be
attended to ."—Daily paper.
All li—By Cly—you makem law !
Bimeby you dam well know whaffaw 1
You plenty sowem—plenty leap—
Some day we ketchem you go sleep.
You missy sleep too—Welly ni!
(Me laughem tink o’ fun bimeby)
You long time teasem—callem Chow—
You planky plank Osstlalian cow 1
Look ou’ yousel when Asia call—
You look-see wlitin’ on em wall—
Me sendem messagee, you bet:
Me no folget. Me no folget 11
By lightem matchee, loosta pluck 1
Ma hung jee hola lun a muck 1
Na mopem kiti muckahi I
All li I Allli! All li 1 By Cly Ml
VIC...
HOMO.
ABANDONED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is an orchard by the road
That now has fall’n on evil days.
Despite its high acacia hedges,
The bush encroaches on its edges,
And inward strays.
Of old I knew it, trim and neat,
With clean-stemmed ribstone-pippin trees ;
With rows of black and white-heart cherries,
And, in between them, shrubs of berries
And hives of bees.
Each tree had its allotted space ;
They stood in rows, as fruit trees should,
Diagonal and straight, well tended—
But that well-ordered growth is ended—
They’ve run to wood.
The suckers of the plums and pears
Grow rankly from the mother roots,
And drain the parent tree by suction,
While codlin-moths deal fell destruction
To all its fruits.
The hardy quinces strive to bear ;
The peaches wither, twig and leaf ;
While broken branches show the ravage
Of vandal cow, and youthful savage,
And wingbd thief.
I’ve looted it myself of old,
In times when milk and honey flowed ;
In days of youth I’ve sought its edges,
And sneaked through those acacia hedges
Beside the road !
vie.
O.G.A. COLLES.


ASTOUNDING
SLAUGHTER
of Highest-Grade English Table Silver,
OUE Buyer has secured frota one of
England’s greatest and best manu-
facturers who was closing an Agency, a
large purchase of goods, suitable for
Wedding Presents, at half maker’s prices.
We are selling them at Half-Prices only.
They are the Best Goods money can buy.
Amongst them are numbers of exquisite
cased lines—Fruit Spoons—Five O’clock
Spoons—Jam Spoons—Knife Rests—Ser-
viette Rings—Solid Silver Sugars—Pepper
Castors—Salad Bowls—Tea Sets, etc. The
best possible, yet only Half-Price.
m.
FAIRFAX & ROBCR
Finest Quality Plate Fruit
Spoons, in best case, 22/6
pair ; usual price, 45/-.
Many Desions.
Egg Frames in many designs.
Finest English Plate, 21/- to 60/-.
Marked only hall usual prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
Plain Figures Strict'Jy Cash.
“ Larrikin,” from Queensland: The pass-
ing of the horse is upon us all right. Owing to
the stringent tick regulations of Queensland, I
struck lately a body of weary drovers humping
their swags and following up a mob of, perhaps,
500 bullocks per boot. They had left their horses
over the border, and had come from New England
en route to Dalby. Now, what price their chance
if the cattle had rushed in the night ?
* » * *
Dear Bulletin.—“G.S.K.” (B. l/8/’O7),
in s k}*’ng that the cairn of rocks On the summit
of Mt. Poole, near Milparinka, was “built by
Sturt s men, probably to pass the time,” was as
far off the facts as he was in his gate yarns. That
cairn was bhilt by a trig, survey party, Heaven
only knows how many years after the visit of the
Poole-Sturt crowd, and is so referred to in State
records. Re the initials on “ Poole’s tree,” writer
told this paper, way back in ’9O, of the vandal
who was preparing to cut the famous relic down
in order to send the section bearing the inscrip-
tion to Sydney Museum. Mr. Alec Lang, the
owner of Mt. Poole station, in a brief but heated
interview, told the heathen that if he did not
create a certain and rapid disturbance in the sur-
rounding atmosphere, he (Lang) would give a
thrilling exhibition of scientific stockwhip hand-
ling. Poole’s grave, as well as several others in
this distant God’s acre, is kept in most excellent
order; in fact, the surroundings put to shame
scores of burial-grounds writer has seen in so-
called Christian communities, where the inhabi-
tants are so darned mean that they refuse to either
fence or clear a cemetery site without a Govern-
ment grant.—Cess.
THE OLD HORSE.
FIRST SELECTOR: “ He’s BIN a good ’ un , all right. What are you goin' to do with him, George?”
GEORGE: “ Why, when I git his LEGS RIGHT I think I’ll start him in the Melbourne Cup."
A N.S.W. news item :
BUNGENDORE, Tuesday.—Over 40 shearers left
for the south-west by train last night. There were
38 bicycles booked with them.
Thus does Billjim’s faithful moke join the length-
ening procession of the dodo, the moa, Freetrade,
the devil, and other has-beens.
* » * *
By the time the yarn about the poor little
strike of a pocket of middling quartz in the Bal-
larat cemetery had reached England, via America,
it had got to this size :
Sydney, N S. W., 20th June. —Gold-miners are rushing
to Ballarat by the thousand. There is great excite-
ment there over the discovery in a cemetery of a gold-
bearing quartz vein, I9in. thick. It is reported that
the gold in the vein is nearly solid for its entire width.
The whole of the cemetery has been staked out by the
prospectors already here. The discovery was made by a
grave-digger, who made the first location. It is said that
he will soon become a millionaire.
* * * *
We are justified in claiming that there is
no remedy equal to Angier’s Emulsion for coughs
and lung affections. No other remedy has such a
soothing, healing effect on the throat, lungs,
stomach and bowels, and no other remedy will so
invariably promote appetite, aid digestion, and
build up health and strength. In three sizes, of
all chemists.*
THE DISEASE DREARS OUT AO AIR.
COP: "Here, you hoys, what d’yer mean be racin' thim carrts on the footpath ?"
MOTORIST: "’Sall right, lose; we’re havin' a reliability test.”
“ Polstan ” ; Recently the once-great town
of Oarisbrook (Vic.) celebrated its jubileee (w. !i
is all that is left of it), and the mayor, mom..-:!
on a dray, orated to the gathered population ui
lost goat and a passing swaggie) apropos of the.
time when the. now-deserted streets roared with
the clamor of thousands of residents, and hundreds
of poppet-heads and rapidly-growing mullock-
heaps covered the locality and blotted out the
firmament. Some idea of the town’s prosperity
may be gathered from the fact that £2OOO was
offered and refused for shop allotments in the
principal street. But Carisbrook’s greed killed it
as dead as death itself. Maryborough, only four
miles distant, had possibilities, and building”allot-
ments were given away for dead marines to attract
population. So, gradually Oarisbrook emigrated,
till now its population consists of the mayor and
goat aforesaid (the swaggie has gone by now),
while Maryborough has over 6000 souls and its
famous railway station, and thinks long three-
penny beer of itself.
Heaven and our own good sense prevent
the need of it; but it’s interesting to note it, all
the same:—
If required, Papua can produce from 20,000 to 30,000
black troops equal to any at present serving in the Imperial
army—the remark particularly applies to the natives of the
Northern, North-Eastern, and Western divisions. Doubt-
less good men are to be found among other tribes, but
these represent the pick and flower of Papuan manhood.
Germany has already recognised the possibility of using
its colored subjects in German New Guinea in its native
wars, having sent an experimental corps of 150 to take
part in the war that it is waging in German South Africa.
Your Commissioners wish it to be distinctly understood
that they have no desire to see the natives so used, and
that their only object is to point out that, should the
Commonwealth ever have to defend itself against
Eastern aggression, it has some of the best raw material
in the world for native troops among the tribes we have
specified.
The remarks are from the report of the Commis-
sion, with Colonel Mackayas chairman, appointed
by the Commonwealth to overhaul the affairs of
Papua.
* * * •
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure won’t cure
Your broken legs or hearts,
Nor will it act, as a matter of fact,
As a recipe for tarts ;
, It won’t cure neuralgia, temper, squints,
For working men or toffs ;
But Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure will cure
Your colds and cure your coughs.*
“ Wang ” tells a tale of sin :
Th - champion tug-of-war was pulled off in our back
yarn, •...<■ other day. The contestants were our profane
ma'-pie „i.d the family cat.
Tiafs'iVu.l r,.pe was a mouse.
The struggle lasted ten minutes, Pussy lying well
beck in the breeching, and Maggie putting in some splen-
did vocal work.
The rope didn’t object; in fact, it was dead.
The gambling mania became rampant. Odds of 6 to 4
were laid on Maggie. Any old price could be obtained
about Pussy.
She put up a good struggle, however, and at one time
her backers had hopes of collecting their bets.
But when Feathers got his wool off and started to talk,
Whiskers lost points wholesale. Feathers pulled with his
claws so as to keep his beak available to curse with.
For a while Cat bore the torrent of abuse like a heroine,
her blushes almost blinding her.
Feathers chuckled exultantly and let himself go.
The women folk hurriecL-i-rside.
We cheered the favorite on.
He responded nobly.
In a high falsetto he cast doubts on the cat’s age and
virtue.
Then he made a remark disparaging her parentage.
Then the combat ended suddenly and unexpectedly,
and a tailless magpie hurried over the fence into next
door’s yard, with a shriek like unto Poland’s when Kos-
ciusko went down in the last round.
The 50 to 1 chants had knocked him clean out, and an
outraged female calmly proceeded to swallow the rope.
Since then Feathers has been mighty civil.
* * * »
“ Janor” :Re “specking,” “ Flinderino ”
asks (B. 25/7/’O7), “What is the cause of this
inexhaustible supply of gold ? ” The answer is
found when the method, or rather lack of method,
of working is considered. The first rush of
diggers in the Shouting Days picked out the gold
from the richest wash—say the last few inches of
the wash, and the first few inches of the bottom.
The higher wash and gravels, not being considered
good enough in those times, when new rushes and
“piles” were as common as blistered hands, were
tipped on the surface with the alluvium, or thrown
back, gold and all, and, excepting patches that
have been ground-sluiced or dredged, it so
remains. The denuding action of sun, wind, and
rain, exposes at intervals the gold. For it is to
be noted that when the fields were subsequently re-
worked again and again the miners rarely washed
the old headings and spoil; they just shovelled
them away, or sank through to get at the bed-
rock in search of patches of wash overlooked,
crevices, or pockets missed, or porous rock too
lightly skimmed. This repeated shifting of the old
mullock has distributed the gold contents evenly
through its bulk, and thus every erosion of the
surface brings into view colors of gold, and that’s
the time to catch’em. “ Flinderino’s” reference
to the final sweeping up of the Golden Point State
School enclosure by the Chinamen, gives one a
glimpse of an idea prevalent amongst those who
know little of mining—that the Chow is a good
miner, and a fair demon at cleaning up the
bottom. But it is not so. Chows are the very
worst botchers of mining work in the world. I’ve
seen thousands of them bandicooting in Australia,
from Pine Creek to Teetulpa, and from Bermagui
to Kimberley, and not a miner in the whole
yellow horde. There never was an efficient Chow
miner. They’re not the stuff miners are made
from. Vegetables and soiled linen are more their
line. “No savee lock,” I once heard one say;
“too muchee ti’. too plooly har’. Tynami too
muchee bang ! No goo’.”
“Poneke,” in reply to “Bromide,” on
the subject of brown brother (B. 25/7/’O7): —
Bromine is a dark reddish liquid of a powerful and suf-
focating odor. With the addition of, say, sulphur, it
would form a bromide, and still give off the suffocating
odor distinguishable in the paragraph referred to.
I do not doubt that “ Bromide ” met some Maoris such
as he describes. If a man hangs about a pub long enough,
he’ll meet almost anything.
He states that during two years he worked over the
greater part of the North Island. He is, therefore, well
qualified to write about shiftless characters. A man
must lose his job very often to shift all over the North
Island in two years.
With a lifetime’s experience, I can authoritatively
refute “ Bromide’s ” accusation against the Maori race.
Shiftless and lazy specimens you will, no doubt, find ; but
these you get in all nationalities.
I know dozens of Maoris in my own district who keep
permanent jobs for years—hard graft jobs, too.
The days when station-managers let contracts to enable
the takers to make 18s. a day are gone. But, if
“ Bromide ” likes, I will give him a start at bushwork at
9s. per day of eight hours, alongside Maoris, and if he can
do as well as they, will increase his pay to the 10s. paid
to them. I expect this offer is a waste of time, though.
WESTERN GATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the long driving trips the monotony is relieved
by the hospitable habit of having a snifter at each gate
to wash down the dust. When the visible gates are few
and far between, the kindly Outbackers pull up, and make
gates of such features'of the landscape as a bit of salt-
bush, and if there isn’t a saltbush, a cloud in the sky will
do, or a mail-change humpy, or the place where the opal
was stolen. These-are the best Gates-o’-the-West. They
give no trouble in opening or shutting. All you have to
do is to take out the stopper .—Jimmie Pannikin (B.
25/7/’O7).
They are swinging on the hinges of that friendliness that
tinges
All the Baekblocks from the Ranges to the utter Back-o’-
Bourke;
They are the lofty portals on the roads that bear all
mortals—
From Merino, with his millions, to the ragged out-o’-
work.
They’re the gates that have no latches, but they grace
those publess patches
Where the barmaid never giggles, and the thirst of man
is free
(Oh! ’tisgoodto journey to them and to loiter slowly
through them,
Where the waterbag and whisky are the only scenery !).
What if Temp’rance comes a cropper at the snatching of
the stopper ?
For no Judkins blots the landscape and no madams rant
and rave
When adown the dusty-throated pours the dampness that
is voted
In those liquorless dominions “ Just the drink that
Heaven gave ” !
Lo ! the planets burn above them, for I think the angels
love them
(Knowing well that Western Gatemen are not endlessly
accurst).
Western Gates ! —my blessings on you, tho’ I deem each
one a monu-
Ment (subscribed by countless thousands) to the Great
Australian Thirst!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
W. Battieson : We published “ Dingo’s ” brief
par. about Rev. Ronald and you send a reply that would
make the best part of a column, even in small type!
Have you no power of condensation ?.. H.T.G.: Send along
“ The Passing of Nat.” Every possible care will be taken
of it.... Paul B. (W.A.): Many thanks for letter
G.YV.G. : Verses and pars too rough Nymagee:
Can’t acknowledge pars as a general thing. If we
did “Correspondence” would run to eight columns.
Either your item about ants is being set by the
patient “ comp ” or it is dead. Have a vague
recollection of ten items about ants last week....
W.T.H. : Jose’s “History of Australasia” (Angus and
Robertson, Is. 6d.). Correspondents who write for
further particulars of books noticed on “Red Page”
would save their and our time by writing direct to the
bookselling firm whose advertisement appears on that
page. We have a vague suspicion that it is for the
purpose of selling books that that firm takes up space
that might be more profitably devoted to the slaving of
minor poets... .O.T.J.L. : Rather good stuff. Sorry the
style blocks it Leonardo : Rather laborious humor....
O.S.G. : Still not quite good enough.... M.H. : Reason-
ably good work, but the themes are very trite Joan :
They show a fine feeling for Nature, but are too artificial
of expression W.E.O’H.: We don’t care for parodies,
and in any case the bad metre would kill it Lew W. :
Not much below the .mark... .Justitia: Required racier
treatment Mac: Pretty, but insignificant H.T.:
“ Day-Dust ” has no strength or grip W.B.S. : Re-
jected after some hesitation Hort: A mere nothing....
Leo Lear : Good matter, but the subject has been already
written up H. 0.2: Don't doubt it’s absolutely correct,
but the postage on your letter was absolutely deficient...
Aural: Letter re parrot’s food was hardly worth the 2d.
it cost us. You Victorians have a wondrous faith in the
long range capacity of your penny stamp Gertrude M.:
It would only make a picture of two boys looking at each
other... .E. 8.: Very weak and conventional Short
Warp: Interesting in a way, but unsuited to The
Bulletin...C.L.H. : Shows some skill, but is hardly
worth print... .C.L.E. : Reaches a high poetic level in
places, but the other places spoil the effect Amy M. :
The style is terse and forceful, but the interest is not
vital enough.... Charon : Has a generally confused and
unsatisfactory effect.. ..T.P.C. : You grievously misuse
the English language R.S.C. : Scrappy and unsatis-
factory.. ..Prodigal : Not enough in it.. ..J.S.M.: Didn’t
impress us.... Rose D. : You have verse-skill, but your
matter and manner are both too conventional K. C.
Ulli: Workmanship inferior Richard C.: Verse too
dull and wooden Veritas: Too trifling for print.
....R.L.P. : Pretty good for a first attempt.....
Emily T.: Neat, but not otherwise remarkable....
G.A.R. : Interesting, but too grandiloquent and long-
winded.... Agnostic: Parts of it are painfully forced ...
Snorter: Would have been better in plain prose. Bad
verse only spoils a good thing Nils N.: You greatly
lack experience and skill....Tambo: Correct in form,
but you don’t get any life or vigor into them C T.C.:
You have the story-telling gift, but you need a lot more
practice Jasmine: Has no discoverable human in-
terest Hova: Thanks for information, though it is
belated... W.F.L.: It had no earthly chance A.P.A.:
We pay for all we use, but you are not usable. Metre
too awful T.J.D.: Better than the last. Pay more
attention to form, and you may do well yet... Yehondi:
▼erse too stiff and wooden.... Quo Vadis: It nearly
caught on Mary Ann: But even in “An Episode”
something should happen. You don’t even make the
steak-pie occur... .C.J. D.: Has the elements of a good
story, but you are weak in detail Look Ahead: (1)
Idea is good, but the money wouldn’t run to it. (2)
Well, on the same basis, what will happen to the church
when every possible sermon has been preached?
O.T. : Your contribution to the discussion came to hand
rather late. Discussion is buried Pole Axe: Par cut-
tings may be sent to accountant for payment at any
time ; better to wait till a reasonable number accumulate
though Vedette: “The Breaker’s” verses out of
print; a third edition may be issued Bridget Gwen-
doline (and others): If you took that par re Saltwater
River tram line seriously, your sense of humor has
become disarranged, and you should hurry off at once
and have it attended t 0... .Manurewa : (I) No, the lady’s
face isn’t enamelled. (2) Yes, she uses grease paint.
What else would you have her use—kalsomine, or lino-
leum, or what? Practically every mummer uses grease
paint. ($) No, she isn’t married. (4) No, he was quite
well. (5) Yes, there have been escapes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
C.R. Me.: “Rugby football” picture is decidedly
below Rembrandt, and presents no striking resemblance
to the stj’le of Velasquez A.W.1.: Picture of young
wife asking husband to wear the same shirt for two
weeks declined forsanitary and other reasons J.F.W.:
Picture no good. Two jokes bad, and one joke old
J.G. : Disgusting and objectionable picture entitled,
“ Dad in Brisbane,” received and torn in four pieces
F.H.H. : Don’t take your view of the bottle and the
Small Boy at Manly....H. Clay 7: Picture inferior, and
the frivolous remark attached to it is battered with the
wear and tear of a thousand smoking r00m5.... Desp:
Sorry, but we cut out that item the day it appeared, and
handed it to a better artist than you.. ..Rigo: Pencil
sketch rejected with grief H.J.: “Sleeping Out”
idea would hardly make a picture.


J The Aidei'mAn r'As
r "Ijorrified $r »"An about
city like t£»S
Toa.rtn^ou.'f” —
Where do
A ?
I Come iv> 1
ItC /faf Julies Were Shocked -aH of
no on« in "me'ir employ ever A jf c^r
could help if. ,
Ihe '/"•me chosen |or
Hje increase
dtje pA'S 0 * 1 ‘S so
lnol»borlt4ne Jos f AS
we enough -fo do
fo I'Ai's® V Jm
Jfiitfo*} ! yV\ ]
fogy's tyrjotr dU*f~
KyoW w ijth he was So shocked before AbourT
**l*"y- No wonder”we f)AVe
No wonder we f)AVe
So few s-fAtues +0 .
oov Oread' Public >5
, njen
\||
L \||
if* l^)Jg
j>nd owner < ~TNsSC
Only W'd °f'. ,r i u^r^^
„..r of %*■ tfk
''Did yoa ever e*r more sCAnd^lou^
in Vo«r life , JorKins \
" O SCAndAlii«S,SCAhdAlo«S,«AhdAlotfSx 7-
>«V'v/AirA»n,n«-te.+.ll l*« fished
invoice !
-L v e h lfte cl'for a
Jiviu* WA%e A let A r, i e , »s rushing
*fo pApers "
PolifjcAl jobber wa* sTio«K«d
orrible dishonesty J[CII it"! How c^v>
1 bribe 'em money of'fljeirown
X 1” 'Hits VAt'e 7
(oily: 0*! '^mr'
* We. hezxA if „ 7 1
iVe ?oT hold oj'.ii. Omble. .
Disljo*i«s^• SCAndaJous! Onille .
Qmtl« ! Sc An J j Ck £k f /
THE NOBLE ARMY OF THE SHOCKED.
The salaries of Federal members, acknowledged on all hands to be insufficient, have been raised to £600 per annum. Simple Fact.


The Importing Agent called
on the CARPENTER. 2* / 1
“Of course you’ll be up at y^
the meeting tO’night ! We / -
must fight this Tariff tooth /
and nail.”
“Fact is,” said Chips, holding
out his saw, “ I’ve only got this ’
to fight it with, and since they’ve N=
clapped that duty on woodwork it hasn’t been idle a minute.
Don’t think I can spare the time.”
The FURNITURE-riAKER
(30 per cent.) was “going
to take the wife out for a
motor-spin to-night In the
moonlight.”
The PRINTER said he couldn’t. It
would take him all night and half of
to-morrow finishing the fixing of his
new machinery. He’d been busy ever
since the tariff came in.
The HATTER (30 per cent.) said;.
“What? Tuesday? Our grand-opera
night 1 Should smile 1 ”
The TAILOR ( 4 0
per cent.) said he’d
got to see his archi-
tect about enlarg-
ing his premises.”
/ft,
'l <;
The PAINTMAKER said: “That
paint’s made in Orstraliar. Now go
and get the other side done in English,
20 per cent, dearer, and see which
lasts longest,”
The NAILMAKER (nails ss. per cwt,
duty). Well, the nailmaker, after look-
ing round for a bar of iron, legged over
the window-sill. But he never caught
him.
Ihe GUNMAKER said: ‘-What!
abolish the tariff I Stop still just where
you are till I get a cartridge into this?
What ? Off I O, well; ta-ta! ”
THE TARIFF AND ITS EFFECTS.


\
She Worlds !
There is not
a civilised country in the world in
which Odol is not known as the
greatest preparation for cleansing and
preserving the teeth and mouth, and
the millions of bottles of Odol
which are sold every year afford an
irrefutable proof of the universality
of its use and of the favor with
which it is received. These two facts,
indeed, speak louder than anything
else of the excellence of the prepara-
tion, which can only be compared to
itself, for it has no parallel.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Oorpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade would
make a fortune as a debt collector. The manner
in which he harried solicitor and fellow-politician
Daley over a brief fee suggests that he is wasted
in any other sphere than that of money-lending.
George Reid, Bruce Smith, Bill Knox, and
John Forrest got weighed together the other
night. They tipped the beam at 74 stone.
John told it as a great joke. The crowd must
surely have used a Corporation weighbridge. Any
other weighing machine would have fainted at
the sight of four such girths.
N.S.W. Supreme Court, by five to one
(G. B. Simpson dissenting), has decided to strike
W. P. Crick off the roll of N.S.W. solicitors.
Thisisthelatestdevelopmentof the Land Scandals,
and illustrates the fact (which Crick’s old partner,
Meagher, discovered) that the solicitor has to
make up in some wise for the splendid heritage of
Costs that accrues to him when he becomes Gent
One. The law has two strings to its bow when
dealing with the lawyer, and if a jury doesn’t
convict the Judges can.
An ancient person has recollections :
Laidley Mort, who died recently in Sydney, was born
just after his father, Thomas Sutcliffe Mort, had retired to
private life, broken in fortune and, to all appearance,
done for. But the elder Mort saw a long way ahead.
Around his little cottage on the road to Darling Point
were huge sand dunes, regarded as waste eyesores,- and
valued at less than nothing. He obtained rights over
these, and started to plant them with grass and trees.
They are to-day worth hundreds of thousands of pounds,
and constitute some of the most picturesque residentiai
properties in Australia. Mr. Laidle.v Mort, who has just
died, spent most of his life in holding the threads of a
few of the businesses his father inaugurated. Every
form of industry, from gold-mining to ship-build-
ing, seemed to flower under the old man’s touch when he
emerged from his retreat after laying out Darling Point.
HIS TROUBLES.
THE EXPLANATORY ONE : “ That is an cx-Premier
of N.S.W. He imagines he is seceding from
the Commonwealth behind a roll of wire-
netting.”
A new terror has been added to life in
Victoria—the man who wants to be an alderman
has started to issue his addresses in verse. For
instance, George Glendinning, of Ballarat, sets
forth his virtues, and concludes :
Such his platform and intention 1
Thus his radical proposal !
Which to advocate he pledges
Placing self at your disposal ;
These his principles who beg you
That at least you’ll use your vote
’Gainst himself or his opponent—
Which ? He does not care a groat.
Those last two lines were disappointing. The
Bulletin made sure the thing was going to end :
And, kind friends, if they don’t suit you,
Well, he ain’t giued on his coat.
Australia’s most notable bulldog authority,
William Freeman, died last week near Sydney,
after refusing to undergo an operation for cancer.
Many remember his bulldog Blunderbus. That
animal, which was blessed with phenomenal ugli-
ness, a temper like Vesuvius, and an under-jaw
like a cow-catcher, was suffocated under a heap of
mailbags on a trip to Melbourne, and the Com-
missioners, relying on by-laws, offered £2 as full
compensation. But Freeman went to the
Supreme Court, with the carcase of his dog-fiend
in his hand, so to speak, and the beast’s death
cost the Department over £3OO. Mr, Freeman
was related to the world-famous nurse, Florence
Nightingale, but his own celebrity rested entirely
on bulldogs.
The gift to N.S.W. Historical Society by
the widow of the Rev. Dr. Woolls of the mail-
bag label, recovered from the wreck of the Dunbar,
caused a Sydney daily to infer that Dr. Woolls
was one of the Dunbar victims. Luckily for him,
he was writing verse in Parramatta at the time of
the wreck. He was a doctor of philosophy, and
all the time he could spare from school teaching
he gave to building terraces of poems and study-
ing natural history. He published several little
volumes, and wrote miscellaneous articles and
verse for the local papers of the day. He was 59
years of age when Bishop Barker induced him to
enter the church and take a parish. His widow
has kept that Dunbar mailbag label for 50 years,
and the Historical Society thinks it a valuable
memento, though it is difficult to tell why.
“ Pyks ” about an artist: —
Norman Lindsay has a remarkable exhibit at the
Society of Artists’ Show (Sydney). Nothing there that
we would hang in the chaste atmosphere of our suburban
drawing-rooms. Flesh at its fleshiest, laughter-wrinkled
and nerved with passion—flesh half-sunk in grass or
gleaming eerily through leaves; gloating satyrs and
maidens loth, nymphs and fauns in leering chase, mad
Hogarthian scenes, debaucheries and bacchanals and
villainies done in dim lights; and the utter brutality of
these subjects dispelled by the magic of a marvellous
line. The classic machinery of marble maidens and
sylvan deities, under his pen, becomes warm human.
You see a rushing hillside of naked men and women,
laughing and snatching and sprawling, creeping away
into the hot darkness, or throwing up grinning faces into
a sudden light ; and you might fancy a local dancing
hall to have disgorged its mob, clothless, into the moon-
light scrub. Lindsay’s naiads are no pale watery shades,
hut warm women torn dripping from their pools. And
his Bacchuses look as if filled with good Tooth’s beer 1
Mr. T. A. Browne (“ Rolf Boldrewood ”)
has entered upon his 82nd year. He came to
Sydney with his family in 1830. His father,
Captain Sylvester John Browne, commenced
business in Macquarie-place, and built up his
home, Enmore House, afterwards the property of
Judge Josephson. “Rolf’’was schooled by Mr.
T. W. Cape, and at the age of 17 started with a
herd of cattle for Port Fairy, otherwise Belfast
(Vic.). In those days almost everybody started
with a herd of cattle. He became the pioneer
squatter there, and remained in the locality till
1856. Later on he visited England, and on his
return took up a sheep station on the Murrum-
bidgee, but was ruined by droughts near Joey
Carruthers’ proposed well-watered Federal
capital of Canberra. In 1870 he joined the
N. S. Wales Civil Service as a police-magis-
trate, and after that he fined drunks and
wrote novels. If the fine was unusually heavy,
the drunk said the novels weren’t any good.
The Auckland Star (M.L.) on Oom Bill
of Australia: —
William Lyne may not be a statesman of the very
highest order, but in one important particular he has
among colonial Ministers of the day few equals and no
superior. He is above all things a firm believer in the
country that he assists to govern—its natural resources,
its potential wealth, its political and fiscal system,
the character of its people, and its high national destiny.
No representative ever sent to England from this side of
the world—not even Mr. Seddon in his most triumphant
mood —has had the courage to assert more clearly and
boldly his fixed conviction of the innate superiority
of the colonies over all other countries. When
William Lyne came back from the Imperial Con-
ference he was met by the inevitable interviewer,
and questioned as to his impressions of England
and the Continent. When they got to Italy, the journalist
wanted to know what the distirigui hed traveller thought
of the Bay of Naples and its beautiful surroundings. And
then Mr. Lyne told him that while the others were
wandering up to Mount Vesuvius and over to Capri, he
was thinking only of his home. “ I went on board ship,”
he said, with a pathetic simplicity that might hardly ha ve
been expected from so forceful a personality, “ and looked
away towards Australia.” There is something very re-
freshing in this frank and honest kind of patriotism ; and
though cynics may find material for humor in Mr. Lyne’s
primitive emotions, it is well for young nations like our
own to be ruled by men whose first and last thought in
politics or commerce or diplomacy is “ my country,' right
or wrong.”
“ W.” about a sojer-politician :
Par (B. 15/8/’O7) concerning Senator J. V. O’Loghlin as
a military man is unfair. He is not “careless in his
dress,” but conforms to the regulations, and always looks
neat and soldierly, although he does not affect extra gold
lace and millinery embellishments. His buttons are
never “rusty,” and his chin is always “clean shaven”
when he is in uniform. His record in the militia is en-
tirely creditable. He has been right through them, from
bottom to top—from a private in the ranks to State
Minister of Defence. All his promotions, too, have been
gained by examination. The Irish corps which he raised,
trained, and commands is acknowledged to be one of the
finest in the Defence Force. It was top in the musketry
course this year, and achieved the highest record attained
in the Regiment, and probably in the Commonwealth.
O’Loghlin’s men are not, perhaps, as spectacular as the
“Scotehies,” but they drill well and shoot straight,
which is something. It is new to have Tiie Bulletin in-
ferentially praising army popinjays and cheapening good
solid soldiery work with no unnecessary frills about it.
Whirra now! The Bulletin said that, as
a sojer, O'Loghlin had “an utter disregard
for dress,” and that his wild Irishmen were
mostly like him. And that is “ inferentially
praising popinjays” ! The principal thing about
the man who wrote the above is that he is a sober
citizen. Now this rag hopes it shan’t next week
be called on to explain that it didn’t “inferen-
tially praise” drunkenness and the habit of being
found in company with strange crayfish at
12 15 a.m.
Some birthdays for September :—Manager
Delprat, of Broken Hill, 51 on the Ist; Educa-
tion Minister Hogue (N.S.W.), 61 on the 2nd;
John Warren, the most rigid of S.A. Leg. Council
Conservatives, generally known as “Old Long-
wool,”77 onthe3rd; Ebby Ward, an ex-S. A. Crown
Minister and journalist, who played with G. V.
Brooke ages ago, 70 on the 4th ; Jeff Stow, ex-
editor of Adelaide Advertiser, 70 on the 4th ;
Agent-General Jenkins (S.A.) 56, and Prof.
Stirling (Adelaide) 59, on the Bth ; old cricketer
Spofforth, 52 on the 9th ; Dr. Bevan, of the
empty ehurch in Melbourne, 65 on the 11th;
Bishop Frodsham (N.Q.), 44 on the 14th ; geolo-
gist Jack (Q.) 52, and Cardinal Moran 77. on the
16th ; Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.) 77, and In-
clement Wragge (once of Queensland) 55, on the
18th ; ex-Premier Arthur Morgan (Q.), 51 on the
19th; Dr. “Plevna” Ryan 54, and ex-Crown
Solicitor Stuart (S.A.) 73, on the 20th; Bishop
Dunne (Wilcannia) 61, Max Hirschss, Dr. Elking-
ton (Tas.) 36, and Holy John Carr (ex-S. A. Lands
Minister) 89, on the 21st; Rep. Hughes (Watson’s
lieutenant), 43 on the 25th ; Dr. Charles Strong
(Vic.), 63 on the 26th; Senator Josh Symon, 61
on the 27th,
Baptist-Parson Harry, of Ballarat, enter-
tained the brethren recently with the story of a
bush undertaker who could not find a parson to
read the burial service over a client, so took the
job on himself. After the coffin had been
lowered into the hole, the
undertaker started out to
make a few remarks. “This
corpse,” he said, “joined
the church nine years ago.”
A snigger from the
congregation caused
him to hurriedly con-
elude with, “ Peace
to his remains! ”
“ YAH I WHO SHOOK THE WIRE!”
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
Mr. Alexander Campbell Budge, clerk of the N.S.W.
Executive Council, who died on Saturday, within five
days of his 70th birthday, was a civil servant pure and
simple. He was in the groove, and never left it. Coming
from Scotland in 1858, he was appointed to a billet in the
Lands Department, Charles Cowper (“ Slippery Charlie”)
being then Premier,and John Robertson Minister for Lands.
In the Cowper Government, Charles Cowper, jun. (son of
the “Slippery One”), was clerk of the Executive Council,
and a member of the Government without a seat in the
Cabinet. When the Ministry went out, Cowper, junior,
went with it, but before leaving office “ Slippery Charlie ”
appointed Mr. Budge as Clerk of the Executive Council.
So runs the record, at any rate. Mr. Budge saw 24
different Ministries in office, from that of Martin (which
took office on the day of his own appointment as Clerk)
to the Carruthers of to-day. Also he saw 11 Governors
rule in New South Wales.
Deceased Richard Charles Luscombe was
the protagonist of journalistic Protection in
N.S.W. Allen and others preceded him as advo-
cates of the policy, but the “withered tarantula”
was the sleepless apostle who urged the estab-
lishment of daily newspapers to propagate the
system. He was at the birth of the old Globe,
and also at its death, and he worked fully 12
hours a d iy bringing the present disappointing,
half-hearted, inefficient Australian Star into
being. He projected numbers of little sheets,
but was wise enough to know that a big
cause needed a big daily. His meetings in
a little room in the old Temperance Hall
were sparsely attended, and the convener’s
appearance was so forlorn and the light generally
so dim that the “fathers of Pratiction ” would
have been easily mistaken for bomb-carrying
anarchists. The little man’s habit was to un-
button his coat, extract a huge bundle of letters
from an inner pocket, and proceed to read them
in loud whispers. The letters were from budding
local manufacturers who urged Luscombe to per-
severe, but sad to say very few of them contained
cheques to help the preliminary expenses. The
crusade, however, landed him in Parliament, and
the ridiculous billet of scaffold inspector served as
a sort of old-age pension. Luscombe deserved
better fortune, but the early patriot and the early
Christian both get a poor show.
MacMillan Brown, the learned but in-
credible donkey who has been diverting some
Sydney audiences with lectures about the Pacific,
outdoes himself in a forecast of what might have
happened to us if the late war had ended
differently:—
The success of Russia would have disabused Japan of
her belief in the nobleness and potency of western ideals.
She would have abandoned them like her antagonist.
She would easily have found occasion for breaking from
the British Alliance, and would have used her pre-
dominating sea power in seizing the territory that Aus-
tralia has never sufficiently occupied.
The man who talks that slush ranks as a curiosity.
If Japan had been beaten in the late war, it would
have been beaten to a standstill, and afterward
been bled white with an indemnity. It was not
the Monkey’s generosity that prevented his exact-
ing an indemnity from the Bear, but the impossi-
bility of seizing a “ material guarantee for pay-
ment,” and the fact that the Russian’s steady re-
treat was at last making the war a replica of
Napoleon’s Moscow campaign. The Monkey
would have had no predominating sea power and
no sea power of any kind if the Bear had won.
What sort of person is this MacMillan Brown,
who was actually reported as having told a Sydney
audience that there was no harbor on the west
coast of America between San Francisco and Chili.
The champion Jonah of the Common-
wealth is surely Northcote—“Governor-General
of Queensland,” according to Lloyd’s News
(London). Brassey merely fell off things, but a
wide diversity of calamity trails in the wake of
Northcote. He only failed by the width of a
policeman’s wrist from diving over a mighty
precipice while coaching in the southern district
of N.S.W. Then he hied him North, and lost
Lieutenant Silk for some days; and nearly had
Johnson eaten by an alligator. Boarding the
Pyramus for the return journey, his ominous
presence caused the vessel to pile itself on a reef,
whereby Senator Jawbone Neild’s nervous sys-
tem was completely disorganised. And, last of
all, journeying south-west in the Himalaya, he
brought along almost the heaviest gale on record,
and it was a very fu ined-looking liner that washed
its weary way into Fremantle.
That remarkable man who helps the Cus-
toms Department to administer the Immigration
Act at Fremantle (W.A.), and who, on a recent
day, talked English, French, Italian, Greek,
Syrian, Turkish, and Arabic, isn’t a University
professor or anything of that sort. He is merely
a cigarette maker, and gets £1 for every ship he
is called on to visit. In S. Aus. they wouldn't
reckon he knew enough to be a Leg. Council
elector, though the chief National Ass represent-
ative proposes to give clergymen, schoolmasters
(head teachers), policemen, and railway station-
masters a vote, on the ground that they may be
assumed to be men of sufficient intelligence and
education.
Laidley Mort, one of
Sydney’s best-known and
“whitest” business men,
was, without any sort of
warning, struck with
paralysis the other day,
and died without recover-
ing consciousness, He
was chairman of the
N.S.W. Fresh Food and
Ice Co., and his last work
was in connection with
that—he was to have been
in the chair at its half-
yearly meeting that day.
It was Laidley Mort’s
father, T. S. Mort—per-
haps the greatest business
organiser Australia has
ever had—who laid the
commercial foundations of
the Australian frozen food
business; it is something
of a coincidence, too, that
that work and his death
were closely related. Mort, sen.,
wasn’t used to failure ; and when the
early struggles to export frozen beef
and mutton failed (they couldn’t get
metal to withstand the acid), he
worried, sickened, caught cold at a
friend’s funeral, and died. Laidley—
named after his mother’s family—followed his
father as chairman also of Mort’s Dock ; and he
had a hand in the management of Bodalla, the
N.S.W. South Coast estate where they make the
cheese—an estate into which Mort, sen., put
something over £lOO,OOO.
Some reminiscences :
Mrs. Susan Hughes, who died recently at “ Kincoppal,”
Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, aged 72 years, was the widow of
John Hughes, a very old adopted Australian, and mother
of Mayor Hughes of Sydney and Hughes, Vice-President
of the Executive Council. The late John Hughes
was a Roscommon (Ireland) man, who arrived in
Sydney with his parents in 1840 when 15 years
of age. His father, Thomas Hughes, had been a general
grocer in the town of Drumshambo, Roscommon. He
brought with him a wife, three sons, and three daughters,
of which John was the eldest; also very little money and a
brogue. The wife died shortly after the family settled in
Sydney. John Hughes served an apprenticeship with
John Stirling, grocer, of George-street, near Charlotte-
place. Later he was a successful grocery man
on his own account. Then he spread into wholesale
business, and squatting, and made money out of every-
thing that came his way. It was in the purchase of city
property, however, that he gathered most of his wealth.
He died in 1885. His widow, the lady recently deceased,
was a daughter of John Sharkey, connected with the
Colonial Architect’s office half a century ago.
C. CARMICHAEL, the Anti-Borrowing
Candidate for Leichhardt (N.S.W.).
Photo, by Kerry & Co., Sydney.
A letter from Westralia :
Memories of a sensational ease of supposed piracy have
been revived by the death at Fremantle (W.A.) of
Captain Thomas, a patriarch of 93. In the early days of
Westralian settlement, a lady of title, after whom
Bigjohn’s birthplace was named, selected land on the
south-western coast, and chartered a small sailing- vessel
to convey stock, implements, furniture, and a consider-
able collection of family plate from the Swan to the Vasse.
The ship left Fremantle with a fair wind, but, never
arrived at its destination, only 100 miles or so distant.
Whilst running close in shore, about midway between the
two ports, the crew of another vessel bound for
Fremantle saw the missing ship piled up on the
beach. From the bowels of the wreck came the noise
of vigorous hammering, and sounds as of things being
broken up, which seemed suspicious. The authorities at
Fremantle searched all boats coming from that direction,
and made a haul which included the silver plate and most
of the cargo of the stranded vessel. But its crew was never
accounted for, and there was strong presumptive evidence
that the vessel had been boarded and all hands thrown
into the sea in the old piratical style. Several families
were implicated, and their respectability did not save
them from transportation to Van Diemen’s Land. Captain
Thomas was little more than a lad at the time, but
cherished a lively recollection of all that happened in
connection with the affair. Eventually he settled at
Fremantle and built sailing ships for the Java and Singa-
E ore trade, making many voyages in his own craft. He
uilt and bossed the hotel in which the first municipal
body of Fiemantle held its early meetings, and amassed a
considerable amount of property in that malodorous
seaport.


is
mtm
■
mm
isastli
Mr... \
■
■
i
■ • :
m
,
lit
.
I
lit
SB
sas!
?!
4 v
fj
MIU
m m
-A
m
t mt
A
S
IS
A pipe of CAPSTAN TOBACCO makes a long'
road easy.


DRINK
*
'V
❖
o
ii*
HEIDSIECK
CHARLES
1900
VINTAGE
4
<&
£
very
S'. M. Herald (21/8/’07) had an unex-
pected burst of candor about the importer:—
The ways of the trader are peculiar ; his point of view
often selfish, and his moral courage wofully deficient.
This may seem a harsh summing-up of the character of
those who guide the big commercial industries of the
State, but that in no way detracts from its truthfulness.
The introduction of the new tariff has brought out these
points in bold relief. Privately, merchants are free
enough to grumble about the incidence of the duties,
and point out anomalies, and generally to show the abso-
lute destitution of any underlying knowledge of the
arrangement of their schedule. But ask them to publicly
state their case, give specific instances, and boldly come
forth with the full weight of their names, and they
immediately close up with oyster-like precision.
Precisely. The importer, like any other old
woman making insinuations against her neighbor
over the back fence, waves his arms in the air,
and scatters round large, vague statements, but
when he is asked to come down to facts and give
“specific instances,” he merely replies “Yah!”
or something like that. ‘ * Specific instances ” are
just what he hasn’t got in stock—he has plenty
of voluminous generalities, but no “specific in-
stances. ” In this respect the importer is precisely
in the position of his henchman. Senator-solicitor
Gould, when he made that famous allegation that
the Commonwealth had no power to impose a
graduated land-tax. When challenged to produce
the clause of the Federal Constitution which for*
bids a Commonwealth graduated land-tax, Mr.
Gould’s silence became so loud that the echoes of
it are rumbling yet.
A Red Nose is the bane of many a woman’s exist*
ence. It detracts so greatly from her appearance that all
sorts of subterfuges are resorted to to hide the defect. But
ladies should know that an absolutely certain and pain-
less cure can be had at the Valaze Institute. Here Dr.
Lassar’s Electric Device, operating a process of Nasal
Massage, restores a Red Nose to its normal color in from
six to eight sittings. Mile. Helena Rubinstein secured
this treatment from Vienna, where it is used in the
Beauty Salons for which that city is famed. Of course,
one must personally attend the Institute to be treated,
but those who have to delay their visit may secure a
Cream and Powder from 8/- that hides the defect.
Then, when opportunity offers, they can call and need
have no further trouble with the disfigurement. Call
or write either to the Valaze Institute, 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 158 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
One Hunnable, a mountebank politician
who nominated himself for the Jarrow (England)
election, and would have forfeited his deposit if
such a thing existed in England, has received a
music-hall engagement in London. The Referee
says, unkindly, that “nothing he says or does is
in the least interesting or amusing,” and calls it a
“catchpenny engagement.”
Only natural-Fed. —not to say well-Fed.—
Legislators should vote themselves the means of
securing increased knowledge, wisdom and power
for good. And as these essentials to progress are
best secured by the right measures of D.C.L.
Whisky, an extra £200 per annum should fill them
to overflowing—not with D.C.L. —but with a
oheerfully progressive spirit.*
THE WHISKY OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTE .
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY
“BLACK and WHITE.’’
FACILE PRINCEPS SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 27, 1907.
My Dear Arint,—
Bishop Stone-Wigg, of Papua, was married (a
fortnight after the announcement of his engage-
ment) to Miss Effie Mort, daughter of the late
James Mort. The wedding was quietly celebrated
at one of the sweetest and bushiest of places—
Gordon, on the North Sydney line. The Bishop
with the hard and hairy name is “absolutely
charming ” (except for one little habit he has of
carrying about for propaganda purposes bits of
bone representing fragments of cannibal feasts).
He is also dreadfully asthmatic, and has only part
of another year in which to wave his crook over
the Papuans. Bride is also “ charming,” and for
years has slaved like an angel-of-all-work at
Christ’s Church. (Apropos, I have often thought
of writing a story which will commence suddenly :
“The angel had just finished scrubbing out
Heaven.”)
An infuriated female—females should never be
infuriated ; it’s unsettling to the nerves and the
appearance—relates that the lady who, I thought,
looked best in the recent tableaux in aid of the
District Nursing Society “bribed me with a nice
little cheque.” Hence my opinion. Alas, alas
for human nature that some people will measure
other people’s morals by their own bushel !
The firm belief in the corruptibility of the Press
is not confined to women suffering from wounded
vanity. Another female (who really ought to
know better) told me lately that the musical and
dramatic critics of the metropolitan dailies were
very rich men, banking their money in a dozen
different banks so as to evade suspicion. It was
a better game, she seemed to think, than land
agency. “ All the theatrical managements and
the musical and dramatic artists ” paid bribes !
It reminds me of a yarn of J. F. Archibald’s
re his early press career. He was reporting
in a police court, and an accused came up
and gave him a shilling. “ Keep my name
out of the papers, old man,” he said confi-
dentially. And Archibald looked sadly at the four
other pressmen present. “ But look,” he said,
“ at the crowd I have to divide it with ! ”
Another story, if the present editor will
let me tell one of his yarns:—He was finan-
cial editor then, and had spoken severely
and published a vast mass of figures (and pro-
mised some more) about a foreign company
which had located itself here. The affable man
of the concern came round to fix things up. He
assumed they were both men of the world. (They
were.) He assumed that all these little difficul-
ties could be settled on a business basis. (They
could.) Of course, the co. didn’t mind doing the
square thing. (The square thing was cordially
approved of.) “ Well, how about fifty pounds 1 ”
“Fifty pounds! I can’t do it under £lOO,OOO !
I want to be able to retire.” “ But there
isn’t £lOO,OOO capital in the company!” “Oh,
well, I’ll tell you what I’ll do ! I’ll take the
whole concern, and say no more about it.” Then
the business fell through, and because of that the
editor is still working.
Perhaps by this time it has dawned on my
infuriated female that journalists don’t take
bribes —partly because they are honest, partly
because the bribe is seldom big enough to be
worth taking. If it hasn’t dawned on the in-
furiated female, she will have to remain buried in
darkness. It doesn’t matter much, anyway.
By the Mongolia arrived a paliasse of mine.
(That’s the feminine of pal, you know.) A week
before she left she rushed in to see Mrs.
J. C. Williamson, just settled in a flat in
Regent’s Park. Mrs. J. G. was holding
an excited talk-gathering of (mostly) Aus-
tralians. There was Mrs. Jack Scantlebury
and her daughter Mignon, said to be a girl of
startling beauty (they are on their way to Aus-
tralia), also Miss Carrie Moore and Miss Eugenia
Stone and her knight, and Miss Rose Musgrove.
Without the door of the flat mansions stood a
most gorgeous thing in carriages. Attached to it
were superb horses, and there was also a coachman
and footman with “elegant” liveries and the cor-
rect, fixed, ramrod-like expression of face and de-
meanor. (To be a real, first-class British flunkey
you have to look straight, fat, and dead, also ex-
pressionless, and cataleptic and expensive.) Now
guess whose very own was the turn-out? Hold on
to something. It was Carrie Moore’s ! But it is
only part of her English style and glory. She
has a brougham for night use, and a ripping
motor-car for her country spins. And these
vehicles are Carrie’s own personal property, my
paliasse tells me. The Australienne, of whom
we were getting frankly tired when she
left, is in the front rank of artistes in
her line in England, and I notice that one autho-
rity prophesies she will become as important as
was Ellen Terry.
Miss Rose Musgrove had her swag and billy
packed for Australia, and had just whistled to
her footsore doer, when she got Mr. Otho Stuart’s
offer of an engagement to play second parts at the
Court Theatre. She is really truly gifted in her
line, and ought to make a great Hit (in capitals).
Miss Ruby See, second daughter of the late ex-
Premier John See, got into bridal array last
week, and had “O Perfect Love” sung at her.
She married Mr. John Oliver Meeks, of Mel-
bourne. The bunch of bridesmaids was a beauty
—Miss Lily See, the flower of the See family ;
Mis 3 Connie Bryen, a noted good-looker; and
Miss Meeks, the bridegroom’s sister, were the
three bridal flowers. Miss Bryen is to marry Mr.
J. C. M. See, the bride’s brother, some time in
the many-flowered October, when the wattle, I
believe, is in bloom, or if it isn’t it ought to be,
and anyhow it doesn’t matter much.
Miss Grace Palotta, in olive green velvet, shone
as hostess at the Society of Artists’ picture Ex. on.
Monday. She inaugurated the society’s At.
Homes, and as the Hugh Wards gave the second
reception the firm of Norman Lindsay, Ashton
and Co., Unlimited, has quite an atmosphere of
“ Mr. Hopkinson.”
In that oldest of Australian magazines (the
New South Wales), dated October, 1833, I came
across, the other day, an historic entry among the
marriages :
At St. James’s Church, Sydney, by the Ven. the Arch-
deacon, Janies Mitchell, Esq., Assistant Colonial
Surgeon, to Miss Scott, daughter of the late Dr. Scott,
an old resident of India and of Russell-square, London,
and sister to Messrs. Scott, of-Olendon, Hunter River.
They were the father and the mother of David
Scott Mitchell, who gave up his life and fortune to
the making of the Mitchell Library for Australia.
The September Lone Hand has a most interesting
article on Mitchell —the first to my know-
ledge that tells anything of the real character of
the man. The writer (Arthur W. Jose) seems to
hint at an unhappy love affair as one of the
motives which drove David Mitchell into seclusion,
and turned him from an amateur book-collector to
a professional librarian, devoting all his riches and
his great intellectual power to book-worming.
A study of the old days of the New South
Wales Magazine would be interesting to some of
the social lights of to day. Those were the times
when a real “aristocracy ” held up its head and
looked with great scoff upon the folk who fore-
fathered our present haughty ones. Of that
aristocracy none were more generally accepted
than the Scotts and the Mitchells, two families
without birthstains and with some traditions and
education. The Mitchell clan has almost died
out—Mrs. Merewether, of Sydney, is one of its
last members. But several of the Scotts survive—
chief among them, Miss Rose Scott.
Just got a bit of wedding-cake from a girl whose
acquaintance I made at an Agricultural Show.
With the cake was a card bearing the bride’s new
name, and below was inscribed, “ With the late
Miss Smith’s compliments.” Well, better late
than never, even if you are late in being Smith.
“ Under no circumstances whatsoever,” says a
note from one of Melba’s secretarial staff, will
Mrs. Melba “sing in opera or concert ” during
her forthcoming visit to this country. Her visit
will be for holiday purposes and the foregathering
with her family. “But during 1909,” continues
tlie pen of authority, “it is the prima-donna’s
hope to make a professional tour through Aus-
tralia and Maoriland.” This is news indeed ! So
we’ll just wait for the Song to be mellowed by
two more years, and not worry Mrs. Melba by
sitting on her mat and begging her to warble in
1907.
Mr. Edwin Geach leaves for Wellington (M.L.),
on Saturday, to arrange for the Willoughby-
Ward tour. ” Also the Fred Shipmans start for
India about November, taking the braw Scotch
lassie, Jessie Maclachlan, with them.
A girl who arose in the peach-hue dawn to look
at the comet tells me that it’s just “ a diamond
star with an osprey springing from it.” The
eternal feminine !
Further and further from sight is receding the
Scriptural injunction to “bear ye one another’s
burdens.” Pleasure-loving Madame Butterfly
has cast off as many burdens as possible on to the
other woman (or man), who carries them because
she can’t help it, or for coin. Lately the Smart
Setters have shaken off another important Society
responsibility. They hire a fashionably-dressed
young party, as much as possible like the hirer in
height and figure, and send her around in the em-
ployer’s carriage to leave cards. This understudy
is known as “ the ladies’ caller.”
You remember the Duke of Abruzzi—the lovely
young Italian who was here a few springs ago in
his warship? Recently he was the guest of the
American nation, and his flagship was thrown
open to visitors, with this result:—
If a band of South Sea Islanders had been given carte
blanche to work their will, the spoliation could hardly
have been more complete. Every portable article was
carried away bodily by those whose mania for souvenirs
overcame the scruples of common honesty. The Duke of
Abruzzi had a gold toilet set presented to him by the
King of Italy, and not a single piece of this set was left to
tell the tale. Clothes brushes, hair brushes, combs, studs,
sleeve links, all shared the common fate, and even the
buttons of the royal uniforms were cut away in order that
the “ respectable ” thieves might enjoy the inestimable
privilege of possessing articles that had actually been
fingered by a real, live prince.
Admiral Evans evidently feels bitterly on the subject,
and well he may. When he took the Indiana into Boston
harbor over 10,000 people visited it, and they stole every-
thing that they could carry away, from the screws on the
searchlight to the sights on two dozen guns. But the
worst feature in the whole bad business is that this sort
of thing occurs only in American waters. Admiral Evans
says:
•« I have held receptions on board my vessels in nearly
every country in the world, but in no place other than
America have I ever missed anything. At Kiel there were
probably a thousand persons present at a dance on the
New York ; but not a pin was taken.”
Here in Sydney, when warships are “thrown
open ” to the public, officers’ cabins, mess rooms,
and the like living rooms, are locked. There is
nothing to steal except guns, and boats, and
decks, and tons of coal, and the like. When the
Ophir was here with the ducal Yorks, a lot of
looting was done on visitors’day. One lady was
getting away with a cruet-stand when an officer
asked her to restore it. She looked at him like a
meat-axe, then took out one bottle and handed
back the rest, saying, “ I suppose I can keep this
as a soovyenir.” Cushions —nary an unprotected
cushion did the thieves leave. They even took
away for souvenirs the straw on which the
Royal cow was litttered. After that day no
lockable place was left unlocked when the public
was expected. But I don’t think we stole any-
thing from Abruzzi’s ship. If we did he never
mentioned it.
The lion eating unsalted olives in his old age !
Report says that King Edward has been acting
the r6le of peacemaker amongst fashionable
couples who would otherwise take their differ-
ences to the divorce court. A smart young
countess, who was out for a blizzard of a time,
has been pulled up by the King’s mediation
between her and her husband. He pours oil on
the troubled situation, and greases the domestic
storm. And if two stiff-necked people show signs
of dodging the Lubricator, the power behind the
oil lets them know quite firmly that they
will no longer be received at Court. They must
be oiled or else stay away. Neither will those
who aid and abet scandals, or who figure too
prominently with persons whose morals are noto-
riously on the blink, be allowed within the palace
doors. Edward's Court promises something of
the respectability that his mother’s had, but
minus the drab Grundyism and the faded cotton
umhrella atmosphere of her regime.
The death of the mother of Sydney’s Mayor
Hughes has put a big clan into mourning. Two
daughters of the deceased lady are nuns at Rose
Bay Con vent. Mrs. O’Gorman Hughes is another
daughter. Mrs. Hughes was a pillar of her
Church, and pretty well built St. Canice’s at
Darlinghurst.
“ All God’s mud will make moan for recogni-
tion” in the farewell concert to be given to
Roberto Hazon by the two big musical societies
—Amateur Orchestral and Philharmonic—on the
25th. A colossal burst of melody it will be. The
money testimonial to Hazon is rising like a
yeasty loaf in a hot oven. Paling’s is keeping
eo.Hr- rtf the rise.
Miss Eva Champion’s concert will occur next
Friday in St. James’s Hall. The rising star con-
tralto will sing “Abide With Me, and two
German lieder. Members of the Girls’ Guild are
running the show without any aid from the mere
male—except on the programme. Miss Grace
Burrows is business manager.
Baronet Sinclair Lockhart and wife, of Maori-
land, a real good-looking pair, have been in
Sydney for a space. He was an auctioneer in
Whangarei when the Scotch baronetcy, with land
and coin, fell on him (without in the least raising
a swelling on his head). He went with his wife
and child and chattel to live in the land of the
shaggy brose and the stern, wild, kilted porridge,
but after Maoriland !1! So the group is back
in Ward’s own country.
“You have women members, there is consider-
able women’s work adorning your walls, then
why have you excluded ladies from this banquet
to-night?” asked Mr. Carruthers at the Royal
Art Society’s opening dinner. Mr. Daplyn
replied that the men artists wouldn’t think of
mixing up their long-haired associates with
whisky and cigars. Probably to himself he said
“The girls wouldn’t pay 10s. 6d. for what they
could get at their pet grill-and-bun shop for
eighteenpence.” On Monday the Minister
for Public Instruction formally opened the Exhi-
bition. Minns is represented by some little gems,
and A. H. Fullwood by monotypes of Australian
scenery that hold one so long that a boat or lunch
is missed. George Oollingridge’s “Washing
Hay, in Sunny Spain,” somehow makes one envious
of the laundress. It is to be hoped she appre-
ciates the dull amber and smoky turquoise lights
on the front of her shanty. A Maorilander,
C. Worseley, has had two pictures bought by
the N. G. Trustees. They show Swiss and
Spanish scenes respectively. The wild mountain
pass with the sinister gloom of purple pines, the
ruined bridge of centuries-old masonry, and the
tumbling torrent seem to have got pretty accu-
rately “there” in the young paint.er’s work.
Miss lone Bennett exhibits some good flower
pieces. Miss Rod way a fine head, and Miss
Edwell a dainty miniature of Miss Rose Scott,
too cinnamony as to complexion, but otherwise a
capital likeness. PresidentListerListerhas noend
of bush wealth, and his picture of an improvement
lease makes one long to go and get a job at burn-
ing-off, with intervals foi gathering wattle. The
R. A. Society will hold the usual series of conver-
saziones.
If Miss Margaret Windeyer doesn’t, on behalf
of the Women’s Work Ex., have some socks (not
stockings) that want mending sent her by next
Tuesday, the Chief Justice’s prize of one guinea
for the best-darned socks will lapse. It’s a fact
that no man, nor any woman who has a lien on a
man, will acknowledge that his socks want darn-
ing. But isn’t it sweet of the C.J. to offer a prize
for such things? Perhaps he saw the socks of
some of the junior Bar .
From a daily :
fiOW, good milker, very pretty, just calved heifer ;
also handsome 13.1 Filly. Brancourt’s, Bankstown.
What the beauty of the animal matters none
knoweth. Very few of us have our cow into the
drawing-room after the evening’s milking. It’s a
wonder the would-be-seller didn t &dd thcit his
“pretty” cowand her “handsome” heifer bel-
lowed beautifully in duets.
A note from the Mongolia at Fremantle tells
that Mr. and Mrs. Clara Butt were great favorites
on the vovage. Also the sky-towering lady won
the Bridge tournament. Other interesting folk
on board are the Henniker Heatons, Mr., Mrs.,
and two daughters.
Mrs. Amy Sherwin has discovered some fine
voices amongst Sydney warblers. She professes
herself amazed at the number of lovely voices that
she has sampled here. Frobably she will give a
pupils’ concert before the spring burns into
summer. Visiting artists seem to have taken to
the teaching habit in quite a general way. Young
basso Arnold Gange has his classes, and tenor
Chester Fentress has just started. Last-named
sings to-night at Blanche Arral’s benefit concert.
It promises well. Mrs. Motor-Car Preston took
ten seats five minutes after the plan opened.
After September, when the Powerful picks up
a fresh crew at Colombo, there’ll be a room to let
on the warship. No more middies will be taken
on battleships. They will be educated at
Osborne, and will no longer be sent out to struggle
with mal*de-mer, and to be “ learnt their lessons
by the parson. “Junior officers” they will be
labelled when drafted on board the cannon-
carriers. But about that room to let. It is the
gun-room, and was the preserve of the mids
during their leisure—a spacious, airy, pleasant
apartment with a water frontage behind it and all
around. I shouldn’t think the Admiral would have
any difficulty in getting 10s. a week for thegun-room
—meals extra, according to arrangement with the
captain or the cook. The lodger would, of
course, have to produce references, and he would
expect the like courtesy from the Powerful.
“Rosna” from Adelaide :
The chancing- and frocky John Downer dame and Mrs.
J. R. Anderson, whose vigorous hon. secretarying of the
local Women’s Work Exhibition has won her many
laurels, collaborated in an Exhibition party on Monday
(19th). All the nobility balanced its best millinery on the
pinnacle of its Sunday coif, and crowded to the cosy little
drawing-room in the west wing of the Exhibition. The
hostesses received (Mrs. Downer in handsome champagne-
tinted raiment and picture hat, and Mrs. Anderson in
gorgeous silk with a floral head-piece). Her Le Hunte
Excellency, in festal array, lent her countenance, with her
young vice-regal relative in attendance, also the Way, Coles
and Bray dames, Mrs. Edward Hawker, Mrs. William Camp-
bell, Mrs. Arthur Rymill, Mrs. Makin, Mrs. Lee, Mrs. and
Miss Gordon, and many more social ornaments. The com-
mittee finds this sort of thing an excellent method of
advertising the Exhibition, and drawing to it the idle
rich, who like to get their afternoon tea for nothing.
Others who hostessed successful entertainments during
the week were Mrs. J. J. Duncan, Mrs. Way, and Mrs.
Stirling.
One of the most interesting exhibits at the Exhibition
is a bookcase, carved by Miss Golly (no, not Wog). The
damsel dwells on a stray island somewhere in the vicinity
of Port Lincoln, has never had a day’s training in her
life, nor, until his Ex. was touring thereabouts and saw
her work, had she any proper tools. The grouping and
designing are her own, and she has put into the
work all the things with which she is familiar—native
ferns and flowers, coils of rope, etc. The detail is mar-
vellous. Among other features of the Ex. there are on
view two ancient gowns—one of the crinoline period, and
another that was actually worn when Queen Bess of the
meek and lowly disposition was busy walking on Walter
Raleigh’s best Sunday clothes.
The Lyric Club didn’t Arid it half such an arduous busi-
ness as it expected to catch a new honorary secretary.
It just walked round two corners, and ran him to
earth at the Town Hall. He is Mr. Alick Morison, a nice
boy, who has manipulated a series of mayors with con-
Bpicuous success. This is a great recommendation. Any-
one who can manage several mayors ought to be equal to
one club.
This State’s Hunt Club saw the first tragedy among its
lady members on Saturday (17th), when young Mrs. Alan
Bowman was thrown and killed during an early morning
run. The deceased —formerly a Miss Bell, of Gippsland —
was a very bright • nd charming girl, and immensely
popular. She was only 21, and her husband was not
very much older. They were the most joyously devoted
young couple one could imagine. The bereaved bride-
groom squats at Tatiara, somewhere in the wilds near
Meningie, where he had just built his wife a gorgeous new
home.
Lizzie Newbold last week dispensed some of her bird
music for the teeming population of Glenelg, and the
teeming population left the place it teems in and spoke
well of her. A benefit concert in the city is to be thrown
at Miss Newbold shortly, and it is to be hoped that the
aim will be good, and that the thing will hit the lady
where it will do her the most service.
The lately invented city of Unle.v has committed a new
town hall, which was opened with much splendor the
other day. The Excellencies performed the deed with
the usual graceful and inevitable few words, and were
presented by the Council with the gold button which
rang up the curtain as a slight appreciation. This
sounds a little mixed, but it will have to stand. Anyhow,
their Exes, received a button to cherish, and Mr. Herbert
Cooke, mayor of the place, got a gold key, and the new
town hall was fairly started on its career.
A letter from Brisbane :
The vice-regal party ended in smoke. Our frail local rep-
resentative of Edward, King and Emperor, caught the ’flu’
before he reached Dillalah, and promptly returned to
town to be “ nussed up.” So your Sydney viceroy
didn’t catch the wily snipe after all. His departure and
that of Miss Dimples leaves a blank—especially the de-
parture of Miss Dimples.
Weddings have been rather off latterly, the only
important fixing being that of Lena O’Connell, daughter
of the late Minister for Agriculture, and Mr. George
Davidson, at the pretty home of Mr. and Mrs. John
Murray, New Farm, on Wednesday last. The bride wore
an elegant confection of chiffon gauze, worked in pearls.
The garment was supplied by an elderly English aunt,
and sent out for the discouragement of Australian
industry.
Tennis President Blank—
“ Blank ” has been put in because all attempts to
decipher the name have failed —
took a launch load of Southern and country raeketers
up the river on Sunday, in weather that wept and smiled
alternately. There was bonnie Rosie Peyton in a helio-
trope flowered muslin, and the “ Florodora ” Gordons
in immaculate linens, with collars that would cut the
throat of any ordinary stove-pipe ; chubby little Pitt, and
bonnie Miss Crisp. The local contingent included the
O’Reilly chick, two Abercrombies, Do is De Winton,
Misses Windeyer and Smith, and Mesdames Wood and
Tilston from the wilds, and the Mants, who still wear the
old original hair pad.
Saturday and the lawn tennis finals drew a big crowd
to the Auchenflower courts, where Rice, after a sensa-
tional display, beat Parker for the Australasian Cham-
pionship three straight. Rosie Peyton, of the unbe-
coming headgear, carried off the ladies’ Australasian
blue, and, to the joy of all, Parker and Gregg, the latter
in phenomenal form, beat Rice and Wright for the Aus-
tralian Doubles.
The annual dinner, at which everyone said nice things
of everyone else, finished off a week of tennis which,
though disastrous to Queensland, proved one of unfail-
ing interest. Miss Scott and Captain Frank Newton
were the only vice-regal lights that shone on the gathering.
Bonnie Meg Armour, of New Farm, has promised her
hand and heart to one Maynard, wedding to take place
before the end of the year. The big sensation of the
week, however, is the announcement of the engagement
of Mr. Albert Duckett White, widower, of Bluff Downs
(0.Q.), and dashing Mrs. Morrison, sister of Mrs. George
Perry, of this city. Their future home is in Sydney.
Biil-Marian Edwards has cropped up again, and runs
some kind of show in a little shop in George-street.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


gfkfkfg
REDUCE YOUR FAT.
A fair example of what our treatment will do for
sufferers from Obesity.
Your excessive fat is an ugly, hideous disfigurement, and you should
get rid of it without loss of time.
“FATCURE”
is a simple and permanent cure for
Obesity [excessive fat] in men and
women. It is perfectly harmless in
its action upon the system, and requires no starvation nor ex-
hausting exercises. The patients undergoing this treatment can go
about their daily duties in the ordinary way without the least incon-
venience. It has effected wonderful cures, and is recognised to be
the only true remedy.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
SUITE J, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Entrance also from Market Street.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us send a Free Trial Sample.
Enclose a 2d. stamp to us and let us send you—under
closed cover, without marks —a Free Sample of ‘•Fatcure”
and our book giving particulars. CALL, if convenient,
and let us explain our method.
HOURS 9 A.M. TO 6.30 P.M. DAILY.
£
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
WE STOCK and Manufacture to order
CONVEYOR and VANNER BELTS,
in Any Length or Size, same as
now used with success by many
of the Leading Australian Mines,
AIR DRILL HOSE, . . . SUCTION
and DELIVERY HOSE, . . VALVES,
PACKINGS and Every Description
of Rubber Goods required for
Mining. Quality of Material
and Workmanship—THE BEST.
Tenders and Samples Submitted
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch, N.Z.
wvs-yc;
WN
§?&£
&&S2
>§&
B§|j
*»
KV^>V\
o>s?v-
-#
M»
n
«S£SSSSS»S
'XJS&'SSKS
s*sa?
V*
S33S
><o
y\'\
Cy\^
/vy
'>\#
Every Oyclist
may obtain a copy of this beautifully
illustrated 36*page Booklet-for the
asking. Contains information of
value to every cyclist, and full
directions as to the proper use and
management of pneumatic tyres.
Obtainable through all Cycle Agents,
or direct from the...
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
«o 8 Flinders St., Melb. 255 Clarence St., Sydney
268-270 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
117 Grenfell St.. Adelaide. 81 Kins St., Perth*
Worcester Street, Christchurch. N.Z.
(p>am£ a
m
fgjkfgkfghk
COBHETJ
'SOMETHING- &VITE -NE.W-
- MJTIIZ€JMRLZ € JMRL
f /the w
WORLDJ
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 26, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Melbourne was shaken on Monday morning by
the arrival of the stupendous Clara Butt. She
didn’t rush overland, but arrived in comfort and
dignified state on the Mongolia at daybreak.
Receptioners—Gaud Mayor and such—were there
to time. The beautiful and copious Clara
came from her cabin looking fresh as the
morning, ran round the deck to kiss her
babies good morning (through their cabin port-
hole), then hied back to the saloon to open huge
boxes of flowers. She had so joyous a look—she
was so sweet, so glad to be alive —that her visitors
felt it was worth the early morning effort. There
is something wonderfully natural and girlish
about the singer. The sense of size is lost in the
exquisite poise of the whole body—with move-
ments swift and graceful. Her eyes are brown,
clear and alert, and wide-awake as a child’s. The
eyelashes and finely pencilled eyebrows would
drive a poet crazy, as would the soft, rich blue-
blackness of her hair. The strength of her
chin and throat and rather broad nose would be
heavy but for the softness of a glorious complexion
—the perfection of health. Her mouth is the
mouth of a true singer—sensitive and adorably
curved.
The babies joined in the informal reception.
Happy little youngsters—curious about everything
—needing alert eyes to keep them out of danger.
Between handshakes and pretty speeches the
adoring mother implored husband “Bertie’’and
other members of the co. to guard the babies
from the yawning cargo holds.
On Tuesday afternoon the Gaud Mayor and
Gaudy Mayoress have a shivoo in honor of the
singer. On Wednesday a united women’s choir
of 1300 voices will thunder the diva’s favorite song
at her—as a challenge. Won’t she boom it back
at them when she takes the platform. Then all
the musical societies are taking turn at recep-
tioning.
Garden parties have a habit of being pretty and
over-dressed and dull as mud. Mrs. Arthur
Tuekett gave a garden party, the other day, and
managed cleverly to evade the generality. Which
is not to say that it was ugly, under-dressed, and
bright, but juSt bright. The majority of the
guests were club friends, and were invited in-
formally to “come out and pick violets.” It
sounded idyllic, Arcadian, and Simple-Life-ish, and
there was no need of the elaborate frills and fur-
belows of the conventional garden-party rig. Nor
did one feel bound to wear the family Koh-i-noors
and rock-crystals. A short skirt and other neces-
saries to match filled the bill well enough. There
were miles, or thereabouts, of violet borders.
Little groups of twos and threes crouched kneel-
ing in the waist-high tafigle with heads conveni-
ently close together, and breathed scandal or
poetry or any casual old substance.
A sad death was that of Miss May Livingstone,
a clever young character actress engaged with
Bland Holt. Something 3ud,den with an itis in it
was the cause—together with' the lack of prompt
medical attendance in the Jonesomeness of a
boarding house. . Miss Frances Ross eventually
discovered the girl’s critical state and brought
along a nurse and doctor—but just too late.
Miss Livingstone had been with Bland Holt for
seven years, and made a clever understudy of
Mrs. Bland’s coster parts. She stepped into these
when the chief lady went Bullwards.
One day last week Mrs. Staughton called a
meeting to discuss the servant problem. There
was a full house. All the frill, and tone, and
swagger indolenceof Melbourne was represented. A
Canadian secretary was introduced. She wag to pro-
pound wonderful wisdom. The whole room drew
its chair close with a hustle, and hung on the
words of the Wise Woman. There was to be a
home built for teaching imported servants. They
were to work hard all day, and thank God all
night, for good kind mistresses. The plan had
been thrashed into shape at Austral Salon meet-
ings, and was meant to be taken with-
out shaking. But hostile discussion arose
from the hall. The secretary appealed to Mrs.
President Madden. She entered upon a strenu-
ous practical speech, pulling the scheme to rags.
The secretary bridled up and down the platform
crested like a cockatoo. One almost felt inclined
to “ scratch cocky.” Things were smoothed down
by a general decision to refer the matter to “ dear,
sensible Mr. Bent.” So Mr. Bent will be asked
to tackle this question between whiles of his merry
antics.
Softgoods Henry Butler and his youthful dame
are doing London thoroughly this season. They
-have a flat in Kensington West. Sister Flo (one
of the Bijou Wilson chicks—they are all built on
the handsome, generous scale of the Butler
■madam) is with them in London. The trio have
been week-ending with the M’Eacharns. The
three Butler lambkins have been left in Paris for
lessons with Mrs. Raphael, while mamma and
papa and auntie motor through England. A
Continental motor tour is the next item on the
programme, then a frivol through Turkey and
Persia and other countries of ancient smell and
lineage.
“ Tryphena,” from London :
Annette Kellermann, water-nymph-in-chief of the world’s
tanks, wrote me somewhat despondently before leaving
for Uncle Sam’s land because of the lessening of her
bronzy curves. The Big Smoke dissipations, or the
strenuous seasons of dip abroad, or the Channel attempts,
had reduced Annette’s avoirdupois some, and she feared
for any further decrease of curve. But in America her
contours came back, and at latest she was revelling in
joy, youth, publicity, popularity, and hospitality.
There’s a steady tide of ’Koolanders drifting in and out
of London these days of laggard sunshine. Most of them
are booking bunks in the September liners, and accumu-
lating July bargain frocks for the Melbourne Cup,
so as to avoid encouraging Australian industry.
Mrs. Jowett and her brace of bairns hope to
be settled in their Toorak eyrie by the New Year. Popper
meantime sails back to his sheep run by way of Honolulu.
The Dunbar-Hoopers consort much with the Brasseys,
the Sydenham Clarkes and the Talbottles.
I had a glimpse of the two Castles sisters last week —
Amy looking as comely and cool and bloomy as an early-
season peach. Of the two canaries, the comic opera
chick is the more fetching, her style being bonny and a
trifle naive. The concert warbler, on the other hand, is
too plump and sedate to stir the pulse any. She seems
to have settled down with an easy conscience to a con-
dition of Calm Fat. But since her manner is impressively
'serene, Amy succeeds in winning much regard. And she’s
content with it. Dolly wants more. She revels in
dimples and an eye. It’s rather wonderful how the stage
developed Dolly and set her dimples on the flirtatious
racket.
But talking of fat as is fab, one has only to see Francie
Adler, whose chin rests on a bosom of vast circumference.
Francie is the most generous size in singers that London
boasts, and all who have heard hersing agree that her top
O is a staggerer, and the expressiveness of her melodious
middle range a joyous treat. Rupert Clarke is very
pleased with his auguries of the Adler voice—long ago,
when other Melbourne experts were pessimistic.
Melba mothers the Armstrong couple to Australia, and
conveys a personal staff from Cumberland Place as well.
Hereabouts, the butler who appears at a capricious
mistress’s elbow exactly at the right moment, and serves
the rum-punch at the psychological second, becomes in-
valuable. There’s no parting with him. It’s like the
maid who suggests a restorative or a change of complexion
at the correct moment. In the course of time a madam
can’t live without her. It’s a matter of character study
and whim doctoring. A perfect handmaid is a specialist
in moods.
A sudden and unexpected blaze of sunshine burst
through the corrugated zinc sky, the other day, and
Mayfair crowded the parks in the tooting brougham and
the carriage with fancy steppers. Carrie Moore, in a
billowy French foulard and a cheery hat, with a fringe of
fruit leaves dangling from the brim, lounged in a vehicle
drawn by a pair of proud-looking bays. Carrie doesn’t
alter. Des ite the staff of flunkeys who crawl and run at
a glance of her brown eye, she’s the same Carrie—
dimples, cheek, and all.
Mrs. Henry Bracy is about, not a summer older than
when she left ’Rooland. Mumming in Uncle Sam’s coun-
try with one-night stands has hurt the dame not at all,
and she returns thither after seeing her wool-buyer son
off to Australia. It takes some grit to go touring in alien
lands when one’s a grandmother.
Sylvia Blackstone, after three seasons of Fog, has
marked out a decent niche for herself. Her engage-
ments have taken her into the presence of a few Prin-
cesses, and she quotes their interested sallies with dis-
creet casualness. It’s the only way to do it. Royalty
must be mentioned as one does the weather—most inci-
dentally— to carry conviction. The artist who hurls a
personal princely remark as an almighty staggerer at
your head is a target for a grin. And you don’t believe
him. One Australian he-warbler boasted before a large
assortment of brother and sisterstrugglers, theotherday,
that he had fort> 1 "chesses billed as patronising his pro-
spective concert, .»Hereupon a tearful songstress turned to
me with the geniie comment: “The liar! Why there
are only twenty duchesses in the whole of London ! ” A
boaster shouldn’t get reckless in that way. He should
count his duchesses, so to speak, before he lies.
Rose Musgrove, who had her bunk booked for home and
mother a month ago, changed her mind at the final hour,
cancelled the bunk, revolved a gay while, then dashed
into an engagement at the Court Theatre. Last week I
met her, and found the jaunty Rose bursting her petals
for very excitement. She wore a linen frock of the cutest
cut, with the back of the waist up in the centre of her
shoulders, and bunch of pompadour curls bobbing
under her rustic hat. Altogether Rose looked mighty
prosperous. A long chain of turquoise matrix dangled
from her neck, and a marvellous pair of matrix earrings
added a large blue glow to her pink ears. “ It’s a bully
place—this London,” said Rose, kissing her hand towards
Park Lane. And it is, provided you keep out of Hoxton,
Shoreditch, and a few hundred other places.
Major Tivey—the genial and rotund —wears a
smile as round as a halo or a cartwheel. It’s a
daughter. Mrs. Tivey was one of the Robb
girleens.
The Ice jaunt of the Victorian skaters, from
Melbourne rink to Sydney’s newly-froze, seems to
have had an unsettling effect. Two very youth-
ful jaunters took the brief opportunity and “got
engaged,” whence the dolorous moan of two sets
of irate parents. The girlie is a mere chick whose
feathers haven’t grown yet—she is still in the
fluffy stage of life —and her beloved is a pink-
cheeked Cupid clerk in a tea warehouse, with a
stipend of not much in a pretty long while.
The Histrionic Club, which is principally the
Pinschof lassies and a score of nice young men,
expound “The Tyranny of Tears” at Her
Majesty’s, on Friday next. Actor Harry Hill,
whose pupils the actors are, stage-manages, and
promises an intelligent performance.
Every delight has its disadvantages, we’re told;
and very true it is. (Even virtue brings its own
punishment!) This sweet spring season has an
extra long list—particularly in the matter of
hats. We women aren’t going to wear hats this
year. We’re going to stagger under roof-gardens,
outrages, lamp-shades, nightmares, and flower and
feather structures. And we have to pay for this
White Woman’s Burden a price that would liqui-
date the bill for rearing a foundling. A pinch of
tulle, one blossom, and a yard of ribbon which
has no use beyond covering the place where one
pins the ugly end of one’s purchased curls, costs a
king’s ransom. There isn’t a solitary mode which
is calculated to help the charms of any ordinary
woman. The lid whose dimensions are suitable to
a Juno a fathom high, has details appropriate to a
piquant pocket Venus. The only hats which any
woman of kissable proportions could venture on
are either dull enough to be dowdy or flippant
enough to make a singing angel look as though
she had an ulterior motive. Everything in the
way of hats is incoherent, ill-considered, and
hatefully expensive. So resourceful sisters pass
them by for something cheap and becoming in the
way of a simple straw sailor or a panama sun-
shade.
Justice Holroyd’s bust, which is the high-water
mark of sculptor Gilbert’s achievement, was
unveiled in the Supreme Court library on Monday.
C.-J. Madden did the deed to a burbling obligato
of his own eloquence. He apostrophised his late
colleague very gracefully, amidst the cheers and
“ hear-hears ! ” of a big battalion of Beelzebub’s
Host. And the hero of the hour responded with
much feeling and reciprocal compliments.
During the debates upon the increase of mem-
bers’ salaries, in both Houses the galleries were
filled with members’ wives. The obvious anxiety
of the dames was a touching argument in favor of
the increase. One candid creature told every
member who came within her ken, that if he failed
to vote for it he would be most selfish, and if it
wasn’t passed she’d not permit her M.H.R. to
offer himself for election ever again. She ex-
plained that the whole family had an expensive
migration to and from a distant State once a year,
as the alternative of separation for longer periods,
and maintained that her family was richer on £2OO
a year, and no burden of political prestige, than
it is on twice that amount and constant re-
moval expenses.
Mr. George Long-Innes returns to Sydney in
the Mongolia, full of Anglo-Australian news, and
in splendid health. He spent some time in Paris
with his comely mamma.
Miss Rose Quong, a competition star, gave an
elocutionary recital at Glen’s on Tuesday. She
did Poe’s “Raven” to a pianoforte accompani-
ment; also Longfellow’s “Excelsior.” Anything
more banal than “Excelsior” under any circum-
stances couldn’t very well be imagined ; but Miss
Quong described the visitation of Poe’s fateful
fowl with some force and imaginative power. The
competition canker has influenced her work, and
she was inclined to introduce false sentimentality
where no sentiment at all was desirable —other-
wise there was nothing objectionable about the
occasion.
Mrs. Gaston Mervale, the blonde beauty who is
the better half of Tittle Brune’s heavy villain,
returns to Him and Australia in November. The
dame grew so fond cf sunlight and Sydney
during her last sojourn in this hemisphere, that
she could only .tolerate one winter in the Cold
Land. Meantime, Gaston takes up the super-
vision of a Meynell and Gunn melodrama with
King Charles Beatty and leading lady Miss
Madge Macintosh, whose oatmeal-powdered name
suggests sound sense.
Mrs. Stuart Murray, lately the charming Miss
Frankie Oliver, returns almost immediately from
her overseas gaddings with her bridegroom.
Other wanderers warn her chums that the lady is
much altered —thinner, quieter, and quite
matronly in a girlish graceful way, which is a
pretty phase; for no woman is more alluring than
when she’s young enough to look likea debutante,
and experienced enough to talk and behave like an
entirely happy woman with wifely responsibilities.
A spinster, no matter how experienced, must pre-
tend to be the human equivalent of soda and
milk.
Widow of dentist Dillon, mamma to little
danseuse Irene, has contracted a second attack
of matrimony. Last week she was wedded
to Mr. Espenette, a solid commercial man.
A dance at the Masonic Hall followed the
wedding. The youthful and imposing Mrs.
Butters, with her devoted husband and Councillor
on guard, swept about in a gorgeous gown, and
helped the frivol along; so did Mrs. £. £. Smith,
who dazzled in diamonds and a white ninon dress
spangled with he£iotrope sequins.
There is likely to be another wedding in the
family soon. Irene Dillon, of the whirly toe, is
thinking of dancing through life with the small
slight Weedling—l mean Weedon—youth, son of
the Gaud Mayor.
The social ascent! A dame whose money-
earning half is a town, councillor—and in-
cidentally, an institution which will lend you
money on anything from a flat-iron to a hatful of
emeralds —advertises her transition from a
plebeian suburb to Toorak ! Suburban councillor-
ship has strange effects upon the womenkind of
the unassuming business man who is pushed into
the line of business that leads to the mayoral
’possum-skin. The missus and the girls get
enough dingy and temporary limelight to spoil
them for unassuming careers of good housewife-
dom. Poor things ! They can never forget how
Lady Talbottle shook their hands when she
opened the local bazaar ; nor how that bee-eautiful
A.D.C. stared at Myra. So they move on to a
neighborhood where it’s quite a possible thing to
exchange giggles with vice-regality, and there they
hang like Mahomet’s coffin—’twixt the Heaven
that won’t have them and the earth which they’d
like to believe they’d never belonged to. Poor
things !
Yours affectionately, JOHANNA.
The wages of gin is breath. —New saying.
London Saturday Review (8/6/’O7) on
the Australian Premier :
It is impossible not to be impressed by the ability of
Mr. Deakin. This report (the Conference Blue Book) is
full of touches that illustrate his wiseness. He is keen
always without being blatant, etc., etc.
One of the few matters for mild regret Australia
has in regard to the recent London happenings is
the frequency of this sort of tribute to Alfred
Deakin’s excellent manners. It is quite under-
standable that after a series of experiences
with screamers such as G. Reid, Seddon
and Bent, the carefully-brought-up London
editors should turn with relief to the courteous
and considerate Deakin. And yet it is a little
disquieting. Blatancy (that blatancy which
Deakin so wholly lacks) may be socially an un-
pleasing thing, but in the dust and turmoil of
Federal politics, with curious living shrieks like
Joe Cook and G. Reid to deal with, a dash
of blatancy is a very necessary asset now and
then.
Postmaster-General Mauger has got tired.
The other day, he drew attention to a pile of leaf-
lets fired into the office about 2 p.m. on a Satur-
day
These are the profitless things that block business.
This is a publication issued in the Foreign-trade interest,
and posted monthly at the bulk newspaper rate. It is so
light that about 50 go for a penny, yet it takes longer to
handle 10 of them than it does to deal with 100 letters.
Nevertheless, they fire these in now, and expect sorters
to be kept on Saturday afternoons and Sundays to hurry
them away.
So the Government proposes to further interfere
with “ private enterprise” by limiting the number
of “newspapers” that go to a pound ; and the
importer who issues a circular and calls it a news-
paper, and the anti-Sosh person who fights a
Parliamentary campaign on the same loafing
lines, will be up against one more snag.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantied.
REPAIRS and UPEOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
hkghkmgĥ
Q-O TO HB3L.L-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss—'
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEOEGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE DOCTOR.
L YNE: “ What are you suffering from!”
THE CHORUS : “Pains in the Tariff.”
L YNE: “ Well, take a dose of this.”
THE CHORUS : “ Wow!!”
As a consequence of the promised tariff on
matches there is already a project for a wooden-
match-making factory in Sydney (Sydney mark,
not Melbourne). The factory will employ, at the
first, £20,000 in capital, and will give direct work
to a good deal of labor.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley, who, accord-
ing to Carruthers, signed the order under which
the Sydney police insurrected against the Com-
monwealth, ought to seriously consider his
position. If Governor Rawson had acted in that
way he would, doubtless, have been recalled ere
this by the British Government. Mr. Darley
might, by resigning, indicate that his contempt of
the law was unthinking rather than deliberate.
Victorian Lands Minister Mackey, intro-
ducing a Bill to compulsorily resume (by purchase)
1,000,000 acres of Western lands :
One can travel for miles and hardly see a single human
being There are fewer homes in that area to-day
than there were 33 years ago. In the three principal
districts there are to-day 1500 fewer families in occupa-
tion. It is impossible to say how many original
selectors there were, but the estates were originally
granted to 1200 individuals. The whole are now held by
80 persons.
But still not a word about a graduated land-tax.
Yet, without it, what is there to stop the same,
or some other, 80 persons driving out the next
lot of settlers, just as they drove out the 1500
families whom Mackey mentions ? When is the
Australian Parliament going to move ?
“G.H.”: Under the new Vic. Infant Life
Protection Bill the minimum amount to be paid for
a child’s board is 10s. per week, and the maximum
40s. The maximum old-age pension in T. Bent’s
State is Bs. per week. The minimum may be
anything down to the price of a drink. Granted
that infants are worth paying for and ancients
are not, wouldn’t it be more in harmony with
modern ideas of humanity to poleaxe grandad
straight away, instead of starving him to death ?
I offer the above suggestion to the Vic. Govern-
ment for what it is worth.
“Hexham” : DecidedlytheForeign-shoddy
press is going mad. Says S. M. Herald
(20/8/’O7) :
To the general community the tariff is a staggerer ; to
farmers it is a complete paralyser. They will have to
pay, and pay heavily, for everything ; even the English
magazines they have been in the habit of purchasing for
9d. will next month be as high as Is. 4d.
How many farmers are in the habit of purchasing
English magazines? The duty on magazines will
affect “ the man on the land ” about as much as a
duty on Strasburg pie, or cannon, or the master-
pieces of Rembrandt.
Joseph Carruthers, of N.S.W., seems to
have lost his head. Sydney Telegraph reports
him as speculating at Parramatta on what he will
do “if it should happen that we lose the services
of the warships that fly the Union Jack.” It was
all about boots, or any other irrelevant matter.
Here is the raving :
If I woke up hearing the boom of guns, and knew that
our only defence was a mosquito fleet, with Mr. Austin
Chapman or Mr. Ewing in command of it, there would be
only one man to the Blue Mountains before me. That
would be Mr. John Nobbs, because he has longer legs.
The Telegraph adds:—
A few minutes later Mr. Carruthers thought better of
that proposal, or his fighting blood was stirred by remem-
brance of some sore on the State’s ribs, because he stated
that, after all, it was the little men like him who stayed
to do the fighting, and it was the big fellows with long,
striding legs, like Mr. William Lyne, who were the first to
run away.
So whether Carruthers is a coward who will run,
or a hero who will stay and fight is uncertain. He
says in his excitement that he is both of them.
Thus a Sydney importing firm to an agent
in the Cow country of N.S.W. South Coast
Sydney, Aug., ’O7.
Dear Sir, —We are sorry to say that the Federal
Government have placed a duty of 10 per cent, on Cream
Separators, which means that, if it is passed, we will
have to increase our prices, which we would be very
sorry to do. We would like you to write to your local
Federal member, whom we understand is Mr. Chapman,
stating that you view with dismay the imposition of
these duties, and hope he will kindly use his influence to
have Cream Separators again admitted duty free. Ex-
plain, please, that Separators CANNOT POSSIBLY BE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA ; that it is a most useful adjunct
to a dairyman ; and that, in dairying districts like those
your member represents, it would be a great pity to
fetter the industry in any way. You, of course, would
write as from yourself—not mentioning our name in any
shape or kind. Simply write as a constituent. Hoping
you will kindly do this—Faithfully yours, .
We can make motor-cars, turbine engines, steam
pumps, and mining machinery of all kinds, but a
simple cream separator is beyond us. Ye gods !
It is a curious set of circumstances.
Eight or nine years ago N.S.W. was assured by
the Sydney importing push
and its Twaddlegraph
that the State was dead
against Federation,
but the State gave a
big majority for Fed-
eration. A year ago
it was assured by the
same crowd that the
State was splendidly
solid for Reid and
Freetrade and Anti-
Socialism ; and then
the State knocked out
the prominent Anti-
Soshites and Free-
traders—Hindle, Gibb,
Pumpkin Smith, Lons-
dale, Conroy, and Jim-
my Graham —and gave
G. Reid the run of his
life for his own seat.
And now the same push
assures N.S.W. that the
State has resolved to
fight to the last to pre-
vent an Australian capital being established on
the Snowy River (about which it doesn’t care a
straw), and that it is simply raving at the new
tariff (and it isn’t raving worth a copper).
Despite Westralia’s ever-increasing deficit,
the Moore Government enthusiastically promises
railways, roads, bridges, agricultural grants,
mining bonuses—everything asked for, in fact—
on the assumption that it has only to ask Isaac
Bull for another couple of millions with which to
construct “reproductive works.” Portion of last
loan vent in so-called agricultural railways. They
er'jfi £lOOO per mile, and were so lightly con-
structed that they have already disappeared—
recent heavy rains washed them clean away.
Most of the Moore propositions are about equally
productive, and though Abraham Bull in Eng-
land knows only part of these things, even the
little part he does know is calculated to make
him breathe heavily when asked to put up the
next million.
GEORGE’S ATTITUDE WITH REGARD
TO THE TARIFF.
REID: “ Yah! I wasn't tryin’, see!”
The Australian Government has blundered
sadly in its treatment of the Carruthers attack on
the law. The attempt to secure an injunction
against Carruthers in the High Court was promptly
(and rightly) rebuffed; it is not a matter of Equity.
A police-court prosecution under the Customs Act
of Carruthers’ tools would have properly met the
case.
Practical acquaintance with Government
administration is teaching the Laborite many
things. Once he could always be relied on to
try to chop down the salaries at the top; now,
when the salary of the Auditor-General was up
for consideration the other day in the S. Aus.
Assembly, it was the Laborites who upheld the
doctrine of good pay for a good man.
It is easy to gauge the source and the
strength of the Victorian end of the agitation
in favor of sweating members of the Federal
Parliament. Already prayers are being
offered to the great Joss of Toryism
and Anti-Sosh the holy Kyabram.
People are writing to the papers, asking
the prophets of Kyabram—“ the noble
band of Kyabramites” one weird charac-
ter called them—to emerge from the ob-
scurity of their farms and reform the
Federal Parliament. But Kyabram is too
busy swindling the State out of its water-
rates to do much political work these
times.
The Sydney importers of coach-
builders’ materials have sent out a circu-
lar “ to the coach trade ” about the awful
new duties. As importers, they are not a
bit interested in the restriction of im-
ports ; all they are cut up about is that
“your tradesmen, in lessened employ-
ment, must be the greatest sufferers of
all.” Nowadays these tradesmen have
little more to do than to piece together
the parts that foreign workmen make ;
in the future they are likely to also have
the job of making the parts themselves.
In other words, just as their work in-
creases the importers’ opportunities of
making an easy living will shrink. Still
it isn’t for themselves the importers weep
—no, not a tear !It is for the poor work-
men who are going to have more work
to do, and more wages to earn.
“J.A.C.” writes: —
I was surprised to read that on 21st inst. Parliament
had thought fit to commence a debate on the new tariff.
Why, the tariff is in full blast now, and has been for a
couple of weeks and more. There is hardly a shopkeeper
or tradesman in the city of Sydney who hasn’t put up
the price of local goods, and goods that the tariff doesn’t
affect, with commendable impartiality. I have been told
that the tariff has even affected potatoes and cabbages.
Eggs are almost certain to go up—they generally do at
election time, anyhow, for some of them seem to come
from a great distance, possibly from Patagonia, via Gape
of Good Hope. One gentleman gave an explanation of
this altogether too previous increase of prices. He said :
“ All the others are doing it, so we must.” The explana-
tion is not a good one, but it was the best he had by him.
Another brute declared that the Parliament had put an
excise of “3d. per head” on cauliflowers, and tried to
shove up the price of his green stuff. Seems to me the
trading community is the biggest thief on earth —bar the
burglar.
A letter from the waterside :
Darling Harbor (Sydney) electorate, a Labor strong-
hold, is having a chequered career. First, Daley, the
sitting member, struck trouble in the law courts, and
was suspended from practice as a solicitor. Then a sec-
tion of discontented Laborites nominated Geo. M'lvor,
which move threatened to take away a lot of Daley’s sup-
porters. Next, the wharf-lumpers, who loom large in the
electorate, nominated Holland, a red-hot Socialist, be-
cause they are dissatisfied with the way Daley and the
Labor party worked during the recent strike. Holland
will poll well, and Daley’s chance looked blue till M’lvor’s
sudden death, last week. Another candidate, a recent
civil servant, is running in the Carruthers interest, but
he doesn’t count. Now, the question is whether the dis-
contented Laborites will nominate a successor to MTvor.
If they do, the wharf-lumpers’ Socialist wins.
Melbourne Age, animadverting on “ruf-
fianly football,” calls the present umpire’s fee of
30 S- _for two hours’ work—a “miserable
dole,” and suggests four or five guineas per
match as a decent wage. Thirty shillings
is a “miserable dole,” as The Bulletin
has already indicated ; but consider the
logic of Syme’s daily in valuing two hours
per week umpinng at five guineas, and
then railing at 11 guineas per week of 30
or 40 hours for the work of making laws for
a continent, Syme seems to reckon a foot-
ball umpire a much more valuable person
than a legislator.
It seems still to be his practice
to go before unfortunate women who have
done nothing to provoke him, and, without
even the stimulating influ-
ence of tea and buns, with
which before his time it
was to regale
one’s self on such occasions,
deliver most touching and
pathetic orations dealing
with the falling away there
is in existing Parliaments,
and describing the kind of
man necessary to rule the country—always
fashioned in an admirable and unmistakable like-
ness to himself. — W. M. Hughes in the Reps, re
his brother barrister Spruce Myth.
From the way G. H. Reid is srnoodging to
the Government on the tariff issue and to the
Labor party on other issues, it looks as though
the fat gentleman has serious thoughts of the
High Commissionership.
The importer and his agents have a pretty
tall opinion of themselves at all times, but the
Australian Star has found a bagman who
evidently thinks he is the universe. This ap-
peared in its issue of 20/8/’O7 :
“Do you know what it’s going to be?” said a com-
mercial traveller in conversation with a Star reporter this
morning. “ There will be no woollen dress goods sold
during the coming season at all.”
“ What are you going to do, then ? ”
“ All OUR large orders for woollens have been counter-
manded, and WE have been instructed not to quote a
single line of woollens. WE are going to push the cotton
stuffs. You’ll see they will be all cotton clothes next
summer.”
“ Do you think so ? ”
“ I am sure of it.”
“ But what about the people who object to wearing
anything else but woollens ”?
“ They’ll have to do it, for they won’t be able to get the
woollens."
“Why?”
“Haven’t I told you that WE’RE not going to sell
anv?”
“ Then it will leave an opening for the honest Australian
woollen goods, won’t it ? Why don’t you push them ? ”
“Oh, it doesn’t pay. There’s not enough profit on
them for US.”
Perhaps even God will have to wear cotton when
that bagman’s firm cuts off the woollen supply of
the firmament. Anyhow it won’t make any differ-
ence to The Bulletin staff. It has pulled through
on Marrickville and Parramatta tweed for a long
while, and there are Ipswich and Geelong and
Ballarat to fall back upon if N.S. W. perishes, and
at the very worst it can hide its nakedness be-
hind a brolly.
The laughing young urchin whose play
Inolined to banister-sliding,
Who came on a tack by the way,
Was sad and he ceased his deriding.
, When the tack is a cough we endure,
We still may continue our scoffing,
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Drives a nail in the coffin of coughing.*
On August 21 Sydney Evening News had
two financial articles. One, headed “ Looking
into the State Money Chest,” praised State
Premier Carruthers for having a surplus and
using a little of it to reduce the State debt, and
it urged people therefore to vote for Carruthers ;
the other, headed “The Increasing Burden,”
denounced the Commonwealth Government for
the policy which supplied Carruthers’ surplus,
and urged people to vote against the Common-
wealth Government.
DEMOCRACYS NEW CHAMPION.
Excessive Tariff—Wage Earners Hard Hit—Tax on the
Workers—lmporters Indifferent.— Argus daily lamenta-
tions.
“It ain't the importers I'm thinkin’ of; it's the
way the poor laborin’ class is bein' upset that
makes me un’appy!”
Cabled that a frantic British member,
when he heard of the new Australian tariff,
shouted wildly : “ Will members of the Birming-
ham Chamber of Commerce take this lying
down?” It seems a curious question. Presum-
ably they will take it lying down at night, and
either sitting or standing by day, and if they
spend 12 hours in bed that would mean that on
an average they would take the Australian tariff
at an angle of 45 degrees. Allowing only eight-
hours in bed it is hard to say how they will take it.
Jawbone Neild seeks to organise a strike
of the Senate. He holds that there should be two
Ministers in the Senate instead of one, and he has
a motion on the paper to the effect that until two
Ministers are appointed the Senate should leave
off work. The Bulletin rather sympathises,
and rises to propose that there should be three
Ministers in the Senate —that Senator Neild should
be appointed as a strongly Protectionist member
of the Government, and that Senator Gould should
become a Minister with a yearning for a graduated
land-tax. Then with Keating thrown in things
would be fairly complete.
NOBODY'S DOG; OR, OLD MOTHER
“ TELEGRAPH ” IN A FIT OF THE
TANTRUMS.
The Sydney importer has apparently quite
made up his mind that Melbourne is the only
place in Australia that can do anything except
hump goods off a boat. The importers of coach-
builders’ material, calling upon “the trade” to
fight to the last ditch for free wheels, say :
There are two or three firms in Melbourne importing-
spokes, hubs, and rims, and putting the wheels together.
But how manv coachbuilders are there throughout the
Commonwealth? Can Melbourne supply them with
wheels?
Obviously nobody but Melbourne can put a wheel
together : the idea that Sydney might be able to
do such a thing is preposterous. Also—
Melbourne firms propose to import axles in the rough
at 20 per cent, duty, and turn them up in the lathe,
which will give them about 16| per cent, margin in the
duty alone'". But Melbourne firms cannot supply the
trade of Australia, which simply means axles will be im-
ported as usual.
Poor old Sydney ! Even to save 16J per cent, it
can’t put a rough axle through a lathe; if
Melbourne can’t put enough through to supply
Australia, then Australia will have to “ import as
usual.” If Melbourne gave Sydney half the
reputation for helplessness, that it gives itself,
there would be civil war or thereabouts.
GRIEVIN’ GRAN’MA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The advance in cottons and linens, which cannot be pro-
duced here, was marked by an immediate rise in the price
of sheetings, calicoes, and other things, of which people
of small means can buy so little at a time that they need
frequent renewal. Children wear out ... small wares so
quickly that the house-mother is a lucky woman if she
can go a fortnight without some call on her purse in
this direction, while their socks and other woven clothing
give her the deepest daily trouble and anxiety— Argus,
IU/81'07.
Ah 1 Pity ’im—the pore young kid with great ’oles in ’is
socks 1
Ah I Look wot farver’s been an’ did 'e’s poshed our
furrin trade 1
Ah 1 W’y should farver go an’ rush ’is fam’ly on the
rocks,
All split-soled in the spring-time slush, all tremblin’ an’
afraid
To watch fer wot to-morrow brings ; for then ’is kids mur,’
go
To pop the silver dinner-things—the things they bought
w’en dad
Was flush 1 Ah 1 Mus’ they shiver where the bitter
breezes blow—
Out in the cold, all ankle-bare, with pa gorn ravin’ mad !
'E useter earn all but two quid (wot does ’e want with
more ?)
Those times ’e did as ’e was bid ; now will ’is tucker be
Shoved up on ’im, an’ serve ’im right! ’lgh on the stony
shore
Of ruined 'opes, of beerless blight, beside a bitter sea
Of grief an’ woe, pore dad’ll find ’imself before next
year !
’E’ll get a billet out behind the ranges, cuttin’ flajc?
’E'll work the cotton on the Coast at three-pun-ten-an’-
beer ?
Not 'im—’e’ll find ’is screw on toast, with grocers on ’is
tracks !
Yuh 1 Serve ’im right, the loafin’ lout—’is wife’ll let ’im
know
The things ’e’s got ter do without. Wot right ’as ’e to
think !
Wot right ’as ’e to up an’ say ’is little Fan an’ Flo
From ’enceforth, every blessed day, mus’ go an’ take an’
drink
Their cup o’ trouble to its dregs, and feel it cold inside.
Ah 1 Look at ’em, their childish legs all Jacob’s ladder
clocks,
An’ see, with sorrow-laden lids, young brother, 'ollow-
eyed.
Ah 1 Lemme weep 1 Them pore young kids with great
’oles in their socks 1
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


CALLAGHAN
“Special” Collarette Shoe.
We have sold many
thousands of this
Shoe for Ladies. All
of them have given
complete satisfaction
A PAIR
WOULD
SATISFY
YOU!
i.
-
■s
8
rag
«
S
*
mm
12/11
OR POST PAID ALL OVER -f Q /£*
the commonwealth, 10/0
This Fine Glace Kid Shoe, to lace or button, patent caps, pointed and medium toes, 12/11.
Post paid 13/6.
CALLAGHAN AND SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Send for Nsw Style 800k —Posted Free.
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS . .
In Whipcords O / OQ /
and Saddle Twists, Ar j/"* f C JJmJ U
RIDING BREECHES . .
£ s «,a™ s , s , 32/6 to 50/-
Whipcords and
Garbardines and Twillettes
32/6 to 45/-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated,
Design No. 110,
50/- to 7 51-
FLY OR SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED OR BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING
BREECHES —cut very clean at the
knees, with plenty of fulness on
thighs, they are acknowledged the
SMARTEST KNICKERS WORN.
kghkgh,
Specially Designed ..
For Perfect Freedom in WalKing, Fishing',
Shooting, Golfing, Motoring, etc.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.-A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
BucKley & Nunn
TAILORS ami
BREECHES
MAKERS,
LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke *st., Melbourne
-MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not." — Marcus Aurelius.
MALTHOID is our latest roofing, and is rapidly spreading itself over
the whole world, with satisfactory results. At the present time it STILL
GROWS IN POPULARITY. Amongst other reasons for this are its
lightness, durability, and ease of laying. All you need is a hammer and
knife, backed by intelligence.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
ZUftt
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
G. E. CRANE & SONS., JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Makes you look manly
Before
After
1
n©/6
For a Moustache.
There are hundreds of men who
would be delighted to get a
Moustache for 10/6 •
That’s the price of CAPILLARINE, and if you use It
right its growing powers will be a surprise to you.
PRICE 10/0
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TlME—They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS.
f£s
Oi
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
. Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY, and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost .
GREEN COUPONS
gĥgkmhg,hgfg
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS J
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY.
Therefore, when shopping', say
“GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.”


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the bunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
flgonts: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
•case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FIRE
RESCH’S SELECT
ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. IS O PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—-Messrs. E. H. FOTHERQ ILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Bbewebt and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The professional All-Black team played the last
of its three matches in Sydney on Saturday last, and won
by five points to three. The previous match —that of the
Wednesday—was also won by them by the thumping:
score of 19 points to five. On that disastrous day the
N.S.W. team was without the services of its steady and
reliable full-back, Hedley, sometime of the Glebe. On
Saturday, Hedley was back at his post, and the margin
dropped from 14 to. two—which may be a case of cause
and effect, or a mere coincidence. Saturday’s game was
not a brilliant exposition of Rugby, being mostly a wild
scramble of the forwards. The Maoriland pack was
the stronger, and knew how to make use of its
advantage, but the local pack was better supported by
its backs than the All-Black crowd, and the result was
that things were not so very far from even. The
Blacks scored a try, and managed to convert it.
The Blues scored a penalty goal through Messenger’s
fine kicking, so there wasn’t much in it. The Blues
scored their points first, and then the Blacks grew fair y
desperate, and the game became unusually willing.
Players who resented being bowled over fended
rough tackling with their fists; but things eased
down when the Blacks scored their lucky try. All
the same, it was the wind that saved Maoriland, for
Messenger from the 25 line made a magnificent kick. The
ball was soaring straight as an arrow, but just a few
yards from the bar a gust of wind blew it aside, and
brought about the downfall of the League team.
* * * *
The news that “ Dally ” Messenger had joined
the All-Black team for England occasioned no surprise.
That the team would, if it "could, collar the finest three-
quarter back in Australasia went without saying. It was
merely a case of terms. Messenger has a good business,
and if the management made it worth while it was
possible that he would let the rest of the family look after
the business, and take the six months’ trip. The manage-
ment made it worth while, and he went. Altogether, to
writer’s knowledge, Messenger scored £l5O the last week
he was in Sydney. The League presented him with a
purse of £5O, Woollahra admirers presented him with
another for the same amount, and the All-Blacks manage-
ment gave him a retaining fee of £5O. What else he is to
get only Heaven, himself, and the other fellows know.
But certain it is that the League in Sydney will miss him
badly, and that he will shed great glory on the team that
he has joined. Sydney football will be much less interest-
ing without the clever, fast, crafty three-quarter back,
who w'ill probably retire from the game when this trip is
over.
* * * *
With only the final match of the first grade
competition to play off next Saturday, the Rugby season
in N.S.W. has virtually ended. In some respects it has
been an eventful season, marked by a notable improve-
ment in the quality of the play, and by a great schism,
which, properly handled by the right men, would have
left the Rugby Union stricken dead. But, judging by
developments at time of writing, the footballers of the
metropolis have little faith in the crowd that is running
the professional movement. The League talks of forming
district clubs ; but there is grave doubt if it will be able
to do so. But nothing is more certain than that, even if
the present League goes to pieces, next season will see a
bigger secession than ever, organised by the ’bailers
themselves. The cheeseparing policy of the Rugby Union,
which that body affirms is due to the affiliation
with the English Rugby Union, results in serious
loss to the men who play, while it makes for
a bulging pouch on the part of the Union. Once
the footballers themselves break away and start a move-
ment of their own, the Union will have to choose
between sticking to the English Union and having its
t iroat cut. On the other hand, from what one hears
u'hispered about, the League recognises its danger, and
i 3 struggling hard to alter things. The promoters have
got back their money, and are inclined to draw out and
leave the footballers to manage the business themselves,
and it is more than possible that within the next fort-
night Trumper and Co. will be out of the business, and
quite a new set —men who have had considerable experi-
ence in organising athletic competitions—will be in
charge of the League movement, which will be repre-
sented and controlled by a council elected by the seced-
ing players.
■* * * *
The four teams left in the Rugby first grade
competition on Saturday were Glebe (the premiers last
year) and Eastern Suburbs, South Sydney and University.
Glebe and Eastern Suburbs met at Sydney Cricket Ground,
and University and South Sydney at University Oval.
Against the formidable Glebe crowd, grown stronger and
heavier than ever, the decimated Eastern Suburbs could
bring only a very light team, liberally sprinkled with
new men. The insurrection of the League has hit
Eastern Suburbs very hard indeed. But, like the
Guards at Fontenoy, the club came up gamely. Any-
thing is possible to a team which plays the game to the
best of its ability, and Eastern Suburbs hurled itself into
what seemed a hopeless contest with absolute heroism.
It was a five-man pass which carried the ball right over
the Eastern line, and gave Glebe a lead of three points
within the first fifteen minutes of play, and that lead
proved an unshiftable dead horse for* the rest of the
match. After that the light Eastern pack managed to
fall on the Glebe backs before they could get the machine
going, and the rest of the game was a wearing struggle,
with never a score to enliven the proceedings. The fatal
handicap remained unmoved to the end. It wasn’t in-
creased, but still Eastern Suburbs was out of the compe-
ls tion.
Altogether it was a day of surprises. Just as a
majority of people expected to see Eastern Suburbs
rushed right off the continent by the premier team, so
was something like a draw or a very even game expected
between University and South Sydney 7. Instead of which
Eastern Suburbs came nigh to holding its own, while
University pushed South Sydney right over in the scrums,
and danced a fandango on it, winning by 18 to three.
The whole trouble was that South Sydney couldn’t com-
bine sufficiently 7 to bring off one passing charge, and
University did it over and over again. The difference
in the score represents the variation in the quality of the
play.
Glebe and University will meet at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday 7 next to decide which team
shall flaunt the silken pennant for the next year. Glebe
is one competition point ahead of the University, so has
two chances to the other’s one. A win or a drawn game
will make Glebe once more premier club, while Univer-
sity must win right out to gain the title. Some interest-
ing play is expected.
» •* * *
The chief interest of the Soccer sudden-death
competition for the Gardiner Cup, in Sydney, on Satur-
day, was the second meeting of the Balmain and Rozelle
clubs. Balmain and Rozelle are the two ends of the same
suburb, which is usually known as “The Ragged.” A
very stirring game between them the previous Saturday
had resulted in a scoreless draw, both goal-keepers
proving invincible. An unusually large crowd turned up
to watch the killing, as it was imperative that one of
them should be slain dead and buried. Rozelle won the
toss, and, very naturally, as Candide would say, elected
to play with the wind. Balmain should, according to
general ideas, have played a sound defensive game till the
second half, but apparently the club had read Caesar’s
Commentaries, and learned that the best defence is to
wipe the other fellow out and then r-11 on his dead body.
The Balmainiacs opened the game with a series of well-
sustained attacks on the Rozelle goal. Their foot-
work was excellent, their kicking faultless, and
although the champion, Hart, who stood in front
of the Rozelle net, saved again and again, the
inevitable reward of effort came along in the shape
of a goal. The. Rozelles then took a hand at aggres-
sion, and were getting on famously, having worked the
leather into the right place. Then over-eagerness caused
a mix up, and before they could recover themselves
Balmain had cleared. Balmain made another series of
attacks, and just before half-time succeeded in scoring
another goal. Strangely enough Rozelle played much
better against the wind than with it, and Balmain played
a defensive game for quite a time. A lucky kick changed
the outlook, and in a flash Balmain had scored a third
goal. Rozelle came away from the kick off with a great
rush, and running right through scored in short order.
But it was only a flash. The team had shot its bolt, and
the match was practically over, both sides being fairly
knocked up. When the whistle went Balmain crawled
off the field, winner by three to one.
While this was happening in Sydney, down at
Wollongong Glebe was firmly knocking the hope out of
Balgownie. The countrymen were full of sand, but a
lamentable absence of brains in the forward division
proved fatal. They caught oysters over and over again,
but could not open them, and quite a host of goals was
lost thereby. The Glebe fellows, on the contrary, missed
no chances, and scored steadily while Balgownie wasn’t
looking, so to speak. When five goals had been regis-
tered against it, Balgownie uttered a wild whoop, and
hurled itself on the Glebeites. By sheer brute strength
the Butchers were pushed over, and the ball heaved,
kicked, and pushed through them right into the net,
making the score five to one. It was a new kind of
game to which the city men were unaccustomed. Un-
fortunately, Balgownie had discovered it too late, and
before it could repeat the evolution the time ran out, and
Balgownie was out of the competition, and in the mud.
■» * * »
In the N.S.W. Australian League’s competi-
tion Svdne.v struggles along in the van with 44 com-
petition points, Newtown pressing close behind it with
42. Redfern is in a poor third place with 34, and East
Sydney and Y.M.C.A. together with 32. Balmain has 12,
North Shore eight, and Paddington (fallen from its high
estate) four.
* ■* * *
Saturday’s football in Melbourne was mostly of
the mild and placid description. The only engagement
of note was that between South and Melbourne, there
being a slight chance of the latter club reaching
the semi-finals if it could win, and provided St.
Kilda lost against Geelong. The latter disaster almost
occurred, the Sleepy Hollow men being but three points
to the bad at the finish ; but as Melbourne quite failed
to make a show against South, its chance was utterly
blasted in any case. The selected four are now Carlton—
with a right of challenge—South, Collingwond, and
Saints. During the discussion at Geelong, St. Hilda’s best
half-hack managed to break two ribs, but that seems to
have been a “ genuine ” accident and part of the rigor
of the game. ’Wood and 'Roy gave an exhibition of
plain and fancy kicking that ended in scores of
11.16 and 15.4 respectively, leaving the Magpies 12 points
to the bad ; but there is a dim suspicion that this team
has been “ playing ’possum ” of late so as to meet Carlton
in the semi-finals, instead of Saints, which would he the
easier contract as things are. Carlton administered a7B
to 47 points licking to Essendon, just by way of keeping
its foot in, as it made no difference to the blue-and-
whites whether thev won or lost.
* * * *
In matters Association, Richmond and Wil-
liamstown enter the semi-finals, no matter what happens,
but Footscray, West, and Essendon (A), stand equal,
with 40 competition points each ; and as two more Satur-
days will decide which one of the three is to be outed,
there is a trifle of vigor about their play at present.
’Seray bumped against West on Saturday, the concussion
giving it 101 points against West’s 36 ; but as the latter
meets a soft thing in North next Saturday, while ’Seray
tackles the invincible Richmond, and the following week
West meets Essendon, there is no saying yet who will
arrive, or who won’t. Anyhow, it matters little;
Richmond seems to have the premiership pennant
already in its hag, that splendidly-organised team having
last week annihilated Brunswick’s hopes by kicking 18
goals 14 behinds to eight goals eight behinds. Prahran
thrashed North just for the look of the thing, and
achieved a record of a sort by getting the whole of its 12
goals kicked by one player, a half-forward named Sykes.
If Prahran had but played throughout the season as it
did on Saturday, it wouldn’t be where it is now’; but as
it is where it is now, there is little to be gained by point-
ing out where it might be if it were somewhere else.
During last week most of Melbourne gave but
little heed to the tariff or the madness of Carruthers—its
chief trouble w’as—What would happen to its pet foot-
ballers. The riotous games of the previous Saturday
had been duly noted, and the umpires had reported a
few’ players ; also, Carlton’s committee promised to re-
port a couple of South players, and South retaliated by
reporting three Carltonians. The League got to
work on Wednesday evening. About midnight it
adjourned for 20 hours, after having disqualified one
’Wood player for the rest of the season, one Melbourne
man till May 31st, ’OB, and one Essendon player till June
30th, ’OB. The offences of two of these ’bailers—one was
proved to have deliberately kicked an opponent on the
head while the man lay helpless on the ground—and of at
least two others who w’ere not reported at all, fully
merited disqualification for life; but the League was
evidently in a compromising frame of mind. So-
w’ere two of the delinquents in question; the two
were observed to be holding a hurried conference
outside the inquiry-room before going to give-
evidence against each other. Thursday night the League-
inquired at great length into the Carlton-South charges.
It adjourned about 1 a.m., took up the tale again at
8 p.m. on Friday, and sat right on to 5 a.m. on Saturday,
Of course Saturday’s morning papers could give no
details of the decision, yet by 9 a.m. pretty nearly every-
body knew’ that the League had disqualified Carlton’s
captain for the rest of the season, a club mate and a
South half-back till June, 1908, and another South
player for the term of his “ natural.”
In the meantime, on Thursday night, the
Association called a special meeting to consider the con-
duct of Port Melbourne on the previous Saturday, when
the umpires and the Richmond players were insulted and
assaulted all through the game and right from the ground
to the railway station. It was a fearsome tale —of club-
members assuring the umpire that if Ports didn’t win he
would be killed ; of short-skirted Lizzies following the
play round the ground and heaving handfuls of cinders
at umpires and players ; of a constable (there
were just two lone Johns at the riot) telling
an umpire, who asked him to stop a “ lady bar-
racker” from throwing stones, to “go and smash her
face ” ; of a howding mob chasing umpires and opponents-
with stones and pickets; and, finally, of the openly-
expressed threat of a Port committeeman that another
specified club would be “laid out” when it came to play
there. The Association wasn’t long in making its deci-
sion ; it was manifestly no use punishing individual'
players when the whole club, and most of the population r
was full of unadulterated ruffianism ; so the only thing to-
do was to prohibit the Port ground as the arena of future
matches—and prohibited it w’as. So Port now has to meet-
its opponents wherever the Association decides, which is-
mostly a good distance away from its own delectable
suburb ; and the ill-regulated harracker has to pay to get
to the scene of battle, and when he gets there he is among
strangers, and his barrack is lost on the strange ears and
among the wide spaces; and when the hysterical little
Lizzie starts throwing mud or cinders, the local John, who
doesn’t know her from any other escaped lunatic, tells her
to quit or he’ll run her in. So “Port” is a dismantled
and desolate club these (jays, and its “ supporters ” are a
lapsed and derelict crowd.
Another letter from Adelaide: Theyisitofthe
Canadians was expected to have a stimulating effect upon
Australian lacrosse, but it has had rather ia^desir-
infiuence. Australians can learn very I'ttle that s desir
able from the Kanucks, but there are certainly many
slim Yankee tricks in the visitors frame tiiat can do no
good to the sport. The Canadians proved themseh es
poor sports. It was not until beaten in the first test
game that they discovered that Australian conditions
placed them at a serious disadvantage. I- r 0” that time
onward they did nothing but squeal for concessions from
the less experienced side, and their play ol \ f
earned the cordial dislike of everybody. Uardlj anj ot
the local men are free from injuries inflicted dehoerately
by unfair methods. After the first quarter init-
test at Adelaide the Australians saw red. For a time
they stood the tripping and bashing, and then " £
waded in to retaliate. After that the Canadians we
indifferent second, and resorted to time-wasting short
passing to save the game. The contest v y. as . r ° l ' s
than any football match played in S.A., and theie was
blood and hair ftying-literally. The Canadians can use
their sticks effectively as weapons of offence, but in two
instances where an Australian threw down his crosse
and used his fists thev did not seem at home. At piesenc
it would be difficult to raise a fiver to send an Australian
team to Canada. _
* * * *
The cable reports that the Canadian bullies
scored in the first of the lacrosse matches against
Westralia, winning by 13 goals to four. Anyhow, all
public interest in this push of toughs has now died out.
The surf-bathing season in Sydney commences
on September 1, and the natural process of weeding out
the fools of the community will start with a hang.
Practically the only place where surf bathing can be in-
dulged in with safety is Manly, where, in addition to the
usual life lines, etc., there is a surf boat to pick up tne
drowning bather, and men to reach for the perishing
sinker. At Bondi beach some extra appliances are to tie
installed —three new reels and life lines, some new buoy s,
a medical kit and a stretcher. The inclusion of the
stretcher is ominous. Still it will come in handy for the
conveyance of the dead swimmer to a cool shady spot
where the competent authority can sit down and pro-
nounce life extinct. Bondi surf is very thorough, and
once it gets a grip it rarely lets go till the victim is dead.
Occasionally it is cynical enough to heave the dead bony
back on to the shore from which it should never have
ventured when it was alive.
Last season, when Bondi surf was claiming
about two victims per week, there was much discussion
as to how to prevent the waste of life. The trouble seems
to be that out there the shore is a series of submarine
precipices so deep that it is impossible to anchor "U o y*dr
danger lines or anything of that sort. Apparently the
only thing is to have a boat ready to launch at a moments
notice, and to absolutely prohibit surf bathing when the
breakers are so big that the boat can’t ride them. Surf
bathing becomes a mania, and the regular habitue would
sooner risk half-a-dozen deaths than miss one dip, so it is
necessary to appoint some old bather, who has recovered
from the mania, as beach overseer, with full power to
restrain the surf maniac and arrest him if he becomes
dangerous to the public peace.
* * * *
The cause of the row between the Victorian
League of Wheelmen and the promoter of the Sale-
Prospect road races is that the League demands that the
prize-money be put up before the men go straining their
internal economy to decide who shall acquire the right to
rake it in. Whether the League had to wait for last
year’s money or not this writer cannot say. But the
only safe line for the League to go on is that of cash in
advance—no cash, no prizes. It was strict attention to
this little matter that made MTntosh so powerful
in the N.S. W. League. Whatever the amount of the prize
was, large or small, riders knew from sweet experience
that the cash was up before the racing commenced. If
it wasn’t, Mac guaranteed it personally, and his guaran-
tee was like his right hook—good enough ; and the pay-
ment was as sudden as the biff. Which was why, after a
very brief experience of the Association, the wheelers
longed for the tyranny of the League and the cash on
the nail once more. In the Association many of the im-
posing paper prizes were paid pro rata , and at a rate
which broke the wheelist’s stony heart. Now that the
Vic. League has taken up the same standpoint, it
may be able to cope with the rising tide of un-
registered racing, which will in the near future be pro-
fitable to the promoters only, if it hasn’t reached that
stage already.
N.S.W. League baa begun to transform itself
into the animal that is disrespectfully spoken of in the
Scriptures. First of all, it made an ass of itself by re-
admitting Horder at all, and then it played the giddy
goat by wheedling or bouncing Lundie into withdrawing
his protest against Horder’s claim to fourth position,
in the Bathurst road-race, because in the face
of the protest somebody in the League office had
paid over the prizes. This sort of thing will bring
the League down to the level of the Association in
no time, for there seems not the slightest doubt that
Horder was paced by Hagney. Hagney, it must be re-
membered, was not in the race, yet he went up to
Penrith and rode for his life just in front of Horder right
down to within measurable distance of home. It is had
enough for this gentleman to be in the League at all. and
it is worse that the League should resort to devious
tricks to assist him to gain prizes and honors to which he
is not legally entitled. It should have gone into the
protest carefully, and if the allegations were proved have
heaved out both Horder and Hagney.
* * * *
Most cyclists who took part in the Bathurst to
Sydney race are of opinion that one or more of the com-
petitors knew that those tacks were to he found along
the Sunny Corner road. It seems that they were laid in
such a manner that by riding along the extreme edge of
one side of the road there was no possibility of a puncture.
Interesting developments, as the murder reports say, are
hourly expected. k , *
As everybody knows, the big Warrnambool to
Melbourne Road Race, which is due on September 28, is
the last of a series of great road races spread over a!) the
States. This year police action prevented the running
of the Tiniaru to Christchurch race, which was to choose
the Maoriland representatives. The Westralian event,
from Beverley to Perth (116 miles) took place on Saturday
last, and was won by Beardin, who, with an hour’s start,
occupied exactly seven hours on the journey. The fastest
time was put up, and the right of representing the State
at the final race won by A. M. McDonald, from
scratch. Hedid the trip in 6h. 36min. 15 see. The Goul-
burn to Sydney race, to pick the N.S. W. reps., will take
place on September 7, over 131 miles, and on the same
date the Tasmanians will struggle over the 117 miles be-
tween Hobart and Launceston. Seven days later the
South Australians will whirl over 110 miles between Burra
and Adelaide. Last year the figures for the final were
:302 entries, 206 starters, and 149 finishers, hut it is ex-
pected that this record will be eclipsed now.
Said that Knowles, of Simplex fame, has
-challenged Fairbanks Davies to defend his championship
of Sydney Harbor. Knowles intends to use, of course,
"the Baby Simplex for the assault on the championship,
and the Baby, having been considerably lengthened, is
-now a fairly long-legged maiden, and a baby no longer.
In design, the challenger is very similar to the Fairbanks,
but not quite so elegant a model. It is fitted with two
four-cylinder Simplex engines, which are said to develop
12-h.p. each, so that the total is 24-h.p. The
Fairbanks is fitted with two 20-24-h.p. Fairbanks engines
linked-up tandem fashion, and the owner of Fairbanks
has a. suspicion that he can smell mice somewhere.
So he proposes that, before any race eventuates, the club
should measure the two sets of engines, and decide what
their power really is. Which is what this paper has been
advocating for some weeks past.
Adelaide will see no first-class cricket next
season except tor the English matches. S.A. is to play,
as usual, in Melbourne and Sydney, but neither N.S.W.
nor Victoria at present proposes playing a return game.
• •* • *
Adelaide Commercial Travellers’ Club has
landed itself in a curious dilemma over its annual billiard
tournament. The custom has always been to allow a
“ double ” nomination ; that is, by paying two entrance
fees a player can have two chances, and thus not be put
out by one defeat. This year, a double nominator has
gone through successfully on both his entries. He never
happened to be drawn against himself, and both of him
(so to speak) won in each round. Now he remains in as
the only two survivors, to meet himself in the final 1
• * * *
Adelaide Racing Club is still looking for a
Sherlock Holmes to discover the miscreant who dug two
little graves in its steeplechase track just before the
Grand National was due. They were neatly excavated,
on the landing-side of the last jump, covered over
with thin deal, and hidden with leaves and tan. The
intention was plain murder, but the difficulty is to see
any conceivable motive. Who that had backed a horse —
or, for that matter, what bookmaker who had laid against
all the horses, or all but one —could reckon on a profit to
be.made by two or three horses falling? Any suspicion
against owners or jockeys was happily set at rest. The
traps were discovered some hours before the race, and
were filled up, dead secrecy being maintained; then a
steward was stationed at the jump to see if any jockey
steered a course that would imply guilty knowledge.
But no. As the field came along—strung out a bit —each
took the inside running, and jumped just where his neck
must certainly have been broken if the traps had still
existed. So the puzzled Club is looking vaguely for a
homicidal maniac—the kind of person (only worse) that
strews tacks in the path of a bicycle race.
* * + *
“Silas Snell” : The failure of Willie Squires
in America encouraged a lot of Australians to put faith in
Mike Williams, champion of Europe, Asia, and Africa,
when he came up against Bill Lang, resident cham-
pion of Australia, in Melbourne the other night. This
despite the fact that Mike had already been summarily
wiped out by Bill Smith and W. Squires. The Aus-
tralians were willing to find excuses for Williams,
which they will not allow to Squires ; but Lang, by wiping
out the champion of Europe, Asia, and Africa in one
half-round, demonstrated that these three contin-
ents had been whacked on their demerits. It
was the case of a fumbling, short-armed, bullocky
person up against, a clean and precise fighter, and
while Mike slashed desperately in the hope of touch-
ing the spot at random, Bill (Australian boxers are all
BUI when they aren’t Jim) selected his mark with de-
liberation, and hit it with such precision that Williams
was down examining the roof some seconds after the
check had run up and down the scale.
PILES AND LIVER COMPLAINT.
A Young Man’s Experience and the
Wonderful Results Attained bt Using
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the liver is clogged by the inactivity of
the kidneys and bowels it becomes torpid, and
fails to filter the bile from the blood, thus pro-
ducing biliousness and a general impairment of
the digestive system. The tongue is coated, the
head aches, digestion is imperfect ; there is aching
of the limbs and back, feelings of fullnes, weight
and soreness over the stomach and liver; the eye
becomes yellow and jaundiced, and the complexion
muddy, the urine is scanty and highly colored,
and the bowels irregular, costiveness and looseness
alternating, and frequently the precursor of in-
flammation and piles. .
Mr. W. L. Davies, 320 Victoria Street, Dar-
linghurst, Sydney, writes < —“For a great number
W. L. DAVIES.
(From a photo.)
of years I suffered
from biliousness and
liver complaints, in-
deed almost from boy-
hood, but some four
years ago it took a
more decisive effect,
causing dizziness and
languor, depression on
rising in the morn-
ing, and I also
suffered from indiges-
tion and constipation.
The various remedies
I tried gave only
passing relief, and so
acute became the
costiveness that in-
flammation set in, and
piles were the result.
I read of Dr. Morse’s Indian Eoot Pills, and
thought perhaps they might prove more beneficial
than the other medicines I used. So I purchased
some, and persevered, deciding to give them a
fair trial. In the course of a week or two I felt
better in myself, and gradually I seemed to over-
come my troubles. Finally, I may truly say, I
was entirely free from my ailments, and ever
since I have never been without a supply of your
pills in the house, and on the first indication of
any of the symptoms a dose or two puts me right.
I heartily recommend your remedy, and you have
my full permission to use this.”*


KUGELMANN’S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
''Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
y SAMPLE
' sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
1 kfkfgk
fkfghkfg
kkfgkfgkfg
gfkgfkfgk
1 fgkg
Kugelmann’s Pttrc Herbal Stin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
ff. E> KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for !/• and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says : “ The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R< HERSCHELL (oy London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
RODS
For Locating’ MINES,—
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON, 64 Huhter Street, SYDNEY.
Walk less!
CYCLE MORE?
You know that hill at the foot
of which you invariably dis-
mount—well all we ask is—try it
on a
FAGAN HUB
and you’ll find you’ll simply
“sail up”!
This hub has two speeds—the
low will enable you to climb
the steepest hill withoutfatigue,
the high give you greater speed
on the level and down hill—
and a little lever does it all!
Ask to-day for latest Art Book-
let, Dept. 4,
CADIC MFG. CO. LD.
4 Stock Exchange Bdgs.
Collins St., Melbourne
WORKS: REDDITCH, ENG,
# Continental c -
CYCLO TYRE4S
SCORE A BRILLIANT VICTORY
.... IN THE ....
BATHURST TO SYDNEY
ROAD RACE.
R.
FIRST,
SECOND, FOURTH,
AND FASTEST TIME ON
WALLACE-CONTINENTAL TYRES.
A* 'former years, the great Road Race of miles, from
Bathurst to Sydney, has been won on the famous Wallace.
Continental Red Road Racing Tyres. F. Aplin, the winner, his
brother, A. Aplin, who finished second, and G. Horder, who
secured fourth position and made fastest time, were all on
Continental tyred wheels. The winner’s time was 7hrs. 59min.,
and G. Horder’s time, 7hrs. 30fmin.-two splendid performances
that fully demonstrate the sterling qualities of Wallace-
Continental Tyres.
MELBOURNE DEPOT:
46-48 MARKET STREET.
The Iron Industry.—No. IV.
Iron— the Power That Can Save Australia.
Australia occupies a place that is unique in all
the world’s known history. It is God’s biggest
experiment, as well as man’s. It is the one conti-
nent on this earth, and, so far as we know, the
only one that has ever been on this earth,
occupied almost wholly by people of one
race, wholly under one Government and
one flag, with no racial problem, with
no battle-fields to show—in fact, it is the especi-
ally blessed continent, and it takes its blessings
altogether too much .'or granted. But in addi-
tion, it is the white man’s furthest outpost—the
last outlying, badly-armed, hopelessly ill-garri-
soned fort which looks right into the illimitable
catnp of Asia ; and it accepts this position, too —
accepts it calmly, fatuously, and with blind
confidence, though it has hardly a serviceable gun
of its own to point at that illimitable camp of the
enemy and its own supports are some 12,000
miles away in the rear, and dubious at that.
Standing thus solitary, with its antiquated cracked
rifle in the corner, and its almost invisible garrison
sleeping in the sentry-box, and its eye fixed on
the football match, and its ear cocked for the
horse-odds, it almost holds in its careless hands
the destiny of the white race. This is the last
continent on which it is possible to grow a pure
white community. It represents she white
man s last chance. Africa is mostly black;
Asia is mostly black, brown, yellow, piebald
and tawny. South America is mixed—horribly
and wonderfully mixed; and so are Central
America, Mexico, and the south of the United
States. Europe is white, barring an unlucky
tinge of tue African and the Asiatic in the south.
And if Australia can be kept white, the white
man may ultimately preponderate on the earth,
while, if it goes yellow or nigger, then the
balance tips up, and the ultimate chance of world
empire goes to the nigger. It is a wonderful
opportunity, and an amazing responsibility.
* * * •
Now, it is up to Australia to arm, if it doesn’t
want its own Bill Squires to be an omen and a
horrible warning—-if it doesn’t want to be remem-
bered as the nation that met a foreign enemy
for the first time, and went out for good
and all in the first round. And the
two essentials of armament are men and
Iron-oar own men and our own Iron. No
island nation can depend on foreign supplies of
Iron in time of war, for the getting of them de-
pends on the command of the sea, and our real need
will only come when the command of our adjacent
seas is in hostile hands. And a second time, no
nation can depend on foreign supplies of Iron in ti me
of war; the great rou-making countries may be
themselves up to the neck in the struggle, and
their orders to their own over-worked factories for
cannon, rifles, rails, locomotives, armor-plates,
etc., will take precedence ; and the small voice of
a far-off land calling urgently for war material
with which to keep back the Jap and the
Chow will be drowned in the clang of British
and Yankee hammers, and the roar of German
forges. And for the third time, no nation can
depend on supplies of imported Iron in time of
war, because in such times foreign supplies mean
cash, cold, remorseless cash. When the time comes
that the supply of Iron is the beginning, middle,
and end of Australia’s very existence, we will
probably have no cash (for ready money melts
t r> a TT ID r y fast war time )> and no credit, for the
10 uof a nation without an Iron supply is then
a mere drug in the market. Our own Iron-
workers could be paid in greenbacks while the
trouble lasted, even as those of the North were in
the U.i3. Civil War, but we could no more buy
arms abroad with a forced issue of war currency
than Uncle Sam could have done in his day of
trouble. Our own Iron supply and our own men
are the essentials of defence.
* * • •
The two things go together. In time of war
man is, first and foremost, an Iron-carrying
animal, and the first needs are abundance of
men to carry or steer or push or shove or
drag Iron, and abundance of Iron for them to
carry, steer, push, shove or drag. Man becomes a
beast of burden—a bearer of rifles and bayonets, a
manager of ships, and a controller of guns, all
made from Iron ; a discharger of Iron projectiles,
a digger of trenches with Iron implements—the
beginning of all defence is our own Iron supply,
ihen in addition to the rifles and cannon and Iron
ships, there is a constant demand for new rails
and new locomotives to keep the army mobile, for
trucks and railway carriages, for carts to assist in
the conveyance of stores, for bicycles and auto-
mobiles, both of which are beginning to be essen-
tials of war; for swords, saddlery, surgical instru-
ments, and all manner of Iron or partly Iron
goods. And far behind the army there is the
incessant demand for ploughs and agricultural
implements, for both the army and the nation
must be fed. Also mining and ordinary manu-
factures must keep going as far as possible to pro-
vide the sinews of war, and all these things mean
Iron. There are no substitutes for men and Iron
when the country has to be saved. But men
without Iron are useless—they are mere bowmen,
slmgers, throwers of stones, aboriginal prodders
with sharpened sticks, clubmen, persons who
throw clods and use bad language, liers-in-wait
with pikes made out of old kitchen imple-
ments-altogether an incoherent mob and of
no account. Unless we learn to dig out our
own Iron, and make our own steel, and our own
guns, and our own ships, and our own imple-
ments, we may easily be, when the day of des-
tiny comes, more helpless than the feather-decked
warriors who followed Cuitlahua and Guatemozin
—an unarmed people, standing at the end of a
broken cable, Bolding out a futile I O U, and
calling to a world that is otherwise employed
to send us weapons that would probably never
arrive in any case.
* * • *
That the trouble will come, we know. It comes
to every country in time—even Greenland has
been fought for and conquered, and Iceland has
had its invasions and its tragedies; and if we have
escaped for 130 years, that only brings the inva-
sion 130 years nearer. We hold the emptiest of
the continents. We are close to powerful and
furiously ambitious neighbors, crowded up in
their own land, and crying out for expansion. We
have been compelled by the necessities of our
position to bitterly aggrieve these nations by our
exclusion policy; if wehadn’tdoneso, the white race
in Australia would already be swamped beneath the
colored deluge. We hold about the richest and cer-
tainly the worst-defended country on earth. We are
further from assistance than any other important
section of the British Empire, and Britain is no
longer confident that it can assist us ; the possible
German invasion is now almost as great an alarm
in England as the possible Japanese invasion is in
Australia. In any case the British power can’t
last for ever, for the sufficient reason that no
power does. And Japan will reach out for
Australia the day when Britain’s worst fears
seem in a fair way of realisation, simply
because the prize to be won is a great
one—hardly less than the attainment of the
position of the Greatest Power on Earth. With
the amazing fecundity of its people, Japan proba-
bly only requires money and elbow-room, both of
which it would find in Australia, to become
in time the world power par excellence.
Only a race of madmen would doubt
that the invasion of Australia is intended •
and nothing is of any account in the way
of defence save men and Iron. As already
remarked, the two go together. It might be
added that they come together. If Australia
could advertise that it was going to d g and
smelt its own Iron, to make its own steel, to
build for itself everything that is made of Iron
from a nail to a battleship, and that there was
consequently £10,000,000 worth per annum of
new well-paid employment waiting for stalwart
white workers, the men would .arrive in shoals.
We might have got 10,000 in one lot recently, if
we had only been ready—the 10,000 who were
discharged from the British arsenals as a warning
to Australia that the already dubious British de-
fence is further weakening.
• » * *
It is difficult to imagine any price that is too
high to pay for the establishment of an absolutely
comprehensive Australian Iron industry. If it
were possible to figure out, in cash, how much
money it would be advisable to spend to avert the
loss of our country, our future, our status as a
white people, and our pride of race—to dodge
general ruin, to prevent our daughters being the
servants and playthings of a seini-barbarous
people, to prevent our grandchildren being pie-
bald, and to save the breakage of the British
empire—ifthesethingscould be expressed inmoney
they would exactly represent the price. The
price, in short, which it would be worth while to
pay, is just about all we have and all we expect
to have. But the amazing circumstance is that
Australia isn’t asked to pay anything. It is
rather invited to make an enormous profit.
What it is offered is the chance to save almost
£10,000,000 a year that it now pays for imported
Iron and steel, and goods made out of these
materials, and the many more millions that it will
pay as population increases. Also, it is offered
immediate employment for about 50,000 men
and support for their families. Then it is
further offered employment and support for
the 50,000 or 100,000 or more adults who would
minister to the wants of these new employees.
In short, what is offered to Australia is national
safety, a great increase of wealth, and a vast ex-
pansion of population ; and all that is asked in
return is the sacrifice of the old Eoreign-trade
fetich, which is dead in any case.
* * * «
There is no saving of that fetich. Its sacrifice
is the price of Australia’s salvation. It is Jonah.
Modern history shows no instance of an Iron in-
dustry founded under Ereetrade conditions.
Japan created its industry by Protection. So
did Britain, the United States, Germany, France,
Belgium, and Canada. And what few small Iron
industries Australia has were created in the same
fashion. N.S. W, made its wire netting industry
by putting a heavy duty on the imported article;
this was in the bogus “Ereetrade” days when
the amazing Ma State protested its unalterable
devotion to the doctrines of Cobden, and surrep-
titiously protected nearly everything in sight.
It created its little galvanised metal industry by
heavy Protection in the same surreptitious
way. It has put the Lithgow works fairly in
motion by something more than mere Protection
by blank Prohibition. The Lithgow Ironworks
were resurrected by large Government contracts,
and when the Ereetrade Government of N.S. W.
bestowed these, it wasn’t content to merely handi-
cap the foreign competitor with a 12£ per cent, or
25 per cent, duty ; it ruled him out altogether.
The Iron works at Maryborough (Queensland)
were established under State Protection ; and
through excess of Federal Ereetrade they are
now fading almost to nothing. The Iron
works at Gawler (S.A.) commenced and
grew under Protection; and last week, for
want of it, they went into liquidation. But
even where Protection was granted it was
always half-hearted and insufficient, and the Iron
trade has been small, intermittent and pre-
carious all round. Therefore a great brawny '
population of the class that swings the
hammer, and rolls the steel plate, and
makes its crust out of rivers of molten metal, is
not here ; and the sky is not reddened at night,
save when a public-house is burning or Ah Sam
lets off crackers at the Chinese New Year; and
the ship-building industry practically died out
when wooden vessels ceased to be the fashion;
and the antiquated imported cannon yawns lonely
on our harbor side; and our volunteer forces, in
which the big blast-furnace person is all too few |
and the mild counter-jumper all too many, carry a
scarce sample of Britain’s left-off rifle, bought at I
an exorbitant price with the rabbit and butter-
export money. N.S.W. made and exported
cannon once, but that was long ago before it heard
of Cobden.
* * * *
There are foolish people in Australia who babble
of the evils of “militarism”—as if theestablishment
of a citizen soldiery wasn’t the very reverse of mili-
tarism—and who propose Arbitration in place of
Iron, and who talk about obtaining a guarantee of
our safety from the Great Powers of Europe or
the Hague Convention, and then going on in the
old peaceful rut and fools’ Paradise. Unfor-
tunately, the Hague Convention is like ourselves
—it has no Iron of its own. And if the Powers
did guarantee our safety, it would do us just as
much good as did the guarantees they gave to
Poland (dead), Turkey (dismembered), Denmark
(dismembered), the Duchy of Cracow (annexed),
Scandinavia (split asunder), and almost every
other country. It is not worth entertaining
the dream that any European State will waste
a possible £200,000,000 in a philanthropic
war against a powerful enemy at an almost impos-
sible distance from its base. European States
have too many enemies at home to risk their
valued navies in remote seas to aid a community
which won’t help itself even to the extent of
digging up its own Iron. Rozhdestvensky is too
recent, and even Medina Sidonia isn’t forgotten,
and Armadas are out of fashion. The day when
Britain gets into serious trouble Australia
may make up its mind to face its Asiatic enemy
single-handed, with its own gun and its own
battleship. Nor will arbitration do us any
good—the only things that will help us are
men and Iron. Arbitration doesn’t apply in our
case. The claim of some Asiatic Power to annex
the Northern Territory, because of “in-
effective occupation,” or the claim of Japan that
its subjects shall have free and unlimited entry into
Australia are not things that can be arbitrated
upon, any more than a man can arbitrate on a
proposal to sell his wife’s honor, or to give his
daughter to be the mistress of a Chinaman. In
fact, nothing can help us in the trouble that comes
to every nation in time—and which is likely to
come to us in its most awful form because our
danger is not that of conquest by a civilised white
race, but of obliteration by semi-barbarians—save
men and Iron. And of these, Iron comes first.


IN
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia Satisiactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER. 255.
AH Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
mm
U'XAl'ti.
sfiGgrafi
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, £7
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
A. SAUNDEES.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
16-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
COLD
Ladies’ High-grade Solid
lunting Keyless WATCHKS,
Os, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £i,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
Silver
255, 30s,
£5 10s,
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS.,-
These illustrations reveal some o£ the very
newest ideas in Engagement Kings. Ikey , "
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
355. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
A. SAUNDTCRS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2.
£2
£2
£3
SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5.
£5
£lO
SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
sa
or Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald Centre .
V. £l2 10s. Jr
£l2/10
£B/10
Sk.
~ 18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
pwi a
or Sapphires £8 10s.
All Diamonds £l2 10s
£l2/10
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Keyless
Lever,
20/-.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
/
A.BMWPVK*
IOVBOM lW*
S
qjius ss snuntx
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
hell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
OLOL®
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
fUfi
CTjgft
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
3s 6d.
W iW M
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2 .
SOLID
GOLD,
sim
A. SAUNDERS. „„
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to £5O
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st.
g£S > iwi t ysK'o„, SIDNEY, N.S.W.


o
js>po* > n-* znzH
A
o
c
'S
<
w
The one illustrating the development of artistic taste at
personal risK, and the other showing what can be
taKen with a KodaK" from a Sydney ferry boat.
Anything and Everything on land or sea can be “taKen
with a KodaK,** and with the certainty of getting the
best results. But the KodaK must be an “ EASTMAN,*'
not an imitation. s? a*
J? 'J - .J 5--
vrrrr-i
mmBH m --■ ' ■ • ■• •'-•
T
- '
.•
This Photograph was taken with a No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK (post
card size), the price of which is
£6.
BaKer ®. Rouse Propy. Ltd
SOLE. AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR. KODAK LIMITED,
375 ® 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
37 BUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE. #
" THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
78-80 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. * *
BILIOUSNESS.
If you recognise that the Liver is the sewage
farm of the body, you will see the
importance of its free action.
The blood is easily poisoned by morbid pro-
ducts formed within the body, and
delayed in excretion.
A lazy liver is responsible for constipation,
the greatest disease—breeding disorder
of the body.
The retention of septic matter in the bowels
is a constant source of danger, affecting
blood and nerves.
The question is—How can we keep the liver
in order ?
According to the most distinguished medical
evidence, the Liver is amenable to
Kutnow’s Powder.
The Liver is responsive to the action of
Kutnow’s Powder, without the patient
being hardly aware of it.
Kutnow’s Powder is delightfully gentle, pain-
less, and soothing, but its beneficial
effect does not finish with the Liver.
It flushes the kidneys, cleanses the bladder,
regulates the bowels, clears and purifies
the whole alimentary canal.
No artificial remedy can supersede the
natural efficiency of Kutnow’s Powder,
it has an immediate effect.
It makes you feel relieved and gay; you can
then put your heart into your work and
do your best.
It gives yoii vigor, and vigor is contagious,
furnishing untiring strength and vital
force.
An inactive Liver has a most depressing
effect on the temperament, but Kutnow’s
Powder quickly relieves the tension.
Kutnow’s Powder keeps every organ in the
body fit, free, and in thorough working
order, hence health follows as matter of
course.
THE LIVER
ITS USE ANU ABUSE.
The Liver, like the Kidneys and other organs, is liable to
various acute and chronic diseases. It is the great wheel of
life s machine ; it regulates the whole mechanism of man ;
when it works well—then every other gland and factor in the
system works well, and there is general good health. That is
the use of the Liver. The abuse is brought about by our
mode of living; the consumption of rich food and alcoholic
stimulants is a conscious abuse ; we know it, but neglect to
arrest the damage by neutralising and correcting the mischief
until the liver becomes sluggish. The first sign of oncoming
disorder is headache, then a disagreeable taste in the mouth,
loss of appetite, biliousness, and constipation. The remedy
for this state of affairs is a dose of that famous Liver regulator,
Kutnow’s Powder. A desert spoonful in a glass of water,
before breakfast, acts like a refreshing bath on the whole
system ; it cleanses the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels,
and gets rid of the poisonous debris so injurious to health.
TO KEEP THE LIVER ACTIVE.
Perhaps you are not aware that the enjoyment of life •
depends to a large extent on the healthy activity of the Liver.
If you wish to enjoy your food, to be able to digest almost
anything, take a few doses of Kutnow’s Powder, which rouses
the liver, flushes the food passages, clears away the sour
fermented debris, expels the surplus uric acid, and invigorates
the system.
A FAMOUS ROYAL ACADEMICIAN
WRITES :
“ 1 Abbey Road, St. John’s Wood, N.W.
“I have used Kutnow’s Powder for the last five years, and it has
added to the pleasure of my life. I take a tablespoonful every morn-
ing when I rise, and find it a most refreshing drink. I have never
needed to increase the dose, and is has acted perfectly in assisting
Nature all this time. lam now strong and healthy, and give you
my experience, which may be useful,
“JOHN MaoWHIRTER,R.A.”
THE REMEDY.
Are you anxious to maintain the healthy
action of the liver and kidneys and to per-
manently eradicate constipation ? Then send
to the nearest chemist for a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder. This will set you right.
Dr. H. FORESTIER
WRITES :
“ Aix-les-Bains, Oct. 2nd, 1905.
“I have frequently prescribed Kutnow’sPowder
for my patients, and always found it most useful
in uric aid troubles, Rheumatism and Gout. It
has also proved itself very beneficial in cases of
Constipation and Hemorrhoids. My experience,
both in hospital and private practice, shows that
Kutnow’s Powder greatly helps to correct faulty
tissue metabolism.
H. PORESTIER, M.D.”
(Physician to the Evangelical Hospital and the
Thermal Hospital of Aix-lex-Bains).
UNIVERSITY GRADUATE
WRITES :
“9 Belvidere Place, Dublin.
“I feel bound to add my grateful testimony to
the merits of Kutnow’s Powder. Although
having no faith in any medicine for the habitual
and severe constipation I have sufiered from for
nearly 20 years, I procured a bottle. Its effect
was all that I could desire, bringing about a
gentle, natural action, almost unfelt, and leaving
the bowels in a healthy, natural state.
“F. W. BUTLER (B.A.).'*
How to detect Fraudulent
Substitutes.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which are
sometimes sold for a few pence less. The purchaser
through a misdirected spirit of economy, little thinks
that he is the means of a direct incentive to fraud. The
genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly
recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting kutnow’s’
which you can obtain at all conscientious chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signature
“S. Kutnow and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Deep,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations
and know
How to get genuine Kutnow’s
Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. kUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, EC.
[4 10]


Government Notices
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 22nd August, 1907.
CONDITIONAL PURCHASE LEASE AREA ON EAST
DORRIGO. .
Fis hereby notified, for public information, try t an
area of 7150 acres, t rood, in 31 Blocks, pr rish of
Gundar, county of Fitzroy, will be open for application
for Conditional Purchase Lease on and after the um
September, 1907. The areas of the Blocks range l.cm
1314 acres to 392 acres, and the annual rents from £5 lbs.
to £l6 Is. 4d. per Block. The Area comprises good
grazing land, part of which is suitable for agriculture,
and with which can be combined dairying, fruit growing,
etc. There is an abundant supply of good water, and tin
annual rainfall is about 60 inches. The land is situaten
from 13 to 18 miles from Coramba, and from 24 to &>
miles from Coff's Harbor. .
The term of a Conditional Purchase Lease is 40 years
from date of application, with right of conversion (during
the currency of the Lease) into a Conditional Purchase
at any time after confirmation of the Conditional 1 ur-
chase Lease application. An application for a Condi-
tional Purchase Lease shall be in form 114, and must be
accompanied by one half-year’s rent in advance, and the
survey fee ; or, if the applicant desires to defer payment
of the survey fee, then by one-fifth of the total amount
thereof. The application shall be signed, and the decla-
ration shall be made by the applicant. The application
may be lodged with the Crown Land Agent at Bellingen,
by the applicant in person, or by his agent in person duly
authorised in writing, during office hours on the 1-tn
September, 1907, or during office hours on any subsequent
business day, or may be forwarded on any day to the
Land Agent in a posted letter, but so as not to be
received bv him before the 12th September, 1907.
All applications for Conditional Purchase Leases lodged
by the applicant in person or by his agent in person,
duly authorised in writing, and all applications in posted
letters received by the Land Agent at any time on the
12th September, 1907, or at any time between the 12tn
and the 18th September, inclusive, shall together be
deemed to be and to have been lodged with such Land
Agent simultaneously on the 12th September, 1907.
The Local Land Board will, on the 20th September,
1907, sit at the Court-house, Coff’s Harbor, and deal
under Regulation 366 with any applications " bich may
be made for such lands from the 12th to .the 18th Sep-
tember, 1907, inclusive. After determination of priority
by ballot, the Local Land Board will proceed to consider
the question of confirmation of the applications of such
applicants as may be present. _ .
Full particulars as to special conditions, annual ients,
survey fees, etc., were published in the Go'eminent
Gazette of 21st August, 1907, and may also be obtained,
together with lithographs showing the lands in question,
from the Information Bureau, Department of uands,
Sydney, the Crown Lands Agents at Bellingen, Armidale,
Grafton, Lismore, Kempsey, Casino,. Tenterfield, Glen
Innes, and Murwillurnbah, and the Clerks of Petty
Sessions at Coff’s Harbor, Dorrigo, Boivraville, and
Coramba. „ _ 1
ROBERT MCDONALD,
5 a 31 Acting Under Secretary.
Business Announcements.
SEE OUR CATALOGUE
A gk
M ffgfgmgfgfk
* Of Novelties, Curious Musical Instru-
ments, Cheap Sheet Music, Violins, Accor-
dions, Mouth Organs, Harp Zithers,Home
Electric Medical Batteries, Electric Light
Pocket Lamps and Scarf Pins. Rubber
Type Outfits, Name Brooches, &c„ &c.
Sole Agents Wilson’s Ear Drums and
Ramey’s Medicator. Write to-day (mention
this paper). Catalogue posted free any-
where. STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Si., Melbourne.
Amusements.
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. Ur. Fo-a.nk Mubgrovk.
Direction-of .. .. EDWIN 6EACH.
Sle Managers: George Willoughby and Hugh 4
THURSDAY. AUGUST 29, FRI £ A J» Ab ’Hn
LAST TWO NIGHTS ..of.. LAST TWO NIGHTS
WILLOUGHBY and WARD LONDON COMEDY CO.,
Including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, in
THE NEW CLOWN.
PRICES—Ss., 35., '2s., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JHEATRE
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
SUCCESS ... of .... SUCCESS
MISS MAUD HILDYARD,
in a Great Irish Moral Play,
A WARNING TO WOMEN
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S TH EATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 31,
RETURN TO SYDNEY of the Celebrated Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK IN
TOM MOORE
Prices as usual.
SIX NIGHTS and ONE
MATINEE ONLY.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MISS LANCASHIRE, LTD.
With MISS FLORENCE BAINES
In an Entirely New Musical Programme, introducing her
Famous Songs, “ WHISPERS OF LOVE.”
Another New Laughing Song, entitled “ LAUGHS.”
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
Popular Prices. Box p^an at Paling’s.
a
J 8
WHEN YOU SHAVE-
Your face gets sore and feels as if you had it against
a hot iron, and even then you don’t get a really good
shave It’s the Razor. TRY A PLUM- you’ll have
no regrets at all.
SEND POSTAL NOTE or MONEY ORDER for 10/0,
and we will send the Razor direct to your Address.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Established
25 Years.
PIANO & ORGAN PLAYING SIMPLIFIED
A New Patented Method for Beginners
Not Vamping, but actually Playing Tunes with Both Hands
Ho ‘
Teacher
Required
You can
PlayTunee
at the first
attempt.
ƒgmkfg
‘ A Large Book
Full of Tunes
Complete 5/3y
including postage
to any address.
’ The
System
is fully
endorsed
by
• leading
Musicians
FAILURE IS
IMPOSSIBLE.
VOTT can become an expert pianist or organ!.* without goino through of league
wUlf the withttw Toft th* *^l^'had^ever
attempt. The bock, that is rerj handsomely gotten up, comprises forty naee. of tull mus e s.ae The Twenty Kusmai
Select'one. including four ballads with words and accompaniments. seven ”'* I Sf-JL™ thaS the Dricecharged the
march, a grand operatic romance and several sacred piec-s. are t ernse ** PLAYING TUNES and you go on
JZSSSm wul H ?e,?!c F t 3 g™d *To»
Seed not he SspeciaUy clever to do thia; the m- thod i. so simple th-t.it can be m-Mrf hy£7° ™ deall yat the
dance If you like music, but have never learnt to play, do not hesitate ; send for this book and in leas tn&n J W a
you Will be able to piSy several of the tunes. A failure ii impossible. Send postal note, of any state for Os. 3d. and
we will forward the book to any address carriage paid.
The Union Manufacturing and Agency Go.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Meeting.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION
of Australasia.
Established 1869.
Notice is hereby given that a special
GENERAL MEETING of the Association, con-
vened in accordance with Section 18 of the Act of
Incorporation, will be held at the Queen’s Hall, Pitt
Street, Sydney, on Wednesday the 18th day of September
next, at 11 a.m., to consider a Resolution which will be
submitted by the Board of Directors that Amalgamation
with the Citizens’ Life Assurance Company Limited,,
under the style of THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED, is expedient; and
to receive the Directors’ statement, accompanied by
Actuarial Certificates, as to the effect of such Amalgama-
tion on the interests of the Members of the Association.
If the Resolution be carried by a majority of not less
than three-fourths of the Members present, Special
General Meetings, of which due notice will be given,
will be held subsequently to confirm the Resolution and
repeal the existing By-Laws and make the necessary new
ones.
The Provisional Agreement entered into by the Direc-
tors of the two Institutions can be seen by any Member
of the Association at the Principal Office, George and
Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
By order of the Board,
J. 0. REMINGTON,
Sydney, 26th August, 1907. General Manager.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Amusements.
. u i I THEATR Hj SYDNEY
T sole Proprietor & Manairer-MR. H ARJR v Rick akds.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
HAMILTON HILL, Australian Baritone.
Magnificent Success of the POUR JUGGLING OERAL
* ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
GRAHAM and DENT, Celebrated English Comedians.
Most Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AG HAZEL.
THE TWO COLLIERS, Premier Song and Dance Duo.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Vocalist and Comedian.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
O Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MOLASSOS TROUPE, Continental Eccentric Dancers.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
LITTLE LILLIE GRIMSHAW 1 Juvenile Song and Dance
LES HALLINAN / Artists.
EDWARD CRANSTON and Company in Comedy Sketcn,
entitled “ A MODEL WIFE.”
TECHOW’S PERFORMING CATS.
Plan at Allan's. &T PRICES —3s, 2s fid, 2s, 19.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 31,
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
The London Gaiety Triumph,
THE SPRING CHICKEN
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 29, FRIDAY, AUGUST 30,
Last Two Performances of THE BONDMAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 31,
BLANDT HOLT in the Popular Australian Drama,
RIDING TO WIN.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—as., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is.; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 31,
Reappearance in Melbourne of
JULIUS KNIGHT
SUPPORTED BY A NOTABLE 00.
... IX ...
ROBIN HOOD.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies, and The Grand.
New bijou theatre, Melbourne
Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
For a Season commencing SATURDAY, AUGUST 31st.
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
In the play of all plays,
TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
FOR LAST WEEKS OF THE SEASON,
SPECIAL REDUCTION IN RATE OF ADMISSION.
ONE SHILLING EVERY EVENING.
Morning and Afternoon Admission, 2s.
SHOW WEEK SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
BAL MASQUE. SPORTS ON THE ICE.
OBSTACLE RACES. HOCKEY MATCH.
LADIES TILTING THE RING, etc.
TOURING SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
THE MUSICAL
“ALL BLACK S,”
ORCHESTRA, SINGERS, and DANCERS, and their
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES (With Realistic Effects).
THESE PICTURES ARE STAMPED WITH
THE SEAL OF EXCELLENCE.
...YOUR
FORTUNE...
SEND me your name and address, date of birth, sex, married or single, with 1/- Stamps or Postal Note, and
I will send you a Horoscope of your life from the cradle to the grave, absolutely FREE I will tell
you just what to do to become happy, and can so lay the future before you that you will bless the day you
first wrote to me. When you look around among your acquaintances and can see those who are successful
both in family matters and in business and money matters, who you know are not smarter than you are
yourself, don’t you often think well “THAT’S THEIR LUCK, BUT I HAVE HAD BAD LUCK J°"
yourself; now let me tell you something, and there is no question about it, they are successful because th y
have been advised by some competent astrologer. This you can put down as certain.
Read What a Few of My
Patrons say:
I followed the advice you gave me, and every-
thing has turned out grandly. Charley and I
are now married, and in our happiness we pray
that you may live long to continue your grand
and noble calling. NELLIE A.
Your wonderful power is beyond my under-
standing. You not only told me about affairs
that I thought no one knew anything about, but
all you predicted came true. Mrs. LUCILEA.
I bless the day when I wrote to you—it was
the turning point in my life—both in family and
money matters. HIRAM G.
Following your advice about becoming an
actress, I am now on the road to fame and fortune.
My last season was a complete success, and I
now have many flattering offers from several
managers, and just to think when I first wrote
to you I was only a poor country girl with no
future. I owe it all to you, dear Professor. How
can I ever pay you ? GRACE K.
REMEMBER ! I send you this Horoscope
absolutely FREE. Don’t hesitate a moment, but)
write at once and I will prove to you just what I say.
I have made thousands happy and prosperous, and
can do the same for you.
/ Tell You About Your
BUSINESS AFFAIRS
FAMILY AFFAIRS
LOVE AFFAIRS
WEALTH
HEALTH
LUCKY DAY
UNLUCKY DAY
MARRIAGE
CHARACTER
DON’T DELAY, send for FREE
Horoscope at once.
Simply send me your name and address, birth, date, sex, married or single,
with 1] - Stamps or Postal Note, and I will do the rest.
Shakespeare said“ The stars above us govern o ur conditions.” Why should you doubt ? Send at once
and learn what the stars have to tell you.
Address: PROF. H. DE ASTRO, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Unrivalled for the obmplexion. y v, /
Kfll f~)DFRMA-S(7flP KALQPERMA-JELLY * Kfl LOPE RMfl-POWDER
m
m
I
mWm
/
. .
SAIOPERfIftF WOLFF-&SOHN,
6ole Agents i
LOHMANN b CO.,
Melbourne (ft Sydney.
De euro you got WOLFF’S*
Qf all Chemitt*i Perfumers, Draper* and Storekeeper*.
COCKLE’S
ANTI-
BILIOUS
mfgkm
M J do not hesitate t 0 say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
A FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable tq every Mother of a family,


9
n
THE CRESCENT
MASSAGE VIBRATOR!
A STIMULATING massage treatment electric-
ally driven that is totally different from
and vastly better than the old system of hand
massage.
It is for the use of Medical men—massage
establishments, hairdressers, etc. It is for the
body, face, and head, and cures Headache,
Neuralgia, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, etc.
Can be driven by the ordinary electric
current, or by self-driven battery for home use
—and thus be your own masseur.
Is a simple contrivance —is easy to use, and
is under perfect control. By its rapid and
powerful movements it gives new life to the
tired muscles and exhausted tissues—the blood
is awakened and readily does its duty in
eliminating waste matter through proper
channels.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR
SPECIAL BOOKLET.
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
SUFFERED FOR THREE YEARS.
HAD TO PUT ANOTHER. MAN ON TO DO HIS WORK.
BODY BECAME SO DENUDED OF FLESH
THAT CLOTHES HUNG LIKE A SACK.
Clements Tonic
“LIFTED ME FROM THAT SORRY STATE.”
Mr. V. BORWICK, Storekeeper, of 286 and 288 Crown Road,
Ultimo, relates his COMPLETE CURE to a Sydney reporter.
“ It is six years ago now since I got all right
again,” Mr. Borwick remarked, and I think it
was about up to me to have a change of luck, con-
sidering that I had been suffering for fully three
years. The pains that ran along my gums and
reached up to the top of my head were something
terrible, and half my time I did not know what I
was doing. My adversities set in when I was
“running the plank,” as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can assure you that
I was so broken down in health that I had to put
another man on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia. lam sure nobody
could have it worse than I had, and as I found
such a grand cure for it, the least I can do is to let
humanity know all about it, for I daresay my ex-
perience will prove very helpful. Well, out'of p.ll
the medicines I tried to cure neuralgia, the only
one that was of any lasting benefit was Clements
Tonic, and when I say that after keeping going
with that remedy for a few weeks the fearful
pains all left me, and have never returned all these
years, it is the honest truth I am telling you.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ? ”
“Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgia tor-
tures were at me I had other troubles to deal
with, for my digestion was just as bad as it could
be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing
to the pains about my jaws, eating was almost out
of the question ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that the little I did force myself
to take to keep body and soul together had the
unhappy habit of disagreeing with me. And you
must remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a stretch
sometimes—could I get any rest, and, as you may
well imagine, the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my
work altogether, and my body was so denuded of
flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, I was just going to have some of them
altered about the time that I started on Clements
Tonic, and by some means or other the idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was afterwards
very glad, as in a few months I was as stout as
ever. Yes; it was quite a matter for regular
comment how well I was looking, and, thank
(rod,_ I felt well, too. For three years
previous to using Clements Tonic I was nothing
but a total wreck, for every part of my body
was adversely affected in some way or other. It
was my first experience of indigestion, and I sin-
cerely trust it will be my last, for I would rather
be dead and out of the world altogether than go
through such misery again. I got to feel as shaky
and uncomfortable as if everything in my
inside was going to pieces, and was so disturbed
and unsettled mentally that the least thing made
me irritable. My eyes always felt heavy and
swollen to such an extent that I could scarcely see
to read, and I felt so discontented and restless
that I could not stay indoors. Consequently, I
often wandered about outside, hardly knowing
what to do with myself, feeling as though death
would be a thousand times more welcome than the
wretched life I was leading, for I was in agony
everywhere. The pains in my chest were really
cruel, and I thought I had strained myself or
broken something between my shoulders owing to
the pain that was there. It was like getting hold
of a piece of meat, and tearing it in two —that was
the kind of feeling I had between the shoulders,
and my loins ached badly into the bargain.”
“ And have you never had a return of any of
those symptoms during the past six years ? ”
“No; upon my honor; and I have not had
that nasty bulged-out feeling in the stomach
either after eating my food. No, Clements Tonic
removed everything, even to the bitter taste of a
morning, and the fur that used to cover my
tongue, besides which it gave me permanent
relief from the many attacks of giddiness that I
had previously been subjected to. How much my
nerves accounted for the misery I had endured is
hard to say definitely, but they undoubtedly had
their fair share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that I was so highly nervous that I could not
stand the least excitement without getting all of
a tremble, and I had also contracted an uncon-
trollable practice of measuring the future with
nothing but trouble and worry in store. All I
could see before me was a continuance of my suf-
fering, only to be added to my misfortunes of
other descriptions, and now that you understand
the gloomy frame of mind I was in, you will
readily conceive why I speak so highly of Clements
Tonic for lifting me from the sorry state to the
happy and healthy condition I am now blessed
with.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BORWTCK, of No. 286-288 Crown Road, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting- of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any wry my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) VICTOR BORWICK.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-third day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, w. J. KYLE, J.P.
9?
U'
THE
COLUMBIA
GRAPH-o-phone
FOR ALL SIZES OF
DISC RECORDS.
Fitted with the Famous Columbia Tone
Arm and Sound Analysing: Reproducer.
This wonderful device not only re-
produces the human voice, and all
kinds of music, with absolute fidelity,
but it entirely eliminates the dis-
tressing 1 grating noises peculiar to
other makes of Disc Talking Machines.
REAL MUSIC, REAL VOICES,
... AND ...
Real Reproduction of Sound
Characterise this
UP-TO-DATE GRAPH-O-PHONE.
A Post Card to us will bring you full particulars and
a Colored Illustration of this Magnificent Machine.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen'L,
255 “B” Clarence Street. Sydney.
London, New York, Berlin, Paris,
/Titan, St. Petersburg.
fgmffgkfg
A REALLY
EXQUISITE
INSTRUfIENT.
PillCE
£.lO
TENNIS.
AUSTRALASIA v. WORLD.
These Racquets were used by Our Men.
AYRES
Wilding
Champion
Handicap
Clarence.
!rsc
DOHERTY
K42~i
-■2-Q'pef
OQS2
x:::
X±i<l
li|OJ
o
-<!?
es
ft
3<
RACKET,
SLAZENCER’S
Doherty
E.G.M.
Whitehouse
Demon.
ADD Postage 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPY.,
Sports Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
RISKS
OLD
SCOTCH
•'vV.V
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
THE LONE HAND
The Australian magazine will be out on Saturday, full of color and poetry from
cover to cover.
It will, in picture, prose and verse, tell of the Spring, the fragrant Australian
Spring, which is not as the old-world Spring, beautiful mainly from contrast with a
cold and hideous Winter, but with a gay, red-blood joy of life.
It will include stories from Henry Lawson, Edward Dyson, Ethel Mills, Albert
Dorrington, G. B. Lancaster, Louis Esson, C. C. Hutbush, covering the whole gamut
of human emotion, fs>m broad humor to tragedy; but with no dismal pessimism.
J. F. Archibald brings his vitally interesting Memoirs up to the point at which
Traill joined The Bulletin Stalf, in six pages of pungent humor and acute
observation.
The singers of the month include Roderic Quinn, Hugh McCrae, Frank Morton.
The artists represented are “Hop,” Norman Lindsay, Alf Vincent, Alek. Sass, D. H.
Souter, George Lambert, Lionel Lindsay, Florence Rod way, and J. Longstaff (a re-
production in color of his famous “ Breaking the News ”). It is the strongest staff of
artists represented in any magazine in the world.
There is a full budget of historical, literary, and artistic articles to please more
serious tastes.
Buy The Lone Hand, and you have an art gallery, a choice collection of
pictures, and an informative review in one—and all for a shilling.
The subscription to The Lone Hand is 12s. per annum, post free, and you may
send it either direct to the office or to the nearest newsagent.
CONTENTS.
. PAGE
Breaking the News—in colors ----- By J. Longstaff — (Frontispiece)
David Scott Mitchell By Arthur IV. Jose 465
Poetry and Prose of Spring “ Hop” 471
A Dinner of Herbs—(lllustrations by D. H. Souter) ----- Ethel Mills 472
The Elves o’ Spring—(Decorations by Norman Lindsay) - - - Hugh McCrae 478
Dutchy’s Bank—(lllustrations by Norman Lindsay) - - Albert Dorrington 480
STH Avenue, New York, After a Buzzard—(Photo) Z. Ben Yusuf 484
The Maiden Spring Poderic Quinn 485
Two Battlers and a Bear—(lllustrations by Norman Lindsay) - - Edward Dyson 486
The Sisters—(Decorations by Florence Rodway) Frank Morton 494
Complimentary ! G. W. Lambert 496
The Pot-Boiler—(lllustrations by Alek Sass) Louis Esson 497
The Prime Minister at Home—(with Photographs of Mr. and Mrs. Deakin) -“ F. R.” 501
Hunting in New South Wales—(with Several Photographs) - - “ First-Check" 504
Mateship—(lllustrations by Lionel Lindsay) Henry Lawson 511
The Anatomy of a Piano . - 517
A Frolic with Grandpa - - - - - - ' - - - Norman Lindsay 518
Editorial _ _ - 520
For the Public Good— (a) Crime and the Criminal; (b) The Architect as a Swindler
(c) Headache Powders - . . 523
Printer’s Errors Fines (June) - . . 528
The Kisses That Shall Last—(lllustrations by D. H. Souter) - - G. B. Lancaster 529
Vagabonding in Asia—(Written and Illustrated by Alf Vincent) - - - - > 533
The Kookaburra—(lllustration by F. P. Allen) ----- . Louis Esson 541
Blue Eyes and Brown—-(lllustrations by Alek Sass) - - - - C. C. Hutbush 542
Ihe Dead Poet - - - - - - - - - - . -A. Crawford 545
Artists and their Art—L. Hopkins - - Mick Paul 546
A Doll’s House in Japan—(with Illustrations by the Author) - - 7,aida Ben Yusuf 547
The Genesis of “The Bulletin”—(with Portrait of the late W. H. Traill)
J. F. Archibald 554
When Away “ Kondar'- 559
Beauty at the Billiard Table—(with Illustration) - - 561
Sydney Slums—(Pictures by Lionel Lindsay) J- L>. Fitz Gerald 562
The Camel in Au?stralia . . 568
Students in Mythology D. H. Souter 569
Life and Letters—
Politics and Poetry - J.B.D. 570
Smoke Rings - -- -- -- -- - Frank Morton 573
An Editor’s Talk - - . 374
The Map of the Australia Should See It - - Geo. Collingridge 576
To Would-be Contributors - . . 377
For a Woman’s Sake—(Decoration by G. W. Lambert) ... “ Veldt ” 579
The Judicious Thief xxxiv.
A Special Millinery Section in Colors will be found on pages - - - - - iA to viiiH


Prevented
by
v*
SOAP
i
To treat Pimples and Black-
heads, Red, Rough, Oily
Complexions, gently smear
the face with Cuticura Oint-
ment, the great Skin Cure,
but do not rub. Wash off
the Ointment in five min-
utes with Cuticura Soap and
hot water, and bathe freely
for some minutes.. Repeat
morning and evening. At
other times use Cuticura
Soap for bathing the face
as often as agreeable.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 27
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 5 Rue de la Paix; Austra-
lia, R. Towns & Co.. Sydney; India. B. K. Paul, Cal-
cutta; China. Hong Kong Drug Co.; Japan. Maruya.
Ltd.,Tokio; South Africa, Lennon, Ltd. Cape Town
etc.: U. S. A.. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston. KT-Postoree. Cuticura Booklet.
This Lady’s Beaded
Evening Shoe
for
18/6
fgkfmhhgmkfg
This is one of the finest Evening Shoes we’ve ever
had to offer you. The insole is padded so that per-
fect rest for the foot is ensured. The beading is very
chaste, whilst the shoe is perfectly finished in every
detail ; very light in make, yet staunch.
Price, 18/6. Posted in Victoria, 9d. extra ; to
other States, 1/2 extra.
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price it can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glac6 Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in or 'ering-.
Price, 14-16. Posted in Victoria, 1 - extra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMBNG’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swcinston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahan,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
110,000
The WaybacK Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is
Mrs. MAGLURCAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.-
Price, 2 6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
Bicycle
THE
□ID
THE
K
gfgh,kgh
h*
x-
AT the Pitzroy Bicycle
Club’s Annual 25-mile
Road Race held at Keilor
on Aug'. 17, D. Cotter, the
winner, rode a machine
fitted with ‘ FLITE ’ Tyres.
Mr. A. Whitbourne, 336
Flinders-st., Melbourne,
writes :—“ . . . The
‘ DADDY ’ Tyre is giving
me every satisfaction . . .
good as new ... so far
have done 2,500 miles on
it . . . equal to any I have
ever used . . . . ”
Ask your Dealer for
“ FLITE " or “ DADDY.”
Barnet Grw(°
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne ; 344 Clarence
Street, Sydney, and 10 McHenry Street,
Adelaide.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, and Brisbane.
DON’T READ THIS
Purchasers to the amount of 10/6 receive two
beautiful EMBROIDERED HANDKERCHIEFS as a
present. Engraving and Embroidering FREE
of Charge at our Establishment. Note Address:
KEEGAN BROS.,
S SYDNEY ARCADE, KINC STREEY ENYRANCE.
ms
QjREEKHt
j&vm
ft
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
"Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure! If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
r
AlEcocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
For pains in the region of tile
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied os
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
AUcook's Plaster,
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
0?
For Rheumatism or Pains m
Shoulders, tlbowsorelsewhere,
or for Sprains. Stiffness, etc.,
and for Aching Feet, Plaster
should be cut sire and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc.
fgkfg
Established 1752.
Twenty Times Cheaper than
Electricity.
Five Times Cheaper than
Town Gas.
CAPEL’S SUCTBON GAS PLANT
Is the astounding result of Twentieth Century Engineering Science.
Power is gained by making the Gras whilst the engine is running, and
some idea may be gained of the saving established by the fact that a
Ten-Horse Power Engine can be run for
LESS THAN A PENNY PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Circular and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO. LTD., Sole Agents,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. Works: Mod’s Bay, Balmain.
Stanifoi'th Smith, who has charge of the
Department of Industry for Papua, is setting up
a Government laboratory at Port Moresby, and
also a museum for specimens of plant life and
minerals, and he has made a start with an agri-
cultural library, which will be at the disposal of
all planters. Apparently, he is one of the few
live men who have had a chance to help the work
of steering the Possession up to now. The Aus-
tralian Parliament started with three Smiths
Pumpkin, Spruce, and Staniforth —two intermin-
able talkers and a man who says little, but plants
vegetables. And the greatest of the three is the
man who is planting vegetables. The other two
only planted Hansard, and under their care it
came up like Jonah’s gourd, and was just as dead
next day because there was a worm at the root.
Bananaland’s new Speaker, “ Janny ”
Leahy, whose thick brogue cleaves to him after a
generation in Australia, made the best political
scoop in the Northern State during the recent
crisis. He was first elected as a red-hot Radical,
but that was many years ago, while he , still
worked an out-back beer-pump. “Janny” at
once proved that he was a fine political
engineer. He was always watching for office,
but his prejudices were generally too vulgarly
prominent. When the short-lived Dawson
Ministry was formed, “Janny ” scented a chance,
but decided that he would not risk it; so he
turned his face the other way and gradually
became the most Tory barracker in the House.
For a time he was Minister for Railways in the
Continuous Job Government. On the floor of
the House he developed into a master of the art
of talking round a question. Interjectors he
stoushed with volleys of vulgar repartee, relieved
very occasionally with a spark of Irish wit.
“Janny’s” latest coup was ingenious enough to
challenge respect. Philp will miss him,
because he supplied the most incapable leader of
the Opposition with fighting material and specious
reason ir. g.
From “ Red Tape, Junior ” :
Premier Joe’s orders to pay us twice a month are to
take effect in September. “Mid-monthiy payments”
they call then.. It’s not a new scheme ; the Federal
men have had mid-monthly payments ever since their
jobs started ; but Joe is putting on as much frill as if he
had invented sin. We’ll get used to it, just as we are
used to waiting foi the regrading appeals to be heard.
But I’m doing a speculate as to how some of our fellows
are going to take it. Jellicoe, for instance, on his £250 a
year. When he draws his £2O each month, he flies round
for a bit, with front stalls and supper in a Pitt-street
restaurant for the girl and her ma, or ball tickets and
bouquets ; and they put him down for £5OO a year, at
least. Now, with only a tenner coming in at a time, his
wings will be clipped, for it’s utterly impossible for Jelli-
coe to save up. One of his nights out, and the change
out of his tenner won’t keep Jellicoe for a fort-
night as Jellicoe thinks he ought to be kept.
Besides him we’ve a small crowd of fellows who think
they ought to live up to old Sydney beer-tradition and go
on the spree every pay day. Two jamborees per month
will make them bankrupt; besides, their constitutions
can’t stand it. Then there’s little Smith upstairs. Little
Smith is married to a big wife and has an enormous baby.
They live at a place near Hornsby—Warrawee, I think it’s
called. Smith goes home on pay day with things for the
baby in every pocket, things for the garden under each
arm, and things for the household all over him. I suppose
the little beggar will have to do the universal carry-all
act twice a month now. Anyway, lie’s a glad man.
He’s buying the Warrawee place. “ Why pay rent ?” he
says. “ Look at me. In 32 years and five months my
little crib will be my own.” Now, with mid-monthly
payments, little Smith reckons that he will be able to
wipe off the mortgage in 30 years and 11 months. I
asked him what about two twopenny stamps each month
instead of one. Then his countenance fell, and he has
found it will take him 31 years and one month to get
square. Carruthers needn’t mind me. I’ll take mine
mid-weekly if he likes, only my screw looks sin,all enough
now, and when I get half of the stipend and spread
the remuneration out before me, I’m afraid the blessed
recompense will look so small that I’ll just go away and
leave it there.
“S.S.” : Borrowing was an instinct with
Marcus Clarke. Talking the other day with a
veteran who knew the author of “ His Natural
Life ” intimately, I was told by the ancient:
“Marcus and I were walking down Collins-street
one afternoon when we met a casual acquaintance
of his. Clarke stopped, and, after some few com-
pliments, borrowed 55., and we passed on. Now,
as Clarke had just drawn a few pounds from the
Argus, I ventured to ask why he had borrowed
those few shillings. ‘ Well! ’ said Marcus gravely,
‘ you wouldn’t have me slight the man.’ He often
borrow’ed money when he didn’t need it. He said
he did it to keep his hand in. ‘ It’s becoming
quite a habit of mine,’ he admitted. ‘ The other
night I borrowed five shillings in my sleep—from
my wife, too ! ’ One of his precepts was ‘ never
neglect to make an acquaintance—they’re always
useful when you want to borrow.’ Another was :
‘A man of prdinary intelligence can borrow once
from almost anybody.’ One evening in a city bar
a big, jovial man claimed Clarke’s acquaintance.
The author could not remember him. ‘We met
at Flemington,’ said he. Marcus could not re-
call the event. ‘ln what circumstances?’ he
asked. ‘Well,’ said the man, ‘ w’e met one
moment, we had a drink the next, and in the
third you borrowed a sovereign.’ ‘ Yes, yes,’
said Clarke, ‘ but did nothing unusual occur ? ’ He
complained to me one night: ‘ I’m getting
famous, old man; I can’t borrow a cent nowa-
days.’ ”
Mauger summed up :
Samuel Mauger, the newest Postmaster-General, has
had a varied and extensive political career. After un-
successfully contesting Fitzroy (1892), Melbourne South
(1896), and Portland (1897), he obtained, in 1899, and
again in 1900, the Footscray seat in the Victorian Legis-
lature. He left State to enter Federal politics, was re-
turned unopposed for Melbourne Ports in the first Federal
election (1901), and easily defeated James Mathews—the
Labor nominee-in 1903. Mathews, however, won Mel-
bourne Ports last December, Mauger standing for and
being elected by the newly-created neighboring consti-
tuency of Maribyrnong. His Ministerial record is not a
long one, dating only from the time when Isaacs was
made a High Court Judge; but his administration :of
the Post Office during Deakin’s absence at the Imperial
Conference marked him out as a good man for the
position.
Once upon a time (in 1892, to be exact)—when the Vic-
torian Labor party consisted of Trenwith (now Senator)
and Dr. Maloney (now' M.H.R.), and of anyone who could
be induced to hold a torch, or who happened to be near
the vacant allotment on which the proletariat was “ ven-
turing to assert”—Sam Mauger and another named
Moffat claimed the support of the “ Laborites ” of Fitzroy.
So that a choice might be made, it was arranged that
both should speak at a meeting of “the party.” The
speakers held forth in alphabetical order—“ Ma ” coming
before “Mo,” and when “ Ma’s” turn had finished, the
clock pointed to 9.55 p.m., and “Mo” didn’t have time
to show his form. Mauger was thereupon chosen as the
Labor candidate, but was unsuccessful.
Probably the most interesting of all his campaigns was
that for the South Melbourne seat in 1896. There
were six starters, among whom were Thomas Bent (now’
Premier of Victoria) and ex-civil servant Daglish (some-
time Premier of Westralia); and these two—so doth
greatness often go unrecognised—lost their deposits!
Bent secured 49 votes, and Daglish 34. (Daglish’s uncle
was away, or he would have scored 35.) Mauger was
second on the list, his followers numbering 391 out of
1398.
In his 49 years, Mauger has done much good work,
principally in connection with Protectionist and anti-
sweating movements. He is a man who looks not on the
beer when it is brown, or the pony when it is slow, or the
barmaid when she is fast; and, barring ’flu’, tramcars,
and the unforeseen, there should be many years of good
work still in him.


I
Will cure
The worst cases
Of Skin
Disease
From a
Common Pimple
On the Face
To that awful
Disease
Scrofula.
Try a bottle
To-day.
RHEUMATISM]
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Rlair’c GOUT AND
Uld.ll O RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail. FJ!
They Always Cure. M 1110
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
■ci.imi
dkdfjkfg
■ Tret rid of that
dandruff I
before it '
destroys
your hair.
Those tiny
little scales on your scalp are
a sign of dryness. A dry scalp
cannot nourish the hair.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
is especially prepared to nourish
and build up dry, thin, starved
scalps. It feeds them and fur-
nishes the hair roots with proper
nourishment. It revives the
hair. Be sure you get Barry’s
Tri-coph-erous.
Reuter’s Soap makes soft, white hands
THE BALLET GIRL
fgfg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frao, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 9/3, G.P.O.j, SYDNEY.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4/6
End 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
wholesale agents:
SAYERS, AUPORT PROPRIETARY LTD., SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. VV. Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
&
'l,
//
\\
\ /
MEN! DON
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing
doctors does not cure you. You are trying one medicine after the other
with the same disgusting disappointment. You are a “ medicine doser,”
and the only change in your condition is for the worse. Why don’t yon
stop this medicine Habit? Why don’t you avail
yourself of the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own
lines. Use the life-giving, healing, strengthening forces of Electricity !
This is the electric age. You can see on every hand the wonders of Electricity.
You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine, for medicine gives no
noui ishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we apply it and you
will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to
the breaking-down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its alotted task
the entire human machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life
—is to rebuild the weak part which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply
of vital electric energy. This can only be properly done with the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now
admit it, but there has been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is
crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good.
Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . . Electricity, as applied by DR. McEAUGHUN’S
EEECTRIC BEET, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shocK, no burning or blistering, and
you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weaßness of all Kinds, Varicocele,
Rheumatism, WeaK BacK, Sciatica, Lumbago, Indigestion, WeaK Kidneys,
Failing Memory, and all evidence of Breaß-Down.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CAlili for Free Consultation.
The McLaughlin Co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Joseph r. corcorah Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
2
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS
*
<o
©
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo®* welcome relief
in a very short time.
<#■ <s. Jr
# csy v
and OINTMENT
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor Is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists_and Store-.
|fPAnflrs are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and so encourage
business in your own district If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
" ’W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney,
T HE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd,


N.S.W. Bhanch Office :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
The flight Time
to take a Reuter’s Little Pill Is
when your tongue is coated, your
breath is heavy, or you have a
stuffed feeling. All these are signs
of constipation in a mild form.
That’s just why Reuter’s Little
Pills are so good. They can be
taken upon the slightest suspicion
of trouble. One or two pills swal-
lowed in time will prevent further
trouble. They work so naturally
that you are not aware that you
have taken anything except for
the feeling of relief and comfort
which follows. Reuter’s Little
Pills are the only remedy contain-
ing the combination of vegetable
ingredients which fulfill the
promises made for them. Be sure
you get what you ask for.
Reuter’s Soap will beautify your
complexion.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City S< or U Sub urban %ro perties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or *5?
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills y , NT eresT
ralian States or New Zealknd AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of *'ep a >> n £
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of a } . _
Directors —The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T._ Walker, Deputy •Chairman
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe Esq. , Rollo A. Cape, asq
General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.a., F.F.A., .
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secret y.
Australia’s Exquisite Production
“BOOMERANG"
PURE GRAPE BRANDY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895.
THE LANCET says:
“It is a sound, honest Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
FT.
m
m
\
v/
*■ >
fgk
It is supplied
under Royal Warrant
to
His Majesty the King
DO YOU WANT TO HEAR
the conversation of your
friends—music—singing ?
Are you “hard of hear-
ing ” and denied those
pleasures? If you are not totally deaf —nor born deaf —your hopes may revive, because relief is at hand.
THE ELECTRICONS GAVE ME July 17th, 1907.
PERFECT HEARING. 29 Buckhurst Street, S. Melbourne.
L. R. VERNON 00. Dear Sirs,—l am thankful to say that the Electricons which I obtained from you
some time ago have restored my hearing. I was as deaf as a post for yeacs, and your Electricons cured me.
Will you please send your Book to a few of my friends whom I know are deaf, and I shall always be pleased to
recommend your Electricons to anyone who is hard of hearing.—Yours truly, M. JOYNER.
THEY WILL HELP YOU. The Electricons are entirely different from any other Appliances. They
do not hurt, will not collapse in the ear, and are so sensitive that they catch the faintest sounds.
EASILY APPLIED. WRITE TO-DAY FOR BOOKLET.
THE L.
R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
gfkfgk
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
FULTON COMPOUNDS. I™,*“
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CONSULT
HERR RASSMUSSEN
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
ADVICE FREE.
Send for Free Circular.
25 YEARS’ PRACTICE
IN AUSTRALIA.
Awarded Several Gold Medals and
Thousands of Testimonials.
SPECIAL TREATMENT: Diseases of the Nerves, Skin and Blood,
Piles, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Liver and Kidneys.
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THe
UNDERWOOD
" All -m-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BLICK £lO (Si £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual Drice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 16 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of Introduction predisposes
one in favour of the bearer, so adverti9.
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount of
praise will insure its success-therefore
- I give you a bottle of my remedy, to try,
before purchasingany; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, ana I
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Fits yet discovered. I have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World.
A safe remedy—approved by the
Medical Profession.
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum St, Rloomsbury, London,
England.
Send !/• for parcel postage to the Colonies.
HYPNOTISM
fgkfgk
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic
“ influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, antf
suggests many opportunities for making money.
"The Scientific Wonder of the Age," M pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS,
29 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY.
BLACKING
the superb liquid dressing for boots and
shoes. Itnot only gives the most approved
deep black polish, but it renders the boots
soft and pliant to the feet.
Crozine does not smut nor rub off on the
clothing; is not affected by dampness. Its
use is the vogue the world over.
Get the genuine HAUTHAWAY’S, At any
high-class Boot Store anywhere the world
around. Made qnly bt
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
$} Boston, Mass., U. 8. A.
Agents foe United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED £ SONS, Ltd.
London, v , England
SIT
R
B
LIKE
t mm
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takifig them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
) Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
Completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become qtiite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.


BECHSTEIN PIANOS
V
C.BECHSTEIN *
HANDSOME
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
FREE BY POST.
Are used by tbe
World’s
Greatest
Pianists
Exquisite Tone.
Perfect Touch.
Artistic Case Desig'ns.
Sold for Cash or on
' ,V '. '
Si
ii
m
■
Easy Terms.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE
Sole
Agents
W. H. PALING <a CO. Ltd. & ALLAN (& CO. Propy. Ltd.
338 George St., Sydney, Brisbane (EL Newcastle. ° 270-8 Collins St., Melbourne.
Silver-Mounted HAT PINS-Choice Collection
JUST now we have what is probably the
FINEST COLLECTION of SMART
SILVER-MOUNTED HATPINS Ever Shown
in Sydney. We illustrate a few of them here,
and would advise Early Selection.
awsonz
i
SEND us your Order by mail, and we will pack
them in a Special Hatpin Box, and post
free of charge. We have every design shown
here, and many others equally pretty, but for
all that we would ad vise Early Ordering.
mmm
G9562. — 2j- m G9566.-2/-. 11— 33. —2/-. G9563 .—1/6. H3G67.— 3/-. H3664 .—1/6. G9556.— 3/-, H3666.-2/-. H3668.— 3/-. H30.— 3/-. G9564.— //6. H 3869. —3- G 9555.— 3/-. H3665.— 7/6.
G 7907.
Silver-Plated Chatelaine
NOTE BOOK, 2/-.
I
G9565.-3/-.
P 9889.
Best E.P.
OAKE FORKS,
2/- Each.
fgkf
81464.
Solid Silver and Pearl
GLOVE HOOK, 2/6.
H 1378.
THE EMPIRE TOILET SET, in Case, Finest Bristles
and Solid Sterling- Silver, £lO.
A 1629.
Magnificent Dark Amethyst/ and'Finest Quality Pearl-
set 15-ct. Gold BRACELET, £l2/10/-.
m
ns
FREEMASON’S
PENDANT,
Opens up and Closes
exactly as shown.
In 9-ct. Gold throughout,
£,4/r5/-.
In 9-ct. Gold, with
Silver Ground,
£3/15/-
In 15-ct., with Silver
Ground,
£ 5/10 /-.


Shipping-
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to 4s ‘
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. • titoh.,™
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS sou.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies A ct, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve (in Government Stock)
Interminable ueposit Stock
.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
.. 413,289 5 0
.. 59.000 0 0
.. 3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queeiin-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. .
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial (Qutual l if*
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Qank of florth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
nn AIITC nD A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
uKAN I O Ulinr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
fgkf
ƒgkf
ƒg kfgk
Free
r Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3Nr.S."W.
(flontdepieteO.^l.Co-.Ctd*
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKBAGH S r., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE anti BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Mef.ks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Escl J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
Genera?Manaffer for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEA.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (In vested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortyayes) .. .. £20,°00 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esn 0.M.G., Vice Cbairman; John Gnoe, Esq.,
Hon J M Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
W 0 ' JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.,
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Bast book of Australian humor, 4s. bd.
N. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 24th SEPT.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Royal Rank of Queensland
Tjl M 1 TIC 7). ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 08,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
snipping.
TH€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown . Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING at DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN •• £-®\T pson
♦MARATHON . N. Allan ..
SALAMIS .. .. IR- McKilliam
I Noon. Sept. 13
Noon, Oct. 11
Noon. Nov. 2
* Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon 3rd Class -
London .. From £57 45.. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Pane or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to 4,17 17s.
° Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O IUS.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standar .
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia. __
LINE.
gkf
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-fcon Steamers*
MEDIC, to sail about 4th SEPT.
AFRIC, to sail about 2nd OCTOBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC and SUEVIC to follow_
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
T.midon .. .. 19 0 0 to u o
New York, &c. .. 25 50 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Compani/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
J HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G.)>
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
■
•m
m
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE TO EUROPE,
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
%
Vr
IV
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
,jJsk your Storekeeper for it.
Cuaranteed free from Preservatives.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
fl 1
ftW #»
EORGC HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Bear: .n ifiald Parada
ST. KILDA.
rPHjS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
JL the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 4-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10h3. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and gXft' 0 ' Banquets and
Private Balls ?“ ble Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TP I NEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
X? LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A tJAY. Telephone 174.
snipping, _____
THEAOELAIDESTEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
-S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
September 14, at 1 p.m.
,
1 S.S. Marloo, August 31.
| S.S. Yongala, September 7.
Rest. and Cheapest Itoute to Gold/ield.%
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2 10s,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON
(via Melbourne)
Calling at DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Fine Steamer,
" RENT,”
9500 Tons A. G. McGIBBON, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
on 12th SEPTEMBER.
Has excellent accommodation for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins, on the upper deck situated amidships.
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewai dess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
DURBAN .. £2O
CAPETOWN £22 10s.
LONDON .. £45
Plus
10%
£lO £ll £l2
£lO 10s. £lllls. £l2 12s.
£l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F.H.S. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND. Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE I
GEELONG
ADELAIDE '
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
BRISBANE A
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 31..
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 7.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 14.
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
KONOOWARRA. 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, September 3.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 7.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter.
State S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Public Notices.
The mining investment & agency company
(Capital £20,000),' Albany Chambers, 230 Collins
Street, Melbourne, act as agents for Mining Investors
in every capacity.—Shares bought and sold on com-
mission. Calls paid and Dividends collected. Pro-
mising investments recommended. Confidential reports
supplied on Mines by staff of highly qualified and intelli-
gent experts. Sums from £5 upwards received for dis-
cretionary investment. Several sound investments now
offering at low rates.
W. BEUCE FOX, General Manager.
Voigtlander’s
Binoculars.
mg
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade. .
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPOUTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.


THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
gf gf
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT SUFFERED FOR OVER SIXTY YEARS.
SO BAD HE DARED NOT STIR.
RELIEVED IN A FEW MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
WOULD GIVE £5O FOR THE SAME BENEFIT RATHER THAN SUFFER.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and lam now 66 years old. Some time
oack I contracted Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy that had previously relieved smothering
was of no use to me. I.was so bad that r I dared not stir, and spent the worst night I ewer h id. When in a conversa-
tion, Mr. March, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and
that it was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in a few minutes after taking the first dose I could
breathe a little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better every day. To-day I am better than I have
been for the last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would
give £5O for the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make what use of this letter you think fit, if by so
doing it would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM, 108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ITS EFFICACY IN CHEST COMPLAINTS TESTIFIED TO BY A GRATEFUL VICTORIAN.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years, and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
™ e colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest complaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure with
a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative pro-
perties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medicine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to anyone.
Trusting its present popularity and sales will be doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES, Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY STOCK AND SH ARE BROKER EXPRESSES GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT PROVED A MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY FOR A SEVERE ATTACK OF BRONCHITIS.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l lately had a severe attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communication at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, vours faithfully,
HENRY FRENCH, Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
AT TIMES VERY BAD INDEED.
QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
_ Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was troubled with asthma, at times very bad, indeed. I was very
ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. 1 took the
first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a touch of
the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY, Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A SEVERE ATTACK RELIEVED IN TEN MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE EFFECT WAS WONDERFUL.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago, while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt a
difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bronchitis
or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was wonderful. In
less than ten minutes I was all right again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.. This is no exaggeration, I
am pleased to say.—Yours truly,
S. H. MAYO, J.P., Meredith, Victoria.
NINE MONTHS’ SUFFERING.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY TWO BOTTLES.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered
for nine months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had
medical advice, and tried other remedies without avail. I tried yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking
the first dose, and though I have had but two bottles, I feel lam a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted. —Yours
faithfully, JAMES ASTBURY, Dergholm, Victoria.
ASTHMA 25 YEARS.
IMMEDIATELY RELIEVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have been a martyr to Asthma for about 25 years, and have tried almost all
known remedies for the complaint, and have been under the treatment of leading physicians throughout the
Australian States. I determined to try no more, but let Nature take its course. Two years ago I was asked to try
your Asthma Cure, but laughed at the idea. However, by the persuasion of a very old friend, three weeks ago I
commenced the first bottle of your treatment. Almost immediately I found that I had made a mistake by not
taking it before. lam now about half-way through the second bottle, and so much do I feel relieved that I
take this opportunity of sending this testimonial along for you to make whatever use you may think fit. I
intend continuing your treatment, and I trust that before I have finished the third bottle I shall be able to
write to you that lam perfectly cured. lam pleased to say the effect has been wonderful. Yours very grate-
fully, PHIL HANN, 33 Camden Street, Balaclava, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
PATIENT RECOVERING.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We purchased some time ago 12 bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and can
unhesitatingly say that it has given great relief from the intolerable throat irritation that my daughter experi-
enced. Previous to using the Bronchitis Cure she would have two or three attacks nightly, but now she can
sleep throughout the night and, on wakening, simply clears her throat from phlegm. She had a slight attack
of Consumption, but seems to be recovering, though of course slowly. Yours gratefully,
G. MACKIE, Kiamata, Taranaki, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
AN ENGLISH LADY SO ILL THAT THE DOCTOR HELD OUT NO HOPE.
WAS GIVEN HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND IT EFFECTED A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Not long since I had occasion to visit the Old Country, and before leaving Melbourne
purchased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took with me. When I arrived at Leeds, I found that my
niece, Miss C. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack of Bronchitis; in fact, she was so bad that the
family doctor held out no hope for her recovery. She was then given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the
directions on the label, and I am very glad to say that it effected a complete cure.
R. J. MATTHEWS, c/o Allan and Co.. Collin-; Street, Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist. Sir,—-I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent me for Asthma has had a won-
derful effect. I have not taken all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it; therefore I send you my hearty good
wishes for your future success. I, myself, will, for the benefit of others, make it known to all I know. lam 73 years
of age.—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY, Alliance Street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHOPNEUMONIA.
TWO SEVERE CASES CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir. —Kindly forward without delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also
recommended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three years of age, from Influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia.
I really believe that if I had had your medicine my child would not have died, for the other two, a boy five years
old, and a babv eight months old, were suffering exactly in the same way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact,
a small bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward it without delay, I am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. D. WARD, Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS! Tlie great success of HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S BRONCHIT IS CUBE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw r your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARN E’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. fid.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
L
<B/
A
A
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
Srostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
enger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
' ‘ ' —— ffienger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
If you don’t count the Northern Territory
debt in, Labor Premier Price has just managed,
in away, to clear off the S. Australian accumu-
lated deficit. The total amount to which S. Aus.
had drifted to the bad up to the end of June,
1906, was £2,774,525, of which £1,842,332 repre-
sented the amount by which the Northern Terri-
tory hadn’t been able to make ends meet, in spite
of the fact that it has had the alleged blessing of
three Chinese and other cheap, discolored persons
to every white inhabitant. That left £932,193 as
the S. Australian deficit proper. __ Against that
there was a sinking fund of £657,453 ; and Price,
the representative of the party that was going to
s mash things and bring about financial pande-
monium, last year saved another £364,416. Add
that and the sinking fund together, and it will be
found that the Smasher has done a good cleaning-
up.
The Queensland Education Act has worked
admirably for the last 30 years. Certain zealous
sectaries, however, want to introduce Bible read-
ing and so destroy the secular clauses of the Act.
Kidston has promised them a referendum on the
question, and it may be confidently predicted that
the good sense of the people will settle the in-
sectarians for good and all when the matter goes
to the vote.
It is desperately hard work to prevent
the grab for the unearned increment. When the
homestead selection system was adopted in
N. S. Wales it was thought that the problem had
been solved ; for that system provided for per-
petual rent and seven-months-in-the-year resi-
dence. But in the present scramble for land
the homestead selection is trafficked in like the
rest. The selector can transfer, and for the right
to transfer he gets about two-thirds of what the
freehold value would be. So if a homestead selec-
tion would be worth £G4O as freehold, the home-
stead selector can generally find a buyer at about
£400; and in scores of cases he has grabbed the
unearned increment and “ got.” A stiff land-tax,
which would practically open all the unused landsof
the country to occupation, and thus reduce the
demand for the homestead selector’s little bit,
would put a different look upon the face of things.
The Haynes family seems to have the flag-
waving habit badly. Sawbones Haynes—the
Sydney flag-waving arch-secesher’s Westralian
brother—greeted the tariff by dangling a large
black flag, with “ Federation ” across it, from his
Perth (W.A.) surgery. This, he explained, indi-
cated his opinion that W.A. was ruined by the
tariff, and meant ‘‘Death to Federation.” But,
after all, Federation isn’t one of his patients.


HIGH-CLASS
CLOTHING^
To
Measure
•• and ••
Ready
Made.
7'
Cl
'm
'<a
k
w,
/
V
Visitors to tlie Show
will find it to tHeir
advantage to PAY US
A VISIT.
A 70/- Sac Suit
Made to your order
FOR. 50/-
WE STOCK ... }
Men’s and Boys' Clot King and
Mercery of the Best Kind
at the Lowest Price.
Boots and Shoes, Ladies' and
Gent.’s, of KeitH, Selz, Ford,
and Australian MaKe.
Woodrow's, Christy's, Knox
and Australian Hats
and Caps.
LINOLEUMS, CARPETS,
FURNISHINGS.
Lincoln, Stuart Go.,
244 to 254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
gfk
ST FREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold King, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &e., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2s.
NO MONEY REQUIRED WHATEVER— SimpIy
send us a post card with full name and-address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the j
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for .
same, and we will at once send Free of all further j
charges either of above valuable presents.
for selling 12 articles of
1 jev. ellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our “ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
F'l’Pf 4 i° r selling
* 1 only 6 ar-
ticles. We
will send
a Solid
Gold Pin
or Ring,
or lady’s
Solid
Gold Pen-
dant and
Necklet or
Bangle
We receive hundreds
of testimonials J
daily. /
We send your pre-
sently return post
We have no furth-
er claim on you
.after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
if you wish.
*WFb»
Ss**
J
for . selling
!»• * 1 c ' : only 3 articles
we will send
you your choice of
any articles picked from
our Catalogue of novelties
which we send with the jewellery
a’xWPwAA CO The party selling the 12
F nee SuJSi articles in the shortest time is
entitled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
Send Us Your Name and Address.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
British Jewellery Co. 907 George=st., Sydney,
New South Wales
Cia
gkfkf
ff/i
gfkfgk
ijim
,1II
fgkfgfgkdfgkk
JtflW Our
Only
Address
A. ®> F.
PEAR.S,
Limited.
*
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Now Is. 6d. each
The genuine Edison \Gold-Moulded Records are the
finest ever made.
There is no possible doubt about this.
Go to your nearest dealer and ask him 'to play the
latest records for you.
You can make your own selection, and the beauty of
the reproduction will surprise and please you.
Each month "24 new American \records \[are added to
our lists, and also a set of those made in England.
New Records Ready To-Day.
AMERICAN SELECTIONS FOR. JULY,
9578 Ballet Music itom Faust—Part 3 (Gounod),
Edison Concert Band.
9579 Ta, Ta, Au Revoir, I’m Goin’ to Go (Lowitz),
Ada Jones.
9580 I Want You for My All Time Girl (de Koven),
Irving Gillette.
9581 Kimnible March (Kimmble)^ John Kimtnble.
9582 And aLittle Bit More (Fischer), Arthur Collins.
9583 While the Birds are Singing to Me (Fulton),
Harlan and Belmont.
9584 I’d Live or I Would Die for You (Ball), Harry
Anthony.
9585 Dream of the Rarebit Fiend (Thurban), Edison
Military Band.
9556 Because I’m Married Now (Ingraham), Billy
Murray.
9587 Speed Away (Woodbury), Edison Mixed
Quartette.
9588 You’ll Not Be'forgotten, Lady Lou (Meyer),
Frederick H. Potter.
9589 The Broken-Hearted Sparrow (Bendix), Edison
Symphony Orchestra.
9590
9591
9592
9593
9594
9595
9596
9597
9598
9599
9600
9601
You’ll Have to. Wait Till My Ship Comes In
(Evans), Bob Roberts.
I Know Dat I’ll Be Happy Till I Die (Rogers),
Collins and Harlan.
Hymns of the Old Church Choir (Solman),
Frank C. Stanley.
Anvil Polka (Parlow), Edison Concert Band.
Flanagan and His Servant Girl (Original)
Steve Porter.
Sweet Jessie Dear (Fontelle), Edison Male
Quartette.
Save a Little Money for a Rainy Day (Silver),
Edward Meeker.
The Chorus Lady March (Kingsbury), Albert
Benzler.
Tale of the Bucket (Bald), Will F. Denny.
Blondy and Johnny (Original), Ada Jones and
I.en Spencer.
It’s Great to be a Soldier Man (Morse), Byron
G. Harlan.
Shoulder Arms March (Rose), Edison Military
Band.
BRITISH SELECTIONS FOR JUNE
13592 The Two Marthas, Valse {Ewers) National
Military Band.
13593 It’s Part of a Policeman’s Duty (Rogers), Miss
Vesta Tilley.
13594 Shopping (Cardow), Charles Oardow.
13595 Absent (Metcalf), Arthur Grover,
13596 Quite a Mistake (Cardow), Miss Yolande Noble
and Chas. Cardow.
13597 Potted Poetry (Osborne), Fred Owen.
13598 She Didn’t Know (Rubens), Miss Yolande
Noble.
13599 I Dreamt that I Dwelt in Marble Halls (Balfe),
Miss Ethel Cadman.
13600 Boys and Girls, Come out to Play (Willard
'and Williams), Billy Williams.
13601 Boccaccio March (Supp&), National Military
Band.
ASK US TOISEND YOU ICOMPLETE EXISTS.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
— Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Secret of Beauty
SSSi
Zam-Buk Soap is Incomparable for Beautifying
the Skin and Complexion.
What constitutes beauty ? Not well-proportioned features, nor a
good figure. These things help; but real beauty lies in a good com-
plexion and a skin innocent of blemish. The shape of our nose, chin,
and brow is born with us and remains. But a healthy and beautiful
skin is an acquisition within the reach of all. If lost, it may, with the
help of Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap, be soon regained. The wrong
way is to irritate the skin by using common toilet soaps (which contain
free alkali that hardens and cracks the skin), and following this up
with toilet creams and gritty powders, that only fill up the pores,
through which the skin breathes.
Think what a delicate and complex organ the skin is. It is not merely the pro-
tective layer, but a means for regulating the bodily heat and casting off waste, which,
if retained in the system, would certainly cause grave sickness. When the Indians used
to tar and feather their victims, the latter died on account of the skin being unable to
breathe. Similarly many a young lady to day imperils her health and confiscates her
beauty because, in ignorance perhaps, she will persist in using toilet soaps containing
•complexion-stealing alkalies and creams and puffs that clog the pores. This is the wrong-
way to seek after a beautiful skin. The right way is to wash regularly and exclusively
with Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap, which has advantages all its own.
Zam-Buk Soap is incomparable for its power to rid the skin of evils caused by indiscreet use of cosmetics. To the skin that is dark, sallow, wrinkled
caked, scaly, hard and prone to crack there is soon imparted by Zam-Buk Soap a softness and flexibility that is the sign of new life and vitality having
been put into the tissue. That is just what Zam-Buk Soap does. It revives, refreshes, and re-invigorates the functions of the skin. The medicinal essences
penetrate to the true skin, and continue to exert their good influence long after the soap-suds have been washed away. Ordinary medicinal soaps only
benefit so long as the lather is on the skin. Zam-Buk Soap is continuous in effect and combats disease at every turn. It is a factor for skin health, because
it keeps disease distant.
Mrs. E. A. HARROD, 20 DRAKE STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z., writes :
—Dear Sirs, I wish to convey to you the great pleasure and benefit I
have derived from the use of Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap. My face was very
rough and blotchy, and I can truthfully say it is now wonderfully clear
and smooth after the use of only one tablet of your soap, which proves it
to be of very great benefit to the skin, kindly accept my very best thanks.
... Zam-Buk Soap is sold by Chemists, Stores, or by .
The Zam-Buk Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
•I
.£
amnnw
Q
0
45
0
X
eft
iiunir
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
. Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902 £374 10 p.c. = £375 £lOO £785
June, 1903 372 10 „ „ 375 40 742
Dec., 1903 459 10 „ „ 375 £B4 826
June, 1904 471 10 ~ ~ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904 524 10 „ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905 418 10 ~ „ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905 554 10 ~ „ 375 179 1293
June, 1906 516 10 ~ „ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906 508 10 ~ ~ 375 133 1567
June, 1907 488 10 „ „ 375 113 1680
The whole provision for wear and tear, so far as can be
traced, is contained in the reserves ; so the latter are not
true reserves, since they wholly or partly represent worn-
out capital. The liabilities have been reduced from
£5472 to £5147 during the half-year, a reduction of £325 ;
the assets, apart from plant, have been increa-ed by £l4B
(from £1554 to £1702); and the other £l5 of profit has
P' a . nt (which has moved up from £12.984 to
£12,995). It is very doubtful whether the dividend is
being really earned—that is to say, whether sufficient
provision is being made to cover depreciation.
• • • *
An original Melbourne half-acre will be sold
next month as “ half an acre with buildings thereon and
by order of the executor of the original buyer.” In Syd-
ILfY\ ln September, 1838, at a Government land sale,
William Jaques being the auctioneer, Dr. Thomas Black,
then practising medicine at Penrith, bought the half-acre
7) , e •south-east corner of Collins and Swanston streets
‘ or j j s ‘ ' s said, that the doctor only nodded a
good-day to the auctioneer as he entered the sale room,
but the shark called the affable salute a bid, and knocked
down the lot. Dr. Black paid up, and went disgustedly
to live on his lot. In September, 1888, fifty years later, a
valuation was made of the whole of the Melbourne city
lots disposed' of at the first sale in 1837 by Robert Hoddle.
Blacks.corner, not being in the first sale, was not valued,
but the corner diagonally opposite, for which Henry
ttowi.e-gave £45, was reckoned as worth £493,500. Some
years ago, and in Dr. Black’s lifetime, the half-acre was
tet on building lease at £3OOO per annum. Now, after 70
years, the executors of Dr. Black will offer the block
Jntact, with the Victoria Buildings and the Queen’s Walk
s?rivQ on ' There are 90 tenants, the gross revenue being
*? '"• , r ‘ ' ease at £3OOO a year will expire in 1933,
when the buildings, which cost £70,000, will fall to the
owner of the land.
* ■» * „
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
„ Written To Re- Re-
l ronts. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec 6 ’ 1909 P-C- = £6OO _ £6lO £3569
Dec., 1902 lt>6s 3A 800 4.1Q4.
June, 3903 1188 3£ „ 800 SSB 4521
Dee., 1903 1254 3 f ” 100 - 414 «70
June, 1904 1190 Nil. 1190 6166
Dec., 1904 151 Nil. £4497 _ \ooa
June, 1905 902 Nil. _ 90 2 2722
Dee., 1905 823 Nil. 893 3545
June, 1906 842 Nil. 1387 3000
Dec., 1906 972 Nil. 979 3979
June, 1907 574 Nil. _ 874 4846
J?®* overdraft ran up to £9745 as at June, 1905, after
e J h J a re had £® en remodelled ; and it has now been;
*' ® ated down to £6015. Meantime the interest bill has
hnwev9 aC b ° m £3 ?5 *° £l7s ‘ No depreciation has,
® ’ j been Provided for during the past year. In
™ a b ?j Years, at the present rate, the
twT In be fre f ° f o ebt ’ and P rofits > maintained, would
f£4Rnom° W TL f 3 >? er cenfc ’ dividend, on the capital
(£48,000). That isn t a very affluent div., but there is a
?s°fh n e d always waiting for his £lBOO a year, and!
Landlord must have first bite, the men who come
second must expect to go hungry sometimes.
* * * *
j There is a feature of the existing
note tax that seems worth mentioning. The average-
Upon which banks are charged is based upon the returns
of Monday evening. It is not a true average at all. Of
Course the Governments may have agreed to the selection
of Monday as the date to save the cost of calculating the
true average ; but in basing any argument upon the note
circulation of Australia, the facts about the banks’
statistics must be borne in mind. Thus the banks
say (B. 18/7/’O7) that they get as a rule no
profit out of notes. I think that would be
a proposition extremely difficult to prove. There ar,e no
published statistics to snpport any positive opinion. Notes
are largely used to pay wages. The notes are drawn
from the bank on Friday or Saturday, paid to tradesmen
on Saturday, largely spent on Saturday night, and banked
by the tradespeople on Monday. The note tax does not
fall upon a single note, unless it is out of the bank on
Monday night. I saw a curious calculation a few weeks
ago, made by a banker, in which he proved that there was a
loss on the circulation of £1 notes. Postage on the notes
was included. Why? Because when they are sent
to country branches postage has to be paid I Here is
a curious fallacy. If notes were not available,
metallic money would have to be sent, at a cost simply
tremendous in comparison with the cost of posting notes.
The notes, indeed, save the banks large sums in trans-
port. My opinion is that the Commonwealth will find
its note circulation, when it has the courage to adopt it,
very much wider than the present alleged circulation of
the banks. The bank note circulation suffered a per-
manent contraction after 1898. The Bulletin combats
the idea that the bank note is absolutely secure, but
there is no need to go as far as this ; it is sufficient to say
that the public is not satisfied about its security, or there
wouldn’t have been that contraction.
* * # •
Bebrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.s.w.)
Bonus to Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1900.. £2460 10p.c. =£92 12 p.c. =£6Bs £4Ol £3771
1901.. 2370 10 „., 94 15 ~ ~ 1010 307 4730
1902.. 3482 10 ~ ~ 94 25 ~ ~2313 390 5415
1903.. 2609 10 „ ~ 95 25 „ ~2000 368 5561
1904.. 2898 10 „ „ 98 30 ~ ~2525 295 5541
1905.. 4073 10 „ „98 33J „ ~3130 342 6044
1906.. 4929 10 ~ ~ 99 35 „ ~3862 373 6639
June,
1907.. 2357 172 8824
Profits are, as usual, put to reserve till the end of the
year. They are even better than they were at this time
in 1906 ; for the first half of that year, after paying tax
on the previous year’s income, they amounted to £2173,
as against £2357 in the past half-year. Liabilities of all
sorts total £11,596 ; while on the other side book debts
stand at £9022 (as against £10,476 twelve months ago)
and cash and liquid assets amount to £8558. It is a good
balance-sheet of a highly prosperous concern. What
remains to hope for is that the distributions will be
kept moderate, so that large reserves may be accumulated
to help both the co. and the co-operators through the
less favorable times that are bound to come with a change
of the seasons.
* * * ■*
Not before it is wanted, Chief-Sec. Alex. Pea-
cock introduces into Vic. Assembly a bill to make all
friendly societies satisfy the Government actuary that
their scales of charges and payments are such as will keep
them from reeling into insolvency. Many of these
societies have had to wind-up, or to reduce payments to
vanishing point, because they drained the barrel faster
than they replenished it. Of 25 societies, eight have as-
sets equal (on an actuarial basis) to 20s. or more of lia-
bilities ; the Ararat Court of Foresters, abnormally
wealthy, has assets equal to 455. 6d. The other 17 are
drifting on to the rocks, unless they alter either charges
or payments. Three of them (the H.A.C.8.5., theG.V.O.
of Free Gardeners, and the Bendigo Order of Ancient
Foresters —what fool titles they struggle under !) have
fallen to 14s. 10d., 14s. 4d. and 14s. 3d. respectively.
Payments by new members are now being increased in
most cases, but 11 out of the 17 still allow old members
to escape with inadequate rates. The Railway Benefit
Society tried to escape from the Bill “because it raised
extra funds by picnics.” But Peacock wasn’t taking any
of that. He told them that their assured income and
their proffered benefits would have to tally ; if they
raised extra money they could pay it away as a bonus.
Along with inspection of rates. Peacock should bracket
inspection of securities, which in many country branches
are of a remarkable character.
Pebble : Re new Loch Fyne, Matlock (Vic.),
The Bulletin (l/8/’O7) is about correct; it is more than
possible that portions of the outcrop will pay one of these
days with energetic working. But the dyke is so- large
on the surface that a year’s work would hardly prove it.
This mine has not been handled energetically since W,
Henderson’s day'. What is required is a main shaft from
the bottom level to open up the unexplored reefs that
are living down in the dyke, and carrying gold—not too
good in that level, only 4dwt. stuff. Still that is very
encouraging, seeing that for over 100 ft. above the level
the reefs are blank, so the gold seems to be making again,
and the company should send a shaft down after it. It
is too much to ask the top level to pay in bulk, after 40
years of rooting by tributors and fossickers.
* * * •
According to their last balance-sheets, the Star
of the East (Ballarat) is payin'more in directors’fees
travelling allowances, etc., than the South Star, Band
and Loch, Central Plateau, and Plateau No. 1 put to-
gether. And the table below shows how more than four
of the six Star of the East calls made during the term
were absorbed. If the item £528 3s. 9d. (the amount out-
standing for forfeited shares sold) is included, it will be
seen that a shade more than one call out of the six (which
ought to have realised £3OOO, but didn’t) was available
for the development of the mine :
Interest .. .. .. £548
Directors’ fees.. .. .. 220
Charges .. .. .. 80
Manager (say) .. .. 130
Travelling expenses .. .. 33
Visiting fees .. .. .. 36
Forfeited shares .. .. 805
Amount outstanding on shares
sold .. .. .. 628
Total .. .. £2380
It has to be recalled that during the term Star of the
East shares were never much less than 2s. ; and yet the
co. has lost over £BOO b,y not automatically forfeiting
shares every- month, and disposing of them regularly.
Amount outstanding or forfeited shares, £528 3s. 9d., is
good—for somebody behind the scenes.
* * * *
Three diamond drill holes were put down on
the North Extended lease, Broken Hill, in the hope of
striking some of the small shoots of ore usually found
accompanying a large main ore body. Taking the present
northern dip of the North mine’s lode as permanent, the
theory is that that body passes into the North Extended’s
ground at about 2000 ft. It was not intended to bore to
that depth, but to find indications that would justify the
sinking of a shaft. No. 1 borehole proved a duffer, but
in No. 2 a small seam of ore was cut at about 300 ft. Then
No. 3 was put down at an angle to come under No. 2, and
at 743 ft., directly under the end of No. 2, ore was again
cut. Even if the two prospects turn out to be parts of
the one seam, it would be too small to be of any value ;
but in an outside show a very small seam serves to
raise a very large hope. The second borehole has now
been tackled again, and will be continued to 1000 ft.
* * * *
The two most important mines belonging to the
Mungana Go. (Q.) are the Girofla and the Lady Jane.
The output is from 2000 to 3000 tons a month of carbonate,
sulphide, and fluxing ore. At the Girofla 410 ft. level there
is an irregular body of ore following the contour of the
limestone ; this is the deepest lead and copper mine in
the district. Some time since the Lady Jane was con-
sidered the better mine of the two. Smelter returns run
about 10 to 12 per cent, lead, lOoz. silver, and from 2 to
3 per cent, copper. The Chillagoe Co. has improved its
works by adding Huntingdon-Heberlein roasters. To
counterbalance dear coke, fluxes are abundant; large
quantities of low-grade ore are used as flux. Under the
agreement between the two cos., Mungana has so far got
the big end of the profit, and Chillagoe has most of the
risk. A smelting co. that has to carry such heavy stocks
of lead, bullion and copper matte, and can only show a
gross profit of £21,824, including what it gets from mining
and smelting its own ore, is liable to suffer during a slump
in prices.
* * * *
The intelligence of many people hereabouts has
been shockingly insulted of late by a stereotyped letter
(which pretends to be a typewritten original) from “the
John D. Macdonald Co., 96 Newgate-street, London,
E. 0.” In this communication, headed “ Private and
Confidential,” the recipient is addressed as “ Dear Friend,”
and is told at the outset that he, or she, has drawn “a
beautiful and valuable Free Prize ” in a lottery, open to all,
purchasers of goods from the philanthropic Macdonald
Co. Without waiting for the person addressed to make
any advances in the matter of business agency for its
beautiful goods, the co. has thrust a gift upon the favored;
one. And the co. goes on to explain, in artless language,,
how the windfall happened. “As we were introduced!
to you by a friend, and as your name is on our Great Free
Prize List, this beautiful Prize—an Asian Gold Watch—a;
real beauty—is yours Absolutely Free. We do not ask,
you to solve any’ puzzle, nor sell any goods for us ; we'
only ask you to wear it, and prove for yourself what a*
valuable gift it is. Of course, we expect you to help us,
by showing it to everybody', for we know it will be the-
envy of all your friends when they see it.” But the prize
winner must get the Asian gold timepiece before he can
wear it and excite the envy of all beholders. Possession
cannot be arrived at until a little formality is
gone through. “ All you have to do,” says the John
D. Macdonald Co., “is to send 6s. lid. for one of our
Finest Quality' Asian Gold Chains to wear with the watch.
These magnificent chains look worth ten times the
money.” With the further information that this offer
will only be held open for eight days, the co. heartily
congratulates its Dear Friend upon his or her good luck.
The Parisian firm which offers a life-size reproduction of
one’s photo, free of cost, on receipt of £2 or less for the
framing of the work of art ere it be packed, is probably a
less fraudulent, and certainly a more skilful, trader
than the Macdonald Co., of Newgate-street, London,
which is addressing its cockney circular to Aus-
tralians without regard for the absurdity of the
eight days’ _ limit clause, or the deterrent effect
of the tariff. A duty of 35 per cent, on the
alleged value of the beautiful gift watch and the mag-
nificent six-and-elevenpenn.y chain would amount in
itself to considerably' more than the worth of the two
brazen articles. London Truth lately issued a warning
to local “ mugs ” re the prize watch with the purchase-
able chain attached. The exposure of the fraud in its
smoky birthplace may have accounted for the rush of
circulars to Australia.
“ San” : To —— with the tariff, say I. And to ,
a deeper - with the thieves who, while howling like ■
spanked kids at the tariff, are taking every care to make ■
a swindling profit out of it. Yon can’t go into a shop
otherwise spieling- house —in Sydney'now without meet-.
ing the trading hypocrisy. The smirking crawler ■
behind the counter (good for him sometimes to have such i
a rampart) will tell you that such a garment is a guinea,,
and then suddenly he remembers bis trouble, andi
his ey'es glisten with tears like to those of the fafcu-.
ous crocodile. “ Oh, sir, I forgot, that garment iss
25s.—the tariff, you know.” And that stuffy article'
of dress, the wearing of which is compulsory by Acts
of Parliament, has been in the much more stuffy hole;
for years. I went into a city taking-down establishment;,
last week and asked the price of a small grindstone.,.
“Ah, this is 65., sir. Oh, no ;of course the tariff is om
grindstones now ;it will be 65.” I looked hard at the;
stone, and didn’t perceive any change in it since I last,
saw it twelve months before. So I lifted up my voioce
and howled, not at the tariff, but at the swindling iron-
monger. You will see by this that lam very angry, audi
really, when I think how the boodlers are raking in their
extra profits from the poor public, and pretending to be
in frightful pain over it, I’m—well
» * * *
A glib-tongued, neatly-attired lady, with guile
in her heart and a leather bag in her hand, has been
canvassing Sydney suburbs. The bag contains the most
wonderful hair restorer on earth. Recently she invaded
the front parlor of an old couple, and got to business.
The sale of the hair-raising mixture was, at present,
of no real consequence. The firm was most of
all in need of enthusiastic written testimonials, for
which it was willing to pay' two guineas each. All she
asked was that the testifier would buy one half-crown
bottle and have it on the premises for the sake of appear-
ances. The bottle was sold, the half-crown collected,
and the old gentleman testified in writing that his lost
hair had been restored to him. Also, he got an order on
the firm for the two guineas. But when the order was
presented, the place proved to be the den of an artificial
limb maker.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarßet, Sydney, N.5.W.
67>e LEADING
HOUSE
fdk
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our
CANT
B
BEAT
COLLECTOR GUN.
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38|in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W.; 3s 2d, Interstate.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
.Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Marta Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ G uide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Cd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
fgkd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is.3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, I*. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McHougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Tadgiit, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No SVSatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t toe fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IS? - Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is> Ski- Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all' Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted, Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 17Q0 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
f
Oaline
FOR AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
There never was a toilet preparation
so suitable for Australian use as
OATINE, the great English face
cream.
It is free from animal fat and cannot go
bad, however great the heat. It contains no
dangerous mineral salt and doesn’t grow hair.
It cleanses the pores, removing dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, and
keeps the skin smooth and soft.
Oatine will enable any Australian woman
to keep the fresh, clear complexion of youth
throush the hot Australian summers.
First put on the market a year ago it is
already the favorite face cream with English
ladies. Men use it, too, after shaving, for it
soothes and heals the skin. Price 7/9 a
dainty jar, or 3/6 larger size, holding four
times as much.
At all chemists, stores, etc., thrcugn-
m out Australia. Get a jar tc-day.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’for Coughsand Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
COAGULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS’ of
Mountain Flax. _An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed forOougjisajndColds
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true. ’*
fgk
PRIZES
value
IN THE
£,1500.
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £5OO
Second Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
The * Son of a Gun ” Squirt Pistol.
fgk
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful
durable, rel able, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9,
aasrsiD.RsGfiM
The Look and Laugh Glass
See the Passing- Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed —
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By ,
getting a focus on i
passing pedestrians, :
horses, waggons, .
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow „ „
fat from laughter. It The Laughing Camera.
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price //-, post free anywhere.
fgkfgk
PUZZLE PURSE*.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, 2/-. Do not miss this chance of obtaining one
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST B.
H. L. Hutchinson,
NEW YORK NOVELTY GO.,
Head Depot-
-71 0 George Street, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 3, Post Office, Haymarket
No. 1 Branch : 25 & 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
me BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, la. PACKET OF TEN, 10d-
BEST
FLAT
SHAPE
ft
H
Z
St
9
The gRD) is THE Pipe
that does rvot cracK or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KEEP IT
Wholes die Depot
for Australasia ,
231 Clarence ST. Sydney.
David Draham $ C°-
MERCHANT TAILORS, MERCERS,
and SHIRTMAKERS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our New Spring Suitings
are arriving by FORTNIGHTLY
SHIPMENTS during the Season;
While Novelties in TROUSERINGS, VEST-
INGS, NECK WEAR, etc., reach us by
Parcels Post EVERY MAIL.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W. for
AERTEX CELLULAR
Underwear and Shirts.
“EftlfeS DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Post Free. 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.


11l
m
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee.
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopsecia (loss of
hair) stated that if a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on, when
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspestion, he remarked that the Cap would
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Board.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap will be sent, post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., Vl.
Packet of Twelve ... Is.
Packet of Ten ... ... lOd.
A NEW DEPARTURE
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
(CONCENTRATED)
NON-ALCOHOLIC
2/6 BOTTLE 2/6 BOTTLE
Responding to the urgent requests of many sufferers, the proprietors have
decided to introduce a concentrated, non-alcoholic form of that valuable medicine,
Warner’s Safe Cure, under the title of “ Warner’s Safe Cure (Con-
centrated).” The price of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is 2s. 6d. per
bottle. The bottle is one-fourth the size of the ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure,
but it contains the same number of doses, the dose being also one-fourth, namely,
a teaspoonful instead of a tablespoonful. The medicinal value is the same in each
case, the medicinal contents of a ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure being con-
centrated into a 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated).
So well known are the beneficial effects of Warner’s Safe Cure in all cases of
kidney and liver disease, and complaints arising from the retention in the system
of uric and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick headache
that the introduction of the 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated)
cannot be regarded otherwise than as a public boon.
Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
will be sent, carriage paid, on receipt of price, by H. H. Warner and Co. Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
La Quete.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE attic room was damp and old,
The gloomy windows foul with grime;
Year in, year out, the grate was cold ;
The floor was black, as stained with crime.
The street was set with hideous roofs.
And walls, that shut the sunlight out;
The slattern’s clack, the clang of hoofs
All day, all day made endless rout.
And, all night long, the houseless curs
Cried through the darkness stridently ;
Across.the poplar'rows and firs
Alway a wind crept out to sea.
The attic room was damp and cold,
Wherein we lived with careless mind ;
Then I was young, and he was old,
And [misefere!) he was blind.
His voice was like a sad old song,
His spirit scorned the threatening years :
“ What though the way,” he said, “ is long.
The gods have balm for all our tears.
“Let us go hence about the world,
Let us go seek a Fortune fair,
Ere yet the thunderbolt is hurled,
Or Death climb up the rotting stair.”
Through the black silence, cheek by cheek,
We lay together close and warm,
To dream of days not gray and bleak,
And golden heights that know no storm.
Like shades we left the sullen house,
Into the dawn with little noise ;
And there he kist me on the brows
For faith, and blest me with his voice.
The sparrows in the street-flung chaff
Ceased their dispute to see him go;
The old, old man with tapping staff,
Through the gray dawning, brave and slow.
The newer fields were fresh and sweet.
Boldly I dared my gage to Fate,
Mocked with bright eyes at each defeat,
And sought the greater odds elate. ■ s
Where orient temples flare to God,
And western peaks at sunset burn,
Across the whole wide world I trod
To find the maiden with her urn.
North unto south —she was not there,
And years upon my shoulders clung ;
Then, then I bent in dull despair
To hide the gage my youth had flung.
And when the newer fields were gray,
And hope dethroned, with aimless feet
Once more I trod along the way
To that cold room in that poor street.
Once more I climbed the creaking stair
To die alone ; I could not guess
At his return, to see him there
In all his gentle wistfulness.
He lay along the truckle bed —
The attic room was dark and lone—
And something sat behind his head,
Below his feet a shadow shone.
The room was dark. His face aflame,
His forehead pale, and smoothed in peace,
And clear amidst the gloom and shame
The old mouth smiled in full surcease.
No word they spake who sat beside,
No word ; by faith’s discerning eyes
I knew, and all my terror died,
His soul had found the Grail, the prize.
The sea-wind rocks, the street curs hark,
Still head and foot the shadows stay.
I crouch within the chilly dark
Until Death come, or comes the day.
MAORILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
SUSIE GANNON’S YOUNG MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MISS GANNON had made rapid strides
in the bag factory. She came to the flat
fresh from the country, a tall, bony girl
of 16, very angular, all legs and wings, with
strangely obtrusive feet, large freckles, and a face
like that of a patient horse. At this time, too,
Susie Gannon’s apparel was markedly inadequate.
She had grown out of everything, and the abrupt-
ness of her skirts, and the strain upon her jackets,
and the brevity of her sleeves, showed how her
parents had been distanced in their well-meant
efforts to keep pace with their daughter’s start-
ling development. The whole effect made an
irresistible appeal to the strong sense of humor in
the women of the world dominant on the top flat,
and Susie provoked much merriment for many
days.
“Blime, she looks like er shillin’ ling wrapped
in er penny stamp !” cried Harrerbeller Harte.
“ See yeh got yer ole brown —brown, brown—see
yeh got yer ole brown ’at on,” piped the ex-
professional fat girl every morning, when Susie’s
bizarre felt headdress appeared above the stairs.
The girls at Spats’ were not over-burdened with
sensibilities. They did not scruple to make
merry at the expense of the smaller misfortunes
and the little idiosyncrasies of their weaker
sisters. The factory had a peculiar spirit of
hoydenish frivolity; it helped to ward off weari-
ness and break the tedium of a set task. Susie
served her time as the common butt. It was
everybody’s lot.
In those earlier days Susie was gaunt and timid.
She.stolp into the factory like a fun ' e cat. She
loved to creep into cover of any kind, to get any-
thing between her and the ribald pasters —a stack
of bags, or a heap of envelopes on a board. She
was grateful even for a gas bracket that she could
hang a strip of paper on. But marvellous is the
sex’s adaptability; its power of development is
wonderful. In two months Susie was as pert
and as self-assertive as the best of them.
Miss Gannon had not been at Spats’ many days
when she told Kitty Coudray, who was posing as
a sympathetic soul, that she had left a lover
behind her in the country, and Kitty, with a
shocking lack of respect for the confidence re-
posed in her, instantly communicated the in-
formation to the whole factory.
“What-o, girls!” she cried, “little Gannon’s
got er John iv her own.”
“What!” cried Harrerbeller Harte in mock
wonder. “T’do ez she likes with ? ”
“Yes,” said Kitty, “’er very own—’ers fer
keeps. He’s er squatter ’r somethin’, ’n’ his
name’s Oliver Thripny, ’n’ he ’ll call fer her with
tlier fam’ly carriage ’n’ pair when he comes into
his own, ’n’ she’s goin’t’ be married in white satin
shoes ’n’ horange blossom. She sez Oliver’s got
er noble bearin .”
“So he has,” cried Susie defiantly.
“There,” said Miss Harte to the pasters,
“ that’s up agen’ yeh. There ain’t one iv yeh got
er bloke with er noble bearin’.”
“ He’s writ her er love letter,” continued Kitty
when the yells of derision had subsided, fluttering
a slip of paper in the air. “Would yeh like t’
hear it? No, iv course not.”
A dozen girls scampered to Kitty’s board, and
danced about her with shrill clamor ; but Fuzzy
Ellis, the foreman, went hopping amongst them,
protesting bitterly, spluttering threats of fines
and dismissals, and with the help of the sullen
forewoman he drove the girls back to their boards
again. Kitty Coudray retained the letter, how-
ever, and read it to a large audience at lunch
time. It was the love letter of an uncultured
youth, written with dire pains, wonderfully spelt
and quaintly worded. Evidently the opening
passage had been borrowed from a tradesman’s
circular. The document began: “Dear sir or
madam, this is to inform you how I’m still lovin’
you with all me hart.” And it concluded: “I
have the honor to remain, yours obedient to com-
mand, Oliver Thripny.” Of course, the Beauties
revelled in the outpourings of Oliver’s simple
soul, and Susie, whose sense of the ridiculous was
as yet but poorly developed, filled with triumph
in the face of the loudly expressed envy of the
girls.
Susie’s squatter was adopted by the factory.
It expressed unlimited faith in him. It endowed
him with great wealth and superlative personal
attractions, and affected to believe that his love
for Miss Gannon, as expressed in his letters, was
a consuming passion beside which the torrid
affection of the ducal hero for the simple heroine
in penny fiction was pale and cold and weak.
George Mills, alias Feathers, the packer, entered
into the spirit 'of the comedy with unaffected joy.
He pretended to find in Miss Gannon’s equine
cast of countenance a marked family resemblance
to a popular racehorse, and rechristened her
accordingly.
“’Elio, Carbine,” he said, “half a mo’. I want
t’ whisper. Will yeh put in er word with ther
squatter fer me nibs? I’m sick iv this grip; it
don’t suit me style. I’m hambitious, ’n’ er bloke
don’t get no charnce t’ improve his social-position
snatching bags in er measly city crib. What I'd
like would be ther management iv er big cattle
run where I could spread meself ’n’ develop, ’n’ I
s’pose iv yeh was t’ put in er kind word with Mr.
Thripny it ud be ez good ez done.”
“Oh, he ain’t got that much land,” said Susie
dubiously.
“So yeh twitter!” answered the unbelieving
Feathers. “Fair dinkum, yeh might use yeh
influence, Miss Gannon. ’Tain’t ez iv I didn’t
know ther game. I managed a milk run onst, ’n’
I’ve sheared all our own cows fer years past.” _
Miss Gannon promised to see about it, raking
up the while an abbreviated stocking, much of the
leg of which had been worn out, doing service as
foot. Harrerbeller bespoke the position of house-
keeper, and the ex-professional fat girl thought
she would like to be nursery governess. The
situation was almost forced upon poor Susie, but
she certainly made a game effort to live up to it,
and every day her young man in the country
increased in importance, wealth, and manly
beauty. Kitty Coudray, who had Susie’s confi-
dence, never failed to inform the factory of the
latest development.
“Oliver’s got er mo, girls,” cried Kitty with
the air of one imparting stirring news—“ a long,
droopin’ mo."
“Yaller,” prompted Susie.
“ Er long, droopin’, yaller mo,” continued Miss
Coudray; “ ’n’ he’s got blue blood in his veins—his
father used t’ be a policeman.”
The raffish pasters were duly impressed.
Harrerbeller Harte bemoaned her own squalid
lot. Her bloke, she said, was only head sweeper
in a slaughterhouse, and he had a ginger mous-
tache like a used-up toothbrush, and a wart on his
nose.
The packer introduced a highly decorative
oleograph of a member of the royal family—a
pic!'• re of astounding beauty, which he hung on
the factory wall, decorated with a frame of tinted
papers, and labelled “Oliver.” The Oliver
Thripny legend spread through the establish-
ment. Susie met with elaborate courtesy from
the clerks downstairs, and the compositors were
painfully polite. Billy, the printer’s devil, was
humble, almost piteous, pleading, cap in hand,
for the position of lady’s companion for his dear
mother. His mother, he said, had been lady’s
companion and confidential friend to all the best
families in Paddy’s Alley, and if Susie would
engage her in some ladylike office at a prodigous
salary, when she married wealth and station, he
would be, oh, so grateful. Billy the Boy wiped
his eyes with his cap when he mentioned his
mother.
Meanwhile Miss Gannon was steadily improv-
ing. She was taken from the folding board and
put on to piecework, and she made great progress
as a paster. Her comical, out-of-date garments
fell from her, replaced by more stylish and appro-
priate articles. Susie was earning good money,
and she made the most of it; but with this
advancement there was a corresponding develop-
ment in her ambition. Oliver grew and expanded.
Susie was picking up town ideas, and she grafted
city traits on to her country lover. His letters
began to display some literary pretension. They
lost their quaint and captivating stupidity, and
became ponderously correct and stilted. They
were full of fine expressions of love and devotion,
wordy protestations, and formal offers of service.
Harrerbeller was quick to note the change.
“Blime, that ain’t er love letter,” she said.
“ That’s a bit iv parsing.”
“Oh, he’s ’igbly edjicated, Holiver is,” said
Sus’e.
“ N’ th”andwntin’s different,” said Feathers.
“But I s’pose he's had ’em writ be his privit
secretary.”
(Continual on next page.)


THE WELL-ADVISED NEVER NEGLECT
KIDNEY DISEASE.
The best advice that can be given to anyone suffering
from urinary troubles, weakness of the bladder, backache,
headache, watery swellings round the ankles or under
the eyes, constant tiredness, dizziness, broken sleep,
ringing in the ears, or irregular heart, is to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at once, for they cure the kidneys,
and therefore cure all these symptoms of kidney and
bladder disease.
V/
IN O>T iC S S ,
u Every
picture
tells a
story.'*
St
I
04
%
(mi
7
n
Good Advice
From a Sydney Man.
Mr. Thomas E. Wilkinson, Dyer and Cleaner, 366 Oxford-street,
Paddington, says “ I suffered from various symptoms, which arose from
disordered kidneys. I had a very severe pain in the small of my back ;
my secretions were at times very thick, and I had a touch of rheumatics.
After taking a number of remedies, which proved failures, I was recom-
mended to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did so, and after taking
the first box I felt better, and went on taking them. After I had taken
thirty boxes I found myself cured. I recommend these pills to all who
suffer with kidney disorder ; they alone proved of any benefit to me.”
Mr. Wilkinson makes a second statement : —“ I have been free of
kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, years
ago.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes,
15/3), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt Street, Sydney.
«&<
>.^•4
fjfkjk
fgkf
ƒgfcgdj
ĵdfgkfg
fgfgg
fgkf
DOAN'S OINTMENT
CORES EVERY TORTURING SKIN IRRITATION.
Eczema*
Mr. H. Boyd, 8 St. Andrew’s-street,
Balmain, Sydney, says:-“My little boy
has suffered with Eczema ever since he was
six months old. He was very bad indeed.
We had to muffle his hands and cover his
head to keep him from scratching. Ihe
irritation was frightful, especially at night
time after he had been put to bed. We were
always using one remedy or another, but
nothing seemed able to give him relief until
we got Doan’s Ointment. A f riend ad vised
me to use this preparation. She had used it
with great success on one of her children, and
told me that she was quite sure it would do
my boy good. Six boxes effected a complete
care ; not a sign of the ailment remains. It
acted marvellously from the first, every
application giving instant relief.
Mrs. Boyd says, three years later: “My
little boy is still free of the Eczema. It is
not possible for a remedy to do more than
Doan’s Ointment has done for him—a perfect
and permanent cure.”
Piles.
Mr. J. G. Carter, jun., 182 Bui way o Road,
Ultimo, Sydney, says“ I can strongly
recommend Doan’s Ointment. lor two
years I suffered agony from protruding and
itching Piles, the pain and irritation were
almost unbearable. I could scarcely get
about, and could not sleep at night. I was
very bad, and could not get relief, although
I tried everything I could hear of, and got
treatment from doctors. Fortunately Doan s
Ointment was recommended to me. I com-
menced to use it, carefully following the
directions. Relief came after the first appli-
cation, and I persevered with the treatment
until I had used three pots. I am abso-
lutely right, and it is twelve months since 1
used the ointment. Seeing how good Doan s
Ointment proved for Piles, I used it tor
Eczema, which had broken out all over me;
it was very painful and itchy, as well as
most unsightly, but Doan’s Ointment again
proved its genuine merit, and absolutely ana
completely banished all trace of the ail-
ment,”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The letters became more numerous. Then one
the ex-professional fat girl brought in a
■copy of somebody’s ‘'Ready Letter Writer for
Young Lovers,” and huddled away in a corner
at lunch-time, the packer and half-a-dozen of the
Beauties went through it, and discovered the
source of Oliver’s eloquence. Susie was up to
page 15, and had used every letter so far. Ob-
viously she had been writing love letters to her-
self, and evidently it was her intention to go
straight through the book. There had long been
a suspicion that Oliver Thripny had no existence
in fact, and now that suspicion was held to be
confirmed ; but the conspirators swore secrecy, and
Susie was encouraged to further flights.
Susie produced more letters, and eventually a
cabinet photograph of Oliver. She showed the
picture first to sympathetic Mr. Mills, and the
packer went into ecstasies, with Benno, the clerk,
at his elbow, and a lot of pasters crowded about
him, craning to get a glimpse.
“Er bloke with arf a neye kin see he’s nobly
born,” said Mills, “ V iv yer don’t believe he’s er
gentleman iv means, there’s ther di’mond studs
t’ prove it, ’n’ look at his proud, cold manner, n
his mock kids, ’n’ his ’air back like Surr
Whosthes, ther pianner scratcher’s. ”
“’Ow beautiful the man is !” moaned the scan-
dalous Harrerbeller.
“’N’such breedin’!” said Benno. ‘ But what
iv ther down-droopin’ yaller mo ? ”
“He’s’ad it pulled, yeh chump,” retorted the
packer. , . ,
Mills begged the photograph, and it was hung
on the wall with the other trophies. “ It’s er
photo iv one iv them beauty actors, ’ he told llar-
rerbeller, in confidence, some minutes later.
“ They’re er bob er quart, at ther fancy-goods up
town. Ain’t yeh noticed it ? ”
Miss Harte threw her pasty hessian apron over
her head, and squealed with rapture. “ Love er
duck! Susie’s er treat,” she gasped. “This is
better’n ther wicked lady in ther drammer. “I m
wonderin’ what’s next.”
The next came one afternoon, when a young
man arrived on the top flat from the front stairs.
He was a very diffident young man, and plainly
fresh from the wilds. He took off his hat as he
entered, and stood with it in his hand, with the
reverent irresolution some strangers display in
church. He had very large feet, and his trousers
were hung too high. So large were his feet and so
heavv his boots that he looked like an immovable
object standing there before the gaping factory.
His hands were large too, and heavy and very
red. His hair was profuse, and his face was
covered with a fluffy down that caught a strange
radiance from the sunbeams sloping through the
windows. The young man’s clothes were new
but curiously cut, and so small for him that each
piece had an appearance of being semi-detached.
He had adopted a tall white collar for this occa-
sion only, and it rode high up above his coat at
the back. His countenance was honest but not
intellectual, and his neck very long. He gazed
sheepishly about the place, wearing .an uncom-
fortable grin, and the Beauties gazed at him in
strained silence, awaiting developments.
“Get on t’ it,” said Benno. “It’s lost its
mother.”
Leathers looked with great interest. ; Looks
er bit like er goose with ears, don’t ’e?” he said.
The stranger found tongue. “Please, does
Miss Gannon work here? ” he asked.
A whoop of delight welled from the pasters,
and a dozen brushes pointed to Susie’s board, but
Harrerbeller Harte intervened. She confronted
the young man, and bobbed a ridiculous curtsey.
“ What name, if yeh please, sir,” she said.
“Oliver Thripny.”
There was another whoop, louder, longer, more
ecstatic than the first, but Harrerbeller disre-
garded it. “Yes, sir,” she said. “Walk this
way, if you please, sir?” She led him between
the boards, with a ridiculous affectation of the
manners of a shopwalker. “Nice weather we’re
’avin’, sir,” she simpered.
“Beautiful, Miss, thank you, and how’s your-
self?” stammered Oliver.
This broke up Harrerbeller’s gravity, and she
had only strength to point Miss Gannon out be-
fore collapsing. But the factory had hurriedly
composed itself to enjoy the encounter between
Susie Gannon and her young man. Susie had
been almost petrified on the discovery of Oliver
standing hat in hand in the gangway. Now she
was workinar at top-speed, with averted eyes and
her face scarlet with the conflict of many emotions.
Evidently she was taken wholly by surprise, and
the drop from the ideal to the real left her in a
state of utter confusion. Oliver came awkwardly
to her board, hat in hand still.
“Hello, Suze,” he said, “ how’re you doin’? ”
Susie turned up her Roman nose and closed her
eyes in an expression of scorn, and continued her
work. Oliver raised his voice, “ How are you,
Suze ?” he said. “ I said I’d come after you.”
Susie, with eyes still closed and nose still ele-
vated, turned to him for a moment, and said con-
temptuously : “What yeh givin’ us? I don’t
know yeh from a ding-bat! ”
The young man was astounded. “ Don’t know
me, Suze?” he gasped, “Why, I’m Oliver—
Oliver Thripny.”
“ Phew !” said Susie, intensifying her scorn.
Oliver’s situation was a very painful one. He
gazed piteously about the room, as if seeking cor-
roboration.
“Oh, go on, you know me all right, he pleaded.
“I on’y come down lars’ night, ’n’ I thought
you’d be glad t’ see me.”
“Phew!” repeated Susie, accenting her con-
tempt to the utmost.
“ Well, I’m bloomin’ well jiggered !' sard Mr.
Thripny, helplessly.
The Beauties were moved by some small
promptings of compassion.
‘ ‘ Garn, give ther lad a show ! ” said the fat girl.
“It’s Oliver ther squatter come t’claim his
bride,” pleaded Kitty Ooudray. “Kiss him
pretty.”
“’Tisn’t!” squealed Miss Gannon, with a
sudden access of fury. “’Tisn’t! ’tisn’t! ’tisn’t!”
“Oh, crickey,” murmured the astounded bush-
man, “that’ll tell you. Says I ain’t Oliver
Thripny. Crickey!”
“You ain’t,” cried Susie—“you know you
ain’t. You’re a himposter. It’s forgery, that’s
what it is. The p’lice orter be sent fer.”
“Crickey!” said the helpless Oliver, “I
wouldn’t ’a’ believed it. Oh, I say, Suze, have a
good look at me.”
“I won’t,” said Susie. “Go away. You ain’t
a bit like.” . . ~ . , il _
Then Oliver invited the bursting of the storm.
Appealing to Harrerbeller in his amazement he
blurted: “There, that’ll tell you the difference
good clothes makes in a bloke.”
The shriek that followed welled from thirty
throats, and before the Beauties had recovered
from their paroxysm of mirth Oliver had fled down
the stairs. In the language of the flat Susie “got
nothing ” for the next hour or two. As the
pasters worked they exercised their ingenuity in
reminding Miss Gannon of what she had lost.
“No more garding parties et Gov’ment Ouse
fer y o ■- , me lady,” said the fat girl. “Wot price
th’ opera V ther fam’ly jewels?” said
“They’re er blue duck fer Susie.. ; , Now ; who [
drive yell in er brogham n pair, n spatter yeh
with di’monds?” asked Kitty. Fame, fortune,
lux’ry, ’igh society, all gone, said the packer.
“ She might iv ’ad mullmgatawney soup n luce
cream fer dinner every day, n swelled it with
thei- best, but she done in her chances in er ht iv
pick.” Feathers meant pique.
But the factory had not seen the last of Oliver.
He came up the stairs again at about 5 o clock,
and turned to pull something after him. He
helped a short, fat, red-faced female to the flat.
She was about 45, and she cuddled a large
umbrella, and faced the pasters like a startled
“ Now, ’’criedthebushie, “ \(tm OliverThripny,
and here’s mother to prove it I ” .
The “hoy” that greeted this announcement
disturbed the whole establishment. Mid the
laughter and badinage Susie escaped, and en-
trenched herself in the dressing-room. Boldly
Mrs. Thripny confronted the storm, ihe climb
had robbed her of breath, but she brandished her
brolly in the face of the factory. The demonstra-
tion was regarded by her as one of open enmity,
whereas, as with most outbreaks amongst t
hands, it was mere devilment; without a shadow
of malice. A scampish craving for diversion in-
spired such displays. The Beauties were not
tender souls themselves, and did not look tor
super-sensitiveness in others.
M»s. Thripny grew redder. Her redness
merged into purple. She hurled thunderbolts
at the laughing hoydens from the end of her fat
gamp. Oliver retired before the storm, and stood
trembling at the head of the stairs. Not so his
nuggety mother. She advanced, gasping, full of
heroic wrath, and then she burst into language.
It was a torrent, a Niagara. The woman tumbled
great lexicons on the heads of the girls. Her shrill
voice penetrated to the offices. It brought Spats
and the junior partner to the top flat. I hey
found Mrs. Thripny “going strong,” and the
dusty foreman nervously skipping round just
beyond the orbit of her umbrella, excitedly but
piteously pleading for peace.
The lordly proprietor thundered orders, but
Mrs. Thripny lunged at him angrily, crippling
his bell topper, and continued her speech. Exactly
what the woman Sciid nobody knew, but she said
a tremendous deal, and nothing was compli-
mentary to Spats or the staring hussies, stunned
by the downpour they had precipitated. Mr.
Duff, the junior partner, intervened, and it was
quaint to see his timid overtures, but a prod in
the ear from the raging gamp put him out of
action. Then the diplomatic Feathers took a
hand. Feathers was a mere packer and some-
thing of a larrikin, perhaps, but in an emergency
he was the wisest man in that establishment.
“Garni” he cried, addressing the factory
generally, “le’ther poor woman be, carn’t yeh ?
’Ave a bit iv manners if y’ are fact’ry rats. It s
dead hookety if er decent married woman’s t’ be
abused ’n’ hinsulted ’n’ treated no better ’n er
Chow. Switch off, cxrn’t yeh? Yeh might be
decent people yerselves some day.”
Mrs. Thripny, who was now breathless, fell
back beside her ally. “Don’t yeh know er lady
when yeh see one?” asked Feathers indignantly.
Then, addressing Oliver’s mother, lie said : “You
put it down t’ their ignorance ’n’ bad bringin’ up,
Mrs. Thripny.” He soothed her with deferential
words, and an air of vast respect, and in three
minutes she was under perfect control. Before
she left she invited Feathers to tea on Sunday.
The packer assured Oliver’s ina that nobody
doubted the authenticity of Oliver, and there was
no intention to question his legitimacy. This was
Mrs. Thripny’s sore point. He said he would
send her a written apology, signed by the
proprietor and all the employees, and she
departed after the boy, quite satisfied. Feathers
called innocently over the stairs :
“ Mrs. Thripny, may I bring mother with me
on Sunday ? ” ...
Six months later, when Susie s squatter was
almost forgotten, Susie startled the factory with
the announcement of her forthcoming marriage to
]\lr. Thripny. “He’s sold out his selection n
bought sand drays. He’s makin’ his five quid a
week,” said Susie, proudly. .
“What!” ejaculated Feathers; “are yeh his
special agin, ’n’ after ther way yeh dogged on
him?”
“Oh,” said Miss Gannon, “he could see all
along that was on’y my joke.”
“Could he?” answered the packer. 1 A wise
gazob is Oliver —yeh can’t kid ’im ! ’’
EDWARD DYSON.
In Print.
(An Idyll of Sydney Public Library.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
streets outside were hot and dusty,
Inside the books were dry and musty,
Attention looked at them a-squint,
The student neat, his neighbor frowsy,
Twin brothers were in feelings drowsy,
With souls above all thoughts in print.
Soon by Peneus, coolly flowing
Through Tempe’s vale, with Maytime blowing,
I brushed the laurel, bruised the mint.
Of Kant and Hegel, Sclilegel and a
Mind for all such propaganda
Was banished every mortal hint.
All soon rolled Jove’s sonorous thunder,
Awed Tempo shook with rev’rent wonder,
The winds their play made haste to stint;
Peneus’ rippling laugh of pleasure
Sank to a hymn of solemn measure,
And slow he streamed with mystic glint.
Now Phoebus shone with radiance brighter,
The vale’s cool air grew light and lighter,
Till softly clad in filmy lint
Rough Vulcan’s bride appeared entrancing,
5 Fair Venus, her white robe enhancing
That matchless body’s matchless tint.
Advancing to the happy river
With scarce a faint immortal shiver,
Her feet she let the soft strand dint;
Ungirdling slow, with robe down-stealing,
Such charms Love’s Queen stood there revealing
As passion men with hearts of flint.
And at that view I woke to wonder
Howe’er old Jove’s sonorous thunder
My frowsy neighbor’s snore could hint;
By what strange classic necromancy
For Queen of Beauty I should fancy
A passing freckled girl in print,
N.S.W.
W.L.D.


i
m
<c After having recovered from rheumatic fever I was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong .again.
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles. ”
R. T# Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power, begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
>ut steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsapariiias that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER'S.”
Prepared by Dr. 3. C. Ayer & Co., LoweH, Mass., U. S. A.
T-
COLORED v?
POST A -- -
V
■wwjte'
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 each Containing G
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at fid. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our G-e and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you, By continuing', the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent, ’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must-give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return tiie cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this, liberal offer. Be the first in your district-. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL
TT-<—->/ Tr
Co., B. ft., Pitt-
V
a\
as
//wi
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latrs r unproved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live , and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free “
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free, Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most si/nple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure-free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
v : 71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vi t?or Restored m
Four Weeks oy the use of
o® ai ooso!
< s SE>* cE 'f ul f e-
The only Infahmle Kemedy for W£AKN£SB & DcBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the'world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenatin'*
all the important elements of the,human frame. °
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is fid, Pam.phlets'Free. Agents—Perry & Co., 47 Oueers
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, arid at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands. Cured Annually. Remedy
sent dv mail in plain package*. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWICXTY-FIVE SHIELINGS.
Write To-day. (
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
EOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and ocher complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
21A\ e riy S i°,l\ S , vfP° iost afl hope before reading this book.
SENI FREE-on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth!
street, Sydhev-
NERVOUSNESS
&OSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF BELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution-— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, Ac. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
gfkfgkf
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the yams
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name &e-
(to
i Of. Ifou Jfctve
§ something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary into
reading an apparently interesting story which proves to be a prelude
to an advertisement. The startling story and the thrilling testimonial
do not add to the merit of the article advertised. If you are troubled with
sad digestion, Jmpitre Jjlood, Xanguor,
Jn active Xiver, Sick eadaetje
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered Stomach imperfectly
doing its work, you need not experiment with the many medicines so
plausibly set before you; take
Beechams Pills
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by thousands of sufferers to be
unequalled for disoelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver. It is not
necessary to bring BEECH ARTS PILLS before your notice surreptitiously,
as they are openly recommended by those who have found that *
BEECH AM’S PILLS will do all that is claimed for them —hence 1
they have the Largest Sale of any patent Medicine.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price //1| {56 pills) dc 2/9 (168 pills).
If Yota wisK to Realise
• —■
TOP PRICES
send your..•
Rabbit Skins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
■■■■ ■——■■■■■TO—. ■,
HILL, CLARK <& CO.,
SYDNEY.
A CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS!
FUEE for writing:.
WE ARE GIVING AWAY FREE SAMPLES
OF THE WORLD-RENOWNED
EUORASY. A BOON TO
WIVES, MOTHERS, AND SISTERS.
CURE FOR SONS, BROTHERS,
husbands;.
EUCRASY DRINK CURE.
This Cure for Drunkenness has shed a radiance into
thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does its
work so silently and surely that., while the devoted wife,
sister or daughter looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed
without his knowledge. A lady who, a few months a°o
cured her husband with EUCRASY, he who had been a
hard drinker for years, now writes us that she has also
cured a near and deaf relative, and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women to save the drunkard.
FREE. If You Mention This Papee.
WE ARE GIVING IT AWAY*
Send for Booklet and Sample. Enclose 6d. in stamps for
postage. This is a Genuine Offer.
CALL OR ADDRESS—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
iMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES !
st by^ A i L o^ir
== Brifislvflus!ralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
fist POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting' London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of alLfhe leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation of) all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBQRN (tfeta-
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Kingsway),
Price
BRUSH,
371
Saddler ,
George Street,
S3TX>.TNT3ES'X-.
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office. ss.
r ?£T
men
women
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May lie consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR- MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd and
Dr. Martin now a copy wdl he POSTED FRETfo^3 a B %S erS ’-r iC ? 7s \. ° r appV to
ar *ivZt B irr rlpt ' om ’ ?°, °
fie diseases bp-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
to the nnhlie o 1S clijferent to those so-called medical books adv ertised free
to tje piibhc. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering hunlanitv afflicted with irmrr
nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases.' % S
FREE! o-ivinS'a vprv work ’ con tammg 34 illustrations and colored plate,
Also “ MIND OVER matted ■ f > a ' l il'. e t,reat Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE
medical worts® posted FREE on applioa"on' ™ » r I BS , » r *^ artin a,ld
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stands). ’ ° n S P eClal ******
DR. MARTIN, M.D. . “ Efmley House,” 151 EliZClb&'th of
_Flease mention this paper when writing. HY DE PARKIS YDN E y.' ’


TO KEEP YOU WARM
ƒgkf
AND DRY
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30 42/-.
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdrsau Rubber Co.ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
££
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
• Hr?* .• •
The above cut Illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill ror
Mines or Quarries. Weight about ISlbs. Operated bv comnressed air, consuming' about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE (WAN Rock Drills.
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
| And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS : £ J
Lockwood Bros • Ltd. t
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
fgj
MX FgfIRST '
OLiASS STORKS.
XO. SIGH 1.FXA
“ IMMI'A."
Cocoa Handle
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
fgjfgkfg
fgjkf
The FAMILY
STIMULANT
Should Be In Every Home
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
Low Price. High Efficiency. Every Ptsmp Guaranteed.
FOR..;
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
■r
l^Mll
. ,v.-.
JtToi.fiJ.t
Single & Duplex.
Higli St Low Seuvice.
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents: BEYAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melbourne; SAUNDERS Sc STUART, Perth, W.A.
MARSHALL'S .
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.»
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W.i, Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c,, Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron —Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers ot all Steam Users
Re€|uirom 6nts> Correspondence Invited.
S3NOH<HTLI.
FOR PASTORALIST, STOCK, and
«rn A OTTrf"VIVT TirA'D'ir Write for our FREE BOOK on
© X ii. X XIJUi W HXitJCa. TELEPHONES, HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
Silvertown Telegraph Works Coy.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
OUR
A-
mu
Contains Particulars
of Entirely New
Mining Machinery
and Appliances.
Please send your Address
and we will Mail you one.
N. GUTHRIDCE, LIMITED, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
