

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS'
REPUTATION.
The Bulletin.asf
R. Car. WATKINS «Sfc 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW ahd SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ds
HOBART.
tm
adley’s Orient hotel.
*E-.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Sons Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Portable and Fixed Steam and Oil Engines.
oENTRiFUGAL T and T|NQ p um p S> irrigation Machinery, Columbus Oil Engines.
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machines. Pooley’s Weighing Machines.
For Illustrated Lists and Particulars apply to BATTLE «3c CO., 7 BENT* ST> SYDNEY
d
Take it back,
v I must have-
HUTTON’S
PineAppleßrand HAMS fi
BACON.
d
SAFES
doors
LOCKS
7laticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branchs
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Offloe Australian Mutual Provident
Society) - TP. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts andCanvaseere Wanted.
qM , idajjfau)
u ft* wfrt.
ďfd
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT&CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
1
d
đ
is the Queen of all Cocoas
I FO\
| Arpma,Strei\gth^PuritK
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
RegcJ.
O
Trade Mark.
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
d
*6
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES \
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest matters in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Matting Machinery.
H ELI DON SPA. Absolutely the
BEST TABLE WATER.
C3-CXXj»Xji3;3Xr «Sz CO., ■A.gjexa.'fceu
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1407.]
[Thursday, January 31, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OP THE HOUR.
THE HOHENLOHE MEMOIRS 0 W ° RKS
PmCMST* by Frederick Ourtino . trans. from the'cerman, 2 vols. ;
_ haB a " enormous sensation all over
taropean politics which disturbed the world is given he^ B f ofthe y fir a 8 t 8 time d **“ " tory ° f of the crisesTn
THEFUTURE in AMERICA.
Oh»p Colonial Edition, 6s, Postage Is extra.
Search after Realities, by H,
m rveain.es, W H. a. Wells, author of
Mankind in the Making/' &e., &a
GEORGE ROBERTSON «t CO. PROP. LTD.
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
□SON’S
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
tor influenza. Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and th*
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
mm****
A/osanHO
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OB OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR. HVDSON’S-TaKe no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6.
May be taken daily by old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the aoie
Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any state.
Agenoies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. [L
THE RED PAGE
VERSES OUT OF M A OKI LA ND
MOUNT TARAWERA.
... About the heights, soft clouds, a few,
Clung here and there like floating flue;
Like helpless sea-birds breeze-bereft.
Unmoving spread their pinions white —
From jutting erag, deep-bathed in light,
To slip away in snowy flight;
Or closely crouched in shadowy cleft.
Like lambing ewes the flock has left.
Below, o’er joyed at darkness fleeing,
Reviving Nature woke again
To all the exceeding bliss of being !
The minnows leapt the liquid plain
In shoals —each si 1 very-shivering train,
A sudden dash of sprinkled rain !
The wild-ducks’ black and tiny fleet
Shot in and out their shy retreat;
The cormorant left his crowded tree
And stretched his tinselled neck for sea;
All Nature’s feathered favorites poured
To their adored, undoubted lord
Of light and heat, accordance sweet
Of pure, impassioned revelry;
And honey-bird and mocking-bird
And he of clearest melody,
The blossom-loving bell-bird, each
Delicious-throated devotee
In happy ignorance framed to be
Content with rapture—longing-free
For life or love they cannot reach,
Like chimes rich-tuned, to heaven preferred
The praise of their mellifluous glee;
Each lurking lyrist of the grove
With all his might sang all his love,
Till every foliage-filled ravine
And bower of amaranthine green
Rang persevering ecstasy.
Alfred Domett.
SLUMBER SONG.
Now the golden day is ending,
See the quiet night descending,
Stealing, stealing all the colors, all the roses from
the west.
Safe at home, each bird is keeping
Watch o’er nest and children sleeping,
Dreaming tender dreams of sunshine, sleeping
warm, for sleep is best.
Sleep then, sleep my little daughter.
Sleep to sound of running water,
Singing, singing through the twilight, singing
little things to rest.
Down beside the river flowing,
Where the broom and flax are growing,
Little breezes whisper gently as night’s music
softly swells;
And, like bells of Elfin pealing,
Lonely through the shadows stealing,
Tinkling, tinkling through the twilight comes the
sound of cattle bells.
Sleep then, sleep, my little daughter,
Cattle bells, and wind, and water,
Weaving, weaving chains of slumber, cast about
thee Dreamland’s spells.
MARY H. POYNTER.
IN LONDON.
When I look out on London’s teeming streets,
On grim grey houses, and on leaden skies,
My courage fails me, and my heart grows sick,
And I remember that fair heritage
Bartered by me for what your London gives.
This is not Nature’s city : I am kin
To whatsoever is of free and wild,
And here I pine between these narrow walls,
And London’s smoke hides all the stars from me,
Light from mine eyes, and Heaven from my heart.
For in an island of those Southern seas
That lie behind me, guided by the Cross
That looks all night from out our splendid skies,
I know a valley opening to the East.
There, hour by hour, the lazy tide creeps in
Upon the sands I shall not pace again—
Save in a dream—and, hour by hour, the tide
Creeps lazily out, and I behold it not,
Nor the young moon slow sinking to her rest
Behind the hills ; nor yet the dead white trees
Glimmering in the starlight: they are ghosts
Of what has been, and shall be never more.
No, never more 1
, Nor shall I hear again
The wind that rises at the dead of night
Suddenly, and sweeps inward from the sea,
Rustling .the tussock, nor the wekas’ wail
Eohoing at evening from the tawny hills.
In that deserted garden that I loved,
Day after day, my flowers drop unseen ;
And as your Summer slips away in tears,
Spring wakes our lovely Lady of the Bush,
The Kowhai, and she hastes to wrap herself
All in a mantle wrought of living gold ;
Then come the birds, who are her worshippers
To hover round her: tuis swift of wing,
And bell-birds flashing sudden in the sun,
Carolling : ah 1 what English nightingale,
Heard in the stillness of a summer eve,
From out the shadow of historic elms,
Sings sweeter than our Bell-bird of the Bush ?
And Spring is here : now the Veronica,
Our Koromiko, whitens on the oliff,
The honey-sweet Manuka buds, and bursts
In bloom, and the divine Convolvulus,
Most fair and frail of all our forest flowers,
Stars every covert, running riotous.
0 quiet valley, opening to the East,
How far from this thy peacefulness am I!
Ah me, how far 1 and far this stream of Life
From thy clear oreek fast falling to the sea !
r . Ye tlet me not lament that these things are
In that loved country I shall see no more :
All that has been is mine inviolate,
Locked in the secret book of memory.
4*l Sf ug t ? C^anßo V va j le y knows no change.
And when I loo* on London s teeming streets
Un grim grey houses, and on leaden skies
When speech seems but the babble of a crowd
And musio fails me, and my lamp of life
m. an d Art, mv mistress, turns from me—
nen do I pass beyond the Gate of Dreams
nto my kingdom, walking unconstrained
y ways familiar under Southern skies ;
or unaccompanied; the dear dumb things
ioved once, nave their immortality.
1 here too is all fulfilment of desire :
T« j va dey of my Paradise
find again lost ideals, dreams too fair
Wk > there I meet once more mine own
Whom Death has stolen, or Life estranged from
me;
And thither, with the coming of the dark,
Ihou comest, and the night is full of stars.
Dora Wilcox.
A LEAF FROM A FLY-BOOK.
The King’s road is a troublous summons calling
day and day;
But my feet take the cocksfoot track—the easy,
vagrant way:
Beside the restless acres and the gold of noisy
gorse.
The ripple lures its lover down the dazzle of its
course.
Its speech is of the willow-reaches rich with lurk-
mg joy;
The revel of the rapids where gay life is death’s
decoy:
My heart is with the laughing lips; I follow up
and down;
But follow not the king’s white road toward the
haste of town.
Afoot, the wash of waders, and aloft, the haze-
veiled blue, —
The heart it needeth nothing so the cast fall clean
and true.
O carol of the running reel, 0 flash of mottled
back !
And who will take the king’s white road, and who
the cocksfoot track ?
The hour-glass fills with weather like a wine of
slow content:
I throw the world behind me as a cartridge that
is spent. 6
Then home by summer starlight bear my grass-
cool, mottled load;
I quit the pleasant cocksfoot track: I take the
king’s white road.
Seaforth Mackenzie.
IN THE MOONLIGHT.
The m°°n is bright, and the winds are laid, and
the river is roaring by;
Orion swings, with his belted lights low down in
the western sky;
North and south from the mountain gorge to the
heart of the silver plain
There’s many an eye will see no sleep till the east
grows bright again;
There’s many a hand will toil to-night, from the
centre down to the sea;
And I m far from the men I used to know—and
my love is far from me.
Where the broad flood eddies the dredge is
a ™?° re< ? *? t'he beach of shingle white,
And the straining cable whips the stream in a
spray of silver light ;
The groaning buckets bear their load, and the
engine throbs away,
And the wash pours red on the turning screen
that knows not night nor day;
ior there s many an ounce of gold to save, from
a j 1? to the shining sea—
And there s many a league of bare, brown hills
between my love and me.
Where the lines of gorse are parched and dry, and
the sheaves are small and thin,
ihe engine beats and the combine sings to the
drays that are loading in,
For thrashing out of the stook to-night,
a »?l the plain is as bright as day,
And the fork-tines flash as the sheaves are turned
on the frame of the one-horse dray •
For many a hand will toil to-night,' from the
mountains down to the sea ;
B "\ l * , S«?h m . t lh b e eaK r '^ 6 Birl Ik ”* “ d
thehil ' B “ d «•
Is mocking the gleam of the silver moon in the
scrub on the long trap-line;
The tallies are big on the rock-strewn spur, and
the rattling clink of the chain
C ° m^itwi! dly i? li ?r d fr ?“ the moon-bright hill
with the whistling shriek of pain : 6
°%sas\“vh,“fS. tonieh ‘ wh ”° * he
B “ l WUtatateVS?e. o .™f tho
David McKee Wright.
(From “New Zealand Verse:’—Walter Scott.)
“Oolilee” is very young, and “Oolilee” i
And “’Oolilee” has written a book and
it The Turn of Fortune's Wheel or Th
S °L? he P° rld (Bruce and Davies, Melb.) o
which all rights are reserved. It is a naive nove
written with the seriousness and the prolixity
and the charming innocence of the Verv
Young Person “Oolilee” has much to learl
yet; she should have blue-pencilled, for instance
a remark like this : “ I may as well state here—
for the benefit of the rising generation—many of
whom appear to be more dull of comprehension
*h« n P are ? ts —that Victoria, and, in fact
°J\ he £ ponies of Australia, were not in
habited forty years ago like they are at the
present day,’ Or this: “*Ohj My God®
This is terrible! ’ I exclaimed, pressing my
I hands to my brow, and weeping bitterly I
?fa/nt” ° n cold linoleumfi^
a taint. Or this:—“Though not a true wor-
shipper myself, I admire a ‘True’ Christian nofi
a scoffer ; and should this book fall into’ the
hands of such a despicable person, may he try to
Shot-men^ 8 *“ OoK W’ T" the -/ ths of
worshipping at the oP Mane-Snd
there are writers greater than Marie. The story
i melodramatic and lacking probability vet
has unobtrusive touches of sincerity : and with a
ireater care for dialogue, a ruthless shattering of
:?n n ter » ry ldols ’ and a deeper insight into fife
Oohlee” may write a good Australiannovel’
A 8 ? and modest effort, I’he Twn of For
an?/ S^ hed ' e -°" ° an l - e dismis sed with a kindly
and encouraging caution. “Oolilee” can do—
and will probably do—much better. The novel
may be admitted into the class F 4.
A POLITE AUSTRALIA
Manners, like morals, are merely a matter of
climate, and, logically, the cry of “ Australia for
the Australians ” implies Australian attitudes for
Australian latitudes. So Theodosia Ada Wallace
has courageously come to the rescue of our man-
ners, and The Etiquette of Australia (Dymock, 1».)
bravely points the way—if not to a White —to a
Polite Australia. Most books of manners are
prosy; but Theodosia is as naively amusing as
Marie Corelli. In her concise little manual the
diffident Australian can find the appropriate
Australian behavior for almost every conceivable
contingency. Christenings are not —the statisti-
cians remark—so frequent as once was the fashion ;
but Theodosia has given us the ritual of christen-
ings. The baby must wear “full dress,” “the.
cakes should be white, and as many of the other
eatables as possible should have a white effect.”
(This would be difficult with sausages:) Though
inadvertently there is no mention of the etiquette
of the backblocks, the proper dress for swaggers,
polite conversations for use in drafting sheep, a
vocabulary for gentlemanly “ bullockies,” or
rules as to introductions upon an Australian raft
after a Sydney ferry accident, with Theodosia we
may safely go to a funeral, or a public dinner, or
even sit out a dance.
It appears that our social code (Australian
brand) is “ modelled largely upon the manners of
the English upper classes.” Bearing this in
mind, and first carefully reading the chapter de-
voted to “The Correct Dress for All Occasions,”
where we learn that “unmarried girls do not wear
wrappers, and married women only until twelve
noon,” and that “ young girls . . . wear little
jewellery, while married women wear as much as
they can,” let us venture forth. “A man who
gives up his seat in a public conveyance to a
woman, or who passes up her ticket or fare,
should raise his hat immediately afterwards. . . .
The woman who is so treated should pleasantly
thank the polite stranger. When an omnibus or
tramcar is full, it is a breach of etiquette to enter
it. If there is a vehicle following, it will most
likely have room. Do not stare at anyone, or
turn and look after people that have passed.
Australians are apt to sin in these respects,
especially in the matter of staring.”
“ Everyday people,” for whose “ everyday use”
this reference volume is designed, might note that,
“should one’s husband or son bring in a friend
unexpectedly to dinner or lunch, one should try
to look pleased, though the pantry is empty or
the meat ‘ gone off. ’ A hostess may apologise for
the short-comings of her table, and may make a
joke of it, but she must not overdo it. One
allusion is quite enough. Wines are never served
at a young girls’ lunch. Effervescent waters are
given instead. Champagne is never seen. Ladies
do not remove their hats for luncheon. They
remove their gloves.” (Nothing is said about
boots, but probably in Australia this is entirely a
matter of inclination and the weather.) After-
noon-tea, we are told, was a favorite relaxation of
Queen Victoria. “A recent writer says that her
late Majesty never went for a drive in the after-
noon without taking with her an elaborate appara-
tus for brewing tea.” Theodosia Ada Walker
does not say whether or not this custom is common
in Australia. However, we learn that “in one
or two Australian houses tea-tables that fall to
pieces are used.” And while tables that fall to
pieces are, the quite allowable, “doyleys” are
“demode.” At dinners "soup is taken from
the side of the spoon.” (Attempts to take
it from the handle oan only cause embarass-
ment to one’s hostess.) And “it is polite
to take a little of everything, if health
permits. If it is advisable to refuse, it is not
necessary to give any reason. Some people volun-
teer a jocular statement that ‘ I like it, but it
doesn’t like me.’ Such remarks are quite super-
fluous” —in Australia. It is refreshing to find,
too, that “ the handles of knives and forks should
rest in the hand.” The custom of putting them
in one’s boots or among one’s hair is therefore
implicitly forbidden. Diffident guests, con-
fronted with asparagus, might be calmed by the
rule “not to eat anything with a spoon that can
be eaten with a fork.”
Let us go to the theatre with Theodosia. “ A
man should not leave a lady alone between the
acts of a play. In our climate it would be
advisable for women as well as men to go
out between the acts.” Or let us take ingenuous
Ada to a dance. “If one has a pretty good idea
that one will want to sit out for a lengthy time
after a certain dance, why book the dance follow-
ing ? Engaged couples usually take two con-
secutive dances—one to dance and the other—”
(Better buy the book.) If William “can be
trusted to look after the girl properly,” a mother
may allow her Gladys to go to a theatre with
him unchaperoned, but— no supper afterwards.
And it is not “good form” for Gladys to
accompany a man to the hall when leav-
ing. “Though many Australian girls make
a law unto themselves in this matter, they should
not, in any circumstances, help a man on with
his overcoat, struggle as he may ” ! Ada should
not put such ideas into the innocent mind of an
Australian young man. But amid this multi-
plicity of regulations, it is comforting to note
that Australians can get engaged without
restriction. “Very few rules govern engage-
ments in this country.” Still, the fiance may
benefit by a few judicious hints. Bill may note
that “ nowadays a set of furs is considered a
suitable betrothal present,” though Theodosia
evidently does not value hers, for she remarks
that presents are “of slight intrinsic value
between Australian lovers.” And—“the bride-
groom and bride must not see each other upon
their wedding day until they meet in the church
(they should not spend their previous evening
together).”
In a future edition, we should be glad to see a
description of the Correct Dress for surf-bathing,
and an elucidation of the nice point whether a
gentleman on ship-board rushing for his bath in
puce pyjamas should nod or shake hands if he
meets his grandmother returning in a magenta
wrapper. Anyhow, for what she has done, Aus-
tralia should be politely grateful to Theodosia Ada
Wallace. •
“Dund as’’protests against the common Aus-
tralian error of accentuation of the word “mirage ”
which, alack, has found print in more than one
recent Bulletin poem. The word, he groans is
wrongly accented on the first syllable, and made
to rhyme with “peerage,” “kerridge,” “high
ridge. The correct pronunciation, ho moans, is
mi-rahzh, the accent being on the last syllable.
Ihe word, of course, is from the French, and
retains; as yet (?) —its French accentuation. The
word is probably in a transition stage—an
immigrant to the English language that has not
been long enough domiciled here to discard its
foreign graces. If the word becomes a common
one in Australia, the pressure of popular opinion
will bring it into line with the idiom of the
adopting language, and the dictionary-maker!
must accept the little stranger into the family.
The tendency of the English language with foreign
words is to throw the accent back towards the first
syllable, attacking the word without a preliminary
flourish, and letting the final syllables take care
of themselves. With less excuse “Dundas”
weeps over the dissonance of rhymes such as
“croon” and “tune,”and “arms’’and “palms."
While on this subject, it may be wise to point out
some other frequent errors in pronunciation that
disfigure copy sent in. The poet who rhymes
“entities” with “cities,” or “furbelows” with
“fellows,” or “indict him” with “victim,” or
“because ” with “sores,” is, of course, hopeless;
but bards might possibly note that “towards,”
and “tired,” and “hours” are each only one
syllable in length.
Mr. P. Stewart, in Australian Tales and Verses
(J. T. Picken, Melb.) takes his muse with a
becoming seriousness:
“’Tis unawares
If there be tares
Within this book ; for I have sought
That no doggrel line,
In page of mine,
Shall bear the stain of a tainted thought.”
And the rest of the book is about up to the sample
quoted, though sometimes, as in the following
stanza, Mr. P. Stewart flaps to loftier ether
“ And his prayer is granted even now,
Oh! Mabel, dear and fair;
Underneath this hat, with hidden brow,
Behold your William Dare !”
Of the English Censor of Plays St. John
Hankin in December Fortnightly gives some in-
teresting details. The censor is not a great
official responsible to Parliament. He is merely
an official in the Lord Chamberlain’s Department
of His Majesty’s Household, like those other
flunkeys, the Groom of the Great Chamber, and
the Poet Laureate. The Prime Minister, who
appoints mere bishops, has no say in the selection
of the dramatic censor. The nature of the quali-
fications deemed necessary for the post are a
profound secret. The present Examiner of Plays
was, happily, by profession a bank clerk—and
most bank clerks have a liking for the
theatre. The ex-bank clerk has to read all
plays that are to be publicly performed
in London, and if he does not give a play a license
no public performance of it can be given in Great
Britain. However, it can be performed in Ire-
land. The refusal of a license practically pre-
vents all private performance of that play, since,
for commercial reasons connected with the re-
newal of the license for a theatre, managers prefer
not to let their theatres for the performance of an
unlicensed play. It might hurt the Lord Cham-
berlain’s feelings—and a Lord Chamberlain’s feel-
ings can be so heavily felt. An unlicensed play is
not a licentious play or an immoral play or a
blasphemous play. It is merely a play dealing
with a religious subjeot or a serious moral pro-
blem. Bank clerks don’t much care for religious
subjects or serious moral problems. It is
different if you are flippant. Anybody may
write a light comedy about adultery and get it
produced in London; but a play dealing in a
serious manner with the marriage problem would
not appeal to the ex-bank clerk.
Whitaker's Almanack for 1907 (Spicer Bros.,
Lond.) may be classed K I—a hard, bed-rook,
rubbly kind of Kl. It has everything in it from
a list of seasonable and unseasonable fish to the
volcanic eruptions of 1906, from a London drama-
tic summary to a list of colonial and foreign banks.
And every department is admirably brought up to
date—with the lamentable exception of the com-
pound interest tables, the metrio weights and
measures, and the tables for determining latitude,
which unaccountably remain the same with every
succeeding issue. The publishers might consider
the question of imparting a little more freshness
to these figures.
t * le ® ar< J, at times,
IB w U J? ped for Byrnes
Without the least excuse.
He can defy
Such moments by
Abbreviation's use,
And gain the grat •
Of friend and neighb:
Without an at :
Of extra lab :
So simp : a rule
May seem pecul:
make the crit : inditr •
What matter if 8 *
The scans: is diff;
The meaning too ambig : f
The net result, 8
Lacon : and punct:
Is worth a mult:
Of needless unct:
We long for sile :
From folks who pile
Their wordy Pel: on Oss ;
Extremely nox:
And quite intox:
By their exub: verbos:...
But we can pard:
I do believe,
The minor bard
Who will abbrev:
Harry Graham (in Misrepresentative Women •
Edwin Arnold).


đ
Send Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.,
The Leading: Sydney Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE
ď
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LIST, FREE.
WE PAY CARRIAGE to all parts or Australia on all parcels of Sporting Material
from 505., and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle from 205., which have been selected from our
Catalogues.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt,
extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30 inch special steel barrels, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight of 12-gauge, about 6| to 71b. ; of -G
16-gauge, 6| to 6Jib.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
V
//'
w
fIUUIinMIIHMI
t|l Ml
i m 'Hi'
I'/
■*X
££!?dV3HO
"j i.
l
/
I
//
v
IL^
}W>
(, i
>
In.
?
3 <3
n/IV/1 BM
qimv
I3IV/S3HWM
Ip?)'
I 1 li
/ r
I LSWdlching theeffect of his tips.
Follow Little Snap and he will show you
how to shop.


•a/diouucj jßOjnw am uo souajnssy a//7 joj
|%n^n|M
- 6fBl aansnavisa
u«i|Bj^snv
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DOF"* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Oui new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repavin o ’
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman • Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; Janies Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq 3. ; Rollo A. Cape? Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mitual) \%r N.s.w.- 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
Specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. Tf.BATOR, Bes. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our .agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Veg-etable Bills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay* it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Aw ay
Free
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for tlie McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
•in i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
đ
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANV ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lMj
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
d
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR RALE BY ALL DEALERS.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.’
THE HOULDEB. LINE STEAMERS.
Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY ORANGE 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE.. .. 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
EESTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE .. 6,770
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE .
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw")
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons.
6,770
9,300
10.500
6,380
11.500
11,500
7,420
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Nature’s Own Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh Milk
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
TRY
o*
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
lii
*
If
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help*
clean out the rabbit pests.
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
• cartridges, loadedwithblack
~ or smokeless powder,
are accurate, sure of fife, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
m
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., D. S. A.
ililllllliluiilllKlt
OS
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT;’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION .
ffxtparad only by J. 0. UNO. Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
ď
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
C, There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
IVER
PI LLS
LIV
R
They TOUCH the
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price
N )
Carter’s


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part tbe bair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Mair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. 1
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &Co., Lowell, Mass-.U. S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
d
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:—“ You can wear it
night dresses all the year round.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ď
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELIOAOY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
Tf ic 'Renlacins 1 All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LIHITED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency . 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-
Thoasandsof Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
IK
đ
ď
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
■tasMSMSf
georoe"bonnington
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
£lOOO
HEAD OF HAIR!
Would you give £lOOO for a good head of hair ?
Would you give fifteen shillings (155.) ? willingly.
Now read my proposition.
Have you a “down” on “That Bald Spot .
MAKE SURE OF IT ! .
Place yourself in a strong light before a mirror. Any there .
I WILL GIVE YOU £lOOO IF
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
Does not moke ever, psrtiole
Write me NOW! You have everything to gain. Nothing to lose.
W. Oliver Richards
INVENTOR OF
“CAPILLA” HAIRTONIC
131 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAXERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd #
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before We Were Married.
Blacksoil plains were grey-soil, grey-soil in the
drought,
Fifteen years behind us—five hundred long miles
out.
Swag and bag and billy carried all our care
Before we were married, and I wish that I were
there.
River banks were grassy —grassy in the bends,
Running through the land where mateship never
ends,
We belled the lazy fishing lines, and droned the
time away,
Before we were married, and I wish it were to-day.
Working down the telegraph—winter’s gales and
rains—
’Cross the tumbled scenery of Marlborough
“ plains”;
Beach and bluff and cook’s tent —and the cook he
was a “ cow ”
Before we were married, but I wish that it was
now.
The rolling road to Melbourne, and a grey-eyed
girl in fur —
One arm to a stanchion, and one round her —
Seat abaft the skylight when the moon had set—
Before she was married, and I wish it wasn’t yet.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
In a Hundred Tears.
Here is a grief that I fain would mend—
A broken toy and a child in tears ;
Dry your eyes, for all things end,
’Twill be the same in a hundred years.
Time will come with his gift of rest,
Time unwitting of grief or joy ;
Seek the calm of your mother’s breast,
And weep no more for your painted toy.
What do they matter when all is done —
The hopes of life and its thousand fears;
The gold we lost or the gain we won ?
’Twill be the same in a hundred years.
Much I marvel we care so much,
Seeing that death, in the end, ends all;
As roses fade at a canker’s touch,
We pass, and the kindly shadows fall.
Youth, with a glory round his head,
Dreams of a red-mouthed girl—his queen •,
But dust and ashes, a long time dead,
Little he’ll hunger for her, I ween.
She smiles—and his life is glorified,
She frowns—and his heart grows dark with fear ;
For love vouchsafed, as for love denied,
’Twill be the same in a hundred years.
Some go mounting the Hills of Fame,
High and higher that all may see ;
Shall they have ears for the world’s acclaim
When they are dust in the years to be ?
The rich man dwells in his gilded room,
The poor man hides in his hovel old;
The rich man goes to his marble tomb,
The poor man rests in the yellow mould.
The rich man dreams of his gold no more.
The poor man sleeps with his cares forgot;
As the wind that blows and the rain that pours
They pass, and their names are remembered not.
And even to all who tread life’s ways,
To peasants lowly and purple peers,
Old Philosophy gravely says—
“’Twill be the same in a hundred years.
N.S.W.
RODDERIO QUINN.
The Portrait.
Is this your portrait, Clare,
This girl with smileless eyes,
And frozen lips austere,
Which mock at memories ?
What sorrow hath changed so
The Clare I used to know ?
Am I to blame, oh Clare !
For the mute grief which lies
Behind those lips austere ;
Those veiled and smileless eyes?
Oh dearest, say not so,
Child-love of long ago !
Was I a villain, Clare,
To gaze into those eyes,
To kiss those lips—that hair,
Was I unkind, unwise?
But oh, I could not know
My love would hurt you so !
I loved you truly, Clare ;
But I had secret ties,
Chains that were stronger dear,
Than your soft witcheries.
Because I love you so,
Sweet Clare, I could but go.
I had no right, my Clare !
To come with lover’s sighs
And looks. But oh ! you were
So very dear a prize.
I never dreamt (ah no !)
My love could hurt you so.
Not mine the portrait, Clare,
Within my palm that lies;
By chance I find it here
Beneath these foreign skies.
Clare ! Clare ! I did not know
My love would hurt you so !
VIO.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCBAE.


THE “BRUNSWICK
đ
Household
ICE MACHINE
COLD STORAGE FOR PERISHABLE
ARTICLES OF FOOD.
\VfHAT a lot of food goes bad during- the hot weather
in Australia ! All this could be prevented by
having a BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE. Especially to
squatters and banners out wayback, too far to get ice
to these the “ Brunswick ” i s a necessity; they could
f" J a °y all the . luxul T of ICE—all that refrigeration
means-even better than they do in the city. And all
required to drive this little machine is a A H.P. Oil
Engine, which we can supply. The smallest sized
n n «^f W ono,K glV f- ref ” geratione< l ual ' to the melting
power of 200 lbs. of ice right along.
We wiU su PP J y full particulars and
niustiated Catalogues on application, post free.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,e A^ents > 7
8t 9 Market St., Sydney.
A SUMMER BOON. Don't forget
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER
Has the largest sale and is superior to all others.
RISK’S WHISKY
Is simply
Perfection.
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Will Andrade -»« BOOKS.
d
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition
is. BOOK OF NATURE and IS
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot : Rush
for the Spoii, ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made East, Is
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series 2s"
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. "and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of tub
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise: Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is •
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy"
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to M uie
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman s New Conjuring Entertainment Is 3d
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
pZmTf'tl?;??- 0 " 08 ’ Love. Business,
* uturii\ and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d
Howto Make Op, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
latest wT TaLK * 20th Centur J' edition, very
latest, 124 S jiages, over 400 colored plates and
.m™» VI CT rs ’ /S 6d P° sted - Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives Handbook, 93 illustrations, 2s 6d Aris-
ologv i 3/ 6 T d ‘ NrwTricks with Coins, Is. Piiren-
JnfV.i Lovers letter Writer, is. Tocology
J « RS ’ ' s - 6 f Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minsirel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
wtfi v 8 S 1 ECRETS > ls - • "’omen’sSecrets, 1/3. Letter
Madkf’alv ? p,SB Si! ES f ND Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, is. Wipes Guide and Friend, by Dr
; P° st ls 2d - Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
I®" AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do?
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
special tmiitun
Scotch whisky
ws
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
z
z
z
Z
S',
Mi*. KELLERMANN
{the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
A.,“ t "° r f nourishi “K sustaining than any other.’
F r Whether your l°ife? s spenfin tUttttttn'd'SV* iU Ster ” qualities.
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the test i S ? f str ™gth and
etc., it is imperative that you should take an ah, ’ w< ?. rks . h °P- home,
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY'S the’chiefnfe
because it is ABSOLUTELY BURE T ;- pes th , e chle .‘ Place
henefit to thei andS late™
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort
. A Perfect Food.”— Health.
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
l
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . ,
Miss Van Brakkbi),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Parian TE i^FORMA T ION,S made on the latest
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DREsfING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
ď
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
%
'tmSmmk
pR£
H
T«m2
□
4S>
aQh;
FOR . . .
IRON ROOFS,
FENCES, and
IRON RAILINGS
There is no paint so suitable, durable
or economical as FLEXITE METAL
PRESERVATIVE PAINT. It is proof
against all weathers, salt air, or
corrosive gases.
To be obtained from all Oil and Color Stores.
E. RICH & GO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane
RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH makes a handsome
floorcovemns. The RED RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH
shade - nnliKe even the best
linoleum, the color neither fades nor wears. It is
in ‘° the fl00rcl “«* during the prociss
imZl ft'*™' and ‘ h<,refore constant wear only
improves the color. The best lino made is not
more durable than RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH-
rood e i^ r „. P RUBER ° ,D is *»•—* half that of a
E ' RICH & CO *> WD., Sydney and Brisbane
RUBEROID
1 " mini—im
Floorcloth


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Oitioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1407.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 81, 1907.
Pbioe 6d
SOLID BACKING.
Bull: “Look here, young man. This White Australia business is your principle—not mine. Now, how much do you
back your principle with?”
Australia: "Well, there’s the old gunboat Protector"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published bv William Maoleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and. even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlaole and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gutch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —'The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <fc Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationen / Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road. Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A (tents' Sjiecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x Uin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 31, 1907.
FULL SPEED AHEAD.
The effort that is being made by the Reid party
what there is of it—to persuade Prime Minister
Deakin that, in spite of the verdict of the elec-
tions, it is his duty to resign and throw the
political situation into chaos, takes the palm for
impudence. At the general poll of the people,
(x. Reid and his press supporters urged the voters
to destroy Watson, “the wild Socialist leader,’"
and also Deakin, “the Ministerial Socialist,” who
was, if anything, a shade more pernicious, because
more insidious. The electors replied by leaving
Deakin’s party about as it was, and strengthening
Watson’s party at the expense of G. Reid. No one
leader was given a majority. Things were left
almost exactly as at the end of the second Parlia-
ment, except that Reid’s personal party in N.S.
Wales was cut to pieces, and the Victorian group,
which once was faithful to him, got safely ashore
only by abjuring G. Reid, and all his works. Now,
it is solemnly stated that since Deakin cannot
command a direct following which will constitute
a majority in the House, he should resign. In
favor of whom? Watson, who also has not
a majority behind him? Or Reid, who has
hardly any following at all ? Or Bruce
Smith, the one genuine Anti-Socialist, who
has no following whatsoever ? The idea
of a man following such advice is so
glaringly ridiculous that the fact of its
being put forward is a very clear disproof of the
charges made against Deakin at the general elec-
tions. Ho was accused then of an unprincipled
office-hunger, which led lnm to treacherously oust
the trusting Reid from place. Now he is repre-
sented as a person with such a nice sense of consti-
tutional propriety, such eagerness to abjure office
as to make it possible to persuade him to give a
verdict against himself on a point which can onlv
arouse derision.
* * * ,
It would not only be to the last degree
foolish for Deakin to indulge in a resign-
ing mood just now; it would be actual faith*
lessness to the trust confided to him. At
the elections he appealed to the people on the
issue of High Protection. The G. Reid party
ottered to let the tariff stand as at present, with
some little tinkering “to rectify anomalies.” The
Labor party sank the fiscal issue. The Deakin
party made Protection—High Protection, “the
INew Protection”—the one fighting plank of its
platform. So far as it is possible to judge,
the result was an overwhelming majority for
tariff reform on those lines. All the Deakin
party, almost all the Labor party (though the
party, as a party, didn’t speak on this issue),
and an actual majority of the “Anti-Sosh”
party are in favor of tariff reform in
the direction of High Protection. Deakin
asked for a mandate on this point, and got it most
unmistakably. It is his duty now to obey, or
seek to obey, that mandate. If he throws up the
sponge, the cause of Protection will be, for this
Parliament, lost. Should Watson come into
office, he could not undertake with consistency
the tariff reform which he is known to personally
favor, for his Government would be, in a sort of
way, pledged “to sink the fiscal issue.” Should
Reid achieve his ambition, he certainly would not
have the inclination to enact High Protection.
Deakin, and Deakin alone, is the leader of Par-
liament on that issue ; and the electors have made
that the first issue. Clearly, Deakin’s duty is to
steam straight ahead.
* » • *
If there is any doubt on these points—but there
does not seem room for even a particle of doubt—
Dkakin’s course is still clear : to steam straight
ahead, and find out by a defeat on the tariff issue
that all the charts of popular opinion are wrong.
There will be no disgrace in such a defeat—the
disgrace would be in giving up his cause as lost
without a battle. As Prime Minister, he has
challenged the electorate on the High Tariff
issue. The electorate, seemingly, has returned a
favorable answer to his challenge. If events are
to prove that it is not so, the proof can only
come from a division in the House. What
Deakin may not do with honor is to hold office
and sink the tariff issue; or to abandon that issue
by resigning without a fight. When Parkes
first appealed to N.S. Wales on the question of
Federation—at the time of the return of the first
Labor party-—the elections, seemingly, were de-
cided against him. The combined forces of Labor
and Opposition out-numbered his party, and on
the Federal issue he would almost certainly have
been defeated. He, for the time, abandoned
Federation to enter upon a programme of “ Labor
legislation,” because that seemed the opportune
thing to do. He was thus guilty of some abandon-
ment of principle. The nobler part for him would
have been to have met the House, brought down
his Federal proposals, and abided the result. The
position of Deakin now is somewhat analogous—
except in so far as there seems to be no real
danger if he stands by his programme. He is
pledged to Protection. He may not honorably
abandon or postpone that matter, and try to keep
office by framing a new programme designed to
catch Labor votes. Therefore, he should bring
down his tariff reform proposals. If the Labor
party votes against him on the essentials of that
issue, it will be time for him to retire and leave to
them the responsibility of the situation.
* * » *
The question of an adjournment of Parliament
for three months whilst the Prime Minister and
other members attend the Imperial and Naviga-
tion Conferences in London enters somewhat into
the discussion of this tariff (Question. Obviously
urgent though the need is for tariff reform—a
three months’ delay in enacting the tariff will not
be very harmful, especially if the interval is devoted
to a careful consideration of the details of the
proposed revision. There seems a likelihood of
Deakin, Watson, Ltne, Hughes and Dugald
Thcimson being absent in London, and in
their absence Parliament would probably be
allowed the chance to do very little, except
discuss the efforts of G. Reid to snatch office for
a spell in some underhand way. To keep
Parliament in session during the absence
of its le;iders would endanger rather than facili-
tate tariff reform. But that is a minor point.
The issue of importance is that the Prime Minis-
ter should recognise his plain duty and not go
wandering in a maze of mental complexities about
constitutional impropriety. The interests of Aus-
tralia are the first consideration, and hazy side-
issues about constitutional impropriety are the
tenth or thereabouts. Deakin asked for a man-
date for High Protection. Apparently he has
got it. If he has, he should go straight along and
enact High Protection. If he has not, he should
still go straight along, and when he meets the
brick he will know that he was mistaken. Either
way, the call is to go straight along.
A CASE OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
The British language is a remote sort of tar-
get to throw a brick at, yet at times the
temptation to throw that brick becomes irre-
sistible. The British language was made
by Private Enterprise. So were other lan-
guages, but on the British speech the marks of
the botching chisel of Private Enterprise are
more conspicuous than usual. It began badly
with a misfit alphabet. There are five vowels and
two assistant or deputy vowels in the alphabet,
but one of the assistant vowels —“ w ” —is lame
and practically useless. There are at least 15
vowel sounds in the language, and as each vowel,
on a steady average, struggles to represent three
sounds no one can tell in any given set of circum-
stances, merely by looking at it, what sound it
represents at the moment. It is in the position
of the man who is sometimes Smith, and generally
Bkown, and more often Robinson than anything
else. There are 21 consonants—two of the vowels
are often consonants, which is much the
same as if the man who is sometimes Smith,
and generally Bkown, and more often Robin-
son than anything else, gained new variety
by being Johnson most of his time. These
represent about 24 consonant sounds; so the
consonants are not worked such long hours as
the vowels, and they occasionally get home to
tea, while the other five letters are doing over-
time. But even the consonants are short-handed,
and as “x’ is useless, being merely “ks” over
again, and “c” is doing the work of “k” half
its time while “k” is in drink, and as “j” is
only a useless understudy for “g,” which is some-
times hard and sometimes soft; and “s” is often
‘‘ c,” and just as often “z,” there is confusion,
it is a pathetically inefficient alphabet, but even
that is only a small preliminary. Pass on.
* * * *
The British language has grown to be the
biggest language on earth. It has grown to
be so big that no one can really learn it.
Language should be an instrument, but the in-
strument shouldn’t be so huge that the user can’t
lift it, and can t see to the end of it except with a
telescope. Everybody is privileged to heave
new words into the British language. Some-
times a spectacled scientist who has invented
something fresh comes along in a grave
reverent fashion with' his new word—pro-
bably m eight syllables and dug up from
among the old Greek roots. (One of the
great causes of the barrenness of Greece is the
constant extraction of roots from its soil, where
they ought to be left to moulder decently, and
make mould which will ultimately become pota-
toes. ) At one time it was considered good enough
to express a new idea by an easily understandable
compounding of existing British words—hence
such terms as “ railroad ” and “steamship.” But
the present tendency, if someone invents a new
kind of railroad, is rather to look up the Greek
word for a road, and the Egyptian term for axle-
grease, and the Latin for a boiler or an accident,
and hash them together. Still, the new word,
whatever it may be, is legitimately inserted in
the language, and takes a respectable but
cumbersome place there right from the begin-
ning. Sometimes, on the other hand, a lar-
rikin, fighting with a bottle on a holiday at
some place such as Chowder Bay was before it
became respectable, coins a word in the heat of
the moment and the breakage of his adversary’s
head, and aims it at the language as he might aim
a dead fish at a Chinaman. It may hit or it may
miss; these things are purely accidental. If it
hits it may remain for a while and then drop off,
or it may hang on permanently. This permanency
is brought about by someone putting it in a
dictionary, and by other dictionary artists follow-
ing suit, and, after many disagreements about
the spelling and pronunciation, some sort of
uniformity is arrived at —or else, it is not
arrived at, and the question of whether it is
really “bonzer” or “boshter” may hang around
unburied for ages. Or the new word may get
half in and half out —may be recognised by some
dictionary builders and not by others —and may
remain all its life a semi-outlaw, like an old
Scottish baron who was periodically “ put to the
horn ” at the cross of Edinburgh, but had the
wisdom not to come to Edinburgh to take the
consequences. There is no authority which can
decide whether a new word is legitimate or not,
consequently everybody who feels so inclined
takes a turn at patching the poor old language,
and keeps it in a constant state of superfluous
unsettlement.
* * * *
Of course, words keep dropping off as well as
being added on. They do so in every language.
When a cart is piled up like a mountain with loose
substances, something must drop off occasionally.
A word becomes obsolescent, then obsolete. Still,
the corpse is preserved for many years in need-
lessly large dictionaries, and every now and then
a bard takes the deceased down from its shelf and
puts it carefully in his poem. This is quite super-
fluous on the bard’s part. The British language
has been such a success in the way of supplying
from three to 16 words to cover one meaning
that a really hair-raising bard can, if he feels that
way, write a poem of 26 verses, in which there
will be hardly a word, save such unavoidable
expressions as “ the” or “of,” which an ordinary
reader can comprehend without a dictionary.
This fact gives employment to the man who
builds the thesaurus —which sounds like an ex-
tinct animal, but isn’t—and it would be unkind
to deprive the thesaurus-builder of his bread.
• • • *
In the early days someone blew up the British
verbs with dynamite, and they went up very high,
and came down anyhow. They were very irregu-
lar when they came down, and have been so
ever since. If irregular verbs were edible, either
raw or fried, Britain could stand an amazingly
long blockade. The pronunciation of the language
also seems to ha,ve been blown up at a very
early date, and it came down in a worse state
than the verbs. The British speech boasts the
proud distinction that spelling was given to it to
conceal its sound. And it has lived up to this
idea conscientiously; it conceals the pronuncia-
tion as carefully as if it were a dead body and the
police were in pursuit. Part of the confusion
goes on a system. The language was manufac-
tured out of other languages, and some attempt is
made to pronounce the word of Latin origin as
the Latin is accused of being likely to do it (the
Latin is dead and can’t defend himself), and the
word of Greek descent as the Greek is suspected
of pronouncing it (the old Greek is dead also, and
the new one is too busy selling two dubious fish
for a shilling to care much what liberties are
taken with his old language). Some people may
think that this is much the same as if the Austrian
army was furnished with 16 different kinds of
rifle, and hauled 16 varieties of ammunition into
battle, in order to preserve a record of the fact
that it is recruited from about 16 different races;
and consoled itself, when it fled early in the
day owing to the cartridges .having got mixed
up, and nobody being able to shoot, and
everybody having failed to seriously damage
the enemy with the butt end, by saying
that at least it had endeavored to preserve
the traditions of the past. But people who
reason like that are of a sordid habit of mind.
The bulk of the trouble about British pronuncia-
tion, however, seems to have arisen simply
through the language running wild, or through
everybody taking a hand at improving it. It has
run so wild that any number of words have two
spellings, neither of which presents much resem-
blance to the pronunciation, or two pronuncia-
tions, neither of which ever met the spelling in
its life. A language which can, at a push, make
colo sound as if it were “kur” has a great
future before it.
* • # •
When one sits down and seriously considers the
possibility of a multiplication table built on the
same lines as this remarkable language, then he
realises for the first time what the world has
escaped. In such a table twice two prawns might
be four, but twice two ink bottles would as likely as
not be five, and two times two pickle-bottles might
easily be 7£, and there would be nothing to pre-
vent twice two hams being 11 except in February or
wet weather when they would be 12f, unless there
was a high wind; and, at the same time, twice
two devils would be five cuttle-fish and a jim-jam
and a land-agent. The community has happily
avoided that. In a wilderness of uncertainty
where 11b. of gold is quite a different weight from
lib. of tea, and where a pole is yards, and
where seven inches and nine-tenths of another
inch and a little bit more make a link, and where
one can never tell by looking at “c” whether
it is “ k ” or “ s,” the multiplication table and the
table of compound interest are two rocks to which
a wrecked female may cling with a reasonable
certainty that they won’t turn dog on her or turn
turtle beneath her. But for these two Bteady-
going landmarks it seems as if insanity must
supervene. Unfortunately, the business-likeaspect
of these two institutions isn’t infectious, and the
British language goes on its tottering and expensive
way unheeded. And it is woefully expensive ;if
the language w«re pronounced as it is spelled
Australia might have an ironclad fleet of its own
—might have had it long ago, in fact—without a
penny of extra expense. The Commonwealth
spends some £2,250,000 a year on education, and
probably £500,000 a year of that goes in teaching
to a hard-driven generation of kids irregular verbs
that would be quite as healthy if they were
regular ; and irregular plurals, whereby a house
twice over becomes “ houses,” with the first “s”
turned into a “z” sound, while a mouse, when
there are enough of him to make a terrace, be-
a staggered generation" thousands
sands of combinations of letters that look hkelhis
and sound like that. All these considerations
and some others that are crowded I!? ,! i!
lack of space, fill this writer Sh o thr °M
desnre to throw a brick at the British kngulje
H -n d f°?f n * g - ne for a m °ment that any results
it by f him W ’ bUt WaS a Spare brick > he bad
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Craze for Imported Men.
N.S. W. Chief Railway Commissioner Oliver was
unwise in his generation when he declared aga nst
the policy of supplying the Sydney mornfng
papers with special trains for the distribution of
their wares at public expense. He was also un-
wise when he objected to a large and influential
coal syndicate making an unnecessary profit at
the public expense. Likewise he was grossly un-
wise in being born in Australia instead of being
imported; and in all these ways he seems to have
made himself as vigorous a collection of enemies
as any man could wish. And Sydney tramway-
manager Kneeshaw was not a Solomon when he
gave evidence on Oliver’s behalf before the Rail-
way Inquiry Commission, and thus became con-
spicuously associated with the falling fortunes of
his absurdly honest chief-this in addition to the
folly of being a man of local training. Oliver
despite his successful management of the N.S W
Railways, has dropped into disfavor ' with
the Sydney morning press. The Herald
m particular, has pursued him with a frenzy
quite uncommon in the records of that
usually calm and grandmotherly paper. And its
fury leads it at times into ridiculous attitudes.
Last week it was rumored that one Dent, from
k® the new Chief Commissioner of
H.S. W. Railways ; and that Badger, of the Bris-
bane tramways, was coming to boss the Sydney
tramway system. It was only a rumor, but the
Herald couldn’t wait for confirmation, and
rushed in with a whole leading article where
angels fear to tread. Of Dent all that is known
on this side of the world is that he manages an
Irish* ine about one-third of the size of the
JN.S.W. railway system; that he spends, at
latest advices, 60 per cent, of his earnings in
working expenses, while Oliver, in N.S.W.,
managed last year to spend only per cent.;
that Dent makes a profit of £3 10s. per cent, on
capital, while Oliver last year made £4 Bs. 6d. per
cent.; and that Dent’s fastest train (from Bally-
brophy to Mallow) does 49i miles an hour. It is
Suite probable that the Herald doesn’t know
>ent from a crow except as far as these not very
remarkable printed records go. But he is a man
from outside Australia, and he was at that mo-
ment proposed as the person who was going to
take the billet of Oliver, the Australian; and
the old paper stated enthusiastically that if Dent
were made the chief, with Kirkoaldie— the man
who approved of gratis special newspaper trains
and of the Lithgow coal contract—-as second,
everything in the garden would be lovely. Then
the Herald proceeded to pour oil in this ridicu-
lous fashion on Badger, the foreign person who
bosses the Brisbane tramways, and who was
mentioned as likely to take control out of the
hands of Kneeshaw, of Maoriland
And in Mr. Badger the Government has secured a
tramway expert who is without an equal in Australia.
Mr. Badger’s record is that he found Brisbane satisfied
with horse trams and that he leaves it with electric
trams. The transition is as great in its way as the change
implied in the boast of the first Emperor of Rome that he
had found the city built of bricks and that he handed it
on built of marble. Mr. Badger will find much room for
improvement in the tramway system of Sydney. It is
now the best in Australia, perhaps in the world, for
everyday work. But it is paralysed the moment extra
pressure is applied, even though this pressure may reason-
ably have been anticipated. A new attraction at Bondi
finds the trams unable to carry the people, &c.
Badger found Brisbane with horse trams
and leaves it with electric trams, and the
Herald, in its haste, compares him with
Augustus Cassar. Kneeshaw found Sydney
with clumsy steam motors, and if he is
ejected he will leave it with the best electric
system in Australia, “perhaps in the world”;
but in the Herald’s vocabulary there is no com-
parison with Augustus Caisar for him. The
Brisbane trams are not very fast, the fares are
far higher than in Sydney, there is something like
a collapse of the system every week night, it
being totally inadequate to carry the rush of '
people home from business, and when this writer
was in Brisbane the management hadn’t even got
the intelligence to put a notice in front of the car
to state where it was going, which is much the
same as if the Sydney management was content
to label a car “Waverley and Circular Quay”
and left the stranger, who didn’t know his bear-
ings, to guess whether the vehicle was going to
the Quay or the other place. Then the Herald,
in its frantic desire to make out a case against
Kneeshaw, the local man, digs up the old
story of _ the difficulty which arose on the
opening night of “ Wonderland.” If Kneeshaw
had been an imported man named Badger, that
same case would probably be quoted rather as a
marvellous example of how a talented man rose to
an emergency. The veteran manager, “Bill”
Anderson, who probably knows as much about
the possibilities of a show as any other individual
in Australia, estimated the probable rush for his
first night at 5000. An ordinary tramway mana-
ger would have taken Anderson’s estimate.
Kneeshaw doubted, and made provision for nearly
10,000 people. And then over 20,000 came. The
tramway management rose to the occasion, and
seemed to dig out new cars from the bowels of the
earth, and in a few minutes, without dislocating
any of the other services, it had as many vehicles
running as the electric current would keep going.
No one could do more than that —not even
Badger —and no imported man would be expected
by the Herald to do as much. It is a terrible
thing to be a locally-trained man in the view of
the S.M. Herald. A newly-imported man, run-
ning a miserable little scrap of line in Brisbane,
fills it with such admiration that it feels driven to
compare him with Augustus Caisar ; but when a
locally-trained man builds up what even the
Herald calls the finest electric-tramway system
in the world, that is only a reason why he should
be sacked, or reduced, to make room for Badger.
*
The Dark Ingratitude of Calico.
It seems to be accepted as a fact that Joseph
Carruthers will flee from the wrath of theN.S.W.
electors before a general election comes, even
though some profess a desire to hold him by his
garment and bid him stay. Joseph, at present,
boasts a desire to stay, and a confidence that
he can stay, but by constant allusions to his health
and the losses he incurs by retaining “ hoffis ” he
keeps handy a hole to creep out of in case he
changes his mind. So all the chances are that he


will not face an election. Under the circum-
stances the Calico party —the “.Reform” party
in N.S. Wales is still essentially the old
Calico party of Parkes and M‘Millan and
Bruce Smith —casts about for a new leader,
and in so doing shows its black ingrati-
tude. For Calico turns fond thoughts to William
M'Millan, a gentleman with a softgoods soul,
who has the fluff of the socks and the ladies’. under-
wear imbedded in his system. It is. whispered
that the country is only to be saved if William
M'Millan will tear himself away from the
corsets, and the “ mercerised silk,” and come and
be a heaven-born statesman again. And yet
what is the matter with David Storey that Calico
should pass him by with a cold, unseeing eye in
the search of a piece of fluff to save the
country ? David Storey is just as good a
Calico man as William M'Millan. He has
the same cotton convictions, has shrieked
in the same key for the salvation of the country
by imports, has, like M‘Millan, stood in the
way of local manufactures as long as he could. He
is as able a man as M'Millan, and the broad
grin which conceals much of his face is at least
not more offensive than M'Millan’s look of dour
and pompous dignity. He can talk Freetrade as
well as the other Calico Jimmy, and Anti-Sosh,
and probably Sectarianism too ; and can shriek
about the wrongs of the Ma State as effectively.
The Bulletin repeats : Why pass over David
Storey when a rag leader is wanted for the
N.S.W. Calico Party?
♦
Share-Farming in N.S. Wales.
This interesting item appeared in tho S.M.
Herald’s “On the Land’’page (January 18): —
Reports which have been received from several districts
of the State where share-farming is practised, tend to
show that the system has not been an unqualified success.
In the Riverina district the share-farmers seem to be
highly dissatisfied, and the great cause of their dissatis-
faction seems to be that the farmer who does the work
cannot, on the return he receives in the shape of half the
crop, afford to practise good cultivation. He, therefore,
puts in his crops as best he can, and this season that
method has not paid him. A Melbourne paper says that
the reason why Lyne obtained such a large majority in
the recent Federal election was because he advocated the
progressive land-tax, and the share-farmers voted for him
to a man.
This “ On the Land ” section seems to be the only
sensible portion of the Herald. The rest of the
paper used to prophesy that Gibb would extin-
guish Lyne because Oom Bill advocated a gradu-
ated land-tax to break up the big estates and turn
the share-farmer into a small independent pro-
prietor. And the share-farmer, it was alleged in
the days before the election, was so happy as
he was that he hated Oom Bill for wanting to
disturb him. The man who farms on shares in
N.S.W. gives from one-half to two-thirds of the
gross produce for the use of an acre of land
totally unimproved, except for a wire boundary
fence and clearing. No wonder Taylor, the
English farmer, didn’t rush to close with such an
offer. The British tenant farmer will never rush
numerously into the share-farming business. In
his own benighted country he gets from his
landlord not only the land, but a house, barns,
stable, fencing, and all permanent improvements,
and even then his rent isn’t supposed to absorb
half his produce. The N.S.W. share-farmer pays
for the bare land a proportion of his produce often
50 per cent, greater than the English or Scottish
tenant is asked for a highly-improved farm. No
wonder the unfortunate wretch wants the pro-
gressive land-tax to burst up the bloated octopus
that is coiled around him.
♦
“ Federal Extravagance.”
Almost on the same day last week two Sydney
papers made bitter attacks on the Australian
Government for not spending more money. The
Star was angry in a feeble way, like an old
woman shaking her brolly at a dog on the horizon,
because of the Government’s alleged “false
economy ” in the Postal Department, and also
complained that the Customs House was under-
manned ; and the Telegraph shouted in large
letters about “Military Parsimony.” It is a
solemn fact that there is not one department
under the control of the Australian Parliament
about which the Commonwealth authorities have
not been severely reproached, at one time or
another, by papers of the Star and Telegraph
variety, on account of its alleged undue economy.
It has been accused of over-working and under-
paying its post and telegraph servants, its
Customs employees, its Patents officials, and its
clerks generally ; of shamefully cutting down its
Defence expenditure, of refusing pensions to its
judges—in fact, of “cheeseparing” in every
branch of administration. But the same papers
which abuse it in detail on a charge of
starving each separate department get into a
different mood about once a month, and, lumping
all the departments together, they bellow loosely
and at large about “Federal extravagance,” and
“ the ever-increasing cost of Federal Govern-
ment.” Then they point a large and embittered
finger-nail at the total cost of Federal administra-
tion, say, in 1901, as compared with that in 1906,
and demonstrate that there has been a small in-
crease, and ask : “Is this the sort of thing we
federated for?” In a general way these small
barking publications lay down the following rules
for the guidance of the Australian Government: —
(1) It shouldn’t cost any more to Federally govern
4,056,000 people in 1906 than it did to govern about
3,800,000 in 1901. The States may have vastly increased
their expenditure in the interval but the Commonwealth
mustn’t.
(2) Despite the establishment in the interval of the
High Court, the Federal Statistician’s Department, and the
Federal Meteorological Department, the taking over of
British Papua, and the addition of many other branches to
the aggregate Federal responsibility the expenses must
remain the same. The cost of these new departments
must be paid out of nothing. The fact that the States
seem to spend more money (and also to grow more
cantankerous) the more expenses they are relieved of, lias
no bearing on the case.
(3) New appointments, such as that of the long-delayed
High Commissioner and the Federal Quarantine officer,
should be made, and the new appointees should be liber-
ally remunerated from some invisible source.
(4) The military forces should be re-armed, re-organised
and greatly strengthened, be better paid, and supplied
with better travelling facilities; a fleet should be con-
structed, and a Federal capital established ; and at the
same time Federal expenditure should be reduced.
(5) The Federal civil servants should be better paid,
and there should be more of them to prevent sweating,
and there should be a corresponding decrease in the cost
of the Federal civil service.
(6) The Australian Government should adhere to its
non-borrowing policy, but the fact that it charges to
ordinary expenditure in, say, the Tost and
Department, items which the States used to charge to
loans, ought to cause no visible increase in the post and
telegraph expenditure.
This sort of anti-Australian drivel is very cheap
drivol indeed. It is one of the stock subjects
with which an unpatriotic and wooden-headed
variety of politician gets a little passing advt.,
and one of the ways by which the papers fill up
space. The seven foolish Aunt Sallies which
are always set up by the parochial press in dull
seasons, and then pointed at with the tottering
finger of scorn .are: (1) the designs of “Rome”
(including the Walls of Derry and the Flames of
Smithfield), (2) the injuries done to the Ma State,
(3) the prospective breakage of the marriage tie
and the bursting up of the home, (4) the irrever-
ence of the rising generation, (5) the alleged
approaching confiscation of everything, (6) the
scarcity of the domestic Mary Ann, and (7)
Federal encroachment, extravagance, misplaced
economy, and neglect to take over departments
that it should have taken over. Russia’s alleged
designs on India used to be another great stand-by,
but that bogey is dead just now, and mixed bath-
ing is a poor substitute for it. Still, even mixed
bathing is a shade better than nothing.
Jumping the “Telegraph’s” Claim.
The Australian Star, Sydney’s allegedly Pro-
tectionist evening paper, has long been recognised
as the great lost opportunity in city journalism.
There was room for an immensely-profitable Pro-
tectionist organ, but the Star’s facts, figures and
arguments mostly seemed to be the work of the
office boy; and intelligent Protectionists gnashed
their teeth to see a magnificently strong case
made weaker than wet blotting-paper by such
feeble and muddled advocacy. The Star was
always partly Federal and partly anti-Federal,
partly Australian and partly anti-Australian,
partly progressive and mostly Tory; and at
election times, when live papers tried to put up a
rousing fight, it generally retired, with marked
emphasis, into its shell, and became even a poorer
nonentity than usual. Now it would seem that
the sorrowful publication has been wondering at
the difference between its constant failure and the
Telegraph’s success, and apparently it has
decided that the strength of the ’Graph is
based on its parochial attitude, its policy of
vigorous lying in the anti-Federal interest, and its
constant efforts to promote ill-feeling between the
States of the Commonwealth. The fact that the
Telegraph’s success might be caused by brains—
even though they were put to a villainously bad
use —apparently didn’t occur to the Star. So,
instead of getting brains, it started a series of
feebly-violent articles in denunciation of the Aus-
tralian Government in general and Victoria in
particular, and flapped the faint dish-cloth of
vituperation at things generally. It discovered
that the N.S.W. Defence forces used to be efli-
cient, but that they had been “Vietorianised
under the management of seven successive De-
fence Ministers—three Queenslanders, one NS.
Wales man, one Westralian, one S. Australian,
and one Victorian—and consequently ruined. It
explained with grief that the Military Board was
a Victorian idea—most people thought it was a
copy of the British Army Council,. that the
Medical Corps had been “ Vietorianised ” and
had gone to the devil, that the designations of the
warrant officers had been “Vietorianised,’ and, in
fact, that everything had been “ Vietorianised
and had consequently burst. Then, after weep-
ing in various other directions, and smelling the
corrupt influence of Victoria in sundry unex-
pected places, the Star attacked the Postal De-
partment. It interviewed various real or
imaginary persons —no names were given—and
made discoveries like these :
Surely we in New South Wales deserve better treat-
ment at the hands of the Commonwealth? We entered
Federation, and took in with us all we had. We held
nothing back, going in trustingly wilh the idea
that all the other States were doing likewise. Had
we been wise in our generation we might, like the
shrewd Victorians, have helped ourselves to a penny
postage scheme before Federation, so that the loss, if
any, might be borne by the Commonwealth as a whole.
Our Post Office has since 1897 been yielding an annual
profit of many thousands, which has to be balanced
against the huge losses recorded in some of the other
States. Victoria, owing to her forethought, has enjoyed
the blessings of penny postage since Federation. Surely
the mother State deserves some little consideration by
way of at all events a fairly satisfactory service in return
for the amount she pays.
Nobody would imagine on reading that, that Vic-
toria pays the cost of its own penny postage; he
would ratherimagine that thepooroldMaState was
being injured and swindled, as usual. Nor would
he suppose that Victoria returns almost as large
a profit on its posts and telegraphs as N.S.W.
does, and doesn’t live on anybody save itself —in
fact, the only States in which the local postal de-
partment doesn’t fully pay its way are Queensland
and Westralia. Then the Star dug up another
real or imaginary interviewer, with this amazing
result: —
A curious thing has happened lately : the Melbourne
express runs very irregularly, being often from half-an-
hour to an hour behind time. Of course the postal
authorities cannot be held blamable for delay under
these circumstances, so inquiries were made of the Rail-
way Departments. It was then learned, that on each
occasion the delay occurred on the Victorian side of the
border.
But you don’t suggest ?
I don’t wish to suggest anything. You can put your
own construction upon the incident. All I say is that
the train was either kept back in Melbourne, or delayed
between Melbourne and Albury.
And, by a quaint - coincidence, the very day this
shout appeared it was recorded that, the unfor-
tunate old train was late again, having broken
down between Yarraand Breadalbane, in N.S.W.
And before that, twice in the same month, the
express left Albury to time, and dropped about
half-an-hour on the run to Sydney. The Star,
in its struggle to grab the Telegraph’s long-
standing job of chief denouncer of the Australian
Government and chief maker of mischief between
the States, seems ready even to suggest that
Victoria deliberately disorganises its own railway
service in order to make the express arrive
late in Sydney, though where or how it would
gain a copper by delaying the arrival of its
own letters and passengers even the Star
doesn’t try to indicate. It is a poor, dirty,
muddy business, this attempt to boom a debili-
tated paper by crude and ‘ill-managed slanders
against a sister State of the Commonwealth and
against Australia in general. And it will do the
Star very little good unless that paper becomes
less feeble in its methods. Also, it tends to do
Australia a great deal of harm. There are many
things that want repairing, but when, the Sydney
daily press gets hold of any of them it almost in-
variably starts to show, not how the evil may be
put right, but how Victoria was, in some wild,
impossible way, the sole original cause of it. And
then the question evaporates in a cloud of inter-
state recrimination, and nothing is done, though
a great many useless things are said.
Maoriland Defences.
Maoriland has been hurling defiance at the
King’s enemies, and billets at a few faithful
friends, by forming a new Council of Defence.
In the past the State has suffered a succession of
British commandants. There was a great simi-
larity about them, and the results of them. Each
one came along, deposited his bundle, and began
a system of reform that never came to anything
for want of men and guns. Each succeeding
report of each succeeding commandant showed
the awful unpreparedness of the little State to
withstand even a very humble attack from the
outside, and each report was apparently thrown
into the waste-paper baskets of the mighty. The
commandants then dropped work, gave up play-
ing soldiers, and usually became horribly addicted
to polo, or racing, or something to kill the gnaw-
ing at the heart. The defencelessness of M.L.
has been attributed by the people to the comman-
dants, and the people have duly denounced the
British officer. The British officer has denounced
back, and the defences of the country aren’t any
more defence than they were when Co jk turned
the pigs adrift. Defence Minister Ward, eager
to do something before he fades away to London,
reckoned to placate the people by forming a
Council of Defence. Joseph, in his breeziest,
kindliest way, told the people that the new
system of running Defence matters would be a
good system, but a little more expensive than the
old commandant method. Last year’s soldiering
cost Maoriland £159,459, and the visible results
could be put in a paper bag. Maoriland never
would take the advice of its military commandant,
and it has yet to be seen whether it will take the
advice of Colonels Robin, Davis, Webb, Collins
and other military lights who form the new
Council. None of the persons enumerated have
shown any violent aptitude for military work.
Robin and Davis were of the M.L. first farm-
burners, the former being a coachbuilder and a
mounted rifle captain when Joubert began
hurling his hardware into Natal. Davis was
a surveyor. Webb was an officer of Hinglish Hin-
fantry when they had hensigns in the hinfantry.
Collins is Under-Secretary to the TreastJy.
The country is really not sure that there is a.man
on the Council who knows a big gun from a barrel
of cement. Maoriland in its new Expense Scheme
has scattered billets around in a reckless manner.
It seems to have heaved the command of districts
and the adjutancies of the same at anybody
who happened to be in the way. One adjutancy
hit a man who, a year or so ago, was a gunner in
the artillery, and subsequently volunteer instruc-
tor, but his was a rare case of fitness—even very
humble and moderate fitness. Maoriland
threatened for amoment to make the defence of the
country a real thing, but by Ward’s new move it
has become a bigger farce than it was last year.
There isn’t the slightest evidence that the State
is going to raise a citizen army or do anything
. ; . vyj
further than offer a few rifles to a few to
practise with, and the district officers command-
ing are devoid of anything definite to command,
and the adjutants have really nobody to adjutant.
Seddon, as Minister of Defence, listened to
nobody. He countermanded orders issued by
commandants and such small fry as a matter of
principle. He furiously assailed a commandant
for ordering m~n not to cheer on parade when
Mrs. York had produced another baby. Wabd
won’t countermand anything. He’ll take any-
body’s advice. All the professional military
billet-hunters having annexed a job, Ward’s
anxiety about the defence of the country is
temporarily deadened —and Ward isn’t going to
be in Maoriland long enough to worry about the
bill. In the meantime, the new Council of
Defence will probably counsel with the same old
futility the things that former commandants
counselled continuously, and when the Maoriland
army finds that there is no responsible head of the
Defence system, it will ask for some other kind of
a figurehead. But the first essential is to find the
army—the trained citizen soldiery. All the swap-
ping of figure-heads in the world won’t make the
army any good without men, just as no amount of
rear-admirals will make a navy any good without
ships and water.
The Commonwealth’s Powers.
Stupid ideas are very prolific. One folly breeds
many. The extraordinarily bad law and inept
reasoning which marked the English Privy Coun-
cil judgment upsetting the Australian High
Court verdict in Outtrim v. Webb has already
had effect in an extraordinary plea put forward
by a Patents agent (name not disclosed) in
Sydney Telegraph on .January 26. Since, he
argues, the Privy Council holds that the Com-
monwealth Parliament has but the bare powers
assigned to it in the written words of the
Constitution, and may not assume any “implied
powers,” the various Patents and Trades Marks
Acts of the Federation are invalid, because
assuming to the Federal Government powers
which are not directly given by the Constitution.
The Federation is given power to control Patents,
but it is not, in so many words, empowered to
take over the Patents documents now held by the
States. Since, without doing that, it would be
impossible for the Federation to take over control
of Patents, the contention of the Patents agent is
obviously absurd. But it is only an iota more
absurd than the Privy Council’s decision that the
Commonwealth has no implied powers. It is
carrying that decision out logically. Probably the
Privy Council, if asked the question directly, would
hold that, if the Commonwealth has power to
build railways, it has also power to resume land
for railway stations and charge fares—although
all those would be “implied ’’ powers. Probably
also, it would have sense enough to see that if the
Commonwealth is given control of Patents, a
necessary implication is that it should have
power to take over existing Patents documents.
Perhaps then the idea would penetrate to its
elderly intellect that the Commonwealth must
have implied powers. But that idea hadn’t
penetrated at the time of the Outtrim-Webb
decision.
A Letter from a Legion.
The Bulletin receives this letter from the head-
quarters of the Legion of Frontiersmen in
London: —
Sir, —All our Australian members, including some of
the best officers in the Legion, are deeply concerned that
our Service should be attacked in your columns. As it
is possible that our work has not been correctly repre-
sented by cable, may I remove some possible misunder-
standing?
The Legion is a Corps of veterans, 90 per cent, of
whom wear war medals, and there are no rich men or
any amateurs in our ranks. Bather than sponge on rich
men or accept any help from the taxpayers, although we
are all hard up, we are serving the State at our own ex-
pense, and in face of great difficulties. We are authorised
by the Government in the United Kingdom, and in
British South Africa, and will soon apply through an
Australian as Commissioner, for leave from the Common-
wealth Government to arm our members there for Aus-
tralian defence. Should Australia be attacked, we hope
to produce an army of Australian Frontiersmen under
Australian leaders elected by the men, organised on a
more practical system than has hitherto been known,
and wearing the equipment, used in the back-blocks
instead of following the obsolete methods of Europe.
But, in addition to that, we have already in our first
seven months of work raised British and South African
regiments, ready to take the field at a moment’s notice,
which will be at the disposal of the Australian Govern-
ment, if needed. This is a service which no loyal Aus-
tralian could possibly ridicule.
The paragraph in question attacks Lieut.-Colonel de
Hora, a British sueject, whose record of frontier service
is probably only equalled by that of President Diaz, of
Mexico. Against him the torpedo was first fired in
action, when, with 20 men, he cut out the battleship
Huascar. He is one of the 40 men who wear the Paraguay
Medal, only second to the Victoria Cross in its glorious
associations. In several campaigns he has fought for
Great Britain, and proved himself a magnificent leader
of men.
Captain Best, the next subject of attack, is one of the
survivors of the storming party at the Cashmere Gate of
Delhi, and, although his hair is grey, he has proved
powers of endurance which would put many youngsters
to shame.
Another man in the little party attacked was Chief of
Scouts to Lord Roberts in the field when, with seven
wounds, he rode out of action, keeping the saddle until
he reached the base. There was not a single man in the
party censured whose record of war and frontier service
was open to any criticism.
It is natural that experienced horsemen should ride
slowly through 12 miles of the heaviest traffic in the
world, especially as the temperature was 93 degrees of
damp heat, and for the 106 miles of the trip in question
men were nursing untested horses on the dustiest
thoroughfare in Europe. At the end, all men and all
horses were in a condition to go into action.—Yours
faithfully, Roger Pocock, Commissioner.
This letter was insufficiently stamped—not that
The Bulletin wishes to complain about so small
an item as that. It merely desires to suggest a
compromise. If its comments are regarded as un-
justifiable, how would it be to set the unjustifiable
comments against the deficient postage, and call
things square as regards the past, and start afresh ?
V
The Holy Wash.
Rev. Tregear’s latest attack on the management
of the Abbotsford (Melb.) Convent laundry busi-
ness challenges the Vic. Labor party to an
explanation of why it doesn’t more loudly
object when an alleged system of sweating
is carried on under Government patron-
age in the name of the “Good Shepherd.”
Parson Tregear’s sectarian animus has at last
directed him towards the settlement of a political
question. Thusfar the Labor party has pro-
tested furiously against Bent’s proposals for
turning prison labor to profitable account. Bent
would make the State’s prisoners produc-
tive workers, and give them the encouragement
of a share in the fruits of their industry, but
Prf.ndergast and Co. prefer to regard any such
insignificant competition with free labor as an
injustice to the working man. Meanwhile, the
Abbotsford Convent laundry, lik.e other laundries
and work places conducted by representatives of
religious denominations —R.C. and Protestant —
The Menace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We should candidly trust to England for our defence. —
Usual old argument.
They are creeping, creeping, creeping, and their
almond eyes are peeping
Round the corner —where a-sleeping lie the men
who topped the polls ;
Creeping closer to Australia, where the Lombard’s
gay regalia
Flutters feebly o’er the doorway where our people
pawn their souls !
They have every new appliance, and they fear not
our defiance
While our store of self-reliance crumbles slowly
into dust;
But we grow still more unstable while we hug
that queer old fable —
“ Let us pin our faith to England and be candid
in our trust.”
They are coming, coming, coming, and their fac-
tories are humming,
While we sit here idly strumming on the strings
of Destiny.
Have we not one grand performer who will wax a
little warmer,
Striking chords to rouse our nation from its old-
time lethargy ?
But we say “ This is not needed,” and the warn-
ing goes unheeded,
While our souls grow up unweeded in the garden
of our lust;
And we ask : “Where is our nation?” and we
cry in exultation —
“ We have pinned our faith to England, and in
her we put our trust.”
They are drawing nearer, nearer, and their war-
drum soundeth clearer
(Lo ! our nationhood grows dearer as the years
are thrust aside);
Yet the pale-faced apparition of the guns and
ammunition
That we ought to manufacture haunts the country,
haggard-eyed !
Have we got no grand ambition that will save us
from perdition ?
Do we feel no premonition as we chase the daily
crust ?
Can our star continue shining while the cringing
crowd is whining,
“Let us pin our faith to England ; if she fails us,
let us bust” ?
They are tramping, tramping, tramping, and a
million hoofs are stamping
(See our proud ideals camping on the crumbling
edge of Doom).
It will be too late to save us when the yellow
hordes enslave us.
We must hedge us in with rifles ere the alien
cannons boom !
We must teach our youngsters mainly what a
patriot is—and sanely
Let Australia stand out plainly in our teachings
wise and just.
We must lend no approbation to the Tory crowd’s
oration,
“Let us pin our faith to England”—O it fills us
with disgust.
We are waiting, waiting, waiting. We are calmly
cogitating,
And our sloth shows no abating . . . There is room
for strenuous deeds !
Start the furnaces a-flaming ! Get a tariff worth
the naming.
Build a steel-clad fleet and man it; trust no more
to broken reeds.
Give our country due affection ; build us doors of
strong Protection !
Let their hinges bear inspection—keep the bolts
well free from rust !
For our White Australia vision may be held
up to derision
If we pin our faith to England, and she laughs to
scorn our trust !
N.S.W.
W. J. SNADDEN.


The Bulletin
sfe
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
POST
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV - . SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahonv, Hua-h
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - i s .
Packet of Ten - - - - JOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21h George Street, Sydney.
continues to be practically a prison where pro-
ductive labor earns no payment at all. All
these “retreats” to which girls and women are
practically committed by stern parents, guardians,
or magistrates', “for their own good” and the
good of the community, are prisons. It is claimed
for them all, that they serve the public by
keeping the sinfully-inclined inmates out of
mischief. A Gpvernment prison professes the
same object. People are confined in gaol to make
crime impossible to them in the present, and
to warn them against it in the future. If the
present State system, with its regulation infusion
of “religious influence,” has proved a failure,
where is the proof that the church prison system
has been a success? In neither case does the
labor imposed upon the inmates yield them any
reward for their pains. It is heart-breaking
toil, less heart-breaking in the convent
laundry than in the prison stone-yard only
because the workers for the church are
mostly young, and of a giddy, sanguine
temperament. Yet the Labor members, acting
as champions of the industrial cause, and pinning
their colors to the Factories Act, continue to
ignore the matter of unpaid labor at the Abbots-
ford Convent and similar establishments. Peen-
dergast and Co. oan offer no justification for
their silence. The washing girls are either free
agents, as some reckless partisans represent
them, or they are prisoners. If they be free
citizens, able to skip out of the Convent grounds
whenever they please, it is clear that the laundry
should come within the range of the Factories
Act. If they be prisoners, why are they allowed
to compete, unpaid, against free labor ?
+
The Queensland Situation.
H. E. Boote, editor of the Worker (Q.), writes:—
Writing in Tiie Bulletin (26/1/07) on the Queensland
situation, your “Moderate Laborite” correspondent
gives expression to one ot the most outrageous lies
that ever stained paper. He represents me, as
editor of Queensland Worker, though under my
“well-known pen-name of ‘Touchstone,’” as having
declared that “ nothing short of the shock of the
bombshell will set the mental apparatus of the
people in motion,” and as having advocated “the swift
doom, the flung death ” as preferable to the constitutional
methods of the ballot-box. Anything more basely false
could not be conceived. I have never written a line to
warrant such views being attributed to me. I have
always been utterly opposed to bombshell tactics in any
form. The words quoted by your “ Moderate Laborite ”
are taken from the mouth of a characterin a story of mine
entitled “ The Gray Domino,” and they no more embody
my opinion, or the Worker’s opinion, than the ravings of
the murderer, who staggers so frequently through the
story pages of your paper, represent the sentiments of
The Bulletin. My little bit of fiction even left it in
doubt whether “ The Gray Domino” really meant what
he was saying under cover of a mask, or was merely
“pulling the leg ” of the lady with whom he was sitting
out a dance at a masquerade ball. Your correspondent
takes the words uttered by a fictitious character in a
tale, and deliberately uses them to convey the idea that
the Worker proclaims the impotencv of the ballot and
preaches the anarchy of violence—the foulest form of
murder—as the way of the people’s salvation. Your
correspondent, who w'rites anonymously, may be a
“ Moderate Laborite,” but he is a most immoderate liar.
He can give the bomb-thrower a start in infamy and beat
him hollow, for the bomb-thrower is, at any rate, not-a
moral assassin, and he has the courage to accept the
risks of the game.
Our correspondent, “Queensland Laborite,” did
not state that Mr. Boote wrote the bomb-throwing
language as his opinion ; but that “ it passes out
to the world and is used by the Tory press
as the expression of the genuine opinions of a
Labor journal,” which was absolutely true.
Certainly our correspondent—presuming the facts
are as stated by Mr. Boote (and that may be
accepted)—was either careless or unfair in not
pointing out that the words came from a story,
not an article by Mr. Boote ; but still his state-
ment that the words in question are the kind that
give the Tory press a chance to grievously misre-
present the Labor cause are no “ outrageous lie”
but absolute fact. The same “ Laborite ” quoted
various other disastrous statements from the
Worker, which also give a convenient handle to
the Tory enemy, and these, apparently, Mr.
Boote does not call in question. And while on
the matter of fairness—who is that raving mur-
derer that, according to Mr. Boote, “staggers so
frequently ” through the story pages of The
Bulletin ? How often did he rave and stagger
and commit murder within (say) the last twelve
months ?
♦
Dr. Danysz and the Babbits.
Australia can, with a sigh of relief, welcome the
end of the Danysz scheme of rabbit extermina-
tion. Within a few days it will be officially
announced that the Broughton Island experi-
ments have failed to convince the authorities of
either the deadliness of the Danysz microbe to
the rabbit or its harmlessness to other forms of
life. The announcement will be received with
much satisfaction, for public uneasiness has been
growing ever since the Broughton Island experi-
ments started. The illness which attacked Dr.
Danysz and his assistants was the first circumstance
to add to the natural dread of disseminating an
unknown epidemic, even though it was guaranteed
not to attack man. The origin of that illness—
which was of a most serious nature —has never
yet been satisfactorily explained, and the public
is not to be blamed if it insists on associating it in
some wise with the plague which was being pro-
pagated among the rabbits. Another disquiet-
ing incident was the serious and inexplicable
illness of Dr. Tidswell, the N.S. Wales
Health _ Officer entrusted with the task of
supervising the experiments at Broughton
Island. That illness was also novel, and
incapable of an explanation by medical science.
It could not be traced directly to the rabbit
microbe; but there is nothing to prove that it was
not in some way connected with it. Failing that
connection, it is incapable of adequate explana-
tion. But, apart from these alarming incidents,
suggesting the possibility of its communicability
to man, the Danysz microbe cannot be said to
have proved its efficacy against rabbits. That it
will communicate its virulence to the rabbit under
conditions of over-crowding has been proved ; but
it has been almost as clearly proved that, as soon as
the normal conditions are restored by mortality in
the over-crowded rabbit community, the pest loses
its deadliness. The disease, in short, can thin
out rabbits where they are too thick, and that is
all; and probably Nature could do that. At any
rate, the benefit is not worth the fearful risk
entailed in letting loose an animal plague on the
community. The game, emphatically, is not
equal to the candle.
♦
One of the results of the Federal elections was
the return from Victoria of a strange mixture of
members. Deakin will, of course, claim the
largest following ; and with Mauger, Wise and
Harper as chief lieutenants, he is almost as
strong as when he had Higgins and Isaacs with
him. The Reid party, however, is confined to
one man (J. G. Wilson), who should feel just
about as comfortable as an emu in Bourke-street.
Quick is also likely to be a party of one, unless
the election has given him sense enough to resume
his place behind the Government, which
doesn’t seem likely. Anyhow, unless he does,
the next election should see the end of
his “party”, if it does not end before for
other reasons. The Labor party is not very
strong, either numerically or intellectually, unless
the new men, Matthews and Macdougall, come
to the front. But the main puzzle is the group of
“ Independents.” The latter include Wynne,
Palmer, Brown, Fairbairn, and the two Irvines.
Of these, Palmer, Brown, and Hans Irvine are
mediocrities, and so probably is Fairbairn. They
are not pledged to follow anyone; and half of
their election addresses were devoted to explain-
ing and justifying this 'wearisome fact; the other
half being, of course, devoted to Anti-Sosh. All
the same, they will find a leader. Warned by the
debacle that attended the Reid supporters, they
will probably look for a leader in either W. H.
Irvine or Wynne. W. H. Irvine is not per-
sonally popular; but, since the railway strike, a
tradition has grown up that he is a powerful and
speechless man—“strong” and “ silent ” are
worn-out adjectives. He will, doubtless, try to
slip into M ‘Lean’s position. On the other hand,
Wynne is well liked, and has just about as much
ability as Irvine ; also, he has more experience.
During the election contest Wynne declared that
Sydney money was being thrown about with both
hands to defeat him ; and this will probably make
any alliance between him and Reid or Jocook
impossible. But if Irvine allies himself with
Reid it will be in the same fashion that the wolf
allied himself with the lamb. And so the future
of Reid and Irvine and Anti-Sosh generally is
mixed.
4
Joe Sternberg, of the Vic. House of Rich Land-
lords, is back from Japan with the latest schedule
of hours and pay-rates for the labor thatG. Reid,
&c., want the Australian to compete with unpro-
tected. In the textile industries the official rate
(adult) is per day for males, 4§d. for females.
The highly-skilled lacquer-work artisan gets lid.
In the ship-building works the men get Is. 3d., and
the women 4Jd. a day; and in the coal mines girls
under 14 get 2Sd., boys under 14 4|d., men lid.,
and women 6d. Large quantities of Japanese
dirt are dumped into Australia, to compete with
the Australian phosphate output ; Sternberg’s
official list shows that the men in the Monkey
manure works toil for as much as 16 hours a day
for an average of 9|d., and they work 341 days
a year. Lately it was announced that Japanese
hide and skin buyers were coming into the Aus-
tralian market, to the great joy of the crowd that
wears proud rooster-feathers in its head when this
country sells some more of its raw products.
In the Japanese leather business—in the
places where they deal with these skins—girl
infants are employed at an average of lfd. per
day, and the average man’s wage is lOd—l2 to 15
hours a day, from 315 to 323 days in the year. On
such a wage, even with boys and girls not yet in
their teens raking a few odd pence into the family
purse, the food runs only to bad fish and worse
rice. And this is the “model nation’’—the
nation Australia is asked to meet and mingle
with on even terms—the nation against which
even the Labor party hasn’t made up its mind
that Australia needs to raise high tariff walls.
©
During an address at Ballarat, a few days ago, on
the subject of “ Present-day Problems,” Mr. S.
Mauger, M.P., said:—
I know for a positive fact that one of the wealthiest
firms in Melbourne employed, for over five years, 653
girls, not one of whom received a penny in wastes
during that period.
The above extract is taken from the Age (22/l/’O7).
That journal claims to circulate over 100,000
copies daily, yet, up to the time of writing this,
not one letter dealing with the infamous condition
of affairs described by Mauger has appeared. If
it had been a case of one Chow or Jap—let alone
653—being looked at sideways in connection with
the Immigration Restriction Act, there would
have been a howl that could be heard at
Cape York, and “Pro Bono Publico,” “British
Subject,” and “Fair Play” would have
all sent fierce communications. But the pro-
saic question of 653 girls—white, Australian
girls, 653 potential mothers of the white Austra-
lian soldiers who will be badly needed some day
—apparently has no interest for the average man.
Yet half the fuss that was made over the six
hatters would close up these rich sweaters of 653
girls in a week.
‘ ‘ The Hack ” ; I beg to move that, in
future, any person asking a Parliamentary candi-
date if. he is in favor of adding farthings to the
Australian currency, shall be given six months,
and that any candidate replying (oh, so
smartly!) that “he is, in order to afford the
questioner an opportunity of being generous,”
shall be treated similarly, or worse. Also, that if
collusion between the questioner and the candi-
date be proved, that the candidate shall be dis-
qualified over a slow fire, and that his pal, the
questioner, shall be destroyed without the option.
This old jest about the farthing has become an
insult.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Home, Sweet Home.”
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.”
Theatre Boyal. “ Bevenge."
Tivoli Bickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bondi “ Wonderland.”
MELBOUKNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Boyal “When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Bickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. . “ Dreamland.”
♦
“ The Talk of the Town,” by Eille Nor-
wood, staged at Sydney Criterion on Satur-
day, isn’t a play of any pretensions. Like the
tramp’s mongrel, which wasn’t any breed at all
but “just plain dog,” it is just plain farce. The
plot is antique, the devices wooden, the dialogue
poor. But “The Talk of the Town” is rich in
opportunities for bright fooling. It gives Miss
Grace Palotta a chance to wear four dresses,
and forty bright and heavenly smiles, and to
strike —as boxer, golfer, and sport generally—four
hundred graceful attitudes. It throws at Hugh
Ward the part of an old man who has had a gay
past and, under the influence of hypnotism, is
ready for a gay present, and, of course, it is right
into Hugh W.’s hands to be the funniest of gay
old dogs. Therein are its virtues; and they
suffice to make it an eminently popular jest, at
which you can laugh with the glass climbing up
to the century. But “Talk of the Town” is a
play for good players only. Cut the two prin-
cipals out and its threadbare devices would be
apparent; put their frivols in charge of less
capable hands and less desirable feet, and the
hypnotic washing of the dummy baby, the mes-
meric prize-fighting, and so on, wouldn’t reach
cheap music-hall level.
• • • *
Miss Grace Palotta has the part of Winifred
Tiverton, an American girl staying with the
Fullaloves (husband, wife and aged uncle), and
determined “to see life.” Her main ambition is
to attend a prize-fight, and under the influence of
her pugilysteria she is apt to knock the stuffing
out of sofas and chairs and male acquaintances,
and others. The only song of the piece falls to
her, “Would You Like to Spoon With Me?”
and it’s a chueklesome melody, illustrated with
facial humors by Hugh Ward, who, as old man
Andrew Fullalove, is the victim of the teasing.
Miss Palotta sings, plays, and dances with gay
vivacity throughout. Hugh Ward is known well
as an old-man impersonator, and his Andrew
Fullalove is the most laughable ancient he
has yet given to the public, especially in the
earlier acts. Towards the end of the piece, when
the hypnotic idea is carried to the extreme limits
of farce, there is not so much room for artistic
work, but the part is always uproariously funny.
Willoughby has not the chance to give "another
circus-master, but as Peter Sledge, pugilist, he
makes the most of small opportunities. Wyke-
ham’s Professor Tracey is an excellent character-
study ; and good work, too, is done by Miss
Gillian Scaife and Miss Edith Warren.
** • * •
“ The Vagabond,” a short one-act play,
with a sob running through its little life, precedes
“Talk of the Town” at the Criterion. It is
interesting as showing Hugh Ward and Miss
Grace Palotta in parts which are a shade more
than serious. Ward’s picture of the old Vaga-
bond, who—coming by chance upon his long-lost
daughter, happy and cherishing his memory as
dead—refuses to bring into her life the blight of
his rags and his thirst, is strong and convincing.
Also Miss Palotta makes a dainty, pathetic figure
in the picture, and leaves the impression that she
should be seen in something more serious than
farce comedy.
** * *
Harry Rickards ventures again from the
music hall to the “legitimate ” stage. A previ-
ous experiment with a comedy co., of which Miss
Pattie Browne was the star, did not score very
well. But the new enterprise, it is to be hoped,
will flourish. The Sydney Howard Drama Co.—
Sydney Howard and Miss Lillian Hallowes are
the principals—opens at the Criterion next Satur-
day with “Home, Sweet Home,” a drama of
domestic interest which is new to Australia.
#* * *
“Revenge” is sweet, seemingly, to patrons
of Sydney Royal, for that preposterous drama,
with its impossible situations set with wonderfully
fine scenery and costumes, is a distinct success,
and Bland Holt, with his squadron of blue-jackets,
puts things right in Austria to good houses
nightly.
** * *
For a dead certainty there is going to be a
rush of plays with a little religion and a good deal
of veiled naughtiness in them. Write a sermon,
says the average parson, and if you dare to preach
it twice in the same chureh inside 20 years, the
senior deacon will rise and ask his fellow-deacons
to remain for a few minutes after the service ; but
write a play, and the public will be still turning
up in crowds at the end of the sixth week, as the
Sydney people are doir.g at Her Majesty’s to
witness “ Parsifal.” So the energetic parsons are
turning their thoughts to something in four acts ;
and the betting is about 10 to 1 on that, in one act
out of the four, somebody will pursue somebody
else in a nightshirt.
** * *
“Dr. Bill,” that coruscating comedy, with
the Kangaroo dance in the centre of its mirth,
was revived at Sydney Palace on the night of
Monday last. Mr. Macdona was a humorous
Firman ; Mr. Harry Diver was a really glass-
show-case Dr. Bill, as well as an effective one;
and pretty Miss Vera Remee, of whom this writer
has considerable opinion, rounded off a rollicking
performance.
* * *- *
Wonderland City still blazes at Bondi by
the sea. The bombardment of Port Arthur com-
menced on Saturday night in the presence of
15,000 persons, and was finished on Monday night.
To-morrow (Wednesday) week a big, open-air,
fancy-dress skating carnival will be added to the
City’s atttractions for a night or so. Seats maybe
booked for this Extra Frisk, which will be frisked
under the limelight.
* *
Only chroniclesome thing outside Andrew
Black about the Burns Anniversary Concert in
Sydney was the presentation by “ Jeems” Muir of
medals won at the recent Highland Gathering.
Jeems’ braid Scotch accent was a most Bobby
Burns-y item. Mr. Currie Elies assisted. Why
don’t these gentlemen wear their kilts on such
auspeecious and Bobby-ful occasions ?
** * *
The Bulletin implores the white songan-
dance ladies, who by reason of their numbers are
& ; °I alm . OSt falling P v . er one another at Sydney
into if: - This paper has
of thl 5 whlt ? eul can hold up her end
of the songandance just as well as the other
person; yet, in the vigor 1 alike of her kick and
“® r a t°P-note, Cassie Walmer, “the dusky prin-
cess, as the bills call her, has been casting, as it
were, a brown shadow over the rest of them.
Wherefore this paper feels hurt in the place
where it keeps its race pride and its political
c ? I n ®? l ®, n< r e - ~< - ) ure 1 . the songandance ladies
alluded to, the Tivoli’s chief attraction is still
Chant l , the young man who does a lot of things in
a little while, and is well aware of it.
It has been remarked, with sorrow, that
J. 0. Williamson is in one respect a most con-
servative manager. He sticks to the Firm’s old
panto, custom (Musgrove also stuck to it when he
produced pantos, on his own) of staging the first
scene in a darkened house. Lights down. The
Boss Goblin or the Demon King addresses his
bulbous-headed myrmidons under conditions which
would be considered intolerable in an up-to-date
coal-cellar. The Powers of Darkness always get
first say in the panto., and what time the leading
villain was threatening to blight the career of
Dick Whittington, Aladdin, Ali Baba, or Jack
the Beanstalker, as the case may have been,
late arrivals at the d.c. were timidly groping
their gloomy way to their seats, or stumbling
over unsuspected steps if they tried to walk
faster. In the present case at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.), the Evil Spirit is named Malignum, and
for no conceivable reason he opens the panto, by
plotting the destruction of “ Mother Goose,” an
ignoble she-male on whom no rational demon
would waste a thought. The scene is billed as
“Deserted Ruins.” Ruins are not necessarily
wrapped in darkness like a Gnome’s Cavern,
but because Malignum’s plans are wicked
the lights are turned low, with the result that
dozens of hesitating citizens block the stage
view of the circle audience, and the Demon
gets discredit for a lot of bad language, which
is really being uttered by fat, unfortunate old
gentlemen who have nearly sprained their ankles.
The marvellous popularity of “ Mother Goose ”
makes it harder than usual for late comers—in-
evitable to a panto, which begins at 7.45 p.m.—
to get to their seats without falling over some-
thing in a gangway. The old grievance takes an
aggravated form this year. Therefore it is sug-
gested that J.C.W.’s next panto, should open in
a radiant Fairyland, so that everybody may be
quickly and safely seated in the d.c. ere the Imps
of Iniquity hold their first cabinet council.
** * *
For 12 nights only, the wildest and most
improper of Andersonian shockers will provide
entertainment for large audiences at Melbourne
Royal. “When London Sleeps” is something
more than a mere bellowdrama where the hero,
the villain, and the low comedian pop up impos-
sibly through open windows, trapdoors or graven
images, and are never asked to explain how they got
there. The amazing narrative makes an exception
to the dramatic rule as regards ladies of lost virtue.
To be naughty is to be happy on this occasion.
The pure young heroine, who learned to walk in
the straight but narrow way by practising on a
slack wire in a circus, has to suffer awful perse-
cutions through being good. When her cousin—
how despicable is a heroine’s cousin every time !
is not trying to ruin her reputation, he is bent on re-
ducing her to ashes. The wretch makes two at-
tempts to burn Queenie and two attempts to rob her
of her noble character, whilst the blithesome Maudie
of the piece, with no character to lose, is winning
the heart of a gilded idiot who has just escaped
from his mother. Maudie is the most gone-astray
young woman in the history of bellowdrama, but,
instead of trying to conceal her past under a dis-
mal black cloak, she frivols into a haunt of sin
and finds a future husband of the sort that many
an Australian father-in-law has paid a lot of
money for. And the triumph of Maudie is the
only probable thing that happens in 1 ‘ When
London Sleeps.”
Extract From Government Report on the Tyree
Automatic Spray.
New South Wales.
Chemical Laboratory,
Department of Agriculture,
10th January, 1907.
The Director. _ .
In accordance with your instructions I have examined
the Tyree Automatic Spray and have tested it with the
spraying mixtures commonly used, and I have the honor
to report as follows :
The Tyree Automatic Spray is simple in construction
and easy to work, involving a very considerable saving of
labor as compared with the type of spraying pumps on
the market. It is easily charged, and works auto-
matically.
It works particularly well in the case of oil and soap
and similar emulsions. The difficulty usually experienced
with such mixtures is the difficulty of forming a perfect
emulsion, and the practice usually recommended is to
pump the mixture back into itself once or twice in order to
make an intimate mixture. With this machine this is
unnecessary, and even when the mixture has not been
thoroughly emulsified, it becomes so thoroughly mixed
that the spray is quite free from unemulsified oil.
(Signed) F. B. Guthrie.
TO THE AUSTRALIAN GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Listen, every mother’s daughter,
To the tidings brief and fair !
There is sunlight on the water.
There is music in the air.
For the song-birds all are “tweeting,”
And their jubilant refrain
Gains in sweetness by repeating—
“ Julius Knight is back again.”
O, the strong, ecstatic beating
Of a maiden heart repeating—
‘Julius Knight is back again,
Back again.”
Girl, his glance is mild and tender,
As when buck regards a doe,
And his figure looks more slender
Than it looked a year ago ;
And this point you must not miss, girl,
When he makes his courtly bow—
There’s a wondrous little kiss-curl
On his transcendental brow.
To intensify your bliss, girl,
He has trained a little kiss-curl
On his fully-powdered brow,
Powdered brow.
Spread the tidings far and nearer,
Tell the yearning maid next door.
Ju. should now be even dearer
Than he was in days of yore.
If your feelings then were torrid
When you saw him dressed to kill—
Well, the kiss-curl on his “forrid”
Ought to give you further thrill.
If your feelings then were torrid
(Please, don’t call the writer “horrid ”),
They will soon be warmer still,
Warmer still.
VIC.
O.K.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Gets There Quickest
PI
i
■ a
CURES
HEADACHE & NEURALGIA
L FISHERS
&
0
IPHOSPHERIHE
r
■m
I
H 8&
m
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the, quantity, 2/6.
Insist upon Fishfx’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an llour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares
on oath the following :—“ I suffered from acute inflam,
mation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue
got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of
my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth,
and keeps my stomach in regular order. fit everyone
know of my case.”
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney.
SPEEDIEST CV/RE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNESS.
At Melbourne Royal, on Friday afternoon,
a well mixed bill is to be given for the benefit of
H. O. Willard, longtime incapacitated from prac-
tising his old profession of villainy in Andersonian
drama. Willard’s matinee deserves all the con-
sideration the public can give it for the unfortu-
nate actor’s sake, but public sympathy in these
cases is mostly confined to the benefit programme.
Apart from the Andersonian co. several per-
formers from Her Majesty’s and the Opera House
will give their services, a long list of names being
headed by that of Miss Florence Young.
** * #
A special attraction at Princes Court is a
Living Picture lady (Miss Lenore White) whose
poses are genuinely artistic and otherwise inter-
esting. For instance, she strikes the attitude of
“ An Eager Woman listening to Cupid’s Urgent
Messages of Love,” and another of her nine poses
represents “ Leda Enraptured of a Swan” (from
G. A. Storey’s picture). Princes Court needed a
new summerlike attraction, and the lady afore-
said is a cool and graceful matter for contem-
plation.
** * *
The newest turn at Melbourne Opera
House reveals a wider range of musical tone in
the xylophone than any previons performer has
submitted to Australian experience. Madame
Charlene (presumably she is French) is a charm-
ing smiter of wooden instruments. With great
technical skill she combines true musical feeling
and delicacy of touch. The dainty artist
plays brilliantly, and the music that comes
from her xylophone’s soul enters into that of
the Rickards audience—a soul not easily
penetrated. For the rest of the “turn” there
are juggling feats by Charlene masculine. Finally
he juggles three lighted torches, which twirl and
pause in the air, whilst Madame hammers a sub-
dued accompaniment. This novel double effect
filled the Opera House with enthusiasm on Satur-
day. The other newcomer, Miss Cora Caselli, is
remembered in Melbourne as a contortion
danseuse of exceeding vim, who formerly sang
4 4 The Girl with the Naughty Wink.” Nowadays
she sings two songs in her fervent gasping
manner, and she dances a little, but the old
diablerie has seemingly departed from Miss Cora.
King and Benson, likewise Fred. Russell, keep
their places in the bill whereof Charles Fletcher,
with his series of character actings, is the most
substantial item.
** * *
From “F. Croson”:—
Putting aside the wonderfully complicated machines,
which, alas ! are not Australian-made at all, the finest
show in the A.N.A. Melbourne Exhibition is made by the
Queensland Government —an example of Federal spirit
that other States might well follow. Nothing but
wonder and praise is lavished on the beautifully-polished,
silky-looking timbers, those lovely indigenous woods that
suit the climate and please the eye better than all the
imported Stuff. Here also is an exhibit that causes much
investigation and speculation—viz., three solid deck-
chairs. They fold up as on a hinge, but the mystery is
how they were put together, seeing that they are in but
two pieces, and no twisting or pulling will get them
apart. The solution is that they were made by sawing a
solid slab nearly half-way down, edgewise ; the hinge being
then formed by morticing out wedge-shaped pieces alter-
nately’. A novelty this year is the Inventors’Court. Inven-
tors are a shy' lot, and their exhibits are somewhat disap-
pointing, though a self-extinguishinglamp, whichgoesout
immediately the glass is removed or broken, and a measur-
ing funnel are interesting, and promise to be profitable.
The latter should presently supersede all other vessels
for measuringfiquids. Its acting principle is an exten-
sion of the common syphon. It is built with a spout like
an ordinary funnel, but it will not allow any liquid
poured in to flow out until the measure —pint, quart or
more —is full. There can be no possibility’ of the seller
giving short measure, and an overflow pipe corrects any
undue tendency to give excess measure. But between
these inventions and the intricate and marvellously-
sensitive linotypes or envelope-making or boot-soling
machines is a great, wide gap. Doubtless Australian
brains and energy are good enough in the inventive line,
but so far they’ haven’t had the chance —and if the
Foreign-trader had his way they would never have it.
** * m
Adelaide amusements consist of three
variety shows, at the Tivoli, Hippodrome, and
Town Hall. But the previously cold summer
season has started to make up for lost time, and
the most popular evening amusement just now is
sitting with one’s feet in the sea.
William Henry Jennings, professionally known as
Harry Hunter, who died on I2th October last, left a gross
estate of £11,196 3s. 7d. He was latterly a music pub-
lisher, associated with Francis and Day, London. But
he was better known.as one of the founders of the
Mohawk Minstrels, and as one of the best interlocutors
of his day. Burnt cork has its silver lining.
Allan’s, Melbourne, send a list of songs for
their summer campaign of song popularisation, all of
which are said to have “made good” in either London
or America. In fact, every number is a winner. “Alice,
where art thou going ? ” a novelty march song for serio
or illustrated song singers ; “ Glory that is best,” a march
song with a swing, on the style of the “Deathless
Army”; “In dear Old Georgia,” a sweet ballad by the
composer of “In the shade of the old apple tree”;
“ Portrait on the Wall,” a home song that’s got that big
heart interest that audiences want; “Just Plain Folks,”
the story of the boy who is too proud to own his poor
father and mother; “Love me and the world is mine,”
a ballad which should equal in popularity such
successes as “Sing me to Sleep” and “Doreen”;
“ Will you love me in December as you do in
May?” has a sweet, plaintive melody that you
will like as soon as you hear it ; “ I’m so tired
of waiting for you,” this number is great; it’s full of
melody, and should be a splendid encore getter. “Sweet
Adeline,” this is fine ; the chorus may be harmonised
for duet or quartet—in fact, you can get a dozen or more
different effects with it; “Cheyenne” (Shy Ann), the
novelty song of the hour, by the man who wrote
“Navajo” and “Apple Tree”; “Just a little rocking
chair and you,” a song all the boys will whistle ; “ Smile
on Me,” a slow waltz refrain, beautiful harmony ; “ Those
Songs my Mother used to sing,” introduces the good old
airs, “Come back to Erin,” “Believe me,” “Swanee
River,” and “Annie Laurie.”; “Sympathy,” Victor
Kelly’s big coon hit; “ Dear little boy next door,” the big
success of the “Spring Chicken”; “Good-bye, Nellie
Darling,” one of the best rparch songs for many a day.
Allan’s say that professional copies are sent free on re-
ceipt of up-to-date programme, if you are not already
known to them. Mention The Bulletin. No cards on
any consideration. Their address is —Allan & Co.,
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.*
“ Little Snaps” is the latest thing in “Systems,”
whereby Lassetter’s are spreading themselves over the
earth, and annexing trade. Modern business is largely
a matter of cute advertising campaigning, combined
with novel methods of marketing goods. Lassetter’s
“Little Snaps” system of Magic Prices, which,
they explain, means selling their new goods at
clearance-sale rates, is going right to the hearts of
country folk. They pledge themselves that country cus-
tomers will always get “ Little Snap ” prices if they
answer “Little Snap” advertising quickly. Lassetter’s
looks like a huge Nijni Novgorod these times with the
way the customers from all Australia are responding to
their “ Little Snap.”*
AT POVERTY POINT.
“J.A.C.”: Recent cablegrams from London tell of a
strike in the music-hall profession in consequence of a
dispute regarding salaries for extra performances. If,
by “ extra performances,” matinees be meant, more
dower to the strikers. Few' matin6e-goers have any
notion of the sweating they are assisting at. Ico not
mean this accusation to be absolutely sweeping, for there
are gradations in the sweating process, and in some rare
instances it does not exist at all. Mr. Williamson, to
quote one instance, recently gave two show's each day
here in Sydney, but I know that the stage-hands, and
probably others, were paid double wages. That,
however, does not often happen. I remember,
many years ago, in the Cold Country, when day
shows w'ere only given of Christmas pantomimes,
and these in the interests of the kiddies, and
the performers were paid. Now matinees are a big
asset in the theatre till, and the performer’s share of it
is the consciousness of having assisted his fellow'-man,
the manager. Like virtue, it is its own reward. The
matin6e extortion is, properly-speaking, an Amurkan
excrescence. In God’s Country it has attained the vigor
of its iniquity. There the actor cannot call his soul his
own ; he lives in the theatre, and if he does not die in it,
it is because he hasn’t the time to spare. Some twenty
years ago the epidemic broke out in Australia. A gentle-
man, now dead, w'ho bore the ancient name of Smith, was
running a variety show in Sydney. Not content with
ringing in an extra show on his suffering company
on the slightest provocation, such as a public
holiday for example, he inflicted two shows upon
them on the “Day of Rest,” to one of which they
had to go a distance of five or six miles. Smith
was greatly responsible for the introduction of
“matinitis” into Sydney. At first it was the
custom to pay half-salaries for matindes, and some
of the performers kicked even at that. I remember
Jennie Lee refusing to appear in a pantomime day-show
for less than full salary. Her rfile was filled by her sister,
Ada, who, a few years ago, died of plague in Sydney. It
was, unfortunately, no loss to the management, for Ada
played the part a good deal better than Jennie. Now
companies have to give one matinee, in some cases two,
for nothing. To say that the matinees are included
in the weekly wage is bunkum ; since the advent of
the disorder salaries have not increased, but diminished.
Some years ago a world-famous troupe of pantomimists
failed to put in an appearance at one Sydney matinee
where they were to play gratis, and for the delinquency
were fined £4O. I only know one Australian manager, Bland
Holt, who has consistently shunned the matiinie habit.
“The Profession ” is generous and charitable to a fault,
and its members are woefully imposed upon. I was once
connected with a theatrical company, the manager of
which was friendly with a newspaper man, who had
written well of the show, and who was proceeding to a
corpulent billet in England. That scribe was “ tendered
a benefit,” a “ complimentary benefit,” if you please.
“Tendered!” that’s how it was put. Of course, the
members of the company were asked if they were willing
to assist—" you needn’t unless you like, you know.” Oh,
no; no compulsion whatever, but—you must. The
scribe netted his passage and a good bit over, and didn’t
ask the company, except, perhaps, a few stray pals, if
they had mouths on them. Any old “ pro.” could tell of
numberless similar instances. Therefore, I reiterate,
more power to the strikers.
Talking of Kelly Gang pictures, the forthcoming show
at Sydney Palace will include an “ act ” which was not
sheeted in Melbourne. Only the Victorian incidents
were depicted on the first films. A feature of the Sydney
show will be the sticking-up of the bank at Jerilderie
(N.S.W.), where the gang caught the bank manager in
his bath. This gives some comic relief to the pictorial
narrative, and it should be improved by the incidental
funny business if the principal low comedian doesn’t get
too much fat. By the way, the cinematograph promises
to accomplish a brilliant revival of the old art of dumb
mummery. There’s a demand nowadays for living-picture
actors, in the French film of “ The Deserter ” there is a
lot for amateurs to learn from the facial play and gestures
of the leading man.
“ Melb.”: A number of specialists have nightly
attended “The Village Blacksmith” at the Theatre
Royal. When Cross, as the blacksmith, forged the horse-
shoe, the experts kept on jarring him about details.
Bland Holt, in “ The Bells of Haslemere,” used to forge a
horse-shoe. One night at Hobart, a professional yelled
“ You’ve forgotten the clip 1 ”
The death of Belle Bilton in England is a reminder that
in Adelaide lives Marmaduke Woods, who is alleged to
have tossed up With the earl who married Belle to decide
who should propose to the lady first. It’s the kind of
picturesque story that ought to be true.
“ Nivals ”: Tom Dawson is not the only Australian
artist billed as English. Nellie Kilburn, billed as “ Eng.
land’s dainty serio,” and “ the pride of the London
halls,” is a Sydney girl; Leonie Dixon, billed as “ Eng-
land’s popular serio and dancer,” is a Victorian. Stewart
and Lorraine, one of the neatest musical sketches that
has ever been seen in Sydney, were billed as “just
arrived from England,” although they are both Aus-
tralians. If Tom Dawson “ signed a contract,” which I
very much doubt, he is an exception to the rule, as
Australian artists do not get contracts.
“Melb.”: Cole, from Sydney, of the sombrero and
horse-tail hair, has struck ile with his so-called Hippo-
drome, but I must say the performances are atrociously
crude. It is the big marquee that gives the Bohemian
touch. The Hippodrome site is historic. Rowe’s
Circus was there in 1854. Coppin built his Olympic
there in 1855. Yet the pitch has gone begging for
years. What a desolate bit of waste, again, was the
nearly opposite patch, where Her Majesty’s is now ! The
Alexandra was built there in 1885, about the same time
as the existing Princess’s, but except for a green oasis of
Time struck by Dampier, the Alexandra was not much
better than its former desert till 1900, when Williamson
made it fashionable at a jump.
THE LATE TOWNSEND MACDERMOTT,
FATHER OF THE AUSTRALIAN BAR.
Photo, by Richards & Co., Ballarat (Vic.).
Rather hard luck for the Taits that the belated clean-
ing and redecorating of the dirty old Athenaeum Hall
(Melb.) should have been arranged for the time when
their Kelly Gang Biodrama was crowding the ill-ventilated
place. But the improvements—such as they'may be—
were urgently needed. The Hall had been allowed to
get into a dingy unwholesome state in front of the stage,
whilst the condition of things at the back was positively
foul. Deadly smells lurked thereabouts. Fortunately,
they were conflicting odors, and whereas the rival germs
of disease might have been destructive to human life,
could they only get at it, they were probably engaged all
the time in blanky conflict with one another.
“V.”: Premier Carruthers, of N.S.W., has been on a
trip to Kosciusko, and the applause of an admiring world
is invited, because this is the “first time a Premier of
the State” has visited that frosty locality. The most
notable feature of this trip seems to have been the
christening of a roadside boulder as “ Carruthers Peak ”
by pouring a bottle of wine over it; but we are assured
that, “notwithstanding two days on horseback, and
rough camp life, the Premier is vastly improved in
health.” “Rough camp life,” and wine to waste on
boulders ! Dear me ! Reminds me of an incident in the
old Bohemian days. Was with a co. touring the pro-
vinces (England) with a ‘ ‘ set-up ’’—that is a portable
proscenium that can be erected on any platform in a
couple of hours, with everything complete from “flies” to
footlights. I was engaged for “ old man ” and “ second ju-
venile ” parts, in addition to which I was sometimes Called
upon to sing between acts when a more than usually ela-
borate “ set” had to be put on. Terms: shares. Another
young fellow joined us at Plymouth. He was the son of
a well-to-do wine merchant in that town, and a good
amateur mummer; name, Jones. We “ froze ”at Newton
Abbott, and had to walk to Totnes, all save Jones—he
rode. There was a properly-equipped theatre at Totnes,
and we posted our own bills, all the male members of the
co., except Jones, assisting. We were as stony as it was
possible to be, with that one notable exception, and he
put up at the best hotel. The leading lady, by tem-
porarily parting with her trinkets, provided for
the immediate wants cf herself and the other
female. The males got the keys of the theatre,
and, under pretence of unpacking, camped there.
Our “ musical director,” Bob Coote, a heaven-born
providore and the bloated proprietor of sixpence,
went out and bought a supply of bread and “faggots,”
which, among five of us, could not be considered wasteful.
During our after-dinner smoke, Jones, a perambulating
silo of good fare, sauntered in and discoursed fluently on
the advantages, physical and intellectual, of “roughing
it.” “ Doesa fellah good, you know. Keeps him in form,
and all that sort of thing. Look at me 1 I ” A flying
carpet bag smote him fair on the nose, and I doubled his
parts for the rest of the season.
“Larrikin”: Madame Flaro, the intrepid lady who,
amidst a blaze of torches and rockets and squibs, ascends
the chute at Princes Court, and then comes, enveloped
in flames, along a 600 ft. wire and drops into the lake, has
not an intrepid or combustible appearance. She
is a gentle, slender, pretty young woman, with
the nerve of about six hefty men! Questioned
her as to what she wore to protect herself from
burning. She led me to her dressing-room and showed
me the outfit for her turn. First, a short linen suit and
a stiff cuirass ; then a suit of thick canvas, and a bonnet
of same. Small spirit-lamps are sewn on her shoulders,
ankles, and body, and are filled with cotton waste. When
she descends by the sliding wire, she wears a cape affair
flying from her shoulders. Kerosene is poured over this
and it is set afire. Madame reckons that she goes so
quickly along the wire that she keeps ahead of the con-
flagration, and trusts to continue doing so. I asked her
if she were an American. She laughed and informed me
that Charters Towers was her home. Asked her what
she thought of whilst going along the wire. Said she
only thought of getting along the wire mighty sudden,
as she didn’t want to stop and be fried. I then wished
her luck, and removed myself.
Miss Maude Smith, a Maoriland lady, now in London,
has had a telling advertisement. Harmsworth’s Daily
Mail came out with a fine, stirring yarn, which pur-
ported to emanate from the lady herself, to the effect
that, while in America, she had been robbed by a fellow
artiste (Miss Maude Smith sings and acts), who appro-
priated not only her boots and blouses, but also her name
and her profession. Miss Smith was stranded, but she
bravely worked her way across the continent —nature of
work unspecified—sleeping out and doing other dis-
agreeable things, until London —London was “ the goal
of all her ambitions” —was reached, and there she
gained an engagement at the Canterbury music-
hall. But, say her Maoriland relatives, Miss Smith
proceeded direct to London two years ago, and
has resided there ever since. By a recent mail
the lady informed her friends that she was flourish-
ing, and about to appear in the name part of a new
play ; she even sent letters, which praised her work,
written by such high authorities as Beerbohm Tree and
Ellen Terry. The inference is that there are three Maude
Smiths—the one who went to London and prospered ;
the one who got there with difficulty, via America ; and
the bogus Miss Smith (No. 3) who stole the boots, blouses,
businesss and name of Miss Smith No. 2. And Miss
Smith No. 3 wants to be Put Down.
A ponderous scholar rises to assert that Shakspeare’s
plays were not written by Bacon, but by an ancient Earl
of Rutland. Strange that nobody has yet put in a claim
for Dan Barry.
“J.A.0.”: That “ Miya Sama ” yarn (B. 3/l/’O7) has
been going the rounds for the past 20 years, ever since
“ The Mikado ” was first performed, in fact. My know*
ledge of Japanese is superficial—the only word I know
thoroughly is “ maru,” and that I have forgotten the
meaning of—so lam not in a position to deny the story ;
but Ido not believe it, all the same. If the song were
the ribald one it is said to be, why should Gilbert have so
long permitted it to remain'in the opera? Gilbert is a
man of arrogant temperament, and would have deeply
resented any such “ joke.” I knew a man —I was once
in the same company with him —who claimed to be the
first to sing the part of Nanki Poo in Japan. He also
stated that he was put under arrest on that occasion for
impersonating the son of the Emperor. He did not men-
tion the form of death by torture the actor who repre-
sented the Mikado himself suffered. I never looked
upon my friend as having much in common with George
Washington, but there is no doubt he sang in “The
Mikado” in Japan, and was under the impression that
“ Miya Sama ” was a national air. He went so far as to
make some attempt to explain the meaning of the words.
Therefore, I repeat, I “ hae ma doots.”
At the Harvest Home Hotel, at Booralook, the cham-
bermaid, who is also general domestic, rouseabout, cook,
barmaid, and nursegirl, had struck something of a mys-
tery. Bedroom No. 14 had no occupant, and yet for four
nights running the bed had been slept in. Twice the
girl disregarded the circumstance of the bed having been
occupied, thinking some stranger might have arrived
late and departed early, but after the third occasion she
made inquiries. Then, to spare herself the worry of
makjng an extra bed for a ghost to sleep in, she locked
the door of No. 14, and on the fourth night the bed was
used again, although the door remained locked. Then
the case was put before the boss, and at 2 o’clock on the
fifth morning No. 14 was raided by the boss, the billiard-
marker, and the stable-boy. They found a man asleep in
the bed. He had got into the room up the verandah
post, and through a window. The uninvited guest
proved to be a stranded actor, who had burgled the hotel
merely for the sake of a bed. He was brutally thrown
out in his shirt, and as the landlord neglected to throw his
clothes out after him, he spent long, sad, reflective hours
in a cutting wind before Mr. Publichouse relented, and
restored his wardrobe.
“Larrikin”: Had a chat with Rhoda Dendron. the
English bare-hoofed dancer.. She is a well-made little
nugget of a girl. Said that her name was Rhoda, and
she thought Dendron filled the bill pretty well 1 Her
uncle, who trained her, evolved the idea of the turn.
The dancer comes on bare-footed and bare-legged, and
wears an airy blue satin peignoir that suggests the
bath. She throws it off, and does a graceful dance,
then sits on a sofa and does steps in the air. Next,
a quick change and a Spanish dance. Next, an-
other change and a bare-footed Irish jig, containing a pair
of good healthy Irish yells about six feet high. Another
dress follows, and a dance in the gallop style and in con-
clusion, dear brethren, the lady buckles herself into a
big arm chair raised on two pivots, and goes round and
round, over and over, till your brain whirls. Asked her
why she danced barefooted. She said she liked it and
only one girl in a thousand was game to show her feet, as
they had corns and bunions and toes that over-lapped.
She also said that the carpet she danced upon was
always very carefully examined—presumably for pins and
tacks—but still she had once or twice injured her feet.
Between each set of dances the feet must be bathed in
warm water, and thick knitted stockings and soft shoes
are worn. That’s all I learned about Miss Dendron, except
that the revolving chair act makes her head ache. I
should think it would make her head fly off.
“ Ami ” : I never knew Dick Stewart (Nellie’s father) to
put pen to paper, in a literary way, but once, and the
yarn was so vivid, so contrary to his jaunty style, that I
cannot help thinking it was cut out of his experience as a
gold digger. Brooke, Coppin, Fanny Cathcart, and a
full dramatic co. came to act at the Shamrock, Bendigo.
Yorky and Shorty decided to go and see “ Othello,” re-
gretting that it was no good asking Gadds. They were pro-
foundly impressed by the tragedy, and walked home in
the moonlight, eagerly talking it over. Says Yorky,
“ Let’s go and see Gadds. We haven’t been for a
month.” So they went over to Gadds’ hut. “Why,
bless me,” said Shorty, “what a fellow he is
to change! He’ll be wanting a new wife next year.
See what he has done now. Shifted the door round to
the other side of the house, because of the hot winds, I
suppose. But there’s the old knot-hole of the sitting-
room, and light coming out of it. I’ll go and peep.” So
Shorty did. The sight he witnessed transfixed and
transfigured him with terror. By the light of a splut-
tering candle, just going out, and up and down, Shorty
saw Mrs. Gadds in bed with her throat cut! They
consulted a moment or two, and then crept round to the
door, which was unfastened, and they gently pushed it
open. There sat Gadds, with his back to them, coolly
reading the newspaper. Yorky managed to gasp out
something, and Gadds calmly looked up, with ‘ Glad to
see vou, boys.” He extended a hand to shake. They
recoiled in horror. “ What’s up? ” asked Gadds. They
shook their heads, each in his characteristic, awesome
fashion. “Oh come,” says Gadds, “ I don’t want none of
your play-acting here, Yorky.” Shorty burst out crying.
“ Ullo! ” says Gadds. “What’s the matter? What’s
happened, boys?” “Oh you know.” says Yorky, in
thrilling tones. “ I’ll be jiggered if I do, shouted Gadds.
Suddenly there came rippling laughter from the bedroom,
with “ Whatever are you chaps quarrelling about? Here,
you’ve woke Baby ! ” Yorky and Shorty staggered back
aghast. The murdered woman walked out of the room in
her slippers, with a gown hastily flung over her. A
revulsion of feeling came over Yorky, and he guffawed
out, in his theatrical style “ Ain’t you dead in this Act?
Why, look here, we went to see Othello kill Desdemona,
and then dashed if we didn’t see you in bed.” A bit of
the red curtain fringe from above had dropped on her
throat! The play had done the rest.
A PLEA FOR FOLLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This life is but a laughing time,
A dream of love, an olio,
A gay burlesque, a chaffing time,
A punchinello show,
A banquet not to hurry o’er,
A polyglot of tears and smiles ;
What profits it to worry o’er
The gauds’ and fardels’ guiles ?
We’ve woe and vinegar enough
From prophets of the winding-sheet;
(We lovers wish them far enough
When lips and laughter meet !)
They preach a lot of kinky things
To scare the unsuspecting mind.
We give ourselves to drinky things,
And leave dull care behind.
They ogle pleasure tepidly,
In fear to wake the devil up,
But we grip life intrepidly,
And drain the stiirup-cup.
They nearly go delirious
When lovers tilt the flask of love,
And sip their tea and weary us
With unctuous glance above.
Tne world of joy they decimate
With dull, delusive vaporings—
But I will not distress a mate,
A truce to stodgy things ;
Love waits for me and laughter now,
And eke tobacco-pipes and wine.
(She bridled when I chaffed her now,
And surely will be mine !)
So hence with melancholy tunes,
Sermons and prophecies bizarre,
And clear the floor while Folly tunes
Her ribbon-frilled guitar,
For life is but a laughing time,
A dream of love, an olio,
A Titan jest, a chaffing time,
A farce, a puppet show !
K.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Deafness Official Tests
in vest.Rations of the Deaf are wtS-JI described
1 in the 44 BAROSCOPE REVIEW ” explaining fullv
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of The innfr ea/
the Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises Ac &c ’
and how to cure yourself at your own home with'’pure
Aura 1 Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity
and No Ear-Drums necessary. **
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart
ok 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to fell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE ”
A Retired Squatter writes: “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day ”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: "Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, X.£w.
ROSS’S
..Celebrated Eye Lotion,,
Is the National Remedy for Sandy
Blight, Swelling Blight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids. It gives strength
to weak eyes and rest to the tii’ed.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Loticn may be
used at all times by old and y oung with
benefit.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia.
If nut obt art uu jut loealln, send postal note fur
I]9 fur a buttle, to the bole Pruprietu, s and
Manufacturers:
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
531 George St.. Sydney.
W Ask for Rose’s Celebrated Hye Loticn,
and refuse all Substitutes and Imitations.
SOCIETY
PENFOLO'S
WINES
The departed secretary of the St. Kilda
Cemetery Trust caine back to Melbourne last
week, and will presently be brought to a trial
which promises some strange stories, gruesome as
regards burial arrangements and interesting as
regards the relations between Secretary True-
love and his cemetery trustees. A few weeks
before he turned up again in Melbourne
to stand his trial on a charge of dealing in
second-hand graves, or something, the ex-secre-
tary of St. Kilda Cemetery wrote a long and
foolish letter to Panton, P.M., which was printed
for private circulation. One paragraph of this
rambling statement may be commended to the
notice of all family vault-holders who wish to
remain dry and undisturbed after their decease
Speaking of a boy’s funeral, the lugubrious True-
love said :
Orders came to open the family vault, which I found
half-full of water. I therefore buried the little fellow
in around near. His father was very wrath ; but on
inspecting the vault, and finding his first wife’s coffin
floating, face downwards, he fell weeping on my breast.
Given a spacious stone apartment in low-lying
ground, one is likely to have a somewhat unquiet
time after death. The vault aforementioned is
not more subject to floods than many others in
other cemeteries. After a heavy fall of rain the
coffins float around and collide with one another
and where there are two wives afloat it is usual
for No. 1 box to bang against No. 2 with peculiar
violence, especially when it happens to be nestling
close to that of the old man. 6
The rich living of St. Philip’s, Church
Hill, Sydney, soon to be vacant owing to the
translation of Archdeacon Langley to the
bishopric of Bendigo, has not yet been filled. The
glebe lands attached to the parish enable a
decent stipend to be paid, so an agitation lias
been started to import an English sin-shifter for
the historic church. If it was a poor hungry
mendicant of a job, a local man would be good
enough, but wherever the plate is heaped up with
affluence, there is to be found the man with the
Oxford bleat and the superiah British mannah.
Last Saturday week, a few days after the
earthquake shook Jamaica and toppled Kingston
over, a dust storm swept across Melbourne after
two days of blazing heat. It was no more than
the furious chansre of wind that mostly follows
fierce heat in the Cabbage Garden, but it was extra
sudden and extra violent, and, by reason of the
tornadoes of dust, the consequent darkness was
extra-lurid. That night, therefore, though the
atmosphere was cool and fresh, a good "many
people, who recollected that Kingston experienced
a similar whirlwind as a warning of what was to
follow, slept on verandahs, and specially timid
ones camped in their gardens. And after all no-
thing more serious happened than the falling of a
beetle or two into their open countenances.
* * * *
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) a case was being
heard last week in which it was alleged that two
white engineers had feloniously dropped a Chinese
fireman, or incited him to throw himself, into the
high seas, from a steamer. Proceedings were
mostly dull, and of the “ what-does-it-matter-any-
way ” order, until one Ta Ho Sang was giving
evidence. In the dead waste and centre of his
testimony Ta suddenly flopped down in
the witness-box and started to knock the
timber flooring about with his head. When
he appeared in sight again he was weeping
audibly, and his compatriots also wept.
Things were afterwards dried up a bit, and it was
explained that the saffron man was appealing to
his Joss to come into the case, as he knew all
about it. But Joss didn’t come, and the court
resumed its dreary way towards acquittal.
* * * *
Brisbane’s Chinese population suffered a
reduction of one recently, when murderer Lok
Hou was scattered through the trap at Boggo-
road gaol. The Coukieu mourned that he died
“ a pagan in a foreign land —died amongst duty-
bound officials, without a friend or countryman
to cheer his last earthly moments.” After this
tear splashed on the editorial table, the colored-
labor organ added that the yellow brother “ad-
mitted that he was going on a long journey, and
ingenuously asked that some pig and rice should
accompany him. 4 Put it at my feet, and not
my head,’ asked the convict, and his last wish
was obeyed. Indeed,” says the Coueiee, “he
was shown these viands before the fatal hour.” It
is all very sad.
• * * *
At latest advices, the Horsham (Yic.) beer
strike was still going strong. The 13 publicans
of Hoi sham tried to raise the price of the long
sleever from 3d. to Gd. and 500 people rose
against them. The strike committee meets
at a water trough, from which it can command a
view of eight pubs, and it bellows sarcasm at any-
body seen making for their doors. The committee
doesn’t use violence, but its scoff is a bitter
weapon. It also circulates red handbills headed
“Horsham Beer Strike,” in which it uses power-
ful language, and urges the public to have a
summer drink instead of its usual dissipation.
Some enthusiasts consume their summer drinks
in front of the pubs by way of adding contumely
to loss of business. Meanwhile, the publicans
protest that they aren’t the bloated millionaires
that the strike committee takes them for, but a
haggard and careworn race, struggling at the
beer-pump for a crust and making it with diffi-
culty ; and it is certainly hard to see how 13
publicans could get rich in poor little Horsham.
LOGIC.
"'F’m qui’ shober how’ s’t I shee two ov ye? ”
"Why, in’ dear boy, can’t ye shee there’s two ov
ye lookin’ at me!”
Ihxs doesn’t come from any of the countries
to which we send oar missionaries; it is taken
AT°a n ii7 P? lice court report in the columns of a
JN.b.W. inland newspaper (Gundagai Indepen-
dent) :
, am 21 years of age, cannot read and write, have
been at church a few times, but have never been in-
structed in any way. I do not know what telling the
truth is. Telling a lie is telling something that did not
happen. I have been living at home with my father;
eight in all hve in the hut of two rooms, and two beds :
a brother and his wife are among them, my brothers and
a sister 15 years of age. The cooking is done in the
house.
The witness was a young woman—one of the
future mothers of Australia.
• • * •
It is the commercial traveller who finds
the many changes of climate and water trying.
Ihe experience of Mr. Chas. G. Chapman, who
represents a large Brisbane concern, is not the
exception. He had been troubled for years with
chronic diarrhoea, and was especially bad when in
-North Queensland. On one of his trips a fellow
traveller recommended him to try Chamberlain’s
-Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy, which he
dill, and what he has to say is most interesting:—
I procured a bottle the first opportunity, and
experienced great relief after taking a few doses
and was 'inured before the bottle was finished. I
have not been troubled since, and wish to recom-
mend this wpnderful medicine to anyone suffering
from the samp complaint.”
Carry a bottle\Qf Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy in your hand-luggage
when travelling. ft cannot be procured on
board the train or steamship. For sale every-
where, Is. Gd.*
AN EQUIVALENT.
SHE: “is it not strange that the English language contains no exact equivalent for 'fiance’?”
HE: “ What about 'idiot’?"
lb was an Italian tenor who first introduced
the habit in Australia of using boots as a safe
deposit. The tenor’s temporary wife hurled his
boots at the cats in the lane, and narrowly escaped
losing the family jewels. A lady who went
bathing at Bondi recently, placed her diamond
rings in her purse, and stuffed the purse in her
boot. Enter a young woman hard up for a pair
of boots. She took the only pair about, and when
she got home, discovered that she had jumped a
diamond claim. She didn’t want to keep the
diiimonds, but the boots were necessary, and, be-
sides, she had gone too far to retreat* So she
gave the diamonds to her father to keep, and he
gave them to a friend to take care of, and the
friend gave them to the police for security, and
the police, in a burst of honesty, passed them on
to the rightful owner, and thus was the chain
made complete.
* * • *
The hideous prices asked by the private
landlord in Wellington (M.L.) for tumble-down,
ramshackle buildings hardly fit to accommodate
cows let alone house
human beings, has
moved the Govern-
ment to erect a
number of work-
men’s homes. But
how perverse a
thing is human
nature ! When
the first lot were
erected the
Sturdy, inde-
pendent work-
ing man was
afraid of being
sneered at as a
pauper if he in-
habited them,
although he had
no such fears
when he travel-
led in a State
railway carriage.
So the buildings
remained unoccu-
pied till there came
a wild rush of clerks
and others. They
smothered their
dirty pride and
brought the time-
payment piano and
its automatic playing
instrument along, and took
possession. Now the working
man recognises that he has been an
unmitigated ass, and he grabs those houses as
they become empty. Another lot is being erected
in Coromandel-street, which will be let at Bs. per
week, while the lowest that any sort of a lean-to
can be obtained for from private owners is 14s.
per week. This is Socialism !
* * * *
Judkinsism reached its logical conclusion,
in Melbourne the other day, when a policeman
pounced upon a lone man in the Treasury Gardens
and locked him up. Next morning, at the City
Court, the officer testified that he had seen the
prisoner crawling around in the grass watching
the couples on the benches in the park ; and cor-
roborative evidence was given by another con-
stable. The prisoner, after asserting that he was
sitting on a seat, admitted that he was on the
grass. He took the high legal attitude that the
parks were the people’s property, and he had as
much right on the grass there as anybody else.
Further, lie called two Wesleyan par-
sons to give him a character, and one
stated that he was “a good Christian man”
who wouldn’t be guilty of wrongdoing.
Finally, P.M. Panton, who didn’t seem very clear
as to the law on the subject, discharged the
prisoner, warning him to be careful in future. It
is only a few years since another person who was
crawling about a Sydney park was killed by a
mysterious bullet fired by somebody who has
never been discovered. The object of the park
prowler is generally uncertain. There are several
possibilities. If a blackmailer, he is best dealt
with by the male portion of the couple he assails.
If he is a prurient person spying for his own
amusement, lie should be lodged in a lunatic
asylum with other degeneiates. If he is an agent
of a moral reform committee, he should be
stealthily tracked to his lair to find the addiess of
the committee.
* • . *
“Ah, my beloved, fill the cup.” You
may just as well fill it with the purest spirit avail-
able. Wolfe’s Schnaffs is the liveliest stimulant
and best tonic for mind or body.*
It seems that when you send a man with
a name like Svvettenhain to a hot climate things
are liable to happen. The latest reports from
Jamaica represent Governor Alexander Perspira-
tion as a hot, excited man, cussing hard amid the
ruins of Kingston, going restlessly to and fro
amid a cloud of dust, and not stopping long
enough anywhere to do anything. At the same
time, a great deal too much seems to have been
made of his uncivil letter to the [J.S. admiral—,
the letter in which he bade the admiral person to
get his armed marines aboard again, and to cease
■fooling benevolently with the ruins of Kingston,
and asked him how he would like a British naval
individual to land armed men at New York. The
letter was interesting and picturesquely insult-
ing, and it was an oasis in the desert of
smooth, dry, formal, official correspondence.
It is rarely—very rarely—that one great poten-
tate tells another that his grandmother wks a
monkey, and when he does he adds to the
mirth of nations, Swettenham’s letter was
nothing to marvel about; two whiskies —taken by
a choleric man on a hot day after his capital had
fallen about his ears—would account for much
more than that, and any potentate would take at
least two whiskies in such circumstances. Events,
in fact, seem to have brought out the primitive
instincts of Swettenham, as they did those of the
dog described in that wonderful book, “ The Call
of the Boiled,” by Bill Liverpool.
■****■
That earthquake which overthrew King-
ston (Jamaica) was the third visitation in less
than a year. But on the other occasions the earth
did not get the city out of the saddle, so to speak.
The scientific geese have been cackling consider-
ably as to why and wherefore, but, as a matter of
solemn fact, neither the scientific geese nor the
other sort know much about the matter. Their
knowledge is limited to the fact that earthquake
shocks travel in waves of vibration, and they
account for it by “a slipping of rock along a fault
plane.’’ As no one has ever seen the rock slipping,
this is just a working hypothesis which holds good
only as long as there are no facts to contradict it.
Man’s knowledge of his planet’s crust does not
extend beyond a depth of about five miles, which
is about 'OO2 of the radius. Of what is
beyond that, we only know that it is, on
the average, more than three times as dense
as the thin layer we do know. Curiously enough,
Humboldt’s Cosmos,” printed 60 years ago,
is still the standard work on earthquakes, and
human knowledge of the subject does not seem to
have increased much since then. The seismo-
graph and telegraph have told us a lot about
earthquake waves, but we are as much in the dark
as ever as to what causes them. Here are a
couple of earthquake puzzles : In the deep silver
mines of Marienberg, in Saxony, in the beginning
of last century, violent earthquake shocks drove
the miners in terror to the surface, but, on arrival
there, they learned that nothing (had been felt.
At Balen and Persberg, in Bohemia, in November,
1823, while a violent shock was spreading terror
and ruin on the surface, the miners underground
felt nothing whatever. These little affairs rather
discount the fault-plane and radio-activity theories.
Another curious fact: On the quaking west coast
of South America there are places that are never
shaken. They are called “bridges,” and, like
the origin of matter and the temper of a woman,
they are mysteries.
WHOM GOD HATH JOINED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a maxim old and trite, and yet ’tis ever new,
And if you disregard this law, your conduct you will rue,
It s binding on the rich and poor, and on the small and
great—
Whom God hath joined together, let no man separate !
Now Mister Jones and Missus Jones for years were man
and wife,
And very much I grieve to state they oft indulged in
strife.
A thirsty soul was Mister Jones, who filled himself with
beer,
And Missus Jones, when he came home, would tread upon
his ear.
And Mister Jones would rise in wra h and straight
retaliate
(Whom God hath joined together let no man separate).
Now Brown, who was a mild young man and chivalrous
as well,
Next door but one, with Mrs. Smith, had lately come to
dwell;
And when he heard the sounds of strife rise on the mid-
night air,
And Mrs. Jones’ appealing voice ring out through street
and square,
He straightway went unto her aid, although the hour was
late—
(Whom God hath joined together let no man separate.)
When Brown arrived at Jones’ place he, through the open
door,
Saw Mister Jones and Missus Jones a-rolling on the floor;
When Missus Jones would climb on top, she’d claw her
husband’s hair,
And Jones would land her on the mark, the while he’d
wildly swear ;
With gusto then her lovely head upon the parlor grate
He’d bump, until the very walls would seem to oscillate.
Now Brown, although a mild young man, w'as quite
devoid of fear,
And valiantly he tackled Jones’s undefended rear;
He kicked him once, he kicked him twice, then Jones
got on his feet,
And Missus Jones arose, this grave emergency to meet;
And with her late antagonist she called a hurried truce,
On Brown she fell with teeth and claws and feet and shrill
abuse.
Alas ! ’twas then Brown learned the law, and learned it
somewhat late—
Whom God hath joined together let no man separate.
When Brown had been disposed of and cast forth into
the street,
Then Mister Jones and Missus Jones fell to with hands and
feet;
And once again the midnight air with battle sounds was
rife,
As ebbed and flowed the angry tide of Jones’s household
strife.
While Brown fled to the hospital, wrecked and discon-
solate
(Whom God hath joined together, let no man separate).
QUEENSLAND.
AUSTIN DODD.


A LITTLE TIME A LITTLE WORK
n>
A LITTLE MONEY
WILL SECURE
YOU
A GOOD
POSITION
TaKe a Postal Course of Tu*
Ition in Shorthand, Typewrit*
ing, BooKKeeping, Commercial,
Arithmetic, Mechanical oss
Electrical Engineering, Archi*
tecture and Building Construe*
tion, or Mechanical Drawing. 1
Stott and fioare’s
BUSINESS O COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney
? Horn* Study ••
Advt. from the S.M. Herald :—
.—January 7,1907, at their residence, 490 Wattle-
street, Ultimo, the wife of , News Agent—a
son. Both well. Attendance, Dr. Fairfax and
Nurse Atkins.
Yes, but who ran for the doctor ? Really, all these
details are very interesting. See how handy they
will be to the biographer when little Blank be-
comes a Wellington—or a Deeming.
• * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
d
A SOn SUMMER SHIRT.
tB Cool, Soft, perfectly-made shirt, is
a friend to the man looking for shirt
comfort.
The shirt that pulls at the neck,
pinches in the arms, and drags, is
man’s worst enemy.
We know the faults of shirts and have avoided
them in this.
This is one of THE styles for summer. It is
cut to our own models in our workroom, and
made in a most careful way to insure a perfect fit.
MADE WITH SOFT OR STIFF FRONT.
Soft fronts in Zephyrs or Cambrics.
Stiff fronts in Cambrics only.
The cuffs are starched.
T
PRICE,
POST
FREE.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
309
Hen’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
'3ll George-st., Sydney.
Judge Fitzhardinge, of N.S.W., finished
another phase of the Crick-Willis trouble when he
got to the end of his inquiry as to the mysterious
circumstances in and around the jury-room at the
recent abbrtive prosecution. His decision is that
something seems to have happened that shouldn’t
have happened, but as the result was about the
same in the end, and the conclusion wasn’t visibly
altered, it didn’t really matter so very much
whether it happened or not, though it might have
looked better if it hadn’t happened. He doesn’t
seem very sure as to what happened, but whatever
it was, his Honor is plainly of opinion that if it
did transpire it shouldn’t occur any more —not
that it makes so very much difference in the end
whether it eventuates again or not. His Honor
holds that the purity of the law courts should be
maintained—not that he is prepared to say it
wasn’t maintained, but it might not have been, and
if that had been the case the circumstance would
have been a regrettable event. Mr. Fitzhardinge
doesn’t feel justified in stating that the trial was
really a farce, nor, apparently, is he prepared to
swear that it wasn’t. He seems to be of opinion
that it would have been more satisfactory if
things had been better than they were, though at
the same he hasn’t actually detected anything
very bad about them. In a general way, he
appears to hold that he might have been more
definite if there had been more evidence, pro-
vided it was definite evidence. As it is, Diogenes
returns with his blown-out lantern from his search
for a dishonest man, and reports that he dunno,
but he has his doubts.
* * * *
In Maoriland The Bulletin’s old friends
Gentlemen Two have again been giving proof of
the folly of the person who leaves his money
with a solicitor instead of patronising a reliable
Trustee Co. or the Public Trust office. At Christ-
church, Henry Francis admitted a scarcity of
£775, and at Greymouth Henry Izard acknow-
ledged the vanishment of £24,000 odd. Grey-
mouth isn’t much of a place, and the loss of
£24,000 will about leave it without boots for the
winter.
• • • •
Last year 859,529 letters, post cards,
packets and newspapers were passed on to the
Dead Letter Office in Melbourne alone. Of the
lot, not one in a hundred could be fairly laid
to the discredit of the department. Mostly
they were wrongly addressed, many bore no
address at all—last year 83 letters in per-
fectly blank envelopes were posted, and
these contained money or orders to the
value of £169, which were never claimed,
the cash passing to the revenue. One
casual person posted a remittance of £5OO
in an envelope bearing a stamp
only, neither name nor ad-
dress. Failing to get an
acknowledgment of its re-
ceipt he lodged a com-
plaint,* and began to
talk damages and so
forth, but when the
envelope was shown
him he had the
grace to admit his
error. The P.O.
makes no attempt
to deliver one sort
of correspond-
ence. This con-
sists of post
cards or letters
bearing insult-
ing or libellous
messages.
These are de-
stroyed forth-
with. Being,
of course,
anonymous,
nothing can be
done to the
sender. Lots
of valuables —
brooches, etc.
—are posted in-
sufficiently ad-
dressed, and are
frequently not
claimed. Dead
letters from foreign
countries and from
other States are always
returned whence they came, and, significantly, in
black mail bags. One would think that every-
body knew by this time that the P.O. would not
deliver letters to Tattersall, but 75 such were
posted in Melbourne during ’06; all were opened
and returned to the senders. Some of the Dead
Letter Office’s regular clients are an abiding
nuisance. One lady indites lengthy and exces-
sively courteous epistles to Sir Roger Tichborne,
at ho address in particular, and signs herself
“Lady Tichborne.” These are regularly returned,
but she still keeps on. Another weariful dame is
“Queen Caroline,” who writes from the Mallee
or thereabouts to statesmen, politicians, and others
—most of them dead—Remanding her rights, etc.
A correspondent writing to the Sydney
Moaning Herald sheds a tear because he couldn’t
get any Hunter River wine at Sydney Railway
Station refreshment rooms, but was “ compelled ”
to drink S. Australian wine. He concludes:
“ Poor old New South Wales ! She is very long
suffering.” Certainly at a N.S.W. buffet, N.S.W.
wines should be on sale—and, curiously enough,
the owner of the refreshment place states indig-
nantly that they are on sale, and that the corres*
pendent’s parochial moan is pure fabrication. But,
supposing they hadn’t been on sale, does this corres-
pondent, with his wail about the poor old crushed
Ma State, imagine that the tyranny of the Aus-
tralian Government was responsible for any lack of
the local grape-juice at the local railway station?
If N.S.W., which owns the railway station, won’t
sell itself its own wine in its own unpaid-for
edifice, is it long-suffering, or is it simply obsessed
by its old mania for imports? Seeing that it is
getting a new Chief Railway Commissioner from
Britain, and a new Tramway boss from somewhere
else, and that it has always believed in getting its
boots and clothing and whisky from England, and
its great pride is to put “Importer” above its
door, why should it be surprised to find that its
wine comes from outside parts also? If the re-
freshment room had a whisky license, that same
correspondent would find for certain that the
whisky came from Ireland or Scotland. And
almost certainly he wouldn’t say a word—it is
only the idea of another Australian State earning
a few coppers that makes that kind of person
mad. If the wine were port from Portugal, now,
he wouldn’t be mad.
* •» * •
The trouble began with Vic. railway detec-
tive Borsum summoning a Haw-hawthorn youth
for using indecent language in a public place—the
local station, to wit. On court day Borsum
appeared and remarked cheerfully that the youth
had apologised, that he was a very respectable
youth, and that his father had handed £1 to some
unnamed hospital, wherefore he (Borsum) wished
to withdraw the case. The P.M. said he would
like to hear some evidence first. Borsum airily
remarked that he had told the youth he need not
attend ;it would be all right. The beak retorted
that he was the magistrate, not Borsum or his
superiors, and that the matter was ad-
journed for a week. Next week Borsum
strolled in and assured the P.M. that the
railway chiefs had condoned the offence, and that
he (the P.M.) need not trouble any more about it.
Then the Law told Borsum that it wasn’t a rail-
way matter at all—the youth was charged under
the Police Offences Act, and all the railway bosses
in the Commonwealth couldn’t condone the
offence, no matter how respectable the offender
might be. So they gave him another week’s
grace, and urged him not to forget it. Next
week, neither Borsum, the youth nor any wit-
nesses transpired at all, so the P.M. instructed
the police to subpoena all the parties, and, if that
didn’t bring them, to arrest them forthwith. So
the spectacle may yet be witnessed of a large, un-
couth constable yanking Tait along by the scruff
of the neck and planting him in a dock, and tell-
ing- him to take the cigar out of his mouth and
explain his treatment of the Law.
THEATRICAL ITEM.
Madame Blank is managed this season by her
husband.
The Maoriland domestic Mary Ann or
house Biddy has formed herself into a union, and
has cited her mistress to a conference re hours of
servitude and the like. The S.M. Herald’s
correspondent says it is “ a preposterous demand,”
but Maori Mary Ann has good precedent to go
upon. A few years ago the aggregate local missus
arose in her wooden house and formed a union
which fixed the slavey’s wages at not more than
10s. a week. The pay might be as much less as
the girl would put up with, but it must not be
more; and hours were unlimited. Now Mary
Maori Ann retaliates, and tbe missus boils over in
her wooden house, and the S.M. Herald says
it is “ preposterous.”
* * * *
That the development of prosperity is
based upon the ditto of human intelligence is
manifested by the fine display of the products of
intelligence at the Melbourne A.N.A. Exhibition.
A white community, havingits thinking machinery
oiled by D.C.L. Whisky can achieve anything.
It can get even wisdom into its politics. Wisdom
and D.C.L. go together. Both are contained in
the same human vessel, after the “vessel” has
had a judicious “ wet.”*
“ A.C.D.” on a marine matter :
The steamer Centennial, which left Launceston for
Maoriland in October last, has never since been seen or
heard of. This fact, and the recent wreck of the fine
barque, Eden Holme, on the Hebe Reef, Northern Tas-
mania, recall the remarkable events connected with the
loss of the barques Brier Holme (a sister ship) and Acacia
on the West Coast of Tasmania, in November, 1905. It
was then that the Government of Tas., although having
an ex-captain at its head, showed how frightfully incom-
petent it really could be when faced with a problem
requiring a little foresight and prompt action. Like the
Centennial, the Acacia left Tas., and was never again
seen. Many weeks passed without tidings, and finally
the Government, after a deal of pressure had been
brought to bear, decided to send a boat in search. This
was done—on the save-expense-at-any-cost plan. A frail
river steamer was chartered for a few days to explore a
notoriously dangerous coast. Needless to say, the expe-
dition was a gigantic failure, for the little vessel dared
not venture near Port Davey, just where it should
have gone. The Government said it had done
its duty, and let the matter drop. By this time
fears were also aroused for the safety of the
Brier Holme, nearly a month overdue from London.
Nothing more was done, however, until the news
reached Hobart that a party of fishermen had discovered
some wreckage of the Brier Holme close to Port Davey,
and were bringing to town the sole survivor, a sea-
man named Larsen. This man was wandering
along the wild coast, living on scraps washed up from
the wreck, at the very time the so-called expedition was
professing to look for wrecks but carefully keeping away
from the only place where they were likely to be found.
A few more weeks passed, and then once more the fisher-
men brought a story of shipwreck. They had discovered,
not a great distance from the wreck of the Brier Holme,
pieces of timber belonging to the Acacia, a sailor’s chest,
and several skeletons on the beach. Not a soul of this
vessel was saved. But for the fishermen, Larsen would
probably have died of exposure, and the fate of both ships
would have remained for ever a mystery. Will the fate
of the Centennial also be solved by fishermen ? Tas-
mania’s nautical Premier seems to be eminently fitted
to run a ferry boat in calm water when he has the channel
all to himself.
• • * «
This soul-uplifting item is from a recent
Melbourne Argus :
According to the members of a deputation introduced
to the Premier (Mr. Bent) by Mr. Balfour, M.L.C., yester-
day, considerable alterations were made in the religious
instruction of the idiots at Kew Asylum when one of the
present medical officers took charge. It had for years
been customary to hold devotional services, in which all
the idiots took part, every night; while the walls of the
ward were decorated with texts such as “ God Bless Our
Home," “Comfort the Feeble Minded,” and “Love One
Another.” The nightly prayers were stopped, and the
texts were taken from the walls; while at the recent
Christmas celebration the origin of Christmas was not
explained to the patients. Mr. Bent sympathised with
the obj’ects of the deputation, and undertook to see that
the old order was reverted to immediately.
There were two parsons on the deputation, and
they must have been extra humorless, even for
parsons. And Bent —fat, chuckling Bent, who
has a sort of loud twopenny mirth about him—
Erofessed to take them seriously, and promised to
ave “God Bless Our Home ” hung up afresh in
an asylum (of all places), and to have the origin of
Christmas explained to the hopeless cases.
Sydney has another outbreak of plague—
possibly ascnbable to the breaking up of a low
Chinese slum and the consequent scattering
around of infection. But the city will never be
immune from attack until the harbor is encircled
by a rat-proof wall—a work which is taken up
with feverish activity at every plague outbreak
and dropped with blank indifference when the
scare subsides.
X * * *
N.S.W. Minister for Lands Ashton has
been telling a tale about how, a couple of weeks
back, when dressing in the sheds provided for the
purpose, after a plunge in the breakers at Bondi,
he was interviewed by a police constable, who
took his name for being needlessly nude in a
public spot, or some such crime. A nude Cabinet
Minister is apparently not more formidable than
a nude ordinary elector, for the policeman was
deaf to all remonstrances. But when the criminal
had got into the balance of his clothes, Policeman
X sighted his member’s pass, and adding that to the
fact that th8 name was Ashton, he realised some-
thing, and threw out his large feet in flight. The
Waverley residents, when they heard the yarn,
swarmed upon the Minister as a deputation, with
a request for new dressing-sheds, and he enthusi-
astically voted them £250 on the spot.
• * * *
“ Wilhelmina Schuur ” : Rural South Aus.
nearly lost track of all its domestic servants re-
cently. Just before Xmas, as if by common con-
sent, girls began throwing up their billets all over
the country and going home to perceive mother.
Registry offices were besieged by hotel and
boarding-house proprietors—especially those at
holiday resorts. One man, on bended knees, im-
plored the services of a plain cook at £2 per week;
another prayed the registry office for the love of
God to send him something in skirts at 30s. per
week to do housemaid’s duty. The ordinary
salaries were 15s. and 10s. respectively. At time
of writing the supply isn’t equal to the demand,
and I’m just seizing my hat to rush round to take
a position as a scullery maid. It’s more lucrative
than literature.
THE UNKNOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man, ever boastful, swears he’s caged the thunder,
And sent the lightnings on his far behests ;
And yet, for all he’s learned, I inly wonder
How much he really knows, with all his “ tests,”
And whether, ’mid them all, there be no blunder
Malgr6 his proud arrays of “ cells ” and “ chests,”
Or could he tell, with something like felicity.
What’s Light, what Heat, or what is Electricity ?
Some dreamers deem them one —perchance they’re right,
And trace where Science prates of “ pole ” and “ pole ”
Some glimmer of the Universal Light,
Some burning witness of the living Soul,
Some tell-tale evidenoe of matchless Might
Far past the puny power of Man’s control;
So Man, who’s doubtless learned a precious lot,
Has blindfold dealings with ... he knows not what.
VIC.
G.G.McC.
THE VILLAIN
AND
THE
LADY
“ThE't SMD SHE WAS A PRETTY PRUDE.,
Wrso HE THE VU-LKIfM VNHO pursued.
[ L OO KED /«kND SAW THE CHPMN WAS THERE
VyiTH WHICH SHE DRACCED HIH\ AFTER HEP.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO..
ROBEY’S
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc. e
Material and Mining 1 Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. op Sydney
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1900 £50,880 10 p.c. = £50,000 £BBO £1,030,152
Dec., 1900 61,509 10 „ „ 50,000 1,509 1,031,061
June, 1901 61,228 10 „ ~ 50,020 1,228 1,032,889
Dec., 1901 61,249 10 „ „ 50,000 1,249 1,034,138
June, 1902 61,254 10 ~ ~ 50,000 1,254 1,035,392
Dec., 1902 51,455 10 „ „ 50,000 1,455 1,036,847
June, 1903 58,768 10 ~ ~ 50,000 8,768 1,045,615
Dec., 1903 64,649 10 „ „ 50,000 14,649 1,060,264
June, 1904 65,555 10 „ „ 50,000 15,555 1,075,819
Dec., 1904 65,570 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,570 1,091,389
June, 1905 65,204 10 ~ „ 50,000 15,204 1,106,593
Dec., 1905 65,263 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,263 1,121,856
June, 1906 66,022 10 ~ „ 50,000 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906 67,982 10 ~ „ 50,000 17,982 1,155,860
As usual for SQme time past, the most striking- thing
about this bank’s accounts is the large proportion of
liquid assets. No less than 64 per cent, of all debts to
llc * includ ing deposits, is represented by coin
(£3,177,153), money at short call in London (£1,310,400),
public stocks, and similar securities. Take this com-
parison :
Dec., ’O5. Dec., ’O6.
Notes in circulation.. £488,627 £551,590 Inc. £62,963
Bills in circulation .. 821,883 1,439,722 „ 617,839
Deposits-&c 13,165,595 14,360,145 ~1,194,550
Liquid assets .. .. 7,877,418 8,708,252 ~ 830, 534
Advances .. .. 8,318,151 9,391,533 „ 1,073,352
Premises, &c 459,425 464,750 „ 5,325
Debts to the public amount to £16,351,457 ; liquid assets
total £8,708,252. Just at present, owing to the special
demand for money in England, a good deal of this vast
sum is earning pretty good interest, though otherwise it
is doing mighty little good to Australia ; to some extent,
in fact, it is being used to promote foreign industries
that suppress Australian industries. But, anyhow this
demand will not last. What then? Unless an Aus-
tralian demand is created to take its place, the
best this and other banks can hope for is to
earn 3£ p.c. or so by investing largely in Govern-
ment securities. And that isn’t banking, however
desirable it may be for banks to have good blocks of
public securities to represent reserves. Quite apart from
the £1,310,400 which the Commercial of Sydney has on
short call in London, it has liquid assets representing
nearly 46 per cent, of its liabilities ; and without knowing
exactly the character of its deposits and the proportion
of free and fixed, it seems safe to say that 40 percent,
would provide ample security. In other words, it looks
as though the Commercial could comfortably finance
Australian industries to the extent of another £650,000 if
they were here to finance ; and if they were here and
flourishing*, the other £1,310,400 now in London would
certainly find more profitable employment than it is
doing even under the present unusual conditions t’other
side.
For every £1 of its own money in the business
the Commercial has £7 12s. of the public’s. Considering
the public confidence with which it is favored in this
way, its profits (accepting them as disclosed) are com-
paratively small.; on the basis of capital and reserves
combined they have lately run as follows:
June, 1903 ..£5 15 4p.e.
Dec., 1903 .. 6 6 5 „
June, 1904 .. 6 7 3 „
Dec., 1904 .. 6 6 4 „
June, 1905 ..£6 4 Bp.c.
Dec., 1905 .. 6 3 10 „
June, 1906 .. 6 4 6 „
Dec., 1906 .. 6 7 3
This is per annum, of course. Supposing: the public’s
money in use earns only one-half per cent, per annum
net: an extra million of the deposits out would mean
just upon ss. percent, added to profits on the basis of
shareholders’ funds; it would mean exactly * per
cent, on capital alone. The creation of new securities is
really the largest question in Australian banking. And
it is the most urgent. While they are absent, the
weaker banks simply chase up speculative land values ;
and that is the roundabout road to smash. Certainly
there is a vast difference between the present Australian
boom and the boom of the early nineties. The former
is based on a run of good seasons and good values ; the
ninety boom was based on borrowed money. But while
the banks don’t now run the risk they ran then of being
called on by nervous foreign depositors, they are not
much better off so far as really earning money is con-
cerned now than they were then. It is a deplorable
thing that we should have four fat years and millions of
money, and can make no better use of it than to let it lie
in the banks while we have a gamble with it on ’Change
or ship it to some country which will put it into the
same sort of factories that we want in Australia, and
then make those foreign factories fat and prosperous by
buying their wares and saying good-bye to our money for
good.
* * * *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney) :
Profits
by Pur-
chase of
Depreci- Added Nominal
Banking ated Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Deposits. Off. serves. serves.
June, 1900.. £2,057 £20,565 £22,622 £173 537
Dec., 1900.. 2,548 19,963 22,511 196,048
June, 1301 .. 13,465 21,947 £ll,OOO 24,412 220 460
Dec., 1901 .. 3,584 12,663 16,247 236 707
June, 1902.. 2,043 20,840 22,883 259 590
Dec., 1902.. 3,463 17,659 21,022 280 612
June, 1903 .. 4,190 18,384 22,574 303’186
Dec., 1903 1,;166 21,760 - 22,926 326,’ 112
Capital written down from £1,168,042 to £154 529
June, 1904 .. 2,459 ‘ 326,112 2 459
Dec., 1904.. 2,964 - _ 2 ,964 bi'Ki
June, 1905.. 2,144 2 144 7b&7
Dec., 1905.. 1,421 _ 8,988
June, 1906.. 1,523 _ i j52 3 i oi sn
Dec., 1906 .. 2,423 2,423 12,934
As the result of repeated miscalculations, it became
necessary in 1896 for this lank to make a re-re-arrange-
ment with its creditors. Deposit receipts were accord-
nigly divided into A and B series—the former to be paid
off in 10 years, the latter in two equal instalments in
1912 and 1917. The last of the A deposits thus fell due
this month, and there now remain only the B deposits to
struggle with. There are apparently £3,023,259 of them
and they carry 3 percent., with another 1 percent, if and
when profits permit it. As they are worth only 14 S 6d
in the £, the general opinion seems to be that profits
will not permit it within the time named. Still, a great
deal of the wreckage of the smash of ’93 has been cleared
off; for at date, of suspension, in April of that
year, the fixed deposits reached £8,498,590, and the
current accounts another £1,797,741. How it has
been done can’t be said very definitely ; but the
processes have included the wiping out of the formal
reserves which stood at £529,372, the inner reserve
which was said to be £240,093, and about £1,020 000 of
capital (and, unfortunately, you can’t help out the situ-
ation by forfeiting the same lot of capital and reserves
twice). Also, purchases of deposits have been made at a
heavy discount. Formerly the profit on these trans-
actions was shown ; nowadays it is not mentioned The
A.J.S. has a large capacity for not mentioning things
Apparently, there is an idea on its gloomy and decaying
premises that everybody concerned ought to trust it
blindly—on its past record for good judgment, no doubt
What the true position is it is, therefore,
impossible to say. The gross profits were said to be
£111,628 last half-year—that is, profit without de-
ducting costs of management or interest. Liquid
assets which are earning money are about £850,000 ;
allowing £16,000 to be thus earned, then the non-
liquid assets show just about 4J per cent, per
annum gross, even if they earn all the rest of the
profit and not a penny comes in from exchange, &c.
The new business is included in the figures ; no doubt
some of that is very profitable. If so, so much the worse
for the old business. It is just possible that a little
better progress will be made now, as the money that
conies in from realisations can be used to buy up the B
deposits at a heavy discount, while recently the bank
couldn’t do a great deal more than meet the annual in-
stalments of A deposits as they fell due.
The bank has liquid assets amounting to
£1,564,065, or, after paying off the A deposits, £1,310,900 ;
it owes the public (including interest) £1,392,438.
The new business is, therefore, most completely pro-
tected ; the bank has liquid assets in actual excess of the
new deposits. That is all very well; but there is another
side to the matter. At December 31st this bank had
£4,070,898 of old fixed deposits, carrying 3 per cent., not
to mention new deposits, and it had only £3,954,151 of
advances (including the old shocking ones). Its interest
bill was £68,293 for the half-year, or at the rate of £3 9s.
per cent, per annum of the'total advances ; and its ex-
penses were £40,912, or at the rate of £2 2s. per cent, of
the advances. The expenses of the Bank of Victoria
were £40,358 for £5,586,434 of advances, or just over
£llos. per cent. ; and the Royal Bank of Queensland paid
interest, &c., at the rate of only £2 Bs. per cent, of its ad-
vances ; and neither of these are more than very moderately
profitable banks. The A. J.S. may pull through, though
it is a shocking pull-through when any depositors get
only 14s. 6d. in the £ ; but something will have to be
done if current business is to help it, as it is helping, say,
the Commercial of Australia. The latter concern has
now £4,479,251 of new deposits, and £4,700,345 of new
advances, and expenses ran to £62,973 last half year ; and,
in spite of the security it offers, the A.J.S. has only
£1,579,392 of new deposits, £3,954,151 of old and new
advances put together, and its expenses amounted to
£40,913. It wants shaking up—before 1912, too, when
the B depositors will drop in.
* » * »
In 1901 the Royal Bank of Queensland decided
to issue 30,000 new shares, £lO each, fully paid, with a
3J percent, preference. But the issue wasn’t a success ;
apparently the whole preference capital is still less than
£3OOO. Now that Queensland is in a pretty good way and
the Royal is paying 4 per cent, all round, ordinary share-
holders are being offered the preference shares that
weren’t previously applied for. After getting their 3*
per cent, they rank with ordinaries for dividend ; that is,
they get 4 per cent (say) if there’s enough to pay 4 per
cent, all round. No doubt it is a favorable time to
get in capital, though it looks as though the Royal
were in need of more public money rather than of
more shareholders’ money. At present it has nearly
10s. of shareholders’ money in the business for every £1 of
the public’s, and the new issue will bring the proportions
even closer together. Certainly it will mean safety for
depositors, and that may tell in the end ; but for some
time to come it will keep the profit rate low. But,
though the wisdom of the present issue of preference
capital may be doubtful, there’s little doubt it will pay
ordinary shareholders to themselves seize the preference
issue rather than let anybody else step in ahead of them.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Gas 00. (Melbourne)
Works Writ-
Charged ten
to Re- off Re-
Profits. Dividends. venue. Stocks, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 00..58,727 8 p.c.*=£34,288 1,442 555 521
June, ’01..53,955 9 „ „ 38,574 9,758 561’144
Dec., ’01..56,872 9 ~ ~ 38,574 10,725 565’717
June, ’02..50,212 9 „ ~ 38,574 11,643 568’712
Dec., ’02..50,454 9 ~ „ 38,574 5,172 5665 569,’755
June, ’03..46,776 9 „ „ 38,574 7,573 570 384
Dec., ’03..52,017 9 ~ „ 38,574 9,481 2000 572,346
June, ’04..48,971 9 „ ~ 38,574 6,901 575 842
Dec., ’04..51,941 9 „ „ 38,574 19,293 1434 568,482
June, ’05..52,588 10 „ „ 42,860 4,207 3207 670 796
Dec., ’05..56,565 10 „ „ 42,860 4,841 4660 575’c00
June, ’06..54,324 10 „ „ 42,860 10,672 3101 572 691
Dec., ’06..60,833 10 ~ „ 42,860 13,651 4291 572,’722
Of the past half-year’s profit £3344 was made from the sale
of land and material; ordinary trading profit was £57,489.
The extra profit is credited to reserve fund account,’ out
of which plant-extensions, &c., are paid. The reserves con-
sist of premium capital £466,536, meter reserve £2l 144
formal reserve £82,592, and undivided profit £2450. ’The
amount shown as written off is represented by £2791 meter
depreciation and £l5OO appropriated to gas stoves account
the latter an item found necessary because the rent
charged for stoves does not directly pay the co. In
other words, it is a subsidy paid to people to burn ga 3 in
stoves. Besides these amounts, repairs, renewals, and
maintenance, charged against revenue direct, amount to
£22,470, which is, as usual, at the rate of about 5 p.c. p.a.
on the total capital expenditure. The co.’s debts include
£848,000 of debentures ; of these the co. itself now holds
£50,000. The only other debts, apart from accrued in-
terest, are sundry accounts, £22,492. Some further
results
Total Net
Capital Revenue In-
Expen- Net on terest
Dec., ‘ diture. Revenue. Outlay'. Paid.
1891 .. £1,985,379 £103,059 £lO 7 8 p.c. £lB 550
1896.. 2,127,070 57,211 5 77 „ 21918
1901 .. 2,138,182 77,257 7 4 6 „ 20’355
1905.. 2,149,842 76,950 7 3 3 „ 20 385
1906.. 2,149,842 77,873 7411 „ 20’,385
That slump between 1891 and 1896 was as amazing as a
good many other things that happened during that time
In the 10 years since 1896 it will be seen that there has
been very little work charged to capital; what extensions
there have been, besides renewals, have been charged to
revenue ; and, though the last five years don’t show any
higher rate of earnings, as they should do when new
works are paid for out of revenue, there is a fine improve-
ment compared with 10 years ago. Still, even if the
co. has put into plant a little to the good over and above
depreciation, it’s practically the only provision for re-
serve it has m.ade ; and, so far as cash or liquid assets
are concerned, it hasn’t a penny more towards paying off
the debentures, which begin to fall due next year than
it had five years ago. The first of those debentures to
come due, by the way—£s6o,ooo of them—carry 5 per
cent, interest; so there’s a saving for the co. sticking
out there. 0
* * » ,
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney):
. . To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1900 .. £47,879 15 p.c. = £51,135 £ll3 qqq
Lee., 1900.. 54,033 15 „ „ 51,135 £2898 116 891
June, 1901.. 48,352 15 „ „ 51,135 lu’ins
Dec., 1901 .. 56,818 15 „ „ 51,918 4900 119008
June, 1902.. 49,954 15 „ „ 55,045 m’oi7
Dec., 1902 .. 61,546 15 „ „ 56,205 5341 119 258
June, 1903 .. 51,703 15 „ „ 56,250
Dec., 1903 .. 60,445 15 „ „ 56,250 4195 lis’9o6
June, 1904.. 52,187 15 „ „ 56,250 - 114 843
Dec., 1904.. 61,555 15 „ „ 56,250 5305 120 148
June,1905.. 53,343 15 „ „ 56,818 n0’673
Dec., 1905 .. 63,623 15 „ „ 59,284 4339 121 012
June, 1906.. 56,237 15 „ „ 59,971 117 278
Dec., 1906 .. 65,461 15 ~ „ 59,996 5465 122,’743
There are also the following that look like reserves
June, ’O6. Dec., ’O6.
Suspense a/cs, includ-
ing premium capital.. £277,351 £294,397 Inc. £l7 046
Meter reserve .. .. 11,748 11,151 Dec. ’597
£289,099 £305,548 Inc. 16,449
Premium capital used to be lumped with suspense
accounts ; this half-year it is set at £232,092 and shown
separately. In other respects, however, the published
accounts are as meagre as formerly; and neither the
amount spent on renewals, nor the amount written off
plant out of profits, nor the amount spent on extensions
out of profits (which is another way of writing down
plant) is disclosed. A comparison of some items may
throw a flicker of light on the situation :
Dec., ’96. Dec., 'Ol. Dec., 'O6.
Capital .. .. £681,798 £702,900 £799,947
Reserves .. .. 299,301 396,960 488,935
Debts to public .. 331,800 395,189 350.804
Plant, land, &c. .. 1,040,747 1,141,001 1,256,068
Stores, &c 167,380 243,358 297,532
Cash, &c 104,772 110,690 116,086
Profits .. .. 54,898 56,818 65,461
The reserves here include suspense accounts, and are
before paying dividend. The practical question is : What
sum is made in addition to the disclosed profits ?
In other words, are profits being stuffed away any-
where, or, on the other hand, is enough being allowed
for depreciation ? If any large amount of undisclosed
profit had been put into works, the tendency would, of
course, be for the percentage of profits to grow, reckon-
ing on the basis of capital expenditure. Now, on the
book value of plant, land, &c., in the last half of 1896, the
return was at the rate of £lO Is. lid. per cent, per
annum ; in the last half of 1901 it was £9 19s. 3d. per
cent. ; in the past half-year, £lO os. lid. per cent.
Accepting the disclosed profits as correctly showing the
position, then the plant, &c., on present value is giving
less than the return it gave 10 years ago ; so that if any
revenue has been scuffed away in works, the profit it
should be earning has been somehow counterbalanced.
There was a reduction in price of gas in 1898 ; that was
the last, though up to that time small reductions had
been frequent in the previous five or six years. In the
last half of 1899 (the year after the reduction to 45.) the
profit was at the rate of £9 14s. 4d. per cent. ;
in 1901, as shown just now, it was £9 19s. 3d. per
cent. ; last half-year, £loos. lid. percent. At the present
price of gas there is thus a steady growth in the profits,
reckoning them on this basis ; and that points to the
growing value of the plant, &c., which may be due to
additions out of profits or to the growth of population.
It is questionable, however, whether that means more
dividend for shareholders : reckoning in premiums along
with capital, they are getting over 11J p.c., and for the
supply of a public necessity like lighting, that may possi-
bly be as much as the public will stand—it certainly is as
much as it ought to stand. A reduction in price
seems to be indicated ; and, of course, that means an
advantage to the co. in binding the lighting business
closer to itself.
* * * •
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1896 .. £3,361 6 per cent. =£lsoo £lB6l £9,397
1897 .. 4,588 6 „ „ 1500 3088 12,485
1898 .. 3,633 7 „ „ 1750 1883 14,368
1899 .. 4,010 7 ~ „ 1750 2260 16,628
1900 .. 4,538 8 „ „ 2000 2538 19,106
1901 .. 4,754 8 „ ~ 2000 2754 21,920
1902 .. 7,237 10 „ „ 2500 4737 26,657
1903 .. 10,519 10 „ „ 2500 8019 34,676
1904 .. 12,200 10 „ „ 2500 9700 44,376
1905 .. 1,719 10 ~ „ 2500 43,595
1906 .. 6,408 10 „ ~ 2500 3908 47,503
This profit, at the rate of £9 6s. lOd. per cent, on the
capital and reserves, is arrived at after writing £l5OO off
the co.’s city premises, which now stand in the books at
£lB,OOO. In view of the fact that the whole of the
capital (£25,000) is represented by a Treasury deposit or
Australian (Sydney) Gas Co.’s debentures, the return is
excellent. The larger the reserves invested in gilt-
edged securities in proportion to the business, the
nearer the return is, of course, likely to get to the actual
return on the investments themselves. Thus if the profit
from commissions in a co. were £5OOO and the reserves
were £5OOO and the capital £25,000, invested at 4 per
cent., the profit would show £2O 13s. 4d. per cent, on
the shareholders’ funds. But if the reserves (still in-
vested at 4 per cent.) were £50,000, and the commission
profits were the same £5OOO, the co.’s profits on capital
and reserves combined would be then only £l2 per cent.
The gradual shrinkage of earnings per cent, of funds
doesn’t therefore mean that these trustee cos. are any
less profitable than they were. Apparently a proportion
of the commission (usually 2J per cent.) on the capital
value of the estates that come into this office is put aside
to assist the annual commission in meeting the cost of
subsequent management. In 1905 a considerable drain
had to be made upon these reserved commissions ; last
year there was a small addition to them. The accounts
might be presented this way :
Current Commissions Written
Profits. Reserved. Off.
1901 .. £4474 .. £548 .. £268
1902 .. 6911 .. 651 .. 325
1903 .. 6320 .. 4199 .
1904 .. 8218 .. 3982 ..
Taken from Re-
served Commissions.
1905 .. 7333 .. 608 .. 5006
Commissions
Reserved.
1906 .. 7683 .. 225 .. 1500
The reserved commissions (included with the reserves
above) are to some extent not true reserves, as they are
thus liable to be drawn upon. The estates in hand
amount to £6,051,681 ; five years ago the total was
£4,501,516, so that the increase has been just about 33J
p.c. in five years. As nearly as it can be ascertained,
management by the co. costs an estate annually on the
average about ss. Od. p.c. of capital value, and even ss.
p.c. means £3900 a year for the extra £1,550,165. The
co.’s own costs run to 3s. 9d. p.c.—a fairly high rate ; but
people who put their affairs into a trustee eo.’s hands
(making a fixed deposit there, so to speak) don’t want a
low rate ; they want effectiveness.
» * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Aojsncv Co. (Ballarat, Yic.)
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1960 .. £941 8 p.c. = £6OO £341 £726
Dec., 1900 .. 1090 8 „ „ 600 490 1 216
June, 1901 .. 1113 8,, „ 600 513 1.729
Dec., 1901 .. 1252 10 „ „ 750 502 2,231
June, 1902 .. 1748 10 „ „ 750 998 3,229
Dec., 1902 .. 1391 10 „ „ 750 641 3,870
June, 1903 .. 1248 10 „ „ 750 498 4,368
Dec., 1903 .. 1529 10 ~ „ 750 779 5 147
June, 1904 .. 1268 10 „ „ 750 518 5,665
Dec., 1904 .. 1503 10 ~ „ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905 .. 1547 10 „ „ 750 797 7,215
Dec., 1905 .. 1834 12 ~ ~ 900 934 8 149
June, 1906 .. 1773 10 „ „ 750 1023 9,’172
Dec., 1906 .. 1858 12 „ „ 900 958 10,130
This most successful co. spent its earlier years getting
rid of a goodwill deficit. ‘Now it has a verv solid little
lot of securities; it has £20,094 in public funds, and
£3BOO of mortgages and properties, while the balance of
capital (£15,000) and reserves are represented by cash.
At the end of 1904 }t had £1,016,734 of trust properties in
hand ; the present total is £1,242,144, an increase of
£225,410, worth probably £7OO a year to the co. ; yet the
increased cost of management is only at the rate of
£268 a year. On capital and reserves the profits are
worth £l5 7s. sd. per cent, per annum ; but as against
the dizziness of that it has to be remembered that a
trustee co. can’t hope to make much headway if it
pouches all its profits. They are nearly always large,
but a big slice ■of them must go to reserves, which
amount really to a testators’ guarantee fund. Unfor-
tunately, the testators are too dead to attend meetings
when the trustee co. gets to work ; otherwise they would
probably form a co-operative co., and whack profits
among the estates concerned. Meantime, the trustee co.
is the best alternative : it never commits suicide ; never,
in fact, dies even without going to the trouble of suicide ;
and it puts up a guarantee that it won’t play monkey-
tricks with its trusts.
* * * *
The North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S. Wales)
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- off Re- Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1900 £5581 £663 8 p.c. = £5250 £26,763
Dec., 1900 5518 736 8 „ „ 5250 27 767
June, 1901 5445 40 8 ~ ~ 5250 28,002
Dec., 1901 5480 8 ~ „ 5250 £BO 28,152
June, 1902 5507 13,097 8 ~ „ 5250 41 506
Dec., 1902 3988 2,894 8 „ „ 6250 43,138
June, 1903 2583 6 „ „ 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903 2665 500 6 ~ ~ 3938 40,820
June, 1904 3992 775 6 ~ ~ 3938 41,649
Dec., 1904 6596 3,987 8 ~ ~ 5250 45,982
June, 1905 5860 4,542 8 ~ ~ 5250 51,134
Dec., 1905 6230 852 8 ~ ~ 5602 52,614
June, 1906 7245 1,000 8 „ ~ 6750 54,109
Dec., 1906 8021 1,500 8 „ „ 7000 56,630
m ses?
of presumabl y hav e to stand part of the racket
of losses (there are outside insurances for £lO3 500) and
ti « * * xtrao . r dinary repairs. But in addition “o
writing Xm he v 18 a SOrt of internal reserve, made by
writing down ship property out of profits * so that »
Stand at nofchin ff °r thereabouts by the time
tin h leces 00 a Norther n bar. It is impossible to
ell from the accounts what this allowance for deprecia.
its flee’t °wh^h 0 ' T, 1 ! 10 ! 00 ' doesn,t ' even Publish a*ljst of
! hp?S- a h f h wo >! d be some guide. These figures are,
t, be o r f fo *- e . n .°t worth as much as they might be if there
was further information behind them i
Panifpl D ®°-> l ; Sbd Dec-. 1901 June, 1906 Dec., 1906
Capital .. ±,121,743 £131,250 £175,000 £202 665
5*5“ veB 22,541 33,402 60,859 63,631
Debt to public 48,020 61,160 30,313 13 698
Ship property 84,447 114,641 201,179 197 440
Freeholds 77,510 82,117 24,631 24,’11S
Sundry debtors 15,351 18.814 28 354 26 714
Ouher assets.. 14,996 10,240 12,008 81,730
?i‘?. 7 oa s‘. tal at J ] ? ec - 31st consisted of 200,000 shares paid
to 17s. fed., and 50,000, lately allotted in the proportion of
one to four, on which £27,665 in all has been paid—
mostly in advance. Of these shares 100,000 have beenissued
at par during the past two years, and as the dividend is
8 per cent., and the market price about 255. 6d
these issues have amounted to something handsome
in the way of bonus. The authorised capital is, how-
ever, only £250,000, so that the authorised issue
of new shares is exhausted, though there is still the
half-crown a share to work on. It seems prettv certain
that considerable amounts of profit, or what may turn
out to be profit, are being hidden away by writing down
freeholds and ship properties ; but nothing definite can
be said about it. The increase of liquid assets is signifi-
cant ; and there is the fact that, though purchases of
vessels were made during the past half-year—a new one
was delivered and another was bought—the book value
of the ship property has shrunk.
* * * .
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
property valuers, salesmen, &e. :
Deficit
In (Goodwill
Reduction not
of reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an Asset).
Dec., 1901.. £3313 5p.c.=£1500 £lBl3 £46,670
June, 1902.. 3263 5 ~ „ 1500 1763 44,907
Dec., 1902.. 2993 5 „ „ 1500 1493 43,414
June, 1903.. 1746 5 ~ ~ 1500 246 43,168
Dec., 1903.. 2055 5 „ „ 1500 555 42,613
June, 1904.. 1611 5 „ „ 1500 111 42,502
Dec., 1904.. 1622 5 ~ „ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905.. 1661 5 ~ ~ 1600 161 42,219
Dec., 1905.. 1730 5 ~ ~ 1500 230 41,989
June, 1906.. 1830 5 „ „ 1500 330 41,659
Dec., 1906.. 2704 5 „ „ 1500 1204 40,455
The co. was formed in 1889, and paid the enormous sum
of £57,500 for goodwill in a property agency. In the 17
years since then, £17,045 has been lifted from that
load; that sum, now in Treasury bills or on
deposit, is earning (say) £6OO a year, so that
the wiping out of the paper item ought to be more rapid
as time moves on. At the best, however, there’s a long
struggle ahead—a struggle with a very dead horse ; while
such value as the goodwill ever had is shrinking as new
competitors come along. In fact, the present goodwill
isn’t the old goodwill—the present goodwill has been
made mostly by the present men and not the old ones.
But the same old dead-horse that the land boom of
1889 and thereabouts washed up and left on the pre-
mises, is still there. The present excess of liquid assets
over liabilities, after paying dividend, is £18,943, equal
to 65..3d. per share. The market adds another 7s. 6d. or
so to this for goodw ill, old and new—say £22,500, instead
of the £42,000 at which it still stands in the balance sheet.
On the whole, it is surprising that shareholders are con-
tent to leave their £19,000 or so wdth the co., to be made
no better use of than to be lent on fixed deposit. It
seems to be a case for severe writing down of capital,
and, possibly, the return of some of the cash in hand,
presuming that the co. can make no more remunerative
use of it.
* * * »
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 .. £10,183 20 p.c. =£lo,ooo £lB3 £51,654
June, 1901 .. 15,534 30 ~ „ 15,000 534 52,188
Dec., 1901 .. 17,968 35 „ „ 17,500 468 52,656
June, 1902 .. 17,645 35 ~ ~ 17,500 145 52,801
Dec., 1902 .. 17,673 35 ~ ~ 17,500 173 52,974
June, 1903 .. 15,202 30 ~ ~ 15,000 202 53,176
Dec., 1903 .. 9,566 20 ~ ~ 10,000 52,742
June, 1904 .. 4,009 15 ~ ~ 7,500 49,251
Dec., 1904 .. 5,003 10 „,, 5,000 3 49,254
June, 1905 .. 5,027 10 ~ „ 5,000 2 7 49,281
Dec., 1905 .. 3,759 10 ~ ~ 5,000 48,040
June, 1906 .. 5,093 10 ~ ~ 5,000 93 48,133
Dec., 1906 .. 5,273 10 „,, 5,000 273 48,406
Ten years before the foregoing list opens, this co. was
paying as much as 42J per cent. ; but, for some years
after that it didn’t get beyond 15 per cent. ; and from
£42 in the rorty early nineties, the £lO shares had got
down to about £lB twelve months ago. Since then, how-
ever, they have looked up to about £24, which seems
to suggest that something better than a 10 p.c. divi-
dend had been expected. That part of the reserves
which is not represented by “loans with accrued
interest” is represented by “sundry debtors,” so that
the reserves are more solid than most mining cos.’;
still, mine, lands, plant, &c., stand in the balance-
sheet at £96,689 (the capital is £100,000), so that the mine,
&c., stands presumably for about the same as it did
many years ago, before any coal was cut out of it. Cer-
tainly, as the mine has become of less value, the co.’s
land may have grown in value, but there is no proof one
W'ay or the other. Five years ago, anyway, the
surplus of liquid assets over liabilities was £89,326;
at Dec. 31st last, it W'as only £60,817. The co. has
been making steady additions to plant, &c., but it
is clear from these figures that it hasn’t been able
to make them out of current profits, but has had to
pay for them out of former profits that had been put
to reserve. The reduction of formal reserves in the past
five years amounts, it is true, to only £3782; but,
then, there was formerly a “ general account,” repre-
sented by deposits, &c.. This stood at £20,568 at
theendof 1901, and now' it has apparently whoby dis-
appeared. Of course it is represented by other assets,
but they are not liquid—the money, which no doubt was
looked to for the return of capital, has gone back into
the mine. The co. is still in a far better way than most
of those at Newcastle ; but it is obviously suffering from
severe competition, which is another way of saying that
it is suffering from G. Reid and the freetraders who are
preventing it getting a large, brisk, protected Australian
market.
* * * *
Valeof Clwtdd Goal-Mining Co. (N.S.W.).—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 ..£1648 10 p.c. =£lsoo £l4B £757
June, 1901 .. 1546 10 ~ ~ 1500 46 803 -
Dec., 1901 .. 1899 10 „ ~ 1500 399 1202
June, 1902 .. 1794 10 „ „ 1500 294 1496
Dec., 1902 .. 1518 10 „ „ 1500 18 1514
June, 1903 .. 1541 10 „,, 1500 41 1555
Dec., 1903 .. 1880 10 ~ „ 1500 380 1935
June, 1904 .. 1618 10 ~ „ 1500 118 2053
Loss 7 •
Dec., 1904 .. 157 5 „ „ 750 >1146
Profits.
June, 1905 .. 1606 10 „ ~ 1500 106 1252
Dec., 1905 .. 2269 10 „ ~ 1500 769 2021
June, 1906 .. 1720 10 „ ~ 1500 220 2241
Dec., 1906 .. 2688 10 „ ~ 1500 1188 3429
But this is a coal-mining co., and coal-mining cos.’ profits
and reserves are not always the real thing. Of this co.’s
£2688, £5OO is charged direct to profit and loss and added
to reserves ; also £7OO is added to a “ reserve for im-
provements.” This may be merely a way of hiding
profits; on the other hand, it may be tnat the £7OO is
provision for W'ear and tear of plant, and the £5OO for
depreciation of mine. Plant and machinery stand at
£6OOO, as they did six months before ; land (freehold and
leasehold) at £14,656, and apparently £lOO has been
written off that item. Liquid assets two years ago
exceeded liabilities by £10,064; they now exceed them by
£14,133, which shows that the co. has paid its div. and got
£4069 to the good on a cash basis in two years. The co.’s
capital is £30,000, so that it now has nearly half of its
capital in deposits, &c. It is simply a coincidence
that the list above starts at the first half-year which saw
a 10 percent, div. Before that the div. ran from 5 per
cent, to nil—it was very often nil. The Lithgow Coal


ow
Make
] WC
our
0 r
-V
chaiit
win
! ie
Carried
out
m
%
%/
%
m.
m
w,
%
R
r«c^3!s
b«
%
■%/
I
5%
(UMiTE
'
COPPER.
All Classes of
Furnace Work
Executkd.
jjENKINS & Builders]
| W. JENKIKS is an Expert, and has SO years ex-
I perience of this class of work in Australia. Estimates
I supplied, labor or material. Correspondence invited.
I Address : CADI A COPPER MINE, via ORANGE, N.S.W.
Association had not, however, been born then, and the.
nfla feelipg the blessings of private enterprise and
free cotppetition.
Adelaide Tramway Trust has at last been
formed. The 8. A. Government nominated the Engineer-
in-Ohief and the'permanent Under-Treasurer ; the city,
Mayor Bruce and an alderman; the suburbs the other
tour' members. The seven tram companies receive their
agreed prioe of £280,000, and go out of existence. The
Xfust is at once to call for tenders for conversion of the
lines into'aVelectrio system, and will meanwhile control
the old 101 cars and the older 1156 horses.
* * * *
During December the returns and results of
the chief W. A. mines were as follows -.—Profits: Oroya,
11,5570 z., £35,760 ; Boulder, 13,6530 z., £28,000 ; Ivanhoe,
10,1520 z., £21,100; Kalgurli, 76360 z., £20,790; Horseshoe,
12,0870 z., £20,270; Perseverance,Cs2soz.,£l4,130;Fingall,
82760 z., £12,900 ; Associated Northern, 34040 z., £10,260 ;
Associated, 46040 z., £4160 ; Gwalia, 43670 z., £3710; South
Kalgurli, 29480 z., £3390 ; L.V. Consols, 32830 z., £1620;
Gwalia Consols, 8480 z., £lO6O ; Golden Pole, 10190 z.,
£B7O ; Cumberland, 6280 z., £920 ; Bellevue, 12230 z., £710;
Vivien, 5640 z., £690; Hannan’s Star, 6230 z., £435;
Golden Ridge, 4180 z., £370 ; Greenmount, 3970 z., £3OO ;
East Murchison United, 15230 z., £2O. Losses: Cosmo-
politan, U020z., £2890; Mt. Morgans, 17900 z., £B5O ;
Boulder Main Reef, 7080 z., £590 ; Craiggiemore, 3030 z.,
£250 ; North Feather, 4290 z., £550. The Lancefield new
plant treated 4279 tons for 16350 z., but no costs are given,
though there is probably a profit of £l5OO to £2OOO. The
Boulder’s profits are the highest for any month since it
began showing costs, about two years ago.
* * * •
The profits of most W.A. mines were much less
in December, 1906, than in December, 1905. Here are
some figures : Oroya, £35,760, against £39,900; Fingall,
£12,900, against £30,000; Ivanhoe, £21,100, against
£23,500 ; Horseshoe, £20,270, against £22,500; Persever-
ance, £14,130, against £19,900; Associated Northern,
£10,260, against £11,260 ; Gwalia, £3710, against £6740 ;
Associated, £4160, against £Bl5O ; South Kalgurli, £3390,
against £6200; L.V. Consols, £1670, against £2300;
Hainault, £1620, against £2OOO ; Pole, £B7O, against £2900 ;
North Feather, a loss of £550, against a profit of £2lOO ;
Cosmopolitan, a loss of £2890, against a profit of £4OO ;
Cumberland, £920, against £550 ; and Bellevue, £7lO,
against £3OO. But Boulder made £28,000 against £26,000,
and Kalgurli £20,790 against £16,680. They have that
list to themselves, though.
• * • •
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, during the past
three months has treated 4358 tons of oxidised ore for
tributors, at a profit to the co. of £1482. The available
oxidised ore is nearly exhausted, and it is likely that the
mill will close down shortly for alterations and exten-
sions to treat the harder sulphides. There is talk of
co. amalgamating with the Deep Levels, Main Reef, and
Chaffers, but they are such a lot of lame ducks that the
combine isn’t promising.
* * * *
Westralia Mount Morgans does not seem able
to get out of the slough into which muddling manage-
ment got it. Owing to neglect of sampling the returns
are most erratic. For instance, during October the ore
was worth 275. per ton, and the profit was £l6OO ; during
November the value was 305., and the profit £l4OO ; and
during December the value fell away to 20s. 3d., and
there was a loss of £B5O. The 107,872 new preference
shares issued in March realised £26,968 ; but the co. has
an overdraft of between £ll,OOO and £12,000, so is still in
Queer-street. The shoot from which £1,000,000 was won
above the third level cannot be found at the fourth,
fifth and sixth ; and has either petered out, or been
thrown to the west. It looks very much as if the co.
must reconstruct.
* » * •
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), will shortly start
its fourth level at 310 ft., and it depends a great deal on
the result whether shares will slump or boom. At 150 ft.
the reef averaged Bft. wide for a length of 400 ft. At
230 ft. it was only about half the width for the short
distance driven, and it may, or may not, be pinching.
The next level will settle this point, temporarily at least.
The value of the ore is given as 60s. per ton, but it had
better be remembered that the ore treated at the
Government mill from the 80ft. level was worth
40s. at most. Mine is to be equipped with an old
10-head mill from the Norseman G.M., and this will be
run on obsolete lines to save £2OO for a rockbreaker and
self-feeders, and so economy will be sacrificed. The six
months’ option secured in August will expire shortly,
and, judging by the share market, and the ore opened
up, the bargain will be closed. It is estimated that there
are at least 20,000 tons of ore in the mine, though it can-
not be called in sight, as it is not blocked out on three
sides.
• * » *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), after a long
struggle, has had to close the mill. The December return
showed 9s. Bd. per ton only, and this left a loss of 6s. per
ton, or £2890. Development is still being pushed ahead,
but results are far from encouraging. However, the
recently-acquired Cumberland may provide some better
grade ore, and enable the mill to be re-started. Costs
have been brought so low that sdwt. or 6dwt. stone would
leave a margin.
* • • •
Boulder Main Reef (W.A.) has only had two
crushings since manager Wauchope took charge, and this
is the result: —November, 2273 tons treated for a profit
of £160; December, 2654 tons treated for a loss of £590.
It looks as though former managers were right in saying
the mine was no good. It has been tested to 1700 ft., ana
all the lower levels have proved duffers.
* • « *
New floats crowd in. Biggest new Cloncurry
(Q.) venture is Mt. Cuthbert, to take over the Powers’
claims on the Leichhardt: 240,000 shares, of which the
vendors get 70,000 paids and £lO,OOO cash. The public
hasn’t yet come in, though. Properties are so far out
that ore has hitherto been dragged up to the Gulf,
instead of through Cloncurry to Townsville. Chief of
Powers’ claims is the Kalkaloon, from which 154 tons
sent to Waratah (N.S.W.) works gave 42 per cent, as an
average ; but that’s no criterion, for no poor ore would
be sent that distance. Same district supplies the Daisy
float, capital £15,000 —60,000 shares at 6s. ; 40,000 of them
contribs. Vendors got £lOOO cash. Charters Towers
took chief hand in this. In N.S. Wales the Snow-
ball, near Gundagai, worked over 30 years ago, is
being offered to the public: the vendor takes half the
600 £lO shares. The show once employed 400 men. That
seems to be reckoned a virtue ; yet if six men took a
drink from a billy, less would probably be thought of
what was left in the vessel than if only two men had had
ago at it. Ordinary laws, however, don’t apply to
mining—during boom time, anyway. Unless the vendors
have got an extra-good modern report on the show, the
grab of half the shares for a mine that has been aban-
doned for 25 years is pretty cheeky. Inverell is promot-
ing a co. to bore Elsmore Valley for the deep lead. This
district has given much metal, but the volcanic
rock has got over the lead, and that and water
and the necessity for a new shaft beat owners
hitherto. The venture is attractive, but it will
take more money than Inverell is likely to command.
It is the sort of venture that Bewick-Moreing’s people
might tackle. Blayney copper-mining and smelting ven-
ture has caught on in London, which asks for more shares
than are available. Of Out-West shows, Oanbelego
North’s £lO,OOO has been over-subscribed in Sydney and
Oobar on the strength of a report that the shaft in Can-
belego now has the lode all over the bottom, and that the
stuff is rich—up to 18 per cent.
• r * • *
There has been a set-back in “ Barriers ” because
London expected the Broken Hill Prop, to pay more than
2s. 6d. (£120,000) this quarter. Well, it’s London’s own
fault for allowing itself to be fooled. In the last half-
year during which work was carried on at full speed,
without any break through fire, &c., the output was
309,871 tons of ore. Last half-year (to May) it fell below
230,000 tons. Take, as an average, 144,000 tons a quarter.
There are 960,000 shares ; so every ton of ore has to pay
the quarterly dividend on nearly seven shares; that is
17s. 6d., with the div. at half-a-crown a share. And a
profit of 17s. 6d. per ton is something extra for Broken
Hill. For many years 13s. 6d. was thought first-rate ;
while for the last booming half-year for which
accounts have been issued, the profit ran to £1 os. 2d.
per ton. But a dividend of 3s. 6d. per share
would call for a profit of £1 4s. 6d. per ton. Cer-
tainly the co. may have something up its sleeve
with regard to zinc-treatment; but whatever it has up
there isn’t likely to be shaken down till the trouble
with the Potter process people is over. Anyway, the
figures of the Sulphide Corporation, which has been
handling zinc for years, prove that there is nothing
dazzling in zinc-treatment so far; while, so far as the
B.H. Pronrietary figures quoted above are concerned,
they include the profits taken into account from zinc-
treatmhnt as far as it has gone with that co.
* * * *
Diamond drilling at the upper levels of Block
10, Broken Hill, has not given satisfactory results. The
315 ft. bore west provided the assay department with
many samples of most uninteresting dirt, and the 415 ft.
level gave nothing better. This latter bore was not put
in as far as the drill would go, but its stoppage meant the
end of the drilling contract.
* * • *
The lone zinc-flotation pan at the Zinc Cor-
poration’s plant on the British mine, Broken Hill, has
been kept running, regardless of expense, since the
much too previous start was made a fortnight ago. It is
cheerfully awaiting its turn to be metamorphosed into
the old style of pan; and as the old style of pan gave
dissatisfaction, it can safely be assumed that the Zinc
Corporation isn’t making too good progress.
The British Broken Hill has a remarkable body
of carbonates at the 200 ft. level; the body was skimmed
past when the south drive was put in, and no one knew
that good luck was so near. There is no doubling the
richness of this body, which glistens in every face like a
jeweller’s window. Thompson’s shaft is being deepened,
and stoping is going on at the three upper levels. But
the ore bodies have, so far, proyed narrow and rather
poor. The only good ore is being broken from the 300 ft.
level. Thompson’s is practically a new mine, as nothing
but development work to the northward had been done
prior to the commencement of stoping a couple of
weeks ago. There are big possibilities for this section of
the British.
* * * *
Daily papers last week had a report that a
cash offer of £lOO,OOO, equal to £2 per share, had been
made for Queen Bee, Oobar, by its late chairman of
directors, John Fox. No such firm offer has been made ;
but there’s a substantial cash deposit ready for an option
at 25 per cent, ahead of the figure quoted.
* * * *
Budgery (N.S.W.) has appointed J. R. Godfrey
general manager. For years Godfrey was a N.S.W.
inspector of mines. He left that to manage Broken Hill
Block 14, but, on the big London-Melbourne crowd
getting control, he was soon at loggerheads with the
directors —which is in his favor. He has to prove himself
as a copper miner, while Budgery is proving itself as a
copper mine. # * *
Wyalong’s Golden Fleece (N.S.W.), owned by
a co. with its office at West Wyalong, and no doubt for
that reason not often paragraphed in the papers, sent
2125 tons to Cockle Creek works last year, and’ 320 tons
to a local battery. The net return was £14,591, out of
which £4BOO was paid in monthly divs., while £2200 went
to buy new plant and leases. The-ore came mostly from
between 360 ft. and 500 ft. of the eastern reef. Outlook
for this year is good : last year the shaft on the western
reef was sunk 150 ft. (to 650 ft.), and next month they will
set out to tap the eastern reef at 650 ft.—that will mean a
150 ft. crosscut. There will be then 150 ft. of backs on two
reefs for a length of 550 ft. ; and winzes have shown the
stuff to be worth about the satpe as was mined last year.
The co. has got in new boiler power and winding engine
(latter is capable of hauling from 3000 ft.), and when the
new equipment, which will cost well on to £3OOO, is fin-
ished, the out-turn will be increased.
• * » *
Cope’s Creek Central, one of the Melbourne-
owned Tingha (N.S.W.) tin ventures, is making good
profits out of the ground that Ah Lean and his tribe had
about done with—which is another triumph for the white
man. The industrious ” Ah Lean really isn’t as indus-
trious as the dirt on his clothes would imply ; he is too
tired to think, and the white man can shift more dirt in
a month by a hard think than the yellow man can shift in
a lifetime with a shovel. The business cost this co. almost
precisely sevenpence per cubic yard—and there are 27 cubic
feet in a cubic yard. On an average yield of 1'431b.
per cubic yard an overdraft of £3215 was reduced to £279
in the last six months, and £2279 of bills were paid off ;
the profit ran to £5657 on a paid capital of £7500. And
the concern is shaping as well this current half-year.
• • * *
S. Australia has got the copper fever worse
than it has had it for 30 years, and almost every other
man in King William-street has a slug in his pocket. So
far the Tasmanian Copper Co., formed originally in
London to work a mine in the Dundas district of the
small island, has done the most serious graft; it has been
struggling with the old Blinman mine for a couple of
years, and it is now putting up smelters at the
Mountain of Light. Also it is credited with serious
thoughts of doing the same at Yundnamutana, which
was a copper-mining centre 30 years ago. The Mountain
of Light is close handy to Leigh’s Creek, which
has S. Australia’s nearest approach to a coal
mine. It isn’t quite a coal mine, but it con-
tains something that will burn; and for the past
17 years attempts have been made to work it.
It has never, however, done any good, chiefly because it
is 370 miles from Adelaide and 250 miles from the nearest
sizeable township. Now they will see if the fuel can be
used at the copper works. Another resurrected copper
district that never had the probing of those mentioned
is around Lyndhurst; there are big outcrops there, with
lumps of copper ore, but, when writer knew them,
nothing had been proved in the way of lode=. Much
nearer the city, and to the south, there is some excite-
ment over an ancient group, with Callington as its
centre ; the Callington mine itself was given up as a bad
job about 1875. The ore in this district was always
reckoned dirty, and the ore bodies erratic, and the dis-
trict would pretty certainly be better off if it stuck to its
cow and corn.
• * • *
When the silver boom was on,- and when the
first rush for deep-lead claims was begun, with Bewick,
Moreing and Co. in the lead, the voice of the Argus cried
in the wilderness. It blocked the Prentice and Southern
deal, and said that more cash was wanted than Bull
was prepared to put up. ' Furthermore, it punched
Lindgren because he attempted to make mines out
of bore prospects. It fell foul of Broken Hill, direc-
tors because they sold options over tailings, and it pub-
lished comparisons of the market prices for the bulls to
think over. While the Argus was thus out of tune with
the market, the Age brought out boom articles on Broken
Hill and on the Zinc Corporation deals, and its weekly
pal, the Leader:, flared out with a Broken Hill supple-
ment. It likewise favored Bull getting the deep leads.
Thus it could, if it liked, take the credit of the market
rise and claim to speak as one inspired. Now, however,
having apparently got scared, it slams first Broken Hill,
next the deep leads. What the average broker is trying 1
to decide is whether this means that the same people
who engineered the bull movement are now preparing for
a bear raid, or whether it is merely a journalistic tour de
force - „ . .
Financial prosperity is shown in the half-
yearly report of the Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla
(Vic.). The co. has punched out gold worth £1,441,553
and paid £718,000 in divs. As £57,600 was put up on
capital account, shareholders have got back about
£l2 108. for each £1 put up. Looked at another way the
claim account—which can be taken to mean mining and
treatment —has run away with half the proceeds of the
gold, while plant and machinery have come out
of capital. The output of gold has beeen nearly
400,0000 z,, worth £3 12s. 6d. per oz. ; so well on
to half the gold has gone in costs. And the fact
that gross working costs last half-year absorbed 365. 3d.
per ton does not show much improvement. This is the
weak point of the show, apart from the loss of ground at
each level. It only wants a little of the bad luck at depth
that has hit Long Tunnel on the head to cause some very
hard poll-scratching. The position is that Nos. 23 and 21
levels are about blocked out, the stopes in No. 25 are up
80ft., and in No. 26 their average height is 18ft. Co. has,
therefore, to depend on that level alone and boundary
blocks at Nos. 20, 21 and 22 levels for stone until it gets
out to the reef at No. 27, where it hasn’t yet even started
to crosscut.
« • * *
New Moon, of Bendigo, though last half-year it
paid £lB,OOO as against £16,800 in the first half-year of
1906, and put £1320 to its reserve fund, had to reduce its
bank balance from £1899 to £504 to do it. Apparently
the reserve fund is in the bank too ; but that is another
account. Net profit was thus £17,925. The co. had its
best time in 1904, when divs. were £48,000 (on a total
paid capital of £11,560) ; then in 1905, £45,600; and in
1906, £34,800. From 12dwt. 17gr. in 1903, the average
has come down to Bdwt. lOgr. in the last half-year. Still,
it is some consolation to know that New Moon paid
£13,800 a year on as poor an average as 6dwt. 4gr. But
in those days the shares were at 345., which is some
distance away from the present £6 15s.
* » * *
The market is ready to jump at 0.K., North
Queensland, as soon as it thinks the tide has turned.
But it isn’t too good a judge of turning tides. Last
week, on the strength of some northern buying orders,
there was a rumor of a new development at the mine ;
but there was no change that the men on the spot had
heard of. Also, the wet season continues to seriously
interfere with the smelting, and that means a heavy
draw on the resources in hand to meet development
expenses, which will push dividends a little further still
into the distance.
* * * *
Vulcan tin mine (N.Q.) is alleged to be in a
starved out condition for three months to come for want
of firewood. It seems a poor excuse to a man who has
been prospecting in that district. There has, however,
been considerable friction between John Moffat and the
wood-choppers. The tramway, now being made, will
reduce the difficulty of carting between Irvinebank and
Stannary Hills (about 12 miles); wood is everywhere
between the two places. The real trouble with the Vulcan
is that its ore has been very considerably used up, and
much of what remains is refractory, and requires
roasting. A mine that has been such a consistent
producer for so long has naturally to depend on its lower
levels, and, assuming that the ore exists, it requires time
to develop it. The Irvinebank people are up to their
eyes in tin and copper speculations, and the intermittent
attempts to snatch profits from the southern markets are
danger signals. The danger in North Queensland con-
sists in the big tail of shares hung on to comparatively
little mines; a very moderate-looking market price
figures into an extraordinary capital value. Still, this
applies less to the Vulcan than some others, though even
the Vulcan has a swag of 264,000 shares to provide for.
• * • *
Of the 27 railway proposals before the Queens-
land Government, Railway Minister Denham says that
three in the central district will be shoved along. As the
Boyne Valley line is one of them, the Glassford Greek
people believe that their time is coming. Meanwhile,
however, the furnace stops, and mining development is
to proceed. The Glassford folk are plucky, and in the
end (which means after they get a railway) will probably
be rewarded. Nevertheless, they must now regret what
has turned out to be a waste of money through installing
smelters on an undeveloped and remote property. The
first essentials to most Queensland copper propositions
are underground development and cheap and reliable
transport. But invariably the game begins with a
smelter; next the mine is looked for ;ifit is there, then
transport is considered.
* * * ■*
Mt. Hector (Q.) moves along in the market;
and, now that Glassford ceases smelting for a while,
Hector may have a chance to do continuous work and
get its product away to the seaboard. Glassford will
have to keep its furnace out of blast for some time, which,
all points considered, is a good thing ; for it’s only wast-
ing good material and money to smelt until the railway
is built. Despite its gold contents, Mt. Hector may come
to a similar conclusion. This Boyne River railway, which
is to help the Glassford Creek-Hector people, is also right
into the hands of the Mt. Morgan Go. Latter wants con-
nection between the mine and Many Peaks, the basic
copper property over which it has acquired an option,
and which promises to help bring Mt. Morgan Co. along
as a mighty copper producer.
New Einasleigh Copper Mines was floated in
London last week, with a capital of £200,000, of which
£75,000 goes to the public. It takes over the Einasleigh
Freeholds (N.Q.), which G. H. Blakemore, now of the
Great Cobar Co., prophesied some years ago would be one
of the mines of Queensland. Co. has a big ore body of
10 per cent, sulphide opened up in two levels.
* * ♦ *
The Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, took
a bad turn, and hungry shareholders, clamoring for divi-
dends, stared hard at the month’s returns, showing a
profit of £ll7 on 3140 tons treated. Making due allow-
ances, this is a bad slump in output; but the market
slumped first. The decrease appears genuine, and there
are consequent rumors of resignations. November saw
4160 tons put through, and it was predicted that 5000
tons a month would be reached. But development had
the last word on that subject. December was a broken
month on account of the holidays. For the last four
weeks’ run 3140 tons were put through for £5531, in-
cluding £602 from cyanide ; the lot is equal to £llss. 3d.
per ton. Last half-year’s costs (345. 6d. per ton) were the
lowest on record; now that development is on poorer
stone, costs are likely to make that 9d. per ton profit look
still smaller. * * *
The Talisman and New Dawn, Charters Towers
(Q.), after stabbing the earth at random for a while, is at
last’sinking. The attraction is the New Dawn reef, dis-
covered in the Day Dawm P.C. underlay. The co. was a
long time fixing up an abandoned shaft—so old that the
oldest inhabitants used to quarrel about its exact depth.
This shaft was set down on the prospectus as a valuable
asset, being down to about 900 ft. Instead, however, of
getting into the sink and pushing it down further, they
got off the bucket half-way dowm and beat out a crushing
from some old workings, and sent it to the battery. The
stuff was really so poor that it w'ould have been scorned
by a mullock-heap “ louser.” Now' the co. is in the sink,
and the first round of holes carried away the shaft
timbers. Last report states that the hole is down 1005 ft.,
but they never know the day that the shaft timber will
go back on them. Nine calls, totalling £3760, have been
made, and that’s probably nothing to what will be needed.
* * * *
The prospecting shaft on the Great Northern,
Gympie (Q.), is now 130 ft. down. The limestone has
been passed through, and sinking is going on in con-
glomerate, of which between 200 ft. and 300 ft. is ex-
pected ; after that the Phoenix slates should be struck.
So far everything is turning out as the promoters antici-
pated— i.e., from a geological standpoint. Gympie
watches with interest the sinking of this shaft in new
country. Success will mean a great triumph for scientific
mining. •'
At the No. 2 North Columbia and Smithfield,
Gympie, the reef was displaced (and for a time lost) by a
crosscourse, but it has now been picked up again to the
north, which accounts for the market jump. Prospects
of dividends should be good.
* • * *
Scottish Gympie overshadows all other Gympie
(Q.) shows ; it has had a record year for gold and divi-
dends—made £86,252 profit and paid away £82,500, which
is so like Gympie. The irregularity of its ore makes the
show a geological puzzle; the strike, dip, width and length
of ore shoots cannot be calculated with certainty. Still,
the fact that you canDOt calculate doesn’t prevent belief
in it; there’s a heap more faith in mining than in religion.
The Scottish claims that its stone gave a fair and square
average of lOdwt. 7Jgr., and that its costs are down to
18s. Bd., as a consequence of which the division of costs
and profits must be about equal. The mine is 1826 ft.
deep ; and, though no one can say what is left, it is
certain enough that the co. has taken a big bite out of
its cake.
• • * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
•* *' * K
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company ia
building a complete plant for its claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet ; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between. the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 38 feet; al7 inch
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
5 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H.H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
by steam from an externally fired multitubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoons to carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by 40 feet
wide. To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
plant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Robert McLintock, Engineer, of
Dunedin.* M
* * * *
The Journal of Commerce (Liverpool), in its
issue of 4th September, 1906, wrote regarding The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited “In
these days of severe competition when some of the best-
known offices find the fight for new business so hard as to
justify them in seeking absorption, it is refreshing to
come across an institution which manages each year to
add to its productiveness.”*
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Notice. —William Jenkins, of the firm of Jen-
kins and Pound, whose advt. appears in this issue, has
had a varied experience in Copper Furnace and YVater
Jacket building, having had charge of the Cobar, Peak
Downs (Queensland), Cadia, and other mine furnaces
throughout all the States for the last 30 years.*
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* • * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
It * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriotion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
Investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : .Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.* _
* * * •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Rea veil Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * •
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
•Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* • * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
•CoMiisoN & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 35).


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Homo” | A recently-published recipe
for shifting a bull-ants’ nest reminds me of how I
once took an active part in shifting one, whilst
sporting with Amaryllis in the shade near her
residence. The first intimation that we were on a
nest made me feel as if on fire from the waist
down, and caused me to make an anxious and
worried retreat to a neighboring clump of scrub.
Whilst madly separating myself from some of my
apparel, I heard a cry of distress from Amaryllis.
When I was able to come to her assistance, how-
ever, she was not in sight; but a trail of divested
feminine drapery marked the course she had
steered for home. A coolness somehow sprang up
between us from that date, but the ants were
shifted. Those that did not leave clinging to me
left hanging on to Amaryllis.
« * * •
One of the “ faithful hounds ” of the good
old days has transpired down Morwell (Vic.) way.
A young man went out to cart wood. He did not
return. Three days later it occurred to someone
that a search should be made. The wood-cart
was found, with the horse browsing near by.
Next day was Sunday, and the countryside turned
Out on horseback and searched for the missing
man ; but no trace was found. The following day
a dog, which had accompanied the woodman,
arrived home, thin, emaciated, just able to walk.
The dog would not stay, however, but kept trying
to stagger back to the bush and induce the folic of
the town to follow. At last the local policeman
and a couple of others did follow. The dog, weak
and feeble as he was, led them away into the bush
to his master, whom they found lying nearly
dead. The man had gone wrong mentally, and
had lain down to die ; but the dog felt too young
to die, and had limped off for help. Both dog and
man will recover with food and attention.
THE POTBOILERS' TOPHET.
BEETLUS: “ Good joke ?”
STARVUS: “ Rather. Every time he puts paint
on it melts.”
“The Prooshan”; Be “The Prawn’s”
comment (B. 10/l/’O7) on my bullock nomenclature
par. I spoke of everyday bullock-punching
names. Certainly there are faddish or freakish
bullock-punchers. One I know plied between
Tumut and Tumberumba. He loved the sea and
all that on it had been, from Ulysses right along ;
and, punctually at 3 o’clock o’ Mondavs, we’d
hear, from t’other side of “our” hill, “Gee
Nelson, Woa Rodney, Up Drake, Come-e-way
Howard, Stand over Hawkins, Over there
Raleigh.” Then we boys drifted down with poles
to prod Nelson in the ribs, or give Howard of
Effingham a belt across the rump, and so help the
load up the hill.
“T.M.H.”:I lived for years
on the dog-proof boundary of a
large Queensland station, just out-
side which dingoes roved around
in mobs. These were the real
article—reddish-yellow, bushy
tail with white tip, prick ears,
and slant Togo-like eyes—and
up to the present I have never
heard a real dingo bark, al-
though I have been told by a
very old and experienced
trapper that sometimes.
when one is in a trap,
and he comes along to
“deal it out” with a
waddy, a couple or so of
short “barks” may be
heard, but so unlike the
real article that, if
your dog Toby tried it
on, you would probably
heave a brick at him
for making a fool of
himself. I once cut a
dingo pup out of a log,
but, although I kept
that pup for over six
months, I could never
break her of hunting
sheep or snavelling
fowls, and, although
she would sometimes
howl in the middle of
the night, I never once
heard her bark. Gave
her away a couple of
times, but she always
came back—last time in a
bag, amidst fireworks of profanity.
X began to think “Meg” was a
white elephant, when, one lucky
day, a Chinaman fancied her —he
must have noticed some family
resemblance about the eyes. I
sounded her praises so well that,
at the end of a, half-hour, I had
taken that Chinaman down for
30s., and Meg was tied up amongst
the cabbages on his tilted cart.
Before I left, I lifted the flap to
see how they were getting on.
They were making friends in their
own way. The Chow shot out a
yellow paw to pat Meg’s head,
and that lady responded by press-
ing the Chow’s hand lovingly—
between her teeth. Then I heard
a bark, but it was the Chinaman, not
the dingo. By the way, do wild China-
men bark ?
w » * *
Gem : Maoriland has been suffering
from drought. M.L. says there is a drought
when the sun shines continuously for a week, but
the latest spell of dry weather has made the Pig
Islands look a good deal like the pasture lands at
the back o Bourke. Wellington, Dunedin and
Lhristchurch City Councils have been cutting
down the citizens’ allowance of water, southern
sheep-farmers have been giving sheep away
through lack of feed, and one paper says “ a large
and serious grass fire took place, three acres b“ing
entirely devastated.” M.L.’s butter output has
gone down seriously, many of the big swamps
have been burning for weeks, and the root and
grain crops in both islands are comparatively
I™* 11 - In districts where a wheat return of over
30 bushels per acre was expected, only 12 bushels
have been stripped. In the meantime, Premier
Ward is increasing the number of hands in all the
btate Departments, and the country is indulging
in a Government offices building jamboree. The
sight of two civil servants toiling at an acre of
walnut desk under two acres of embossed ceiling
makes the back-country cocky glad to have the
privilege of paying interest on M.L.’s loans.
* * » *
. “ Janor” : We’d finished a good contract
111 a crosscut, and started a three days’ tramp to
the railway with light hearts and swags. Second
night we camped on a sandy ridge. Contents of
nosebag reduced to hunk of damper and a large
tin of beef. Discovered that during the day
wed dropped our only knife. After vainly
searching for a stone,
Dick proposed melt-
ing the solder in
front of the fire,
and laid the can
across a stick, end
on to the blazing
fire. Then he
squatted on his
knees, poising a
waddy in readi-
ness to knock the
lid off when the
solder ran. Think-
ing that one
watch er was am pi#
I strolled away,
and did th#
“ weird expect-
ancy ” biz. The
explosion arrived
as per schedule ;
the fire scattered
like a raided two-
up school, and I got
a fiickergram of Dick
throwing a back somersault
through a cloud of steam and ashes. Found him
down to it, a nasty gash on his top-piece, a bit
rattled, and bemoaning his luck at having to pass
out with all those beans in his shammy. “ I
wouldn’t ’a’ cared,” he spluttered, “if I’d done in
the blanky splosh.” Cold water and a bandage
soon fixed him right, and we turned in on damper
neat. Awoke early next morning—the crows saw
to that. There were hundreds of them on the
adjacent trees, breakfasting on tinned-dog and
croaking vociferous thanks to Dick.
• * • *
“ Sat-on ” : Be kangaroo rats. They were
once fairly numerous here (Nuggety Hill, Wattle
Flat). The big fall of snow in July, 1900, wiped
them out. The snow fell in the daytime. The
rat (a nocturnal animal) was having his daily
sleep. The weight of snow began to make home
uncomfortable, and he left his house to investi-
gate. The snow soon covered it up, and the 'roo
rat perished miserably. He did not seem to have
sense enough to take to a hollow log. What
puzzles me is that rats from other parts did not
arrive after the snow.
A ROARING
TRADE.
MRS. DOOLEY : “ Ye'll get
no bed here to-night , me
mukn, they're arl fully
occupied."
DOSSER: “I're always found ’em so, Missus,
whenever I camps at your place.”
“The Prooshan ” : With us the term
“ox” is seldom met, the bush preferring its
“boolick,” “ tug,” or “beast,” but in Germany a
sharp distinction is made between bullock and
ox. An ox there means a gelded bull, or male
that has been emasculated early and intended for
human consumption ; whereas a bullock means a
male that has served his time as a bull, and then
been compulsorily retired from the service.
Butchers are not allowed to sell bullock’s flesh, or,
indeed, that of the cow. I don’t say it isn’t done
all the same.
‘‘Wang” : I attended a send-off to the
local fire-brigade captain in a small country
township once. It was arranged that each
member of the brigade should say a few words
of a valedictory nature to the departing
officer. All went well till it came to Hai rv
Whale’s turn. Harry was a huge, raw-
boned son of the soil, more at home rousing
the cows and horses about than making
complimentary speeches. He lurched to his
feet like a ship brought round against the
wind, and twirling his hat in his hand, com-
menced : “Ladies and genelmen ” (there
were no ladies there; but Harry did not
worry about that trifle), “when I fust meets
Mr. Hawker I wus choppin’ wood fer Mr.
Hackett. Mr. Hawker was stuck in the
mud with his turn-out, an’ he ses to me,
‘Good day.’ ‘Good day,’ I ses ter him.
‘ You’re workin’ for Mr. Hackett, ain’t you V
he ses. ‘lam workin’ ler Mr. Hackett,’
I ses. ‘Yer a Whale, ain’t you?’ he ses.
‘I am a Whale,’ I ses ter him. ‘Your
name’s Harry, ain’t it?’ he ses. ‘lt is
Harry,’ I ses. ‘Will you give us a hand ?’
he ses. ‘I will give you a hand, I ses,’”
Here Harry scratched his head. His
oratorical powers had been put to a severe
test. “ I—he—l—no—he—,” he began again.
Then he scratched his head again. “Dang
it all,” he cried, “I’ve forgot it all. I had
it worked out gran’ when I wus ploughin’
to-day.” Harry sat down amidst great
applause.
“ T.0.M.” : One “A.H.F.” talks (B.
10/1/’O7) about a tiger snake that lived for 278 day
in a ten-foot shaft, and then died owing to a
piece of wood falling from the hands of “ A.H.F.’'
Well, “A.H.F.” seems to forget that frogs,
beetles and crickets make for a deserted shaft;
and, further, that blowflies are attracted there in
great numbers. Therefore, allowing a consider-
able time out of the 278 days for the hibernating
period, and considering the frogs, flies and
crickets, “ A.H.F.’s” tiger’s fast isn’t much. He
says it was a dry hole, but I daresay it rained
now and again, and shafts offer good catchment
for rain. The shaft might only be dry through
the snake drinking the contents. Anyway,
“A.H.F.” is a fraud of a naturalist or he would
have put a lid over the shaft and pursued obser-
vations to a finish.
“Petramos” sends this slab of madness :
Once caught a large kangaroo alive by putting salt on
its tail. Had twelve dogs with me, but each resolutely
refused to bite the ’roo. Spent eleven days and sleepless
nights “ sooling ” the dogs, one at a time, on to the
creature. I took a day for each dog. No sooner did the
dog look into the 'roo’s face than it slunk away into the
night. There are now eleven dogs in the night some-
where. Killed the ’roo eventually by pushing heavy
gum-trees on its forehead. I then noticed that it had
grey teeth, and the mystery of the dogs’ behavior was, of
course, explained.
Cross Nibs : Let me mix myself in
an item that has played a few parts. Sydney siA
native, racing up the third decade. Painter sir
months; dodged boss and his indentures. Prim
ing machine-room, two years; executed weird cari!
cature of editor on large wrapper with personal
verses attached ; result—turned down. Bobbed un
next with a cabinet-maker, Russian. We used to
spar a little in dinner hour. Outed him one day ■
then he outed me without notice. Bricklayer’
slow but dead exact with baked clay. Signwriter’
no use. Blacksmith, five months. Glass-beveller’
expert. Plumber, going strong a fortnight!
Dropped sheet of iron one day almost on boss’s
thought dome. Released from job. Gardener,
failure. Rooted up the exotics and cherished the
weeds. Hod-carrier, average. Dairy hand, com.
petent. Tram conductor, sponged off, too uncon-
ventional. Station work, six years, highly
efficient, refs, to prove it. Shearer, failure and
got backache. Soldier, failed, not conversant
with the salute and lavish waste of “sir.”
Quarryman, lifted 161 b. hammer about four
months, then dropped it. Fencer, honest with
the posthole, timber plumb. Patent-medicine
booster, one day ; too honest. Mutton butcher,
good. Manipulating Matilda, nine months!
successful weight-carrier. Carpenter—well, I’m
doing it now.
• • • •
“ Bill N.” ; Want to enter myself for the
“ handy-man ” competition (B. 10/l/’O7). Starting
at 13 years of age, became in turn shepherd,
baker, briekmaker, woodcutter, drover, woolshed
rouseabout, choir singer—all in the country.
Went to the city and became clothier, mercer,
bookkeeper, general hand in large produce busi-
ness, then wholesale buyer for a retail clothing
house. A hankering for “the bush” drove me out
of the city. I was a “swagrnan,” and travelled
nearly every part of Queensland, N.S.W. and
Vic., and was successful in turn at tutoring (at
a bush pub, where I also became a great success
at drinking the stuff that cheers). Next engaged
in tank-sinking, brush-fencing, log-cutting, wool-
scouring, navvying, shearing (highest tally in one
day of eight hours, 156), bar-keeping, chain-
bearing, fishing, cooking (hotel, shearing shed,
and sheep camp), well-sinking, ringbarking, chaff-
cutting, acting (travelling opera co.), grubbing,
saw-milling (tipman and log-measuring), scrub-
cutting, trenching (for garden), poetasting(always
got printed in country rags, and actually got
Is. 6d. once for three eight-line verses, subject
“True Love”), ganging (on road job), cockying,
spud-digging, rabbit-trapping, blacksmithing,
shovelling mud from water channels (Vic.),
splitting (post and rails and palings), sleeper-
chopping, rabbit-poisoning, fencing, shovelling
sand (cyanide works), canvassing for sewing
machines. Then I was a candidate for sobriety,
city life, and married ditto. Succeeded first in
sobriety; engaged by firm as its representa-
tive ; married, and my wife says I am a success.
During my 26 years of toil I refused work from
one man only. One of the late Jimmy Tyson’s
station managers hunted me for three-quartersofa
mile and offered melss. per week bullock-punching.
In addition to the foregoing, I read the marriage
service over a “couple” at the bush pub., where
I was tutor, and though they have eight children,
they never went through any other form of mar-
riage ; also, I read the burial service over a
defunct, in the presence of 200 people; helped a
doctor perform an operation in aQ. hospital; and
cut down a man (in time to save him) who was
hanging himself. I don't quite know how to
classify these occupations.
THE COMMON CURRENCY.
THE HORSEMAN: " Say, mate, ’ow much d’yer
want fer the pick o’ ther pups ?”
S WAGGIE: “ Ye can ’are the best for two whiskies,
or any two fer three whiskies.”
“ Bynnya” : It was pretty late when we
reached camp, and we were tired and hungry. My
mate got a billy of water from the dam, and put
it on the fire. After a while, hearing a commo-
tion in the billy, I struck a match to investigate,
and found a small snake doing even time round
the inside. The water was beginning to become
uncomfortably hot. Remarking that boiled snake
was never known to improve the flavor of tea I
heaved the lot out and killed the reptile. I then
went and got a can of water, boiled it, and we had
tea. Nothing remarkable happened. My mate
always had a drink of tea before turning in, and,
following his usual custom, tipped the billy to his
head. Then he dashed that useful utensil on the
ground, and started to take leaping exercise,
emitting curses and tea-leaves meanwhile. After
I had lassoed and quieted him he blurted out,
“ There was a dashed snake in that tea billy, and
I nearly swallowed the’ dashed thing.” Sure
enough, among the tea-leaves we discovered the
mate of the one I had killed, and Mick had
another attack of the jim-jams when he saw it.
This proves that if you boil one snake its mate
will come and boil itself on the same spot, within
24 hours. I can produce the billy as evidence.
RECKONING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want to pile white ashes in my hair,
I want to wear sheer sackcloth next my skin,
And tread sharp rocks with feet for penance bare,
For I am full of grief and sick of sin.
Not now, for me, Bung’s kind and ready smile,
The charms of purple life have passed away ;
Oh, let me sob here in the dust awhile,
For I am going back to work to-day.
The cool bar beckons, and the syphons crash
Loud in the Irish ; and the beer-pump slow
Brims the long beers—full chill they slop and splash
In clear, brown flood luxuriously allow.
But I am caught upon the whirling wheel
Of wretched Chance, and all my world is grey ;
I do not rail at Fate—l merely feel !
And I am going back to work to-day.
My heart skips, struggling like a stranded fish,
My head feels large and full of sound and pain ;
And all my being aches with one vast wish
That I could have my yesterday again,
When I was careless as a happy tick
Battened on good beef-hide. But though I pray
For yesterday, my tongue is like a brick
Upon hell’s hob—and I must work to-day.
I’ve tied my neck-rag wet across my brow,
My shirt flaps lazy open at my chest;
My blood runs fiery as a furnace, now,
From dusty heel to sweat-bedraggled crest;
And I am hipped and raw and trembling mad.
Though all my bunch of pals is beery-gay
And glad, I mourn—for I am broke and sad,
And I am going back to work to-day.
Vic.
FRANK HENTY.


WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
IA SENSIBLE STIHVLANT
FINGERS——-
BY THOUSANDS
Have been graced by our Rings, or perhaps it were
better to say thousands of our Rings are graced by
charming fingers.
We sell so many because we are known for
The most exquisite of Rings.
The latest designs in Rings.
The extreme finish of our Rings.
The lowness of price of our Rings.
We have been making Rings for many years.
Our prices are as low as London prices.
2 Choice Sapphires, 1
Tourmaline, with Small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
4 Pearls and 1
Australian Sapphire,
£4 4s.
Diamond Half-Hoop
Bing, £5 ss.
A Marvel ok Value.
2 Rubies & 1 Diamond
or 2 Sapphires and 1
Diamond, 18ct., 63b.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
“ Lant”: Stock-inspector F. H. Shepherd,
of Rockhampton (Q.), claims to have happened on
an effective prickly-pear eradicator. It is a pre-
paration which, when injected with a hand-syringe,
completely kills the pear in a very short time.
Mr. Shepherd says that the plant succumbs far
more readily to poison in winter months than in
summer.
TOOK A RISK.
“ Bling, Joe, wot’s happened to yer?"
"'Ad er [?]accident. I slipped getting inter the
hath.”
“ Walfre ” : Re mixed Australian names
(B. 8/11/’O6). There is a small place in the Parkes
district (N.S.W.) that has nearly tied itself into
knots trying to find out how to spell its name cor-
rectly. The sign on the railway platform reads:
“Bumberrv.” The town name is “Bumbury,”
and the parish is spelt “ Bunbury.” And the
inhabitants call the whole dashed outfit "Bum-
bree.”
HER RESPONSIBILITIES.
CONSTABLE: “ Lost yer little brother Benny, have yeh I Tut, tut, don’t cry, Sissie, hell turn up
all right."
SMALL GIRL (relieved): "Oh, I thought I’d be arrested for child desertion.”
Lake Tyrell (Victoria) is just now one
of the sights of the interior. The water has
wholly disappeared, and for 70 or 80 miles it
is possible to cycle or ride round a sea-bed of
glistening salt, dazzlingly bright in the sun,
ghostlike and weird in the moonlight, and every-
where drier than Dives’ tongue in Tophet. If
Tom Mann would organise a party to bag salt at
Tyrell for home consumption, the importation of
that useful commodity would slump in one act,
and there should be money in the job. Besides,
if all the salt were bagged Tyrell would be a fresh-
water lake when it fills up again, and a big fresh
lake would do Victoria no harm.
* * * »
“ My word ! ” said the selector across the
Sydney boardinghouse dinner-table, “ you
fellows must work hard to keep all them
women I seen to-day. Most of them
works for theirselves, do they ?
Don’t tell me ! I stood a good
half-hour looking at them at
the Post Office, ah’ made a
calculation of how much
work they could do in a day,
an’ I reckoned that be the
time they got in an’ out o’
their clothes, there wouldn’t
be any left for a good go at
graft. Ye needn’t bite me ;
but if I sent one o’ them
women I seen to-day to fetch
in the cows, where’d she be ?
An’ some o’ them are fine
strapping girls, too. But
where’d they be, I ask, after
cows? I don’t understand
why ye want to bite me ;
I’m not agin the women,
anyways. There’s good, up-
standing slips among them,
but they seem all run to
clothes. From their boots
to their hats they’re con-
structed —that’s what I call
it, constructed; an’ a man
wanting to marry one o’
them couldn’t for the life o’
him tell how much wus
woman an’ how much stuff.
I know it’s nothing to me,
an’ ye needn’t snap at me ;
but what I ask is, what use
would one o’ them be to go
after cows ? Got cows on the
brain? I don’t know about
that; but I know if me wife
an’ darters dressed like that,
there’d be no time for going
after the cows, an’ it’s be-
cause the cows was regularly
gone after that I can afford
to be here now on a holiday.”
• • * *
“ Judex ” : I have seen a lot in print, and
also heard considerable, about the spurs of the
platypus being poisonous; but am more than
sceptical on the subject. Had great experience
with these animals in ’7B. In 12 months I shot
more than 200, and was several times wounded by
their spurs, on one occasion having both of those
weapons driven well into the forefinger of my
right hand. At no time did I feel any more in-
convenience than if an ordinary wood splinter
had caused the trouble. Never felt any bad effect
from centipede bites either, except a sharp, burn-
ing pain for a couple of hours.
“ Werrimee” : A person signing himself
“A Bushman” writes indignantly to the S. M.
Herald against the labelling of two Sydney
Museum specimens, “triantelope” and “goanna, ’
instead of “tarantula” and “iguana.” A por-
tion of his rant: —
It is a poor commentary on our training in correct pro-
nunciation, and the necessity for the perpetuation of a
perfect King’s English that the museum authorities
should glibly state that bushmen call the tarantula a
triantelope and an iguana a goanna. .
I asked three well-known bushmen this morning for
their rendering of the name of both specimens under
notice, and each replied, tarantula and iguana. Is it
necessary in quoting names of zoological specimens to
appeal to uneducated people ? If so, then you will find the
most varied, inaccurate, and uneuphonious illustrations
in the jargon of uneducated Australians.
I protest strongly against the aspersions cast upon us
by the accommodating museum experts, and urge that
the Government insist upon the removal of the term
goanna from the list, unless the description is altered to
read, “ iguana, or called goanna by uneducated people.
I trust that educated fellow-Australians will support
me in this matter, and fight to preserve the best of the
King’s English for the education of our children, and
prevent the too willing lapse into an illiterate Volapuk
that is all too apparent amongst us.
This wild individual, who boasts so much of his
education, ought to know that there is no iguana
in Australia, and that our large spider is not a
tarantula. The Museum authorities are to be
commended for their common sense labelling,
especially regarding the goanna and the possum
(from which they omit the o). Goanna is less
“uneuphonious” than iguana, anyway. Had
this wrathful savant looked around he would have
found the iguana (which is a foreign lizard) in its
proper corner, with its euphonious title attached
to it, and the name isn’t good King’s English ;
it is Spanish, and it was aboriginal Haytian.
Neither is goanna a perversion of the King’s best
English ; the name is as distinct as the species.
Further, if a beast is not a tarantula, why miscall
it a tarantula, and since it has no other name for
everyday use, what is the matter with triantelope?
The name is original, and, once bestowed, is just
as good King’s English as any other. Lastly,
how is it any more the King’s English than it is
Bill Smith’s English?
* * * *
“ Janor ” : I knew a North Queensland
bridge contractor who was a star at fixing up
defective timber. Specifications call for girders,
piles, &c., that are sound at heart. In many parts
of Australia large, sound trees are scarce, so that
on some jobs the use of them would entail many
miles of haulage. Therefore the slim contractor
falls and squares the hollow stuff growing handy,
and plugs up the ends of the logs. Bridge timber
is always inspected before it is placed in position,
and as the inspectors are up to the plugging
dodge, it only gets through when the doctoring is
done by a skilful hand. This contractor cut his
plugs from the sound heart of a small tree, 6ft.
long, trimmed them the shape of and a little
larger than the pipe to be plugged, and drove
them home with a heavy mawl. Then a few
inches were sawn off each end of the log, and lo !
a sound log that would deceive any inspector
merely human. It was this man’s boast that he
had never been stumped at the game. He ought
to have been a land agent.
OFF THE LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My clay is free upon the earth, my soul is ’midst the stars,
I've bid adieu to worry and to toil;
No longer do I beat my wings against Fate’s iron bars,
I’ve left the landlord’s little bit of soil!
Ten years I’ve helped to fatten the cove who never works —
The cove whose waistcoat bulges out with fat;
Every quarter-day he dogged me (these light tasks he
never shirks),
Now my troubles are contained beneath my hat.
I started with the magpies, thinking toil would make me
rich,
And ended when the mopokes did a mope ;
I was chasing after Fortune, or Good Luck, I don’t know
which—
I was shackled and I never had a hope.
I ploughed, I sowed, I garnered—when the grain was in
the bag,
The chap that wears a bingy used to come
And take without a “ Thank you !’’ all my precious
season’s swag,
And left me but the stripper’s warning hum !
But this harvest something told me I had been a blessed
fool,
A-toiling for the landlord all these years,
With naught save a bare living, and a dozen kids at
school,
And a wife who never let me see her tears.
So I gave the landlord best —I just threw up my steady
job—
After I had sold last harvest’s golden stack
And gathered in the cheque—the missus gave a joyous
sob
When I told her that at last we’d got the sack !
I slipped something in her pocket, more than she had
owned for years,
And I packed her with the kiddies in the train.
“Just you go to see your Granny, and don’t .waste no
bloomin’ tears,
In a day or two I’ll see you all again.”
Then I kissed ’em—all the thirteen —and they waved a
fond adieu.
Oh 1 my troubles seemed to vanish in the air,
And the jolly frogs got croakin’—“ Here’s a merry jaunt
to you ! ’’
And I had dodged at last the bailiff Care !
So I humped my old Matilda, as in glory-days gone by,
And the wagtails gave me welcome on the track,
And at night the old moon greeted me with smiles across
the sky,
And the stars kept twinkling, glad to see me back !
And the buttercups and daisies shed their incense on
the air,
The magpies shrieked with joy to see me free,
And the gleams along the river—aye, the gladness every-
where
Repaid me for my years of slavery !
VIC.
RITA SUNYASEE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iYs notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped . Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Atom : “ Beauty ” hardly good enough, yet not
far below acceptance mark... .Bluey : “Youig Hearts”
passed out after being twice held over for further con-
sideration Ugly Duckling: Something too weird
about the “dead daughter.” Krys W. : Break the
news to you gently that you aren’t a p0et....“ Me” (Bal-
larat) : Joke about “ Mrs. Adam” not worth the 2d. fine
for deficient postage. Can’t you Victorians remember
that your darned fool of a penny stamp only carries a
letter in your own State?... .Ossian (Footscray): Another
Victorian who thinks his penny stamp goes all over the
Common wealth.... Braemar (Vic.): Your poem will be
considered when you make good the 2d. deficient post-
age... .K. Ackers (Cope Cope) : LeUercost 2d. for defi-
cient postage. Your blastiftrous penny stamp only
carries a letter inside Victoria, Isu t there any fiee
education or common sense in your State ? About
20 people like you write to us every day
H.F.T. : It was a “goak.” Nobody in the legal profes-
sion believed that politician’s statement, anyhow ; out-
side of political work he never did much at his profes-
sion H.E.R, : Poem about the young lady with 201 b.
of melinite in her clothes is a trifle crude, and a parody
requires to be specially good to pass... .N.E.D.: Notice
your statement that Macdouga.il, the Scotchman, got a
good deal of the Irish and U.C. vote at Wannou (Vic.).
Well 1 Do you mean that an Irishman or a ICC. shouldn t
have a vote, or that his vote shouldn’t count, or that it
should only count when it goes for a Tory candidate 1
Or do vou imply that if an Irishman votes for a Scotch-
man one or both should be disqualified V Previous election
ltobinson (Tory and Freetrader) was at the top and
Hogan (which sounds Irish) at the bottom. We
didn’t hear from you then about the Irish ana
EC vote J.N.G.: Reads like a long-winded
resurrection of the Society for Getting D -d Wild....
Otto: Likert your plague cf goats, but it takes a great
descriptive writer, like Defoe or the author of Exodus, to
write graphically about plagues. Other stories were
butted into the basket... .R.J. : Facts aren’t notion....
E M VV : Wish you had interrupted your day-dream
earlier" L.G.H.: Ghost story sounds true, but were
not starting a spook department just yet.. .The
Moocher: Both unsuitable. . .bhickerer: An atom of
yarn in an acre of explanation.. S.C. :No new ideas in
“Summer.” The “ fitful breeze and the lippling,
and the “scents,” the “rustle," the “ quiver, (> the
n/nre slowing sky ” are all aged props
Jasß.: Thanks; already said that Westralia has more
men than jobs, but sorrowfully say it again... .A.E.I. .
Your drover is a very fine liar, but a mighty poor poet.
E E R • You must invent an Auntie who hasn t seen
ihe* same ‘service so often... .Bendemeer: There s one
redeeming point about your verses to your girl; you
don’t call her a peach or a pearl, or any old thmg hke
that, but “a sugar-melon, red and ripe. But then,
alas, you tried to rhyme “ sugar-melon and loved
'un ” ; and the struggle broke the melon s heart.. ..
Neangar : Very little hope of getting the A.N. A. to for-
mulate an Australian policy of that sort. Yon appa-
rently don’t know that in at least one State the panjan-
durns of the A.N.A. are the fiercest Foreign-traders
thereabouts... A.J.H.: Guess you’re about 12.. ..Wang :
Neither suitable....Cymru: Such a feeble httlestory
that it fainted on the door-mat.... Andante, Better
settle the argument by getting the Department ofAgn-
eulture to make an analysis of the sod. Moonshine
as much to do with the sterility as water-
spouts have.. ..Magpie: The girl got wet, and
couldn’t wait any longer. You’ve tried to turn
that into a soulful poem, and you ve failed. ..
Hildebrand: You may with perseverance, become a
Doliceman : you’ll never be a poet i.H.8.. W.lrai....
Hamer: “ Content” nearly entered in.... The Orient
Bard: Send it to Abdul Hamid II B.: “Lynnette
doesn’t fetch us somehow. It is up to some one to write
a poem about Sarah Jones... .Dominick: Pretty, but
trivial AS. : Sounds like the dull sort of verse that
is always "written on a Monday morning. It happened,
too, to be read on a Monday morning... .Mick Plonks :
Your verse sounds very like your pen-name....H.C.G. .
We’re ralher tired just now of Mulga Bills Christmas
“bender”; we’ve not quite got over our
Harrv M. : A writer who remarks “ suffice it to say
hasn’t learnt the art of condensation.. ..The Captain :
You spin out too much. Boil down Ande . All matter
submitted to The Bulletin will (if thought by the editor
of The Bulletin to be more suitable for The Lone Hand)
be passed on to The Lone Hand, and vice versa, unless
authors expressly stipulate that they do not wish this.
One of the special missions of The Lone Hand is
another outlet for Australian writers.. Burradic: On
the Wallaby” is hardly good enough marsupial....
Nulla - But they do use the squeal now in Chicago for
phonographs. Phonograph selections are canned pig-
squeal put up with nasal twang and pianola accompani-
ment Interested : One of them is a duly qualified
r»Prtir\Yman A.S.S. : Not quite that, but your versi-
fying is hardly skilful enough 6xB: Expires 28th Feb-
ruary S tackv : A poor trifle.. -Tas : Simply acase of doc-
tors differing and the society standing by its own expert.
D. : “ Soul's Awakening * indignantly chucked.
F E C ’ ** Twilight ” full of an artificial and petted
melancholy. “Brother” might suit the War Cry.
Stamps of other States no good for reply unless sent loose.
E. : “ Ars Longa” is the most purposeless yarn
we’ve met this year... .Dorcas Blake: A rather dreary
account of small, uninteresting happenings. M.P..
We do our best; there is a standing offer of a free sub-
scription for one year to any clergyman who will, on high
moral grounds, have The Bulletin excluded from a
School of Arts.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A Burne : Nothing brilliant about them GLR. :
“Servia” picture would reproduce only as a black
smudge. It is all black... .N.A.0.J.: No ; antediluvian
old joke Unsuitable: N. Gray.
“ F.H.R.” : A very energetic sparrow has
taken up his residence in some chambers in
Hunter-street, Sydney. Was watching him
hustle for bis livelihood last Saturday morning,
and he barely had time to separate his breakfast
delicacy from the surrounding refuse before
“toot-toot,” and a motor-car had to be dodged.
When he wasn’t winging away from motors he was
hopping between horses’ feet (to him as big as
Kosciusko) or keeping an eye on a small boy who
sold papers. He could dodge most things on loot,
but he had to rise from the motor-car—its stmk
got into his feathers, and Mrs. Sparrow probably
swore he had been smoking. Like all who seek a
living in the cities, he had to hustle and bustle
for a mere livelihood. How he could reconcile
himself to such a living, with the Botanical
Gardens but two minutes away, I cannot imagine.
Perhaps there is a Bird Union in the Gardens.


v . -
s tfcrdy \ |
Did Adah fall j
(Tbii QueslToi)
\ 0 }>e
f>cA?e op" Evrob*
ItfS'P '
hosJ"
fro'T ij* w<
[j»/sh ot>v ' /< V'»
&■*!(?.»-•!•
lint's.WorK»«o«r»s
>•*- fo« r 2 eri S( ' f ’s i +‘“.-"*i-
o«t- -fo "be *nosfly bfn*sfe>w«•
đ
0 " Hov/ IS |>rot>k»soffe'ed b/
Tie dose relations i»vro which
Civilisation is fore white £<r
Coloured r*c<»Sx+ol>e sowed . (s\r^<>)
Veil -An V"»y knay/ s o l''®' 7 e
hrablcn- WrA i{ '^- s ° me de-,, ' e
SorT*
?jjl Tew, S 2\ys
W -rfjtf" if i'f/e Jufo.
» of-
FA^S^ 1 , Will
rcccwe a, cordial
welcome. from Victoria.
Cordial i>/€ word
for ir— f (£s ih *7tt
iDocKef ] "
"Tire ANA£>l/il>iW
/\<± TIW* only
linni'leJ s t ,^^ %*f
Compelled to t^ C*RGAM
o(' eyJiibil% !
K-*]
3&S Persons v<lj6 dr*>/e ib
On 3* *fo Cljurdj
tol\y ks/e Ifceir Jiorcec L.
vehicks in U
W+of,,«. ■■ /- 6e^
"Ttye Nfiv/ _
Publicist". *— Coih' fb f
"I ,p ,1 'l% '
I n iro oHjer Ml Wih (o^ o nW^//^
hKz Hie ©p
£ employe os Co*, *C •£•»<{© os.. „
s > Cr * 4 t»* e s r vyorK, A's in tfe&. {jsf^Sc*^)
BESIDE HOBSON’S BAY.


THE JAMAICA EARTHQUAKE INCIDENT.
Uncle Sam (who has Just
got a nasty one on the
nose from Oov. Seret-
tenham) : " Waal, as I
said before, blood is
thlcker’n water!”
Deakin : " Come, old chap, pack up your things and come along- We must
have you on this Navigation Commission. 1 '
Bill Lyne : “ Yes, but who Is to stop at home and do the washing up ?
Deakin : •* There ain’t going to be no washing up-afld I wouldn’t dream of
leaving such demeaning labor to v ou.”
/
Sydney Telegraph (25/l/’O7) complains that to shut up Parlia-
ment whilst Deakin is in London ” will prolong the fiscal agony.
• < Let us have Protection at once," it shrieks.
•• I don’t want it! I won’t have it! But I must have it at once.
THE EXCITEMENT OF TRAMWAY TRAVEL IN SYDNEY.
Fat and aged Passenger (trying to board a Oeorge-st. record-breaker): "Come
on, mother; we’ll have one penn’orth In spite of this smarty Alec
conductor I ”
v Chief Justice Madden says that Englishmen love us, though they
know little or nothing about us.
John Bull: "Do you know, my little man, I’m very fond of you, but
but who the devil are you, and where do you live?”
POLITICS HEBE AND ELSEWHEBE.


Dili
t
DeiitiHice
Endows breath with
delightful fragrance.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
According to all accounts, Joseph Chamber-
lain has broken down mentally, and Protection in
Britain will have to find another leader.
Well to be the son of a Voice. Melba’s
son has been endowed by mamma with £5OOO
a year—representing a capital sum of, say,
£125,000.
Died, in Adelaide, lately, George Gooden,
who in the early days of 8 Australian cricket
formed one of a famous brotherhood of three. In
his later years he became a suburban council clerk
and a pillar of the Baptist tabernacle.
T. D. Chataway, the new Queensland
senator, is editor of a Mackay newspaper, and is,
or was, N.Q. correspondent for London Times.
Chataway loves the nigger, and, thanks to Andy
Dawson’s folly, he will now write as one having
authority.
The Duke of Connaught declines the in-
vitation to visit Australia, and all the joy has gone
out of the Acting-Premiership for John Forrest;
and various mayoresses who were wondering
whether it would be pronounced “Lydy” or
“ Lady ” when they got it, don’t need to worry
now.
The new Judge in Bankruptcy (N.S.W.),
Philip Whistler Street, got his second name from
the Whistler Siriiths, his mother being of that
family. Ex-Justice Walker married into it, so
that the new Judge and the old ate closely re-
lated. For a while the new Judge’s father was a
Colleague of Geo. Reid’s in representing East
Sydney*
Died, iii a Hobart charitable institution, on
January 16; Thomas Newton, at the alleged ripe
age of 104. The old fellow retained all his
faculties, excepting his sight, till the last. He
was allegedly born in England in 1803, and was
allegedly in London at the time of the Battle of
Waterloo. He arrived in Tasmania in 1850.
Tasmania has grown—and continues to grow—a
rich crop of alleged centenarians.
ARCHIE MESTON, A QUEENSLAND
IDENTITY.
Died, recently, in Wellington (M.L.), at his
work as Examiner of Titles, Mr. Howarth, a fine
old gentleman, who had been in and out of politics
and law since the early fifties. He was unremark-
able except for the fact that he drafted the Land
Transfer Act and succeeded in getting it passed.
Also he was the friend of every alleged inventor
who had a fortune in sight, and lost most of his
earnings over this craze. He was related to many
of the holders of M.L.’s most heavily-gilt official
billets, but had no personal craving for gilt him-
self except to help inventors with, and he
possessed no enemies. He was over 70, and just
fell dead among his official documents.
When William Irwin Blackman, whose
death is reported at 81, retired from N.S.W.
public service nearly twenty years ago, he was
feted as the man who, next to Jack Robertson,
was responsible for the great free-selection boom
of 1861 and onwards. He was really a politician
without a constituency. He sat at the Minister’s
elbow and spoke with his voice—that is, Black-
man supplied the speech; all but the picturesque
snuffle and the cuss words. They Were Jack
Robertson’s very own.
James Fergusson, whb was killed in <i
cigar shop in Kingston during the earthquake,
was formerly Governor of S.A., and he buried a
wife and married a wife in Adelaide. He was a
very decorative personage and is about the only
vice-regality on Adelaide’s peaceful record who
went in for powdered flunkeys and such-like
georgeousness. Jamestown (S.A.) is named after
Fergusson, but it is such a non-committal sort of
name that few are aware of the fact. If it had
been called Fergusson ville now—
The end of the variations played on the
family name of Smith seems to have arrived at
last. The plain Smith we have long known;
also the hyphenated Smith, the double-barrelled
Smith, Bob-cab Smith, the German Schmidt,
Smith masquerading as Smytlie and Smijth, and
the Smith that was pronounced Carrington ; now
a Sydney school prize-list arrives with St. Smith.
The Sainted Smith surely exhausts the possibili-
ties of the case. As for Smithers, Smithurst and
Smithwick, they are less than nothing.
Ex-Queenslander Agent-General James
Garrick, K.C., lately deceased, was a Sydney
native, born in 1836. His father, a baker,
had a business in King-street in the forties,
and prospered so that in 1850 he set up a sub-
stantial house in York-street. Son James became
a solicitor, and soon after Separation settled in
Queensland, where he prospered. He was one of
the props and stays of the London Bank of Aus-
tralia, which required some propping in recent
years.
That trim little yacht; the S.J.S*, that
made such a good fight for La Carabine Cup
against Heather and Rawhiti, was a triumph for
her builder; Dave Bellenger, inasmuch as he is no
professional boat-builder. He Was till lately a
packer in a Melbourne jam-factory, and was only
known there as a good handy man. Then he
thought he could make a few extra pounds by
building a boat in. his spare time. Now he is
bossing the construction of a hoped-for flier of a
ipotor-boat.
“Grey Heron”: Re par. (B. 17/l/’O7)
about Miss Constance Smedley and the literary
competition for “Colonial” women. It is to be
hoped Miss Smedley will carefully read all the
MSS. and imbibe a little information about Aus-
tralia therefrom. Read a story by her in an
English monthly last year. The hero was an
Australian millionaire who went to London and
turned up at a river picnic in frock coat and top
hat. When he discovered his blunder, he pleaded
as excuse that he didn't know any better, because
he had just come from Sydney 1 ' Poor Sydney!
Poor Harbor !
Willie Stephens, of South Brisbane, in the
neighborhood of which he owns goodly tracts of
land, is the biggest dairy farmer in all Banana-
land. His cow-output is estimated at £6OOO
a year. Willie’s cow mostly grazes in the neigh-
borhood of Tweed Heads (N.S.W.). This mighty
cow-man represented South Brisbane for a few
years in Queensland Assembly, but the wrath of
man fell on him in 1904, and left him at the very
bottom of the poll.
“Tas.” : I met a man who really imagined
that the Vic. Premier’s favorite and choicest
vulgarism, re “carrying guts to a bear,” was
original. This is not the case. Scott, in his
“ Fortunes of Nigel,” makes Richie Moniplies to
say, concerning James 1., when he (the King)
thought his dignity was not respected because
Moniplies presented a petition without paying
any compliments to the King’s horse or express-
ing any admiration at the splendor of his furni-
ture : “ . . . . and mair jackanape tricks I sud hae
played, instead of offering the sifflication [sup-
plication], he said, as if I had been bringing guts
to a bear.” What’s more, the words were used
in one of the old masques about the time of Ben
Jonson, or Beaumont and Fletcher, in Queen
Elizabeth’s day. That bear refreshment is very
old.
N.S.W. Public Service gazed round in a
silly sort of way on Thursday last when it realised
that little J. W. Holliman had jumped right over
the beads of his seniors to the billet of Under-
secretary at the Treasury. Holliman was Secre-
tary to the Public Service Board, and his surrender
of that office is the more surprising, because a
new Board is being appointed. The new men
will badly want the assistance of little Holliman,
who is unable to conceal the fact that he is the
mainspring, mainstay, and maintop-gallant-mast
of the Board’s office. Besides his many other
distinctions, Holliman could, if he liked, brag
that he is the smallest man in the Public Service.
Ho is seen at his best when seated on his favorite
steed, a huge, disproportionate beast. Then lie
is booted and spurred, and looks, in his something-
skin pants, like the only pebble on the beach.
Melbourne’s bantam Gaud-Mayor Weedon
might well take warning from the experiences of
his two immediate predecessors. There was
Malcolm M'Eacharn, a man who, for all his stiff-
necked mannerisms, played the part uncommonly
well, and deserved to be happy in it. After a few
years of notoriety, necessitating a great expendi-
ture of cash and energy, Mac. pronounced himself
a fool to have battled so hard. “I thought I was
very clever at the time, but now I know better,”
said the weary pusher. Then came Sam Gillott.
He squandered thousands of pounds in all-round
“hospitality,” went into the State Parliament,
and scored a dismal failure as a Minister, and
when he boarded the boat for England, the other
week, not one of the people whom he had feasted
came to see him off. Now Weedon walks mincingly
in the footst.eps of wealthier men towards the goal
of disillusionment.
The late Townsend Macdermott, who died
at 89, the grandfather of the Victorian Bar, was a
very conspicuous figure in Ballarat in the digger
days. Then his famous eye-glass spread more
terror amongst witnesses than even the notorious
Purves scowl can impart to-day. Old Ballarat
hands still remember with rapture the guileless
tinsmith who, when transfixed in the box by
Macdermott’s terrible monocle, slowly produced
from under his coat a tremendous eye-glass of his
own manufacture, as large as a frying-pan, and
deliberately stared back at the furious barrister
through this huge machine. The crowd howled
with glee, but the Judge fell on the offending tin-
smith with all the dignity of an outraged court,
and thundered at him for his blatant contempt.
The wretched tinker was only saved from gaol by
the intervention of Macdermott, who presently
awakened to a more kindly view of the situation.
JOURNALISTIC AMENITIES.
OUR RELIGIOUS EDITOR (after a rathef bad night): “ Now then, what in I— do You want !"
VISTOR : “ Oh, then, I am at the right place. I just called to See if you'd oblige me with a
bucket of brimstone.” (Exit hastily.)
Jimmy Hogue, N.S.W. Chief Secretary,
looks back over his life in politics and simperingly
bleats :
As for myself, looking back over the years during whit h
I have served the people in Parliament, 1 come to the
conclusion that, if I had my time over again, I would do
all I have done.
Tom Moore sang of Fontonella :
Vain was the man, and false as vain,
Who said, were he ordained to run
His long career of life again,
He would do all that he bad done.
James Howlin Graves, the foxiest member
of the Vic. Assembly in many former years, made
a show of standing for the Public Service seat
vacated by Davy Gaunson. Then he quietly
retired in order to save his deposit. The Graves
resurrection gave quite a shock to many people,
who thought he was dead. In his old capacity of
a man who knew things, he would have been use-
ful had he always made the things public, but the
secrets, as a rule, remained hidden in the Graves
after he had ferretted them out. He was a silent,
rather than a Howlin, Graves.
Some February birthdays : —Bishop De-
laney (Hobart), 54 on the Ist; Water Supply
Minister Swinburne (Vic.) and ex-Half-Premier
M’Lean, 67 on the 3rd ; Paris Nesbit, K.C., 50,
and D. B. W. Sladen, 51, on the sth; R. R.
Garran, 40, and B. R. Wise, 49, on the 10th ;
Bishop Donaldson, 44 on the 11th; Senator
Gould, 60, E. H. Wittenoom (W.A.), 53, and
Council Opposition leader Duncan (S.A.), 62, on
the 12th ; Speaker Davies (Tas.), 61, and
“Banjo” Paterson, 43, on the 17th ; O. C. Beale,
57 on the 22nd ; Judge Molesworth (Vic.), 65 on
the 23rd ; Justice Clark (Tas.), 59, Judge Rogers
(N.S.W,), 66, Professor Peterson (Melb.), 46, and
AGE-editor Schuler, 54, on the 24th ; G. H. Reid,
62 on the 25th ; Actor Dampier, 60 on the 28th.
A bout an ingenious explorer :
Veteran explorer Dr. A. W. Howitt, who presided at
Adelaide Science Congress, began bis acquaintance with
the Australian interior in 1858, when lie led a small
Melbourne party on a 1500-mile jaunt to take up a
large slice of Warburton’s “promised land” for
pastoral purposes. This was the beginning- of a
burst of interest in the interior, which culminated
in the Burke and Wills expedition in 1860. Most
Australians know Dr. Howitt best as the leader
of the rescue party that buried those luckless
adventurers. His expedition of ’58 was the
first to use camels for exploring- work, and
was lavishly equipped—the impedimenta
weighed 21 tons, and cost £4585. Howitt,
by the way, was about the first Australian
to attempt long-distance communication by
carrier pigeons. He took along with him a
lot of birds, but at Cooper’s Creek their t ails
were found to be worn down to the stumps
by rubbing against their wicker cage. Several
other pigeons were shot and their tailfeathers
spliced to the carriers’ stumps with waxed
thread. The device enabled the birds to fly,
but none of them turned up after release, being
presumably killed by hawks.
“G.J.D.” writes from Daylesford
(Vic.) to indignantly deny that Judkins
was born there.
Departed suddenly from this world, per
route of a fractured skull, Harry Hewitt, a S.A.
aboriginal of about 45, with an odd record. He
was a fine batsman, and really remarkable field,
a prominent footballer (always without boots), a
notable runner, swimmer, and gymnast. For
some time he was engaged in a circus. Latterly
he had addressed meetings on temperance, and
reached the rank of corporal in the Salv’army.
At the time of his death he was captain of a
mission-boat on the lakes near the Murray mouth.
But a native is always a native. There was an
evening visit to the “camp” of a half-caste laun-
dress, two great flagons of wine were brought
in, and in the morning Hewitt was dead, with
evidences of a fierce fight every where about.
“C. 1.5.” his yarn
At the recent Adelaide conference of beetle-gatherers
and stone-crackers, a dinner was given at a leading hotel,
and Tom Price was invited as Premier. Tom looks well
in dinner clothes, and on this particular evening was nice
enough to pass for a city alderman. On entering the
dining room, he was introduced to the Chairman as the
Hon. T. Price.
Chairman: “Are you the only politician here this
evening?”
Price: “ Yes.”
Chairman : “lam so glad to meet you ; so glad you are
with us this evening, and SO pleased that you have
beaten those horrid Socialists—not like our friend Mr.
George Beid.”
Price : “ Why, lam the biggest Socialist of the lot of
the Premiers, and proud of it; and if you don’t believe
me, ask the Governor there,” pointing to Sir George
Le Hunte.
Then a confused chairman realised that even a
Socialist may have a dress suit.
“ Maori Mae ” writes :
Maoriland has been afflicted lately with a number of
State Premiers and other nonentities. Amongst the col
lection was Captain Evans, commander of the Apple
Island Parliament. The captain had a joyous time till he
reached Auckland, where he was violently assaulted by a
large, cold rumor. The rumor alleged that Maoriland
Marine Minister Millar was the first master mariner to
attain Cabinet rank in Australasia, and Evans was
annoyed with the rumor, and sent for a reporter, or the
devil, or someone. He told the pressman that he (Jack
Evans) was the first sailor-Minister, and that he had lost
his ticket, and he also mentioned other strange pieces of
history. But I don’t think Millar cares. That ex-coastal
skipper is working like a white man to improve the living
conditions of his former mates, and he doesn’t talk. Ap-
parently J. Evans is too busy being Premier to do any-
thing to improve his late profession, or to encourage
white men to take to the rolling main. Jacky should not
he so dashed proud of being the very “ fust.” His pride
might trip him up and murder him with a large brick, or
a minority, or something equally crude. If Tasmania had
a man like Millar at the head of affairs it wouldn’t worry
if Evans was the first Premier-sailor or merely deck-hand
on Noah’s Ark.
Found, at Ballarat, in 1858, the Welcome
nugget of 21590 z. Found at Ballarat, in 1907,
Francis V ebster, one of the discoverers of the
nugget of nearly 50 years ago. Webster’s good
luck ended with the Welcome, presuming that
that was really good luck. For nearly a quarter
of a century he has been a wanderer. Once he
got into a benevolent asylum ; but, like all who
have lived the open-air life, he hated the white-
washed walls, so he tramped on. a tottering old
swaggie, till he brought up again at Ballarat.
When found, a week ago, he was wandering
around almost nude; but a kindly copper
ferretted out his clothes, and took him before the
beak, who directed him back to the shelter of the
asylum. Webster’s “Welcome” mates were
Richard Jeffery (who is now in ill-health at
Creswick), William Roberts (still hale and
hearty), and Henry Harris. The “Welcome”
was sold by them first for exhibition for
£10,500, and afterwards the new owners got
£9325 for it for minting.
THE ONE THING LEFT.
HE: “ I don't seem to care for anything nowa-
days."
SHE: “I think you forget yourself !”
Australia sends a worthy delegation to the
London Conferences this vear. Deakin, Watson,
Hughes, Lyne and Dugald Thomson form a
group which will eclipse anything that Great
Britain can produce. Deakin is probably the
finest speaker of the English language alive to-
day. He is at once eloquent and rational in his
oratory—a rare combination—and has moments
of passion which relieve his speeches from the
reproach of mellifluousness. Lyne, with his
strong personality, his vigorous downrightness,
will inevitably suggest to British minds Paul
Kruger He will awaken many on the tariff issue
if fipa-pts .. f .i ianf .p Watson is a singularly easy,
speaker. He"tfinks on his
le ? s with more caution and wisdom than most
men can in the study ; he will never say a foolish
thing, seldom neglect to say a wise one. His is
the English, as Deakin’s is the Celtic tempera-
m(,nt w m Hughes will not do himself full
justice in public ol this iln, for his forte is
opposition ; but in conference his .subtle intellect
will tell. Dugald Thomson is—with the possible
exception of ex-member G. B. Edwards—the best
sample the Freetrade party can put forward. It s
a supremely capable and—for this much thanks
a markedly sober delegation.


Anthony Horderns’ SALE
-il i-iw- .a —, , j j.—, j.
. A
m
wm
fifty
U*OM
ISn
HP
fm
Mi
\
fig
Ssßfc
.AH
0 ,
fG
: 'F : |
■w
K ii
Wrap!
| Hff jillii
Mi In mv
•w
a
—0
>.-■=
M.Tjy*
m
m
~ )
jjf
■■"'■■■.' »•»« -Jew’S?
ON THE SLOPE OF BRICKFIELD HILL
At the New Palace Emporium,
On the Historic Slope of Brickfield Hill.
FIFTEEN ACRES of Bargains
IN FULL- CULTIVATION FOR THREE WEEKS.
We Invite you to Reap A HARVEST of Joy.
First Day: Monday, Jan. 28
Last Day: Saturday, Feb. 16
SALE CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
The upward tendency of prices of all kinds of Goods really enhances the value of the tens of thousands of BIG
BARGAINS OFFERED AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE. Whilst COTTON and WOOLLEN FABRICS
are on the rise ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS are in the proud position of being able to afford the Australian
public an opportunity of purchasing the pick of the World’s commodities at LOWER PRICES THAN IT IS
POSSIBLE FOR ANY OTHER FIRM TO QUOTE FOR THE SAME GOODS. ~~
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS &
New Palace Emporium,
... Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY


Anthony Horderns have started & three weeks
sale of Big Bargains. A royal purple booklet of
some 200 pages mentions some two million bar-
gains mostly in alliterative headings—Natty
Napery, Harvest of Haberdashery, Tailor-made
Toggery, Fashionable Fixings. Pickings from
Piccaninnies’ Paradise. In fact, as the booklet
says, the Sale is Unassailable.
A Perfect Complexion.— Not all the silken
fabrics of the East can match the radiant complexion of
a woman with whom Yalaze is a daily habit. That
brilliant smoothness, that delicate skin texture that
follows the use of Vaiaze is won by alliance with the
workings of nature. Vaiaze extracts the foreign sub-
stances that clog the activity of the skin pores, and, by
nourishing the exquisite network of tissues that underlie
' the skin enable it to bloom with a beauty that seldom
unaided extends beyond the years of childhood. Wrinkles,
crowsfeet, blotches, tan, sallowness, freckles and all such
facial imperfections disappear with the use of Vaiaze,
giving place to a clear, soft and dainty complexion.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar (containing 3 times as much), postage 6d.
Vaiaze Herbal Soap—compounded from almonds and rare
herbs —greatly assists the beautifying action of Vaiaze—
feeds as well as cleanses, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Vaiaze
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure —prepared by Dr. Lykuski,
the Russian Skin Specialist as discoverer of Vaiaze.
Unfailingly cures the most obstinate cases—2s. 6d., posted
3s. Rusmo Hair Killer —a sure remover of superfluous
hairs—will not harm the most sensative skin, 5s. postage
3d. “Guide to Beauty ” a new edition of this charming
Brochure on the care of the skin and complexion for-
warded anywhere for 3d. in stamps or free with the pur-
chase of any Vaiaze preparation. Ladies who are visiting
Melbourne or Sydney should make a point of visiting the
Vaiaze Massage Institute. Here the exquisite processes
of Face Massage are practised under Mile. Rubinstein’s
personal supervision. Also birth marks, moles, disfiguring
growths, red noses, double chins and such like blemishes
are successfully treated whilst the permanent removal of
superfluous hairs is made a speciality of. All Vaiaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading chemists or direct from
Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne,
and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.—The best
resolution that can be made for 1907 is to start the year
by subscribing to our circulating library. We offer a
year’s reading of the best books published, whether it be
in fiction, travel, history, biography, or any other depart-
ment of literature, at rates for city and suburban sub-
scribers ranging from one guinea upwards, and for
country subscribers ranging from £2 12s. 6d.; for this
latter sum we send to any country address a parcel
of eight volumes as often as required. Shorter
periods or larger parcels to suit subscribers are quoted.
All our books are perfectly clean, and are covered in
a neat, distinctive green cloth. Conan Doyle’s “Sir
Nigel,” Gertrude Atherton’s “ Rezanov,” Lucas Malet’s
“Far Horizon,” Mary Cholmondeley’s “Prisoners,”
and thousands other popular works are now available
and are circulating freely. Write for catalogues and
particulars to Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating
Library, 428 George-st., Sydney.*
Banish Biliousness.— Biliousness is the result
of clogging of the system with waste materials. The
liver is at fault. Keep the liver strong and active with
occasional use of Senior’s Liver Pills, and you won’t
have biliousness, indigestion or headaches. Is. and 2s.
per box, or Is. Id. and 2s. Id. post free from Senior's
Pharmacy, 246 George-street. Sydney.*
It is not generally known that British Royalty
3 intimately interested in whisky. One of the sights of
he Balmoral estate, which Edward VII. inherited from
us roval parent, is the Lochnagar Distillery, where the
irm of John Begg, Ltd., makes the liquid that suggests
lissolved amber. Queen Victoria went over the distillery
n 1848, and the glass out of which she sampled the
arious grades, together with the glasses which the rest
,f her party used, are at present on exhibition in Maori-
and, and will shortly be available in Sydney for those
vho love to gaze on things like that. In October last
)ueen Alexandra and the Princess Victoria paid a sur-
mise visit to the establishment. Begg, Ltd., supply the
oyal palaces, and is the only firm that has always had
he honor of laying down in special wood new whiskies to
nature for his Majesty’s special use. It is a farseeing
oyal family that looks 20 years ahead for its whisky, duc
t is probably this fact that makes everybody ask tor
Jegg’s.*
♦
cs 3
#:
Cs^
&
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 880, 1885, 1890.
§ Dress FABRies
TRADEMARK
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers,
THE VARNISHED BGW
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 29, 1907.
My Dear Abini.—
The Northcotes cannot be said to be dreaming
the drowsy hours away, even when the Society
car is in the garage for the off season. Instead
Of loitering through the midsummer days, they
are acting in the spirit of some old and musty
Eroverb about being up and doing or such-like.
iad.y Northcote—his Ex. lending a helping intel-
lect—is working to inaugurate an Exhibition of
Women’s Work. Now, to originate an Under-
taking means Work. If the Undertaking fails,
the multitude point derisive thumbs at the Under-
taker (no double meaning meant). If it succeeds
—well, that is the originator’s reward. Per-
sonally, rather than work at Undertaking, I would
go to live in a sunlit cove of peace about the rocks
of Middle Harbor, and allow my friends to pro-
vide me with broken vittles in a string-bag.
The Australian Exhibition of Women’s Work,
at which Lady Northcote is toiling like a beaver
building a dam, will be opened in the Exhibition
Building in Melbourne towards the close of this
year. “It will serve to exhibit the work of
women, resident in all parts of Australia, side by
side in friendly competition, the ultimate result
of which can only be the common good,” says the
well-drawn-up circular, which also mentions 47
trades —beginning with Ammunition and ending
with Revelations (otherwise Wigs and Hairpads)
—in which women are engaged, and which will
be liberally represented. I don’t miss anything
from the list but demonstrations in washing the
baby.
Lady Northcote has received, during the last
two months, letters from the Countess of Aber-
deen (wife of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland),
the Countess of Minto (wife of the Viceroy of
India), the Countess Grey (wife of the Governor-
General of Canada), the Countess of Selborne
(wife of the Governor of the Transvaal and High
Commissioner for South Africa), who are col-
lecting non-competitive exhibits of women’s work
from Ireland, India, Canada and South Africa
respectively. These will be shown in a special
section of the Ex.
A friend who sends now and then a trickle of
news from the Great Soak says she thinks Princess
Aribert (or Princess Louise of Schleswig-Holstein
as she prefers to be called since she shunted
Prince Aribert), who is to visit us presently, will
do some collecting for a charity to which she is
devoted. The “Church Army” is the charity,
but what it covers deponent sayeth not.
Anyhow, the Princess did some collecting for
it in India a few months ago. At Colombo,
where she left the Australian-bound liner, she
attended Herr Degen’s violin recital, and to a
fascinating Australienne who begged her to con-
tinue her journey hereward she said “by-and-
bye.” But she didn’t rattle her collecting-box in
Colombo. That bright red and green town is so
alive with professional beggars that an amateur
one would have little show.
The ha’penny English press tells of the
Princess’s tea with a sweep. She had gone to
see the parson who started the “Church Army”
movement (why is not one of these holy move-
ments called & navy?) and found the sweep
visitor already with him. She poured out the
tea, and, suiting her small talk to the sooty
intellect, asked, “ However do you clean chim-
neys ? ”
Just here you may recall a proof of Marshal
MacMahon’s inability to bring his intellect to the
sooty level. At a military school a young negro,
who had done something great in the way of
prize-taking, was presented to the Marshal.
“Ah,” said the soldier-President, “you are the
negro?” “Yas, suh.” “Ah, well, continue,”
said the great man. He probably meant that
Sambo should continue prize-taking. Anyhow,
Sambo continued to be a negro.
Lady Campbell—the youngest of the Caran-
dinis—and her two daughters are leaving M.L.,
maybe for years, or maybe for ever. One of the
daughters has fallen heiress to a property in
Scotland. The fall didn’t break her neck, nor do
her any injury whatever.
People are saying in Sydney that when a widow
begins to take notice before her husband is dead
it is rather sudden-.
Deeply pathetic was an incident in connection
with the death of a little nine-year-old dot, Eileen
O’Connor, who was run over by a tram in Crown-
street, Sydney, and killed. The mother sent her
on a message, and didn’t see her again until after
the accident, when she was in the hospital. ‘ ‘ Did
you get the pins?” the child asked, and then she
died.
The advertisement in the Sydney paper was for
a nurse-girl, and Mary Ann, just turned 15, was
selected out of over a dozen who applied. On
her first night off her mother inquired about the
baby, but Mary Ann replied it wasn’t the usual
sort of baby, but a little curly poodle that the
mistress was training for the next dog show. It
had its own cot, bath, dining-room and recreation
garden, and the nurse’s duties consisted solely in
attending to it.
Writing of the Armstrong-Otway marriage
Emily Soldene says, m the Evening News : ’
Bride given away by her father-Oolonel Jocelyn
Otway—who looked particularly distinguished, but not
particularly pleased. 0
That he was not pleased, private letters from the
Great Soak make manifest. Neither was Melba
mad with joy over the alliance (suppose that word
isn t too big a one with which to qualify the
union). In a year or so it won’t add to Melba’s
gaiety to be called Granny by horrid, rising
sopranos. When a woman is Queen of Song or
queen of anything that is not an actual kingdom
with a standing army and things, even a little
word like Granny” will make her feel like
saying “Bother!” Ke
At the wedding ceremony E.S.’s big eyes noted
Melba s unique muff—perfectly straight, narrow,
and long enough to reach the elbows where glove
and sleeve meet. Melba’s own design probably—
she’s a born leader even in a matter of muffs.
As the Australasian press is swamped with
accounts of the wedding I wonder no swamper
has turned her pen on to the loveliness of the
bride’s mother. Mrs. Otway is an acknowledged
beauty, and pretty well lives for the preservation
of her looks; she’s of the Sir Peter Lely’s type,
and not much older-loolcing than her daughter.
Mrs. Bland Holt and Miss Grace Palotta, at
the Press v. Mummers cricket match, assumed a
pose plastiquc, and were photographed in sight
of, and to the great joy of, the audience—Mrs.
Holt in a blue gown worn under a remarkable lace
cloak, and the only Palotta in white, and with
wind-tossed hair. “ I want to ‘ take ’ you,” said
the man with the camera, coming up to where the
two artistes and Miss Pearl Faithfull were talking
to a just-comer. Instantly Mrs. Holt sat down
on the corner of a bench, profile to the camera;
instantly Miss Palotta stood close to her with an
arm raised, and pointing towards the flannelled
fools. “Thanks,” from the photographer, and
the 20sec. job was jobbed. The “taken” had
been there so often that they knew exactly what
not to do.
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Ward were amongst the
onlookers at the match ; so was Mrs. Willoughby,
artistically frocked, and Mrs. G. Goodman. The
way Edwin Geach poured out the tea was up-to-
date. Right in the middle of the cup every time.
During the last fortnight of “The New Clown”
Grace Palotta added a bewitching item to her
circus get-up. A cherry-colored or turquoise
garter glowed below her left knee. That black
and silver frock, with its wide knee-high skirts,
was made in Melbourne, and stiffened with whalb-
bone. At the first performance of “The Talk of
the Town,” on Saturday afternoon, Miss Palotta
exploited a most desirable golfing costume —a
salvia-red skirt and shoes, loose blouse of striped
flannel, and a tam o’ shanter. Rose BavandKillara
Golf Club women might, by study of this costume,
improve their own ugly ones. The tam, of
course, wouldn’t do here. It would leave the
wearers with skins like worn linoleum. In “ The
Vagabond”—the curtain-raiser to “The Talk of
the Town ” —the actress wears a soft cream silk
gown of such a luscious, ripe cream hue ! Just to
pet and pat its voluminous, shimmering folds
would give you delirium rapturous. The poke
bonnet that goes with the Victorian style has a
pale-blue ostrich feather, and the combination of
azure sky and palest daffodil is—well, find your
own adjective.
If you can’t shed tears ai tisticallv, better go in
late and miss “The Vagabond.” Hugh Ward is
the cause of weeping. You must keep your head
well up, so the tears shan’t run down the sides of
your nose. And don’t blink more than once or
twice —blinking will dislodge the large globes of
moisture, and they’ll run down the middle of your
cheeks, over the prepared toilet oatmeal, and
you’ll have to blot them up with your hanky.
But if you take the precautions I have indicated,
you won’t grow red in the nose and eyelids, and
feel horrid when the lights go up.
Another man thing—one that really took the
eye of the women—who has been staying in Syd-
ney, but who goes to M.L. to-morrow, is Colonel
Lumsden, founder of Lumsden’s Horse. His
Horse galloped and neighed considerably during
the Boer war. Its founder has a pleasant per-
sonality and a nice grey moustache.
The King girls—they who went to Maoriland
same time as the Waldron-Ola-Jane company—
are of curious interest to the Greenstone islanders.
They—the girls—sat in the stalls three or four
nights a week during the Christchurch season.
Miss May’s gaze was glued to her firmed Wal-
dron. If the pair, with the second sister’s in-
tended hubby, are trapsing about after the co. as
it goes from town to town, Maoriland will think
they are understudies waiting for Ola Jane to fall
ill or deadj or some trifle like that.
Sydney ought to brighten up a heap now. The
sprightly Consul Orlando Baker returned by last
trip of the Sonoma.
Mrs. General Gordon and her two children are
staying for the summer at Colo Vale. They have
one of the two houses in the district, so they
cannot complain of overcrowding.
More trouble for the Scottish rifles —in Sydney
this time. The regiment has been ordered to
wear a new headpiece in the shape of a woolly
tam-o’-shanter, and when the laddies saw the fear-
some thing they threatened a general strike.
Their present hat, a dazzling white affair with a
gaudy red plume, threatens in the event of war to
give the crowd away to the enemy, so a more
sombre hat was requisitioned for. The regiment
says now that it would rather be killed dead on
the tented field than parade before the girls in a
woolly drab “ tam.” The girls may laugh at its
bare knees, its petticoats, and its little tufts
of horsehair, but it draws the line at wearing a
hat which is a jest and a mockery, and it would
sooner hang its kilts on a weeping willow tree
and go back into private life.
N.S.W. Department of Public Instruction
has decided that the schoolgirls of the metropolis
shall be taught to swim. A special instructress
has been appointed who will teach the art of
gliding through the water and saving the
drowning. This sort of thing will make a mar-
vellous difference in the physique of the race
during the next two or three generations. When
these healthy girls start supplying the Common-
wealth with new citizens, what splendid citizens
they ought to be !
Such a herd of smart yachts adorned the sea-
scape on Anniversary afternoon; the Knoxes’
Sirocco, the Dibbses’ Ena, and the Fairfaxes’ Iris
among them. Mr. Lew Davis and his bride were
about on the grey, choppy sea in something that
travelled like the sea-serpent. Mr. Walter
Reeks, vice-commodore of the P.A.Y.C., back
from Melbourne and defeat the day before,
paddled about in some backwash or other, and
told persons who invited him to join in cursing
the winners that' they won quite fairly. Mr.
Noyes had a crammed launch. Amongst its pas-
sengers was featherweight Murray White. A
new racing yacht—to be called the Awanui
(another compliment to Maoriland) —will soon
shoot over the face of our waters. It will be the
first of the new class of 36-footers, and is being
built for Mr. Saxton, of Saxton and Binns.
Not many women were abroad, even on the
Flagship Mongolia. Cricket and the races took
the chiffon tribe from the Great Splash. An
afternoon on the water isn’t kind to the female
complexion or hair. A girl told me that she
watched scores of girls and women getting into
launches or going up on the flagship, and (it was
the only fun she had) the eager, hungry, concerted
gaze of the men of the party was always fixed
on the lady’s feet. Bold things ! Not the feet
—the men.
P.A.Y.C. will give another Florentine Night
at its place at Neutral Bay about the second week
in February. There won’t be a moon, but the
supply of rosy paper lanterns will be adequate—
just adequate enough, not too adequate. Excess
of adequacy would spoil the innocent harbor-side
flirtation, which merely wants to be illumined
with a rosy glow—not blighted with a search-light.
Mrs. Stitt, wife of the former agent in Sydney
for the All Red Line, has left with her two
daughters to join her husband in Canada. Sydney
women friends of the lady with the delightful
Scotch-American accent subscribed to give her a
presentation of toilet-table silver. Mrs. Charlie
Norman formally handed over the pretty and
precious things “ with these few remarks,” &c.
Mrs. Thomas Hughes, the civic chieftainess,
inaugurated a Ladies’ Rifle Association last week.
It was done in the cellar of the Town Hall, and
Mrs. Hughes, of course, made a bull’s-eye with
her first shot. “A bull’s-eye is better than a
faux pas,” said someone. A crowd of school-girls
and not-long-out damsels lay down on the mound
to fire, exhibiting the soles of their shoes and
some calf. Miss Purves took the first prize—a
gold bangle. Mr. George Wynn, of the D.T.,
was the originator of the Joke, and General
Gordon, Captain Niesigh, Colonel Holmes, and
other military men in evening clothes, did their
best to make him and the Mayoress believe that
they took it seriously.
What a strong clan is that of the reigning
Mayor Hughes ! Some twenty of them were out
at Wonderland City last Wednesday. It was
Hugheses, Hugheses all the way. The sons of
his Mayorship are only kiddies, but they are
marvello'.'.; shots, and can hit the bull’s eye eight
times out of ten. The more comfortable way I
find is to fire at a stable door and then draw a
black circle around the bullet-mark, leaving it
exactly in the centre.
To the hon. sec. of the Child Study Association
Miss Pearl Herman and Mr. W. J. G. Colzer have
each forwarded a guinea.
Miss Charlotte Osborne, of the Currandooley
(N.S.W.) clan, was married, on the 22nd Decem-
ber, to Lord Kitchener’s A.D.C., Major Frank
Maxwell, V.C., D. 5.0., of the 18th Bengal
Lancers. Kitchener gave the bride a diamond
bangle and the bridegroom a £5O cheque. He
also donated the bridal bouquet—a lovely thing in
lilies of the valley and maidenhair fern.
On Saturday night the members of the Public
Service Dramatic Society will, by the grace of
J.C.W., stage “The Squire” at Sydney Palace.
Victor Cohen, who was such a success as the Jew
in the “Merchant of Venice,” goes over to the
Gentiles as Parson Dormer, while Miss Stella
Chapman, who, as the Gentile Portia, mas-
queraded as the lawyer, plays the _ Squire.
The box plan is at Paling’s, and all Society that
is within reasonable rail, tram, ferry, or cab
journey of the Palace should be present.
Lady Sarah Churchill, who is now touring
Maoriland with her Major, used to smoke inces-
santly in public while staying in Sydney. She
didn’t do so in the street, of course, but there
was no furtiveness about her cigarette on the
smoking balcony or winter garden of her hotel.
A rather fetching item of her dressing—her
diamond and turquoise dog-collar was sewn to the
neck of her dinner blouse.
Hon. O. Hastings and Captain Wilson, who
were of the quartette, have been North, but came
back a few days ago, and are still blowing about
Sydney. Hon. O. is a twig of the Huntingdon
family. One of the Samuel Wilson (of Ercil-
doune, Vic.) girls married the present belted earl
of the Huntingdon label. (If he isn’t belted now
he probably was when he was a kid.) Our visitor
is his beloved brother.
This, clipped from an English weekly, will be
bad reading for those who think our domestic ser-
vice trouble is to be relieved by immigration :
At one agency the applicant was informed that domes-
tic servants ire now emigrating to Canada and America
in large numbers, and that they will presently be unob-
tainable. At another agency the proprietress said
gravely: “We really don’t know what to do. We are
advertising in papers all over the country, and our ad-
vertisements are bringing no replies from the servant
class at all. But if we put in an advertisement for a lady
servant we get 50 answers per return of post. It looks
as though the servants of the future will come entirely
from the middle-classes.”
Lady servant is significant of the trend of domestic
service.
Many persons are going hence by the Marmora
by-and-bye—the Tom Knoxes, the Geoffrey Fair-
faxes and Hamilton Gordons among them.
A correspondent reproaches me for suggesting
silk as a good medium for a bathing costume.
He saw a girl clad in beautiful pink-silk knickers
and tunic go into the deep at Manly, and in an
hour’s time the silk attire had shrunk to such a
shred that some of her girl friends had to go to
meet her in deep water and insert her into a
mackintosh.
Bland Holt and William Anderson have been
run to a standstill by an incident in real life,
reported by the last English mail. A beautiful
girl was found one morning murdered on the
outskirts of Rome, and the smartest detective in
the force was allotted the task of tracking
down the assassin. He did his best and failed ;
after a week, Antonio Bloodhound admitted he
hadn’t a ghost of a clue. Then the second
smartest sleuth had a turn, and in time he also
threw in the Roman towel, and one by one all
the ’tecs of the Eternal City worked at the murder
without finding a trace. In desperation, the
junior of the staff was given a chance to distin-
guish himself, and, after two days, he entered the
office of the chief with a whole series of clues.
He unravelled them one by one to the chief,
making that keen old Dago fire up with the zeal
of his passionate youth. Every point advanced
by the detective made the mystery clearer. At
last the chain of evidence seemed complete.
“ And the murderer?” demanded the chief ex-
citedly. The junior smiled. “ Here is his written
confession,” he announced with a bow, handing
a document across the table. “Then he has
escaped?” asked the chief. “On the contrary,”
corrected the subordinate. “He is now under
arrest. He stands before you. I murdered
Angela Villadossi. I was her lover and she was
unfaithful. I had intended to keep the matter
secret; but when you gave me the job, my detec-
tive instinct got the better of me.” According to
the latest account, the astute detective was
in gaol awaiting trial.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
The Burns Anniversary concert took place in the Can-
tennial Hall, with the usual enthusiasm and bagpipes.
The Premier and his fat, jolly wife were met and played
into the hall wi th pipes, and Archie Meston graced the
scene as usual in a M‘Gillicuddy plaid. And the crowd!
It packed the hall to the ceiling, and raved until the
length of the programme was that of a Chinese preserip.
Don, which takes two days to make up. Pretty Bessie
Praser was the bright spot of the show, and her wit
tickled the Kidston couple until I thought “ Wullum ”
would roll off his perch.
The January meeting of the Q.T.O. lifted for a brief
hour the general gloom. A goodly crowd foregathered
at Ascot, but the smartest frocks were mostlv absent.
Pretty Mrs. H. M'Neill (Florence Waldon Taylor) in a
navy silk, rich with cream Irish crochet, and a duck of a
floral hat, the dainty daughter of Government Architect
Brady in vvhite silk and blue chiffon, and Mrs. J. A.
a ' n a ? re y P oem i saved the situation, however.
All the good things got home last, and everyone lost at
least half-a-crown.
It is really too bad the way southern women snap up
our Queensland bachelors. They all hold, in theory
that Queensland is an awful place, ruinous to the com!
plexion, like a newly-fried steak as to climate, and as
dull as ditch-water. Yet no sooner does a Queensland
unattached Lord of Creation show his face in the south
than he is embezzled in holy matrimony. Something
will really have to be done. The reason of this outbreak
is the news of the engagement of Mr. Maddock Hughes
to Miss E. Hughes, of Adelaide. The contrariness of the
man—instead of marrying a girl of a different name in
his own State, he goes in for one of the same name in
“ furrin parts.”
Some one informs me that Col. W. H. P. Plomer, ex-
Commandant of the Queensland forces, has been elected
a member of the Kildare-street Club, Dublin, the most
exclusive club in Ireland. The Queensland Club took
offence at the expression of his eye, and wouldn’t
have him, which was rather a joke when one considers
some of the persons the said club shelters within its
doors ! This episode made the explosive General Hutton
an even angrier man than usual. The club asked Hutton
to dinner, and Hutton tore up its invitation and leaped
on the fragments (at least he ought to have done so, to
roundoff the episode). Then the club saw its way to
admit Plomer into its sacred precints, but the Colonel
had no use for the sacred precincts by that time.
Yours Affectionately,
Akknuhi.


M)
Every Vehicle
To be Up-to-cTeto
Should bo Fitted with
DUNLOP
KELLY
Ruftberiyres
They Pay for themselves
in Twelve Months.
No Vibration. No Repairs,
and double the pleasure of
Driving. TYRES fitted
from £5 and upwards.
ILLUSTRATED LIST
«l APPLICATION.
TMK DUNLOP NUDKN CO OP AUIT. LTO». lOC Pllnim ft, Mill.
.« avoMcr. aoiuuoi. mmth. mimans »wj ommitcmuiicm, iu
DUNLOP
HOSE
D?ES N9T
KINK
2R BURST.
accept only 'Dunlop' Brands
obtainable all leading, stores.
DUNLOP
HOSE
gtocW*
(Dress
SMELDS
For Outdoor Costumes, a Perfect stockinet.
Anatomically Made,
Full Sizes.
“KLEINERTS.”
PD
LDuuIJjIIAPII
AND
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 29, 1907.
Mi Dear Yarrie.—
The sex is evolving a gayer, more dazzling,
style of raiment to marry in. Formerly the
bridal rig was so soft, so sheenless, so excessively
simple, that it almost apologised for itself. Then
it tailed out a bit more, so that the bride-elect
drew a weight-length of dress-end at her heels,
suggesting a lingering sense of reluctance. The
weight alone made her steps unwilling as she
plodded to the altar. To balance matters, she
lopped off a large piece at her top end, and left her
neck bare, as if she had partly rushed out of her
clothes in her haste to reach the scene of the
marriage ceremony—had been running, in fact,
and her garments hadn’t kept up with her. That
became a tricky allurement. It still is. But the
reBt of the bride’s rig has altered in other ways.
It is loud and impressive, and as bold as ivory
satins slashed with opulent silver or gold can
possibly be. At three recent marriages the bridal
garb struck a valiant note —a magnificently
assertive and bold note. Old dames shook their
heads, thinking it a bad way to begin. Presently
the bride will flash forth in wicked scarlet, or
unholy mauve, or defiant green.
The marriage of the Landale cousins was a bril-
liant affair. Miss Edy the Landale determined to be
a stunning star at her own hitching-up. Her satin
rig was Empire-cut, and had a tail a,s long as a
husband’s explanation. Gold trimmings further
weighed down the raiment. Diamonds blazed
from her top upholsterings. It was as expensive
and as gorgeous as the family could wish, or the
dress-builder accomplish. She looked a highly-
equipped, prosperous bride. A bunch of grown
girls and a brace of children fussed about the
starring figure in joyful blue and silver trappings.
Their millinery was a poetic achievement.
The blue bevy of girls at the wedding carried
high sticks—the fancy name is Empire crooks —
but not in an altogether fancy style. One of them
held hers in a threatening fashion —as if, had one
of the others giggled, or rent her glove, or sneezed
out of her turn, she’d have struck her a reproving
blow. The high strong stick, after all, suggests a
crutch or a threat. It isn’t poetic.
One of Melbourne’s most piquante Jewesses
left for the Cold Country last week in charge of
popper, the proprietor of the busy Beehive store.
Mr. A. Harris, the popper in question, is distin-
guished from the common run of prosperous
business citizens by the beauty of his daughters,
and, in the company of vivacious Miss Ida, he
will shine with a reflected glory. A number of
co-religionists, presided over by Nathaniel Levi,
wished him good fortune.
The Saturday express from Sydney conveyed
Julius Knight to Spencer-street —a slightly
graver, less saucy Julius than the Knight of
the glad socks and heavenly calves. Manager
George Tallis met the star, and a few hysterical
girleens peeped as Julius descended from the
parlor car. And there the excitement. ended.
Any male person, moist from a high train tem-
perature and darkened by a coating of express
soot, is an unromantic object.
An experienced she-picnicker fell in for a good
thing the other day. She had organised a hill-
climbing jaunt of fourteen. It was a grey day.
Only one transpired at the meeting-place. The
exception was a male. The pair looked, frowned,
sighed, smiled, took a train, climbed hills, viewed
the sunset, dreamed in the moonlight, and drifted
home highly content. Report says that the date
is fixed.
The latest photo of Annette Kellermann is a
staggerer. She’s stepping into a carriage. It’s
the thing to be snapped furred to the chin in a
motor, or climbing into a brougham. Annette
turns with a bright smile at the camera at the
step. She’s Paris-garbed, wears a saucy little
toque and an air of established prosperity. I a
Kellermann stands by, bell-toppered, flogger-
coated and spruce-trousered —the entrepreneur to
the life. The strenuous water-nymph has found
clothes a big trouble all along. The ornamental
had never troubled her aquatic thought. Only
of late she has learnt the coquetry of chiffons.
Polo is the diversion of the dusty hours. The
other day, at MooneeValley, theGirgarre visitors
sped their ponies against a local team. Mrs.
John Winter-Irving and a little clique of bar-
rackers washed down with tea the whirlwinds of
dust raised by the charging teams. This season,
interest in polo is as faint as the south breezes,
All the girl-barrackers are married or away. The
polo she-barracker is either the wife of a player
or hopes to be. The charmer has no
time for the fierce, hot sport.
TheR.C. reverence fares better than most sky-
pilots. Every week one of him takes up a pre-
sentation purse and skedaddles to Europe or
America. It’s marvellous to see how Kate and
Biddy and Mick and Pat contribute for the jaunt
when the hat goes round. Any member of the
R.C. congregation is prepared to go without
decent gloves to help Father Dennis off for a
luxurious pleasure trip. The simplicity that goes
shabby in religion’s cause is great.
All the girls are looking daggers and No. 9
needles at a bachelor who has settled himself m a
flat of seven apartments in Oollins-street. “He
rolls in money,” complain the surplus charmers.
Literally, he does. Mr. Teddie Hallenstein,
at a tempting marriageable age (somewhere
towards thirty), establishes himself in the
most luxurious suite in the State. There’s no
hope of shifting him. After floating through his
rooms (“ they are seven ”), that were as a brown
and green dream of ecstasy, I decided in my mind
that this horribly rich flatter had, with deliberate
caution, armed himself with ecstatic furniture
so as to cut off the charms of the sex that has to
get married. Bric-a-brac, and exquisite trifles,
and manly objects of self-sufficient comfort em-
bastion the stubborn bachelor. He has poker
parties, and keeps such a store of pipes on hand
that the sex of his favorite company is settled
abruptly. In a State of girl-excess this icy isola-
tion of a wickedly rich eligible should be heavily
taxed.
A surprisingly manly scrawl comes from Douglas
Gerrard, who, at time of writing, was playing in
IJncle Sam’s country with the Viola Allen Co. in
“ Cymbeline.” Miss Allen is one of the money-
making stars of Dollarland. “ America s a good
place for our calling,” writes this broth of a boy,
and there’s no brogue or affectation in his ink
“and a soft snap, but give me your own golden
country. Yes, whether it likes me or not, I like
it. Believe me, there’s no country as free, as fine,
as good as your own. I mean it, and I don’t care
a d n what you all say or write. I’m coming
back to settle on the land and to be pitched off
bucking nags, if necessary. I don’t care, I m
coming back. Besides, the Budgery copper mines
call me. The shares have jumped to a thousand
a-pieee. I worked with pick and shovel up there.
Perhaps I’m a better miner than actor. How-
ever, I don’t care. I’m coming back. Ireland’s
good to dream of, but give me Australia to live
in.” That sounds quite meaty and strong from
Douglas.
This is from a girl pessimist
Tent-time is a snare and delusion for the hopefu l
damsel who trusts that its unconventionality and laxity
may lend her the fateful charm she lacks at more heavily
upholstered seasons. She willingly faces its discomforts
and its dangers—to what purpose ? To discover that it s
the maid’s Purgatory, and the matron’s Paradise. The
lass goes down to the sea, modestly marring her
dainty contours with a garment which makes her
look ‘like a gladiator, with scruples. The lady of
experience points out her charms with a scanty
bathing-wrap of blue, which serves little purpose
other than to emphasise the pearl-like purity of
her pelt. And Benedict, who last winter swore that
Beatrice was “ his overhanging day,” appreciates the
contrast, and levels his quotations from the standard
bards at the less clothed lady. For three consecutive
week-ends, he turns up to ask Beatrice to “ walk to-
gether under a roof of blue Australian weather.” Then
he deserts his slender-sweet, to join the. opulent one.
Blue, which is the color-note of tent-time, isn’t becoming
to Beatrice when her rose-leaves are burnt an angry
purple. The ardent sun, which ignores Madame’s outer
skin of Cream Simon, kisses the maid all over, spoiling
her from a spectacular point of view; and so gives
Madame an additional and unfair advantage. This also
helps to capture Benedict. He never liked Bee in any-
thing but white, and there everything is against her.
Everything is blue at tent-time —the sea, the sky, the
bedding, the bathing-gowns, Madame’s whispered con-
fidences —blue, all blue. Summer and its tent time are
simply a feast for matrons ; a failure for girls.
A recent widower was painfully interrupted at
the meridian of his grief by a common or garden
bill for Christian Science attentions. .He checked
his sobs, wrenched his mind from his mournful
course, and confronted the new enemy with a
cold suspicion. A heavy bill for. comforts,
soothings and other vagaries of the divine cult lay
before his gaze. Sundry items, of spiritual
attendance were listed. The widower . didn’t
know of his late partner’s association with the
sect. He hadn’t distinguished the persuaders,
either by their appearance or by any good they
did, from the sick one’s ordinary Christian un-
scientific friends. And now he ponders the
matter deeply. He is just a little sadder for the
discovery. But the bill hasn’t been settled. It
hasn’t a hope of being footed. And the sect sits
back and holds tight for a time.
A sensational story of a romance which affects
very prosaically a present stage star, goes the
rounds with a wealth of shoulder-shrugging.
Quite a lot of romances have very prosaic effects.
At last young George Castles gets his chance.
He foots it in comic opera. Four years ago,
when the Rev. Fairy Godfather of the family
was fixing the youth in a niche at the Agent-
General’s Office, he grimaced and told Amy, the
Star, that he wanted to have a go at comic opera.
The booming one told him to lie low, or, in other
words, to be quiet and not be a fool. So Castles
went along and took up his quill with a privately-
registered determination to get into the grease
business sooner or later. And he has been
steadily working to that end ever since, with the
Rev. Robinson pulling what strings there were to
pull for him at this end of the globe regarding a
footlighting career. And now, after diligently
training his higher G for two years, he foots it in
the dazzlesome neighborhood of the much-pictured
Marie Studholme and other topmost Gaiety
scorers. Is there any limit to the Castles luck?
One Toorak chick, like the last rose of summer
left blooming alone, all her lovely companions
being married or otherwise settled out of the
land, decided not to see the last of her pals linked.
She disappeared before the event. Her P.P.C.
card was eloquent.
Suburban hostesses are initiating a No-Fol-
lowers movement. The custom has been for
Florrie Dash to bring along Fred Blank to
afternoon tea or a supper sandwich. It rendered
the call equally pleasant for both Fred and
Florrie. But the habit becomes promiscuous,
and, in addition to Fred, the girl brings Harry
and Jack at different times. Her matrimonial
prospects do not improve. Also, it’s a skittish
proceeding. So it is to be stopped. It only
means that calls are off, f.,i£ Florrie must tell
bushel of lies to her own mamma.
Hal Cohen is gurgling melodiously and pri-
vately in the Big Smoke at present in the com-
pany of Walter Kirby, and Kirby is soaring
among the clans whose family trees have branches
as long as the sigh of a hippopotamus. Hal
intends to reduce his avoirdupois before he
starts to Europe. The aspiring youth has
industry and zeal. With a little suppression of
the Ego, a flattening of the vanity bump, and a
development of modesty, big things may be
expected of him.
The wife of a Collins-street dentist has taken
things into her own hands. Having repeatedly
complained of the number of hair-pins found in
the operating den, she has decided in future to
attend her husband’s operations in a professional
capacity, and insists on donning cap and apron.
A fierce wrath blazes in the toothsmith’s eye at
the threat. It has yet to be carried into execution.
Dolores had a wild desire to take away some
sheep—-some real woolly merinos—on leaving
Australia, but the trouble of transporting them,
and providing fodder, and probably hotel board,
deterred her. She might have taken one or two
local pet lambs who baa-ed happily whenever the
chubby star glanced their way, and frisked or
browsed within her ken every time Dolores
felt in a kindly and sociable way, or needed
amusing. But the charmer didn’t want that sort
of lamb or billy-goat.
A bouncing widow who runs a motor and sprees
her friends, not as single spies but in battalions,
is having the time of her life. Her adorers are
of all ages, sizes, sorts and conditions, lheir
infinite variety keeps life from wearing the drab
hue of monotony. She tortures them all by a
little hope. To give encouragement its full value,
she takes each of them in turn for a motor spin in
the country. I saw her the other day partially
disguised m motor rig, with one of the _ °u
appro’ ” males by her side, and a smile of high
provocation on the portions of face not enveloped
m protective furniture. The stage of sportive
widowhood is surely the happiest and the most
impudent this hairpin sex of ours ever realises.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
His Excellency Le Hunte, who has been rusticating in
various quiet, cow-haunted spots all the summer, has
dashed off to Melbourne with Governor Talbottle,
leaving the weighty affairs of State in the hands of Chief
Justice Way. Governor Talbottle and Victor Nelson
spent a while here, lingering among the squattocracy
of the south-east, and dallied through some golden
hours with the W. J. T. Clarkes of Mount Schank, in the
region of blue lakes and dead volcanoes. During Lady
Le Hunte’s absence, the gubernatorial summer place at
Marble Hill has been lonely, like Tadmor in the wilder-
ness. ,
Two affectionate young South Australians, named
respectively Bob and Anna, lately electrified their rela-
tives and friends by calling their cosy suburban dove-cote
“ Bobanna.” When the relatives and friends were uncivil
enough to grow hilarious about it, they explained with a
considerable amount of hauteur that it was pronounced
“ Bob-arna.” The idea is at least original and capable of
wide adaptation—such names as “ Biljane,” “Nedada,
“Joepolly” and “Jimsarah,” for instance, would cause
much consideration and deep thought. Some years ago
a well-known and brilliant Australian penwoman and her
husband took up their abode next door to a house called
“ Waterloo.” Their own house was anonymous, so they
called it “ Bill Adams ’’—spelt “ Biladamz.” Then they
told friends that the term was Turkish for “Beside the
blue water,” and friends said “ How beautiful! ” _
Mr. Warren Swan, B. A. of Adelaide ’Varsity, who is at
present studying for the Church in the Islands of Britain,
has been gathering in decorations, whereof now he has
12 baskets full, at St. Augustine’s College, Canterbury.
After a residence of only six months, he gained first-class
honors in his examinations, with four distinctions and
some prizes thrown in. He is a son of Canon Swan, a
popular cleric who shepherd’s a parish at Semaphore, but
who is at present disporting himself, with his wife and
family, somewhere in foggy parts. The Swans return to
Adelaide in April, leaving son Warren to search the
Scriptures diligently in Britain for another year or so.
Another South Australian, Mr. Coglan, also son of a
cleric, and nephew of Justice Stone, of W.A., has received
a good appointment in the Westinghouse Company at
Newcastle (England). Mr. Coglan lately formed an Aus-
tralasian Club in that city, which association will proceed
to teach the natives that kangaroos do not grow on
trees; and that the paddymelon doesn’t ripen in early
summer.
The chief seminaries for the instruction of the youth-
ful peerage of S.A. are busy changing hands—or, rather,
heads—this year. Dryburgh House School, manipulated
for many years by Mrs. Kelsey, has been bought by Mr.
and Mrs. Murray Coghill, of Victoria. Miss Thornber
retires, after training about half the feminine element of
this State the way it should go, and Miss Jacob succeeds
her. The Methodist College has lost its charming head
mistress, Miss Edeson, who will commit matrimony in the
near futu e; and a Miss Walker, B. A., has been imported
to fill her place. The importation is a native of the land
of the Eistedfodd and leek.
Adelaide had a political wedding on January 23.
Delinquent was J. V. O’Loghlin, who was for years a
colleague of C. C. Kingston’s in the State Ministry ; the
maiden was Miss Besley, of Mt. Gambier. Mr. O’Loghlin,
who had been suspected of being confirmed in bachelor
ways, has been subjected to a fearsome onslaught of
presentations.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Cable from London reports the murder of
William Whiteley, the “ Universal Provider,”
shot dead in his store, by a young man who pro-
fessed to be his son, although he was “born in
wedlock, of respectable parents.” Presuming
that the murderer was somewhat mad it was
quite natural for him to claim Whiteley for his
father. The Napoleonic storekeeper had the
reputation years ago—and men don’t outgrow
such reputations—of being a universal pro-
vider of illegitimate offspring. It was said
of him that he never refused a pretty
girl a billet in his shop, and rarely refrained
from making an attempt on her “ vir-
tue.” His ordinary douceur to an accessible
employee was a gold watch, and there were other
responsibilities, of'course, in many cases. As to
whether he rewarded virtue also with a gold watch
history is silent, but, seeing that he was a White-
ley of keen commercial instincts, he probably
gave virtue the sack in most cases. If a pretty
and good girl remained for long in the Provider’s
employ it was because she happened to be a
more than pretty good saleswoman.
“Num ” : I am a Melbourne visitor,
driven to Sydney by Judkins, and the moment I
landed I persuaded myself that I could feel the
difference in the free air. But I find that the
Juddy influence has extended over the border.
The day after my arrival I went down to revel in
the surf at Manly, and found that all the women,
instead of wearing ihc. geat, attractive costume?
7* Z h-J gazed on with so much pleasure during
previous visits, are now compelled to trick them-
selves out like pantomime old women, to meet the
Manly Council’s ideas of respectability. In
practice the present costumes are disreputable,
for the first wave often converts a bather’s skiit
into a belt round her waist, leaving the impression
of a woman in ordinary walking costume whose
skirt has become sadly disarranged. Further, a
nice girl I discovered behind a mass of hideous
haberdashery informed me that the dead weight
of moral clobber was a source of great danger, for
the skirt drags tightly round the legs at times
when freedom may be necessary to save the
wearer’s life. One of these days, some woman
who is a good swimmer will be drowned in the
undertow through getting her feet tied up in her
sodden skirt, and then the coroner may have some
nasty remarks to make about the Manly Council.
Full up of Manly, I asked the nice girl to come
down to Chowder next day. But there we found
that mixed bathing was not admissible in the
baths. The attendant, however, informed me
that the sexes would be able to enter the water
together in a few days, when the management
had completed a certain moveable wire-fence
which was to be lowered to separate the men from
the women. I’m going back to Melbourne.
An American summary of Patti, minus limelight:— “A
sweet little, neat little, tidy little tea-party lady, who
can twitter well-bred trifles in eight languages, but of
the subtlety that one looks for in the-emotional artist she
is as bare as the palm of one’s hand."


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
op the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, XO/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89C. FBO St. Martin, Paris. Prance
mi
'5
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STA.MP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss-
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 157-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
New Australian Minister for Defence
Ewing is a member of the N.S.W. National
Defence League, which is pledged to universal
citizen service.
Another Lyne cast in the political waters !
Bishop Lyne, brother of Customs Minister
“Bill,” is a candidate for Labor selection for
the Namoi seat at the coming N.S.W. State
elections.
John Forrest will be acting-Premier whilst
Deakin and Lyne are away in London. Why not
Austin Chapman? Forrest hasn’t a single
follower in either House and is more out of touch
with this Parliament than even G. Reid.
DIATONIC TACTICS.
An order has been issued to the British army to teach
and encourage Ringing In the ranks .—Guile.
THE ROUTED ENEMY : “ We never reckoned on
this when we first put the uniform on.”
The poor old Ma State—flouted, outraged,
robbed at every turn ! There are four delegates
going to London for the Navigation Conference,
and the “Victorian-controlled” Federal Govern-
ment has given only four of the fat posts to New
South Wales.
They do strange deeds in Victoria. That
State wanted a new head of the Neglected Chil-
dren’s Department, and, in its wild pursuit of the
fitness of things, it has appointed an official who
has been herding lunatics for 30 years at Yarra
Bend Asylum.
Even the churches begin to be patriotic.
The Australian Christian (7/l/’O7) :
Sending our young men to America, instead of pro-
viding for their education in Australasia, is a policy that
does not pay. There always will be, we expect, a certain
number of people with strong prejudices against Aus-
tralasian institutions, and who think the home-made
article inferior to that manufactured abroad. To remedy
this defect it is necessary to cultivate a sentiment of Aus-
tralasian patriotism, and eventually to reach that stage
when, other things being equal, preference will be given
to the products of our own land.
And certainly the home-grown, home-trained par-
son is more likely to fill an Australian pulpit well
than an importation.
Item from the report of a commercial
deputation which recentl}' waited on Minister
Lyne to complain of the Commerce Act: —
The deputation suggested that the requirements were
unnecessarily severe, inasmuch as purchasers could see
the material of which certal:. nrtiuies were made.
The idea of the buyer being allowed to see the
brown paper in the soles of the boots seems to
have struck the deputation unfavorably.
The Fruitgrowers’ Union of N.S.W., con-
sisting mostly of orchardists in the Parramatta
district, wants a high duty against Italian and
American fruit. Yet these orchardists are en.
thusiastic supporters of Joe Cook, and at the last
election were so staunchly Cooky that no opposi-
tion to the return of tHat calamity was offered.
Like most other Freetraders, the Parramatta fruit-
growers are strong Protectionists where their own
interests are involved.
Honorary Minister Sam. Manger had only
filled Playford’s shoes at the Defence Department
for a week or so when he circularised most of the
actual and possible shipbuilding firms in the
Commonwealth, asking about the chances of build-
mg eight destroyers and four torpedo boats during
the next three years. Possibly it wasn’t much to
merely ask for particulars ; but, anyhow, Manger
asked about the right things, and he asked in the
right place, and that is enough justification to
hand on the word of encouragement to Brother
Mauger.
Another of Premier Bent’s good-looking
schemes has gone adrift, but this time it isn’t
Bent’s fault. He built 10 “workmen’s homes”
on quarter-acre allotments, near Geelong break-
water. There used to be various tanneries and
fellmongeries thereabouts, but this fool country
now sends its Australian skins and hides to
Germany and France to be tanned with Austra-
lian bark, and there is nobody to occupy the
cottages ; so £2OOO worth of surplus is lying idle,
and is likely to continue so unless the Australian
Parliament puts an export duty on skins.
A while back the Victorian Government
set out to see if the grass tree plains of the
Heytesbury forest could be cultivated advantage-
ously. The experimental plots have turned out
so satisfactorily that Minister Swinburne is now
preparing to plough an additional 2000 acres, bv
steam-driven machinery if possible. There has
been no local outcry about this Socialism. Private
Enterprise, as represented by the adjacent land-
owners, appears to be quite satisfied to let the
State demonstrate the capabilities of the soil—the
only thing that keeps it awake at night is
wondering how high it can raise its rents sup-
posing the State experiment succeeds.
Maoriland proudly elevates its tail over
the prospect of another £500,000 alleged surplus,
which will be paid with great eclat into the
Public Works Fund. Then out of that fund will
have to come probably £1,000,000 for all manner
of small jobs and repairs which should be charged
to revenue, so there will real y be £500,000 deficit.
To have £500,000 surplus before paying £1,000,000
of necessary expenditure is just as fine a thing in
its way as to have £1,000,000 surplus before paying
£2,000,000 interest on the public debt. Joseph
Ward’s State has got £2,000,000 further into debt
during the last 12 months, which is a lovely thing
fora place with a half-million “surplus.”
Queensland Home Department the other
day republished regulations for the management
of Dunwieh Asylum, in which were in-
i corporated a number of new ones. The
Tory press, believing the regulations
were all new, selected several for attack,
and inveighed vehemently against the
Kidston Government for framing them.
The Worker followed the example of
Hie Tory Daily Mail, and cursed in
chorus. Then Home Secretary Airey
arose, and pointed out that no objec-
tion whatever had been taken to the
actual new regulations formulated by
the present Government, and that the
regulations objected to bad been gazet-
ted years ago by Fox ton and other
Conservative administrators, and had
been in operation for a long time, and
had practically caused no complaint
whatever. And a great silence fell
on the Tory press, and it commenced
to look round for a new brick. And
the Worker went after the Tory press
to borrow its brick when the Tory
press had done with it.
At a recent semi-political meeting of select
persons in Sydney, it was carried, with much
applause, that there ghoulcrbe a coalition of all
parties against Labor, and that at A
election only “good men” should be supported"
But how were “good men” to be defined? It
was admitted that for sobriety and other plain
virtues the Labor party is conspicuous, and if
goodness in the ordinary sense were to be the test,
then the meeting would have to vote the Labor-
ticket. And it felt that it would die first. At
last a lady inquired, “Could we not make the
wearing of tall hats the distinction ? ”
Premier and Treasurer Bent has been
doing the father bountiful with public moneys
down in his own constituency. The process of
extracting money from him he calls tickling, and
at a recent Brighton council meeting, Tommy was
thanked for £lOO for a main road, £2OO for beach
reserves, £l5O for Moorabbin Beach-road, £5O for
works at Cheltenham, £lOO for Dandenong-road
tram track, and £5O for the Mordialloc main-road.
Councillor Bent promised, on behalf of Treasurer-
Bent, a further grant to Moorabbin shire hall.
And this represents only the recent benevolences
of Bent to grateful Brighton.
The spud-growers of Warrnambool (Vic.)
are digging up six tons of murphy to the acre,
and as the rest of the State also swarms with
murphies, prices are down to 30s. a ton. So the
“ primary producers ” are thinking of trying an
export shipment or two. That is, they are going
to pay to send tons of spuds across the earth in
order to pay to get back tons of machinery and
cotton and woollen goods, when, if the latter
things were manufactured here, all this useless
hum ping about of spuds and goods might be saved
and the farmers would get a better price for their
spuds. Yet quite a lot of them left off digging
305.-a-ton spuds to vote for foreign traders
Gratton Wilson and Artie Robinson, the other
day—just as though they liked to see spuds at
30s. a ton.
AGGRAVATED CASE OF ORPHANAGE.
INSURANCE MANAGER: “ Now, what did your father
die of"
AGED PROPONENT: “ Well, I can't say as I ever
knowed. He died in infancy.”
The Victorian Government has prepared
an elaborate scheme for supplying land to immi-
grants. Now, if Victoria would prepare an
equally elaborate scheme for supplying land to
its own people things might begin to look up a
little in Victoria.
“This is a great time for the raw pro-
ducers,” said Sydney Daily Telegraph at the
end of a leader the other day, “and if N.S.W.
adds another raw material to the list, so much
the better.” This was written about possible
shipments of iron ore to Europe. Australia’s
known stores of good, handy iron ore are distinctly
limited : and, if the Telegraph is sufficiently
disregarded, the time will come when Australia
will want all it has to feed its own furnaces and
factories. But the half-eyed Telegraph, as
usual, says, “Blow posterity!” and it screams
with joy at the prospect of being able to sell Aus-
tralia’s future at the price of dirt, so long as it
can have a very moderate and very temporary
but immediate jag on the proceeds.
A sensation of the N.S.W. Political Labor
Conference this year was President Fred Flowers’
opening attack on sectarianism. He specially
signalled out the Wesleyan Methodist Church
(Flowers himself is a “strong Protestant”) as
bound to the chariot of Conservatism. And it is
a curious fact that to be “ Methodv ” in Australia
is generally to be Anti-Labor, though the Metho-
dist Church was founded in England distinctly as
a poor man’s organisation. The Salvation Army
—an offshoot from Methodism—has also gone the
way of Fat, after being set up as a religious refuge
for the masses. On the other hand, the Anglican
and the Roman Catholic churches, generally
associated in England with class prejudice, in
Australia shelter many preachers who are really
Christians —Christians at the ballot-box as well
as in the pulpit.
“K.K.”: Be cows, which, according to
recent conflicting writers, are tlic em-
bodiment of all evil, and all good ;
raising men from poverty and pnr.-
writing to independence and remarks,
and crushing all individuality out of
all those who have anything whatever
to do with them ; grinding the heart
out of the children and leaving
them endowed with all the qualifica-
tions necessary to enable them to
make a success of this life and the life
to come; being the means of the
ruthless sweating of the miserable
employees who are fortunate enough
to be engaged in that easiest of all easy
stepping stones to affluence cow
spanking. I write to suggest that
the cow is being blamed for the effects
of the greed of landlords and the
inflated prices asked for dairy lands.
If the landlord milks twoteats it only
leaves two for all others’ milking, and
heaven help them if one teat goes
blind. It won’t be the landlord’s. f
Lately prom-msnt.N.S^ 7 . ArfCi-
Soshers have been muttering the mys-
tic words, “ Dugald Thomson,” in
thick, gurgly undertones. Reid’s case looks blue.
It is now practically certain that the Price
Government will add members to the S.A. Legis-
lative Council instead of demanding a double
dissolution. Under the Constitution, when a Bill,
having passed the Assembly and been rejected by
the Council, is again sent up and again thrown
out by the Council after an intervening dissolu-
tion, the Ministry can secure the election of two
fresh members for each of the four Council dis-
tricts. It is provided that till the Council, by
death, resignation, or retirement, is once more
reduced to 18 members after the eight new mem-
bers are added no vacancies can be filled up.
That will mean that when President Stirling and
Opposition-leader Duncan drop out in the ordin-
ary course they will have to stop out for three
years. It is expected, therefore, that they and
other Conservatives will resign beforehand so as
to stand for the new seats.
Johnson, the Calamity which sits for a
part of Sydney in the Federal Parliament, sob-
bing because the Governor-General won’t be at
Sydney Government House for another six weeks,
emitted this groan to the Sydney papers
It is about time that a determined stand was made by
the people of this State to insist on the spirit of the Con-
stitution Act regarding the Federal capital being com-
plied with. This policy of drift, which concentrates
every material advantage of Federation in the hands of
the Victorians, largely at the expense of New South
Wales, must be put an end to, and that speedily.
Next day the trade returns for 1906 were pub-
lished, and they showed that since Federation
trade in N.S. Wales had advanced out of all pro-
portion to that of Victoria, and m 1906 reached
£65,500,000. And Johnson says trade is a material
advantage. There is far too much Johnson.
Spruce Myth, in London, shortly, will be
delivered of “A History of the Labor Party—a
Forewarning.” Presumably Myth will “fore-
warn ” the underpaid British toiler against the
horrors of the old-age pension, will fill him with
loathing by picturing the sweater’s untimely
demise at the hands of the minimum-wage, Wages
Boards, &c., and will unutterably shock him by
explaining how the Early Closing Acts turned
thousands of shop employees from 15-hours-per-
day slaves into life-enjoying, free citizens. Not
generally known that the same distinguished
author begot, in 1887, another ink child—“ Liberty
and Liberalism ” —which, he proudly states, “is
included in Sonnenschein’s ‘Best 2000 English
Books.’” Reminds of the self-published young
poet’s “dog” at the fact that “they’ve put
my book in the British Museum, y’ know.”
“ G. 8.” complains :
lie Federal elections and other (rifles. Give Victorian
Laborites a bit of a show. Labor candidate Kelly \va9
withdrawn from Flinders so that Iceberg Irvine might be
walloped (which unfortunately he wasn’t), although Kelly
was a better man than auctioneer Nicholls. Wise was
given a straight run against Allan M‘Lean. Farmer
Kennedy was likewise left to deal with anti-Sosh Palmer
in Echuca. Crouch was not troubled by Labor interven
tion in his scrap with M‘Cay. Before Isaacs’ retirement
the Labor Leagues in Indi had decided to support him.
There would have been no trouble over Higgins if that
gentleman had been more definite regarding his move-
ments. As a matter of fact, the Vic. Laborites showed more
generosity and tact than the Liberal Protectionists. The
Protectionists nearly hashed up the Wannon by trying to
run a third man for that seat, although Laborite
M'Dougall was talking himself hoarse against Freetrade.
It was only the bungling of negotiations that prevented
the calamity of the split vote and a certain victory f. r
Robinson. I was on the spot, and I know. Talking of
Labor opposition to Liberals, you must remember that
there are Liberals who are Democrats.(like Isaacs, King-
ston and Higgins), and there are Liberals who are Slr.s.i.
Victoria has a mighty lot of Slush-Liberals, ami 11 inmo-
eratic progress is to be made, they must be opposed and
beaten.
BITTER EXPERIENCE.
The country expects all Anti-Socialists to combine be
defence. —Argus.
G EORGE: “ Look ’ere, Bent, don't you 'ave nothin
to do with Anti-Sosh. It’s a d-lad game
to play. I played it an' I fell in.”
Not many Federal candidates have, so far,
filed their election-expense accounts, as they must
within two months ; and, so far, only one person
has paid the required half-crown to inspect a
candidate’s figures. The solitary mvestiga r
was a lady, who took minute particulars or t
items. When a woman spends 2s. 6d. to looic
over a bill of election expenses, she is either a
very keen politician or is interested m that canai-
date—and very interested ai that. And it tna
return doesn’t account for every penny , s P e , 1 ? ’
that candidate is likely to hear about it, for
chances are that that lady knows something.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we ive,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation ol
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-know n
medical writer.*
THE IMMUTABLE TRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the ancient cave-bear dwelt
In his shaggy, grizzly pelt,
fa le ages of the very long ago,
And the prehistoric man,
Up and down the hillsides ran
In a state that was—well, hardly comme il faut.
Then someone the question mooted :
“ Should a man be clothed and booted ?•”
(For the purposes of covering—not of mash.)
But the theory of clothes,
Or of wearing shirts and hose,
The seniors voted premiture and rash.
When the years were older grown,
With his fire and knife of stone
Toe savage toiled to hew his rough c\noe.
It was urged that use of metal
All this trouble soon would settle,
But the old stone Tory said “ It wouldn’t do.”
And ’twas so in later ages,
When the coach, by easy stages,
Carried leisurely the Tory up the hill;
He agreed that sceam was shocking,
And of Providence a-mocking.
•‘Go by rail?” The mere idea made him ill !
In these days of onward movement,
When we struggle for improvement
Of the many ills our brothers still endure,
In those words that yet remind us
Of the ages long behind us
We are warned that we are “ rash and premature.”
Yet the wheels of progress clatter,
So we’ll leave them to their chatter,
To their dusty, musty twaddle of old time,
For the never-failing Tory,
At the start of human story,
Sneered the same old sneer he sneereth in its prime.
MAURICK BLACKBURN.


THE-
CALLAGHAN
SHOE for LADIES.
ď
This Is an actual Photo-
graph of the SHOE ITSELF.
HOW DO YOU LIKE IT,
LADIES ?
lO 9
Or Post Paid any-
where in the
Commonwealth,
1116
Stout Glace Kid, circular vamps, stylish patent leather toe caps,
SOLID SOLES, a grand wearing shoe -
10/9
We have scores and scores of other Shoes on sale for walking,
house, or party wear.
WRITE FOR A POST FREE COPY OF OUR NEW STYLE-BOOK.
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING s-
“Messrs. Callaghan & Son, —Dear Sirs, —I am
pleased to tell you that those shoes were the
most comfortable, and, indeed, absolutely the best
that I have ever worn, so that if you can send me
another pair like them I shall be more than
satisfied. —J.C.L.V., Bingarra, Dec. 27th, 1906.”
“ Messrs. Callaghan & Son,
Dear Sirs, —Shoes to hand, and I am well
satisfied with them. They are a perfect fit and
extremely comfortable. Please keep my measure
at hand.—G.B., Sumbean Mine, via Bowen,
Dec. 29th, 1906.”
7-%
I'V-'t
ft
U
ER
2>*
>MA/y
PA WATER)
flat sprwio*
‘■"Vt
-4ZS
«jsns>
KN6 1
Q*-*
sfa c
The MODERN
HOSTESS. &
•• I give you * KOOMAH
SPA' 1 Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E, Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.'
■P. & B. PAPER-
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
No more unhealthy condition can be imagined than living and sleeping,
as thousands of people do, in houses with damp floors.
P. & P BUILDING PAPER, laid beneath the floors, will render them
impervious to any such danger.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
'(Uh£
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
đ
100 Cig'ars For 17/6
ABSOLUTELY the finest cigar in Australia at the
price. Has a rich flavor that makes you want
more — a flavor that you won’t find in any other cigar
at or near the price.
KING OF ALL K & 6 HIGH LIFE CIGARS.
Send 17/6 and add 9d. for postage and we will
send you the box post free. In mild, medium, and
full strength.
SAMPLE BOX OF FOUR POST FREE 1/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
BOVRIL
is of great value as a “ Pick-me-up.”
Bovril is guaranteed to be free from any added preservative
in conformity with, the Commonwealth regulations.
AT LAST !!
Standard Typewriter «t a
sSSPfe.
H
se*
Weight 121bs.
Reasonable Price.
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High-Grade Machine.
ONE SOLID BAR
not a joint
Saves 1200 Useless Parts and Over £l2 Cash
THE BRITON
TYPE-BAR
IS AN EXCLUSIVE
PATENT.
Do You Want a Reliable Assistant in your Office or Home
that will do your writing quickly, legibly, and take copies
as you write ?
Write To-Day for our Descriptive Catalogue. We will post you
a list of pleased BRITON users.
GOODS SHIPPED EVERYWHERE ON APPROVAL.
Southern Sales Coy.
6 DALLEY STREET. SYDNEY.
And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Oup, the Gar-
land Oup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Kib-
and,” First in Glass A, First in Class B, First in
Glass O. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit
Highest Grade
American ...
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 MouattjjU'Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, STDNEJ.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A.JVC. Anniversary meeting was a sort of
gathering of the pigeons and hawks, and the day turned
out m favor of the hawks. >lt has been stated that the
results of recent meetings were mostly in favor of the
pigeons, but so far there is no word of any bookmaker
having blown out his brains, or been seen abroad with
anything but the best of cigars in his mouth, while quite
a number of people who were obviouslv not bookmakers
have been seen walking home. On Saturday the public
seems to have mostly gone nap on the horses that ran
second. In the Trial Stakes it backed Automatic at
6to 4 against and Ranmore at 6 to 2 against; then The
Intended, which started at 8 to 1, romped home, Auto-
matic gaining second place. In the Challenge Stakes the
public money was loaded on Oomatawah at 2 to 1
against, and Queenie’s Court, at 8 to 1, finished four
lengths to the good. In this case the public failed
even to strike the second. It had better luck in
the Corinthian Handicap, planking its cash on Sir
Ronald at 5 to 2 against. Sir Ronald was finish-
ing nicely when Athol Nelson beat him by a.
neck.. Athol Nelson had a few backers at 6to
1 against. In the Nursery Handicap the people got a
look in. Confetti, backed down to 5 to 2 against,
finished w.ith a great run, and landed the' money by a
head. In the Anniversary Handicap, the gilded event of
the day, Smith’s chestnut horse Aragain carried the
public hope and swag, the price being 6 to 2 against.
Ossian found some fanciers at 4to 1 against. But Chris-
tian’s chestnut horse Vanadium soon took charge and
practically showed the way to the straight, where
Aragain was on level terms, and Ossian coming fast.
Aragain’s strength gave out, and Ossian and Vanadium
fought a wildcat contest right to the post, where Vana-
dium beat Crick’s horse by a neck, the public’s gee-gee
coming in third. The last race, the Highweight Handi-
cap, was practically a skinner. Sweetness went out at
5 to 2 against, and ran second to Isisford, which started
at 7to 1. There are people who call this sort of thing
sport.
• * * •
The opening day of the Vic.-N.S.W. cricket
match was brightened up by one of those bewildering
catches that only come once in a cricketer’s life time. It
was McAlister, the Victorian, who did the impossible on
Friday. He was in the slips when the ball came shooting
from E. L. Waddy’s bat. It was travelling very fast, and
only a couple of feet above the turf. McAlister flung out
his left hand, bending over till he lost his balance. The
ball struck his fingers, they closed on it, and at the same
moment McAlister rolled on his back, holding the ball
up to show that he held it. Waddy gaped, the field stood
still, the spectators cheered, and slowly it dawned on
Mac that he had really done it. After that Mac himself
was the most surprised man on the field.
Victor Trumper and Undertaker Carter were
both howling failures in the first innings of the N.S.W.-
Victoria cricket match at Sydney last week. Trumper
was hopeless, and never tried to do anything but keep
his wicket up. He put 11 on the scoring board in a hesi-
tating sort of manner, and then M'Alistsr caught him off
the pads. Carter had made only nine when the dark
angel beckoned him to the pavilion. The Victorian
bowling was pretty deplorable considered by results.
The only man to show up at all was Armstrong ; he sent
down 36 overs and five balls, and took four wickets at an
average cost of 29 runs.
* * • *
During the inter-State cricket match at Sydney
on Saturday, Armstrong, who was playing very aggres-
sively, gave a couple of chances, one to Trumper at first
slip, and the other to Duff at mid-on. Both chances were
missed, and someone snorted. “It’s all right,” said
Noble ; “ Armstrong always gives three chances beforehe
is got out. He did it in England, he did it in Victoria,
now he’s doing it here ' ”
* * • a
Saturday’s play in the inter-State match was
only relieved by the performances of Austin Diamond,
Macartney and Noble for N.S.W., and Armstrong for
Victoria. In fact, but for Austin Diamond, who, looking
like Judas Maccabeus with his beard shaven off, stood up
in front of his little stack of timber for sh. 17min., N.S. W.
would have been dismissed for a couple of hundred—
which would have been shocking for a N.S. W. XI. After
hitting 19 fours, Diamond carried his bat out for a
neat 210. The total N.S.W. score was 491. Of
the Victorian batsmen, Armstrong was the only
one who suggested that he had any acquaintance
with the cricket field. He was quite at home,
and played a game that was magnificent in its
recklessness, carrying his bat at close of play for 103.
The rest of his side were dreadful failures, four of them
failing to score, and three more making only five among
them. Cotter’s bowling was the most successful on the
N.S.W. side. Although at first he did not take wickets
his lightning rockers were unplayable, and only 21 runs
were made off eight overs, which he sent down in charac-
teristic style. When he came on a second time he
was wildly destructive, and at close of play had
taken three of the nine wickets that had fallen
for 35 runs. Which in an inter-State affair is
decidedly handsome. The second day ended with nine
Victorian wickets down for 177 runs. The third day was
awful. The Vic.’s first innings came to an end for 194,
and, being in a minority of 297, they followed on. Heavy
rain on S“‘iday made sawdust necessary. In 76 minutes
the Victorians were all out for 31, the top score being
Carroll’s eight. Only six men scored, the blanks being
Ellis, Armstrong, Horan, Vernon, and Carkeek. Noble
took six wickets for 21 runs, and Macartney four for six
runs. N.S.W. thus won by an innings and 266 runs.
After this it is time Victoria gave up first-class cricket.
* ■* * *
North Adelaide cricket club, to which the im-
ported bowler Mcßeth was assigned as helper, only won
one match in the first half of the season ; and that was
while Mcßeth was away at the inter-State game in
Sydney 1
* » • •
The Automobile Club’s reliability run from
Parramatta to Bathurst and back was contested by 18
starters. Mr. Hordern’s car went wrong early in the race
and he retired. Of the other 17 no less than five scored
the full points. It was a rather astonishing run alto-
gether ; the unluckiest car of the 17 only dropped 40
points out of 1000. This proves that the vehicles were a
good lot and well handled, but it also suggests that in
any future contest there ought to be a searching examina-
tion of the cars at the conclusion to deduct further
points on account of the condition in which the machines
arrive. Under the present arrangement the car that just
struggles in scores equally with the one that rolls home
in the pink of condition, and this to a large extent
detracts from the value of the test as a guide to pur.
chasers. The five cars that scored the full 1000 points
will compete in the run off in about two months time.
* * * *
Altogether nine cars tied on points, and it is
significant that of these nine no less than six were shod
with Australian-made Dunlops. With the exception of
one puncture, the whole lot went through the trip with-
out trouble. This is an excellent performance consider-
ing that the aggregate distance covered by the 24 tyres
works out at 5376 miles.*
The Grand Prix automobile race of France is to
have a tyre section this year. Hitherto, the tyre has
not been recognised in contests of this sort, but, like
the elephant, it occasionally made itself felt. So the
French Club is offering prizes for the best and most
durable tyres. The winner of that section will be the
manufacturer whose product shows the least waste, pro-
viding that his average speed is equal to nine-tenths that
of the winner of the speed-race.
* * • •
That reckless cyclist, Francis Birtles, is at
the present time somewhere in the depths of the Great
Victoria Desert. He rode from Perth to Laverton in easy
stages, and got himself nicely hardened. After staying
a week with friends at Laverton he plunged into the
almost unknown expanse of desolation that stretches
away to the Macdonnell Ranges. It’s a dangerous ride,
and it is hard to see that any good can result from it. If
Birtles gets through safely a whole crowd of imitators
will probably try to do likewise, and some of them will
die horrible deaths from thirst—all to make a few lines of
copy in the newspapers.
* • • •
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association dealt the
League of Wheelmen a heavy blow between the eyes,
by starting its Summer Night entertainments last Mon-
day evening, at Sydney Sports Ground, and carrying
through a meeting that was interesting from start to
finish. The lighting arrangements were good, the
weather was perfect, and the racing was nicely diversi-
fied. The opening number was the Lawson Dash —a
quarter-mile flutter of four heats and a final, in which
some exciting finishes brought the crowd to
its feet. The final was won by A. E. Stokes,
who beat Griffiths by a nose, so to speak.
The liberal sprinkling of motor events was an innovation
that took the popular favor, and the sight of Witham
hustling round at 50 miles an hour was good to look upon.
The League rather discouraged motor events, or, at any
rate, very seldom openly encouraged them, and
the rival body has come down on what was a
weak spot. People like to see motor-bike con-
tests ; the watching of desperate speed is always
interesting. In the final Witham had to give
Doherty 30yds., and Finlay 360yds. He started at a
terrific bat, caught Doherty in the second lap, went on
like a comet running for its life, cut down Finlay in
another round, and won by three-quarters of a lap. The
Sutton Scratch race over three miles was a great idea.
The lap winner received 10s., and the last to pass the post
dropped out. The arrangement produced some great
sprinting, and 18 men toiled and struggled as they swept
past the post to avoid being the dropper out. At the
bell five were left in, with Horder in the van. He won
by a foot in the fast time of 4min. 34sec.
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Cos. gives a good tip to the
man who risks his mortal and fragile body on a second-
hand machine. Most second-handers are groggy about
the bearings. To find if it is so take a knitting-needle
or a piece of thin wire spoke, and place one end against
the hub axle, and the other end between the teeth—your
own teeth, either natural or bought. Then set the wheel
revolving gently. If there is an absence of vibration
about the wire the bearings are all right and running
free. The less the vibration the better the ballbearings.
Now reported that the fearsome smash which
topped the succession of sensations on the fifth day of
the Madison Square Garden (New York) bicycle race was
brought about by Fogler, the American wheelist, falling
asleep while he drove his machine around the high-
banked wooden track. That sort of thing is all right on
a quiet country road, but on a 10-laps-to-the-mile wooden
track, with 15 other fellows hurrying round it also in a
state of semi-stupefaction, it is calculated to cause
trouble. The race was won by Root and Fogler, who
travelled 2292 miles. Hardy Downing and N. Hopper
(who both figured in the Summer Nights programme,
when the latter won the Sydney Thousand) were second.
Pye and Clark, the Australian combination, came sixth.
The record distance covered on that track in the six
days’ contest was the 2733 miles, by Miller and Waller,
some years ago.
• * * •
Just now the Sydney press is teeming with
suggestions as to how surf-bathing may be rendered as
safe as an ordinary military engagement, or crossing
George-street on a Saturday night with a heavy load of
whisky. The Manly people are building a boat capable
of riding the breakers, and the vessel is to cruise about
just outside the line of swimmers. And this seems to be
the only workable method of guarding against drowning
accidents. Many letter writers have suggested that
bathing should be confined to set beaches, and these
should be dotted over with piles bearing cross-trees, on
which the exhausted swimmer, caught in the undertow,
might climb till assistance arrived. This would be an
excellent idea, except that occasionally some strong
swimmer, with his eyes full of spray and his heart full of
energy, would probably crack his skull against the piles.
But the chief difficulty seems to be to get piles long enough,
and to drive them in when caught. The submarine coast
line around Sydney seems to consist of vast bluffs and
jagged cliffs that dip suddenly down hundreds of feet.
Till one goes over the edge of this hidden cliff he seems
to be fairly safe, but once over it he strikes a whole
network of struggling currents and eddies caused by the
pressure of the water through submarine rifts and
ravines, and then the Pearly Gates burst suddenly on his
view. The patrol boat seeems the only workable scheme.
Patrol boats take a lot of money for up-keep, and the
wages of the patrollers are an unending drain, but this
is the only way to stop the life-waste among the bathers.
• * * *
The Victorian Amateur Swimming Association
climbed down off a lofty perch to greet “ Davy,” Billing-
ton with a handshake on his arrival in Melbourne, t’other
week, and subsequently it came to light, in conjunction
with the Life Saving Society, with a 100yds. handicap
and life-saving display at the city baths. The melting of
the A.S.A. icicles was seemingly caused by the manage-
ment’s warm desire to get free seats for the show. One
“ icicle ” requested a sit-down for himself, wife and
friend. A great deal less recognition was meted out by
the A.S.A. to Arthur Kenny, the best swimmer ever
raised in Victoria, when he returned from America after
a four years’ stay. Kenny w'as a brilliant performer in
the early ’9o’s. He showed his versatility by winning
events from 25yds. to a mile, including two Atlantic,
three national, and the 100yds. and 440yds. world’s cham-
pionships, securing the latter at the World’s Fair Exhi-
bition. Kenny, from Australia, simply lost Alec. Mef-
ferts, the boss Yank swimmer, by 200yds. in a mile. J. A.
Tyers was offered £2OO expenses by the American
A.S.A. to meet the Victorian, but the English crack
declined—frightened off. During Kenny’s absence,
the V.A.S.A. was formed, but, on his return to Mel-
bourne, the little clique failed to greet the champion
with even a bun and a cup of tea. Next season he was
asked to assist in attracting the Melb. S.C.
carnivals, then at low ebb. Arthur said “ dicken,” stood
out altogether, and devoted himself to tooth-doctoring
in Oollins-street. Kenny speaks of amateur authorities
with scorn, Billington with indignation. The English
champion w’as a member of the Northern Counties A.S.A.
when he swam at Paris, approved by the French amateur
body, over an eight-mile course. He started with other
amateurs at a different time from the pros., Burgess and
others, yet the N.C.A. outed “Davy ” from its ranks for
being in the same water with pros. The autocrats
would not accept evidence offered by the president of the
French association. The champion, being a toiler in a
Lancashire slipper factory and son of a baths manager,
did not get the same deal as would a more “ classy ” per-
son ; so Billington was pushed on the cold world to
gather shekels.
* * • *
Swimmer Frank Fitts captured the 100yds.
Championship of Victoria for the third year in succession
at Melbourne Swimming Club’s ladies’day carnival St.
Kilda, on Saturday afternoon. Frank covered the’dis-
tance in the slow time of 67 3-5 seconds in a swellysea
winning with 6ft. to spare from boy expert Beaurepaire
(Albert Park). Third position was filled by Bennett, of
Ballarat, who got away badly. Otherwise, things would
have been closer, though, as it was, 4yds. covered the
three. Billington did an exhibition 600yds., getting
over the first hundred in 3-ssec. faster than the
championship was won in. The 50yds. girls’ race
proved a good thing for Stella Carter off 4sec.
from champion Dollie Cooper, who finished third.
The management debarred newspaper camera fiends from
taking a group of dripping physical beauty after the
race, Lady Talbottle having taken objection to some
illustrations last season. Aforesaid Lady is as much
assistance to the natatorial art as Thomas Bent, and that is
about nil. The majority of onlookers were totally
ignorant of Billington’s identity, and didn’t know what
he was about, a raft-load of foolers attracting most
attention. No foresight was displayed in the advertising
of the Englishman, which is evidence that the manage-
ment is devoid of the showman instinct.
* * * *
Swimmer Billington’s first match in Victoria
eventuated at Melbourne City Baths last Saturday night
against local man, Alick Lamb, whose parents are care-
takers and instructors at the baths at Richmond. The
distance was 1000yds., divided into 30 laps. Lamb was
conceded a minute start, during which time he covered
two laps. Then Billington—a stoutish, nuggety, dark
youth—plunged in, and speedily made up the lost water.
From the 14th to the 29th lap Lamb swam steadily about
three lengths ahead of the Englishman, and the Richmond
crowd cheered wildly' in the belief that he was holding
his own. But Billington was watching his opponent and
knew he was all right; and as soon as the last lap
was entered the Lancashire lad broke away from the
Melbournian, winning comfortably by 2yds. in 14min.
Slsec. The time is, of course, slow, but Billington had that
afternoon swum an exhibition 500yds. at St. Hilda, and,
moreover, the race was in fresh water ; further, there was
no need to hustle against Lamb, who is a better diver
than sprinter. Lamb used the side stroke, left arm over
always, while Billington used the trudgeon. It is said
that Billington will visit Sydney, but it is hard to see
whom he can swim against there. There are no profes-
sional swimmers on the Harbor now who are still in the
top-speed division, and presumably the amateurs will be
forbidden to meet B’ton. But if he couldmeet them, the
writer thinks he would have to do better than he has
done in Melbourne to hold his own. He doesn’t seem to
make full use of his legs, swims too low in the water
(both fresh and salt) and doesn’t make as much out of the
turn as the average swimmer. This would not count for
much in short races, but it would make a mighty differ-
ence in long-distance contests, which B’ton mostly affects.
* * * *
Like cyclist Zimmerman, swimmer Billington
took unto himself a wife just prior to leaving England
for Australia, but somebody evidently told him that this
country has no use for the honeymooning athlete, for
after a week’s bliss he left the lady on the wharf, and
came on to Australia by himself. Billington’s perform-
ances so far are much more up to the standard of his
reputation than were those of Zimmerman.
• • « *
For the next week every patriotic Sydneyite
ought to boycott oysters; they helped to lose
N.S.W. boat Australian the 18ft. championship of
the continent on the Swan River on Saturday
last. Seven started, over a nine-mile course to
windward and home, with a mile of broad reach,
and a mile of close fetch thrown in. The start was
all that could be desired, and then Australian went full
tilt on an oyster bank and lost 75sec. thereupon. It
never managed to quite make up that lost time though it
rushed into second place, and a strenuous race ensued be-
tween Webb and the Westralian boat Aiolus. At one
time Webb was only 12sec. behind, but the Westralians
had a fast boat and handled her excellently. Going to
the wind the iEolus gained 63sec. and on the homeward
run under spinnakers gained another 18sec. beating the
Sydney champion by lmin. 33sec. The West, Swan and
Phryne finished third, fourth and fifth.
However, that was not the full measure of
N.S.W.’s humiliation on that fatal Saturday. On the
waters of Port Jackson itself the Sydney boats were being
run over by the visitors from Queensland. In the morn-
ing race for 10ft. dingies Iduna finished first. This was
followed by a bad beating in the 14ft. fixture. The
Queenslander Violet 11., after conceding everything a sub-
stantial start, fairly flew through the flotilla, and won
easily. In the afternoon 10ft. race Queenslander Irex
was brilliantly handled, and won by 12sec. In the second
14ft. race Violet 11. got left at the beginning, and started
on a long and desperate stern chase. With the exception
of the Othello, once a Sydney boat, but now of Brisbane,
the whole crowd was overhauled, and the Violet’s second
place in that race reflected more glory on the crew than
the win in the morning. It was a fine, plucky effort.
* * * •
J. L. Irvine, a well-known Adelaide rowing
identity, passed away the other day, aged 33. Some
years ago he represented S.A. in inter-State eight-oar
contests. Then came sn unhappy accident, and he was
smitten with paralysis trom the waist down. Despite his
infirmity he witnessed all the chief rowing contests in
Adelaide, but did it from an invalid’s chair.
* • • *
An English parson has been making shocking
remarks about the ordinary bicycle tyre, and concluded
with the astounding statement that each pair Co6t the
lives of six negroes. He was referring to the Belgian
methods of collecting rubber in the Congo Free State ;
but he happened to be barking up the wrong tree. Congo
rubber is not used in the making of tyres—it is too soft.
Tyre rubber comes mostly from the valley of the Amazon,
in South America, although of late years the Malay
Peninsula has started to compete. The Congo stuff is
used for making elastic, cheap goloshes and waterproofs,
baby’s mouthpieces, and so forth. In fact, of all the
users of rubber, the cyclist is about the only one who
can go on his way rejoicing that some part of his outfit
is not composed of murdered nigger.
• • • *
Jawbone Neild’s much-threatened “public”
meeting in favor of removing the disqualification which
prevents the lately disloyal players holding office in the
Cricket Association was not calculated to do that disap-
pointed body of private enterprisers much' good. It was
a hole-and-corner affair held at an hotel in George-street,
and attended by about 60 people. Senator Jawbone
made a speech, which, for him, was brief. It was like
most of the same man’s political speeches—very unre-
liable. But the gem of the evening was the fairy tale of
E. R. Garnsey, who said that, had it not been “for the
sportsmanlike attitude of the players through the trouble
the Association would have been wrecked. It was the
players’ sportsmanlike spirit that had made cricket
possible this season.” All of which was plain slush 1 As
a matter of fact, the players hung on to the Melbourne
Club schemes until that organisation found itself
utterly defeated; and when they had no possible
hope they came back and offered to be good,
loyal followers of the Association. Mr. Garnsey’s conten-
tion that the existence of cricket in N.S.W. depends on
the presence of any eleven men is too absurd to be
seriously considered. The disqualifications were richly
earned, and the Association acted very leniently in only
prohibiting the players who had tried to wreck the
Association from holding office. To allow them to play
at all was a great concession—and then friends of these
men get up and talk drivel about “ stigmas placed on
noble cricketers and noble gentlemen,” and suggest that
the Association should apologise to them! Another
man hoped that the Association would have the manli-
ness to admit that, in imposing the disqualification, it
had made a mistake. That’s the crux of the whole
affair. To show these would-be boodlers any further
consideration is to practically admit that the Association
did make a mistake. And it did— in being too
lenient. It is absurd that men who did their best to
wreck the Association should ever be eligible for office.
* » # *
Somebody named Marks, who, The Bulletin
understands, is some sort of panjandrum in the coursing
fraternity, rushes into print to defend the “ sport ” of
coursing. He starts with the solemn assurance that true
coursers always prefer the hare to escape. In which case
Marks ought to agree with any legislation that will kill
the sport, for absolutely the best way to avoid the
regrettable accident by which the hare occasionally
doesn’t escape is not to course it at all. That’s as clear
as mud. Mr. Marks is quite overwhelmed by his rever-
ence for the “ sport ” of coursing on account of its great
antiquity. This is humorous ! Does Mr. Marks admire
infanticide ? Does he hanker for the burning of witches ?
These things are antique. They were practised in Britain
long ages before coursing was. Slavery and leprosy
antique too. Does Mr. Marks think they are “grand"
because they are “ antique ” ? Coursing is a brutal sport
and Mr. Marks’ statement that the majority of hares
that are coursed in enclosed grounds escape, is utterly
untrue. They may escape for the time being, but for
what? To be coursed again and again, till one day the
escape is missed, and the harmless little beast is torn to
pieces. This is what Mr. Marks is pleased to call sport I
The long-drawn-out agony of a little helpless hare fleeing
for its life before great, specially-trained greyhounds]
This is the sight that brings a thrill to the manly bosom
of Marks ! Well, Marks is welcome to his manly bosom,
No one admires healthy sport more than the writer. To
get out in the glorious fresh air and whirl the bat—that is
sport. To take the steering wheel of a motor boat-to
squeeze one more ounce of power out of the engine and
save six inches by skilful steering—that is sport. But to
stand idly' b,y with a Tobacco Trust cigar in your face
watching a little hare torn to shreds by a great bounding
greyhound is not sport. It never was, and it never will
be. It is just plain low brutality, and brutality that
indicates either a degenerate mind, or a mind that is not
sufficiently developed to have become degenerate. Mr,
Marks resents the imputation that people who delight
in coursing are cruel or depraved, and seems to think
that the chief objection to the alleged sport is the betting
that has been its most prominent feature in the past.
The Bulletin, for one, considers that coursing is much
the worse of the evils. Children who attend coursing
matches must become brutalised. Any child that is
taught to delight in the torture and suffering of any
helpless animal is being surely demoralised. Coursing
does nothing to make its followers stronger of limb,
keener of eye, sounder of body, or better of mind. It
merely tends to turn people who follow it into callous
wretches who can extract pleasure from the sight of
suffering. In other words, it tends to make them
criminals, and for that reason ought to be prohibited by
Act of Parliament.
* *' * •
Pug. managers Brennan and Wren have pulled
the leg of the daily press to some purpose. Never before
was public interest in two bruisers so beautifully flogged
up, and so cheaply. Squires is going to America—enter
Johnson in search of his scalp. Squires persists that he
is going to America, is in a great burry to gather in
scalps, has no time for Johnson’s scalp. “Yah I yer
afraid,” yells someone. The papers, especially' the even,
ing ones, take up the cry, and Squires writes to the press
that he is “ amused.” Vastly amused, in fact. Sporting
panjandrums say Squires ought to stay. John Wren
speaks: “ Squires will stay and fight, certainly—if suf-
ficient inducement is held out. If Mister Johnson can
find £IOOO side wager for each of two battles, Squires is
prepared to postpone his search for scalps in America.
One fight to take place in Sydney, oth r in Melbourne.’’
Then Johnson’s manager, M’Lean, speaks. He explains
that he and Johnson are hot here to make only their
board. That is no good to them, and they were quite
capable of making that without travelling 12,000 miles.
Whoop ! Money is plentiful. If Brennan won’t put up
£IOOO, M’Lean will, certainly. If £IOOO isn’t enough,
he, Squires, can have any sum he likes; they’ll
put up as much as Squires or his backers care
to cover. Whoop ! They are not particular about
terms. If Squires likes, the winner can take 60 per cent,
and the loser 40 per cent. ; or, if lie prefers it, the winner
can take the lot, and the loser get the damage. Any.
thing to oblige. “ We’re here to make money, and don’t
you forget it, sir ! ” Meanwhile Mister Brennan goes to
Melbourne to see Mister John Wren, and public interest
is at fever heat. The Bulletin tips that the fight will
eventuate, and with fair suddenness.
* » * *
Melbourne Olympic offered numerous patrons
40 rounds for their shilling at the Gyclorama on Monday,
21st January, when middleweights Bendy and Noble,
and lightweights Meaghan and Oourtnay, were billed for
two 20 round encounters. Hendy and Noble were first to
get going, and the winner made himself manifest early in
the first round. It was Hendy’s fight right through six
rounds, and then he brought about a finish with a heavy
right hand landed in Noble’s kidney district. Meaghan
and Oourtnay then took the floor. The former is the
lad who whipped Ranji Moody on the previous Monday
evening. He was meeting a heavier lad and an energetic
fighter in Oourtnay, but his superior skill served him
well. The fight went 16 rounds and Oourtnay was out-
pointed in all of them, and finally finished with an
annoying right cross to the jaw. Meaghan should be a
coming champion. He stands up to his work like an
artist, has two good hands and a true fighting instinct,
and is just the pink of the modern type of successful
boxer, which is a type very different from the hefty and
hunky much-muscled puncher of other days.
* * • •
The Burns-O’Brien scrap for the championship
of the world appears to have been a very bitter affair.
To begin with, O’ rien accused Burns of wearing an
inflated belt, and Burns refused to allow O’Brien or any-
one else to inspect his wearing apparel. He also refused
to remove the thing, and a deadlock seemed imminent.
Ex-champion Jeffries refereed the disturbance, and this
inflated belt fairly took his breath away. Later on, after
much haggling, Burns took it off and it turned out to be
a pneumatic affair covered with flannel, which made the
lower part of the wearer’s bingey quite immune. Burns
had the advantage of the weight and size, but O’Brien’s
skipping practice stood him in good stead, and the way he
got round the ring was marvellous. Frequently it deve-
loped into a race, in which O’Brien played a Parthian
part, and turned suddenly and landed Burns some loud
shocks when that bruiser came in to kill. O’Brien’s
beauty was severely damaged, while that of Burns was
not much marred, according to the summarised reports.
Looking over the list of contusions, there appears to be
very little to chose between them. O’Brien’s nose was
foundered, and his right eye laid open. Burns’ nose
was “ blooded,” and his left eye completely closed.
Neither man was knocked down, and at the end Jeffries,
finding himself unable to decide whether it was worse to
have the left eye closed up or the right eye laid open,
wisely declared it a draw.
* • • *
Clarence Weber, honeymooning at Daylesford
(Vic.), the other week, had a humorous encounter with
a representative of the Swiss-Italian blood which courses
through the veins of Daylesford’s oldest aristocracy.
Webster was pumping up his bicycle tyre in the yard of
the Coffee Palace, when a burly Dago, in search of a
friendly wrastle, offered to put him into the water butt.
Weber consented to a friendly go. The stranger started
with a fairly workmanlike notion of getting a strangle
hold on his opponent’s throat. Weber advised him to
stop that, lest somebody might get hurt, and, when he
desisted, Weber lifted him from the ground and put him
neatly into the tank. The undaunted Dago, being now
wet in two respects, demanded some more wrastle, so he
went into the water a second time—and a third. Then
he cooled on it, and left the young man from Melbourne
at liberty to go on inflating the tyre of his machine.
* * • •
Lance Skuthorp, the greatest horseman the
world bas ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 150 animals, all
buckjumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Snips. Both these horses can be backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*


KUGELMANN’S
©
Y.
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE Ji 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BP'SBANE.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
o
mm
WmSm
mmim
mmUSmS
m
mm
■ . 1 -'i y'
• * c ;
dim
THE GOLDEN KING.
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
&
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting .
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable.
Jh
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
I do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me.
BanKers
Victoria and Royal Banks
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in ft Tho
King of Sport” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: 44 King of Sport ” Office, Melbourne*
E.. T. WALSH,
...Expert Tailor...
Solicits a TRIAL ORDRR FROM
Ant Part op the Commonwkawh.
SPECIALIST IN SUITS
WELL CUT,
WELL MADE, and
PERFECT FITTING.
The Newest and Most Expensive Patterns direct
from the manufacturers. I am able to make
Fashionable Suits from Four Guineas. We call
very special attention to our make of garments,
showing that our Tailor’s Skill is endless, and
nothing- seems impossible in the way of produc-
tions for Ladies or Gentlemen.
PATTERNS, SELF-MEASURE FORMS, and ILLUSTRATIONS ON APPLICATION.
359 GEORGE CT opposite the oeneral post office. .SVDNRV.
2000 MILES
without PUNCTURE TROUBLE-
“ Miraculum Corporation, Melbourne,
“January, 17, 1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —About six months ago I had the
tubes of my bicycle charged with Miraculum, with
very gratifying results. lam a country traveller,
and my average mileage for six months is, roughly,
2000 miles on all sorts and conditions of road. I
have picked up thorns, nails arid tacks, and, on
removing them, found the Miraculum had sealed
the puncture effectively, as I could not detect the
slightest sound of an escape of air, the tyre remain-
ing quite firm. My experience proves that Miracu-
lum will do all that is claimed for it if properly
handled, and were the cost of charging 10s. per
wheel instead of 4s. for two wheels, I would
willingly pay it, as I have no doubt I have saved
the cost over and over again. Yours, &c. (Signed)
JOHN OWENS.’
If your dealer prefers charging you 6d. apiece
for patches to selling you Miraculum and giving
you an insurance for months against punctures,
call or write to us direct.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS :
MELBOURNE: 266 LATROBE STREET.
SYDNEY : VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
ID* - GET OUR BOOKLET.
fi
r
j
There is no part of your cyc-
ling experience which you
enjoy more thoroughly than
That Glorious
6oast,
and there is no period when
your safety is more depend-
ent on the efficiency of
your brake control, and the
reliability of the machine
you ride. The reliability
of the bicycle built from
Eadie Fittings
is beyond question, and the
efficiency of the brake con-
trol of the
ERDIE
eOHSTER
is such as to ensure your
safety under all conditions.
This is the coaster with
the simple brake—simple
in construction simply
applied, and its free-wheel
is absolutely frictionless.
[Ask your Dealer.]
THE EADIE M’F'C CO., LD.,
Redditch, England
COLUMBIA
■ RECORD
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
The experts of the Columbia Phonograph
Company, with whom MR* MARCONI is now
associated, have recently discovered a new
composition for making
Columbia Disc Records.
The quality and durability of these Records have been so perfected, that
they are, by far,
the finest RECORDS ever produced.
No unbiassed listener, hearing other Records in comparison, could come to any
other conclusion.
COLUMBIA 7 inch DISC RECORDS, Is. 9d. each.
Careful and repeated tests in the laboratory prove that our Records retain their
MUSICAL and WEARING qualities TWICE AS LONG AS OTHERS.
COLUfIBIA 10 inch DISC RECORDS, 3s. each.
Columbia Records are the Loudest,
Clearest, Sweetest and Cheapest Records,
and the choice offered in the Columbia Cat-
alogue is more extensive than in any other.
COLUMBIA 12 inch DISC
RECORDS, ss. each.
Columbia Disc Records can be used on
any make of Disc Machine, and can be pro-
cured from all Talking Machine Dealers.
Write for Lists of Records.
d
(DEPT. B.)
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO., Gen’l.
255 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
OUTPUT OP COLUMBIA RECORDS, TWO MILLION A MONTH.
A Bulletin correspondent:—
The Victorian loco, enginemen who were sacked to
make an Iceberg’s holiday in 1903 have been under-
going examination preparatory to reinstatement. The
medical officer, it is said, has found in the majority of
the men a remarkable improvement as regards both eye-
sight and hearing, compared with his previous records of
them. Three or four years’ spell from the strain of night
work, and from the dust, dirt, vibration and noise
associated with footplate life has given them anew youth.
This seems to prove that the wear and tear of locomotive
work is very severe, compared with that in most other
avocations. For these men have been growing older all
the time. The policy of reducing worn-out men (worn-
out for loco, purposes) to laborers, at laborers’ pa y, seems
more mean, contemptible, and cruel than ever in the
face of these findings. The judge isn’t reduced to the
job of sweeping out the court when he is past judicial
work—he is pensioned off. The two cases are somewhat
similar.
Anglican Bishop Green and some of his
gaitered folk seem inclined to split the difference
over the habit of importing English bishops. The
suggestion now made is that English-trained
clergy should be appointed to the large Sees—the
capital cities, for instance, where the pay is good,
and there is always a bob cab available, and the
reverend gentleman is asked to Government
House. On the other hand, it is suggested that
Australian clergymen should have the ill-paid
bush gaiters, and should toil in those sections of
the vineyard where 'there are long distances to
travel, and fallen trees on the track, and the
prelate and his horse may even have to camp out
at times. The proposed improvement is about
six times meaner than the present method.
On the authority of cane-grower Regazzoli,
the five gangs of Italian cutters who operated by
contract on the Herbert River (Q.) fields this
season averaged £3 10s. per week per man after
all expenses were paid. The Herbert is as hot
and humid as any cane district in N.Q., yet
the white man pulled through and cost little
more than the Kanaka ; the difference in earnings
lay mostly in the fact that Antonio did about five
times the work of Tommy. Also, on the Johnstone
River, the wettest; part of Australasia, and once
the blackest, the sugar industry is highly pros-
perous, although Tommy Tanna has mostly gone
or is going. Fully half the next year’s crop is
registered as grown under white conditions.
“ Belaying Pin ” sends this :
My experience of Australian and Maoriland sailors is
that for solid graft and cheerful disposition at all times
they cannot be beaten. True, they have an off-handed
way of replying to an order that jars on the nerves of a
new chum “from Home,” accustomed to plenty of
salaaming, but there is no idea of giving offence in their
minds. They are sober, steady, and reliable. Let any
man watch the crews of the inter-State vessels, whether
sail or steam, and notice the personal appearance of them
when going on shore—well-dressed, smart, contented,
and proud of the little craft they are in. Something
should be done, and soon too, to prevent the timbc r
trade going to the cheap foreigner whose wages are
starvation and whose freight-money is mostly sent
home to Scandinavia.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE CONTAINS AN
ENDLESS VARIETY OF DESIGNS, AND
OFFERS MANY
:gps
as*
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated, richly embossed,
silk-lined, 16s 6d. Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Art China Statuette
ORNAMENT, 7Jin high.
5s 6d pair. Larger,
7s 6d pair.
PLEASING SUGGESTIONS
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMBS, 9-ct gold-mounted, 15s.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU DE
COLOGNE CASE, richly
embossed, 4Jin high, 255;
sin high, £2 ss.
SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY, OR OTBI
GIFT PURPOSES.
SENT. POST FREE, ON REQUEST.
•"'W
' ly
fSi Q r. '
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SEWING COMPANION, comprising ■
articles, in silk-lined case, £2 ss. Other '
styles, 7s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRAYER BOOK, pure silver-
mounted, “Pearl” or “Garden
of the Soul,” 7s 6d. Church
of England Prayer, 7s 6d.
BUYING
BY MAIL.
You can buy by mail
just as well as in
our store.
Our personal mail order
department makes it
possible, and guarantees
it. All goods delivered
post free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Rapid-adjusting FIELD or MARINE GLASS, achro-
matic lenses, large field, clear definition, with
solid leather sling and case, £2 10s. Other
styles, 12s 6d, 16s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, to £lO.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Choose from our
catalogue any design
you like.
Over 3000 illustrations
to select from.
We send it, post free,
to any address.
Write for it.
A postcard will bring
you a copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO. FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed. Marguerite
design, 10s 6d. Other styles
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Best French Briar PIPE, real amber stem,
pure silver screw and mount, in leather
case, 12s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Va
A. SAUNDERS,
Toilet POMADE JAR, cut
crystal glass, pure sil-
ver top, ia 4 sizes.
5s 6d, 8s Gd, 12s 6(1, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
ď
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile-leather Wallet POCKET-BOOK, calf-lined,
pure silver mounts and lock, in Tan or Green, 2ns.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 1,55, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
. Richly-ornamented Gilt Bedroom CLOCK,
“Cherub” base, first-class timepiece, 7in high,
20s. Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s,
17s 6d, 255.
sw
MS*
'‘■V
A. SAUNDERS.
Folding Travelling MIRROR,
bevelled glass, Russian leather
case, 4s 6d. Size larger, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Imitation Lizard-skin Strap PURSE, pun
silver mounts and lock, calf-lined, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
• m i
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK, 7in long,
silk-lined case. 7s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver-
plated, white metal, richly
embossed, 20s, Other styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar-stud BOX, pure silver-
plated, richly pierced sides, 7s 6d. Other
styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
m.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s RATTLE, solid silver, bell,
xylonite ring, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic Roller SHAVING
STROP, pure silver-plated, 13s 6d.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNJ'i K. ; .
HAIRPIN BOX, pure silver-plated, handsomely em-
bossed, satin finish, 8s 6d. Other styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 qua-
lity, hobnail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base,
£2 10s. Other styles, £2, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
extra long, fine, white briat
les, 255. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Military HAIR BRIE
richly embossed, fine white bristles, 8s
Other styles, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20a.
A. SAUNDERS.
fiIQAR CASE, Black Morocco Lttto'
pme silver shield. 6s 6d Otter
jrg 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
J
WHISKY FLASKS, pure silver-plated, patent
screw tops, Morocco, Lizard, Seal, or Crocodile
leather, 15s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEAD SALTS, pure sil-
ver-mounted, richly em-
bossed, 3s 6d. Other styles,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Travelling ROLL, fitted with every conveni-
ence, leather case, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s 6d. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, 40s, to £l5.
Fitted Bags a Speciality.
Solid Silver Shav-
ing BRUSH and
SOAP HOLDER,
15s 6d. Other
styles, 15s Gd, i/s
6d. 20s.
A. SAUNDEES.
Gent.’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather, P U»
domed silver mounts, 12s Gd.
Other styles, 5s 6d. 10s 6d, 15*. 17* 64
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
Railway Station
SYDNEY.


BEALE
Blab* in
đ
With Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-Plank.
During the whole history of Piano-making, strenuous efforts have been made towards attaining permanence in pitch
and tune. Numerous attempts have been made to devise an iron wrest-plank (or tuning-block) to form part 0
iron frame, and into which the wrest (or tuning) pins could be so placed that the iron structure would take up t e
strain of the strings. In Germany, America, England, Erance, Austria in every land where I ianos are manu ’
devices intended to supply this want are patented almost every week. But not one of these attempts has prove '
successful, and the fact remains that by all makers, other than ourselves, the wrest-plank is made of wood.
Here is what MR. EDGAR BRINS-
MEAD, of Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEAD
AND SONS, LONDON, says in his book,
“The History of the Pianoforte,” about the
universal system of stringing to a wooden
wrest-plank, and from which the great
piano-makers have vainly tried, by a thou-
sand devices, to escape :
“1. The wires (or strings) are held by
metal wrest-pins, around which the strings
are wrapped in two or three coils. The pins
are then driven tightly into holes prepared
in a ‘ wrest-plank ’ made of wood, and the
tuning is effected by turning the pins, and
thus winding the strings around them, so as
to increase the strain and raise the pitch ;
or, turning the pin backwards, and thus
unwinding the pins and lowering the pitch.
“ These pins are held by the friction occa-
sioned by the tightness with which the fibres
of the wood press around them, and to turn
them GREAT FORCE IS REQUIRED. In
tuning the movement must be very slight,
as the diameter of the pin coils and strains
the strings so rapidly that a thirtieth part
BEALE-VADER
m
)i\
SPACE
JILL
PATENT.
\\WX\VA'’
in
THE BEALE-VADER PATENT
STEEL TUNING SYSTEM.
Showing SOLID IRON FRAME,
with steel screws and tuning pins.
A glance will tell you that this con-
struction will endure for genera-
tions. The pins are lubricated, and
so can always be turned with deli-
cacy. Patented throughout the
world.
THE TUNING SYSTEM OF
IMPORTED PIANOS.
Pins put through holes in the iron frame
into a WOODEN PLANK, which, sooner
or later, must give way. In a space of
square feet, 216 pins, each liin. by |in.,
are driven. Timber cannot resist such
honeycombing under a strain of 15 tons.
The holes become oval, as shown above, by
the crushing of the wood fibres.
of a revolution is sufficient to raise some
notes about half a tone. The tuner has,
therefore, to turn the pin backward and
forward until he finds the required tension,
and even then THIS PRIMITIVE PLAN
NEITHER SECURES NOR RETAINS
ACCURACY, for no material more suitable
than wood has been used for this process,
and the wood OCCASIONALLY SPLITS,
FREQUENTLY LOSES ITS HOLDING
POWER, is INVARIABLY AFFECTED
BY CLIMATIC CHANGES, and ESPE-
CIALLY is this the case IN HOT
CLIMATES; and when the loss of power
is aggravated by the pin being turned for-
ward and backward in tuning, PIANOS
CANNOT REMAIN IN TUNE, the ten-
dency of the strings being to PULL THE
PINS ROUND AND UNCOIL THEM-
SELVES, whilst nothing but great holding
power will prevent them from doing so.
‘‘ 2. The wooden wrest planks are liable to
COME AWAY FROM THEIR FIXINGS,
the strain on these planks varying from 16
to 30 tons.”
This is what HERR JULIUS BLUTHNER,
of Leipzig, producer of the very best type of
Gorman Pianos, says in the latest edition of his
work, “ Manual of Pianoforte Construction : Its
History, Theory, and Practice” :
‘ ‘ The wrest-plank is formed of hard, tough wood,
usually maple or beech, in at least three layers,
glued together. In this manner a greater firm-
ness is attained, and the RISK OE SPLITTING
AND WARPING REDUCED.”
Again, on page 158, Bluthner writes: —“In
general, the remark must be emphasised that the
timber used for this purpose must be carefully
treated, and that in upright Pianos, almost more
than in horizontal, THE MOST PAINFUL
CARE must be devoted to the good jointing up of
the timber, LEST THE PARTS SHOULD
LATER COME ASUNDER.”
But the pinch of the timber upon the wrest or
tuning pin is not sufficient to resist the strain of
the string when vibrated. Consequently, Pianos
with wooden wrest-planks will not remain for any
length of time at what is known as Philharmonic
or Concert pitch, namely, 540 vibrations per
second of the note C. Now, wind instruments
are at that pitch, and the Piano, to be in unison with
them, must be strained above its normal power of
resistance. The frequent pulling up of the strings
to pitch will not by any means tend to tighten
the pins, but rather to loosen them. In course of
time —and no long time either —the instrument
must be left a good deal under full pitch, if it is
to be in tune at all. There is no effective means
for restoring the Piano, because plugging the
holes or stuffing the pins with any substance
whatever will only aggravate the misfortune.
As aforesaid, a narrow beech plank, honeycombed
with 216 quarter-inch holes, each one-and-a-ha,lf
inches deep, and close together, cannot, and will
not, permanently withstand the full strain.
OUR INVENTION, BEALE-VADER
PATENT,
is simplicity itself. Instead of following the
universal practice of introducing a wrest-pin from
the front, driven into wood, like a nail, as de-
scribed above, we introduce a steel pin from the
back, fitted nicely into a hole drilled in a solid
metal plate. The plate is a part of the usual iron
frame. The pin has a conical butt, fitting a
conical shoulder in the drilled hole. A tension
screw (or stud) presses the pin against the
shoulder, thus controlling the pin and imparting
any desired tension. The strain of the string is
taken up securely by the iron frame. That is all.
With the wooden wrest-plank the pin crushes
some of the fibres in front, thereby causing a cer-
tain looseness or space where the pin should fit
tightest. It follows that a part of the vibration
of the string is lost, because the pin itself, being
insufficiently supported, vibrates. But all the
vibration from the stroke of the hammer should
go to the sounding-board, which alone develops
the musical sounds. With our
IRON WREST-PLANK
the pin is quite motionless, and thus all the
musical vibration is transferred to the sounding-
board, and conveyed in full volume and purity to
Another great advantage is that our new
STEEL WREST-PIN
turns with perfect smoothness during the opera-
tion of tuning, so that the tuner can arrive with
ease and accuracy at the pitch desired. With the
wooden wrest-plank he finds always more or less
ierkiness, because of the indispensable pinch of
the wood, aided by the resin usually introduced.
With our patent he is provided with
metal surfaces, which are lubricated so as to
assure ease of operation.
A still greater advantage is that as the tension-
screw perfectly controls the pin, which it touches
only at a point, the latter will remain absolutely
and permanently at any desired strain, thus con-
ferring the boon of full and correct pitch. An
enhanced quality of tone is obtained, inasmuch as
the ear receives the correct sound, and is thereby
pleased (though perhaps the hearer knows not
why).
But, above all, the advantage of permanence in
tune is attained by the
BEALE-VADER PATENT
in so far as that can be possible. Piano strings
are made by drawing wire from cast-steel ingots.
It is true that these strings may be said to
stretch at first, because they are really straighten-
ing. For that reason all our instruments are
months at full strain before issue. Under the
BEALE-VADER PATENTS
the Piano receives for the first time a complete
internal iron frame above and below. The instru-
ment is, therefore, rendered durable beyond all
others in respect of tune, quality of tone, and
generally. _ ,
The accompanying sectional illustration shows
clearly the construction of the Beale Pianos in
respect of the tuning system. Any construction
of wood, being an organic material, requires some
length of test in order to ascertain its merits or
defects. But when steel and iron are dealt with,
the result can be known at once, whether it
suffices its intention or not. Having fitted one
steel pin into a cast-iron plate, its strain-bearing
quality can be tested forthwith. We prepare
wrest-pins by the thousand gross, and in no single
instance —as a matter of course—have they failed
to hold as expected. The pin will hold any pitch
up to the breaking point of the string.
English concert pitch is 540 vibrations per
second of the note 0. Continental pitch is C—
-517, and at the latter German Pianos are usually
tuned, for the wooden wrest-plank will hold it for
some time at least. But that pitch does not
satisfy British ears. It is a semi-tone flat, C
being actually the note B natural. Hence
it forms an intolerable discord with either British
or French wind instruments. Again, a singer
accustomed to concert (or philharmonic) pitch
must either transpose his or her song, or accept
an accompaniment half a tone flat. Excepting at
public concerts, where the Piano is expressly
pulled up to concert pitch, he cannot expect to
have the Piano other than flat.
By referring to the engraving, it will be
seen that the tuning-pin sits firmly in the
cylindrical barrel drilled to receive it.
The screw is not affected by this pin, be-
cause the latter touches it only at one
spot, and, being firmly in position con-
trolled by the screw, the pin cannot
vibrate.
Complete Pianos
may be seen at any of
Our Showrooms
constructed upon the above system, or
small specimen sections will be sent by
post to any intending purchaser. There
are now thousands of Pianos with these
patent wrest-planks in use with families,
in stock, and in course of manufacture.
During months there is no change in them
whatever. All the expected advantages
have been attained, and some which were
not anticipated.
If you want a Piano which will last a
lifetime, and can always be kept at
proper pitch, as a true musical instru-
ment should be, then we cordially invite
you to inspect and test the
BEALE PIANOS
before buying elsewhere. They are made
in your own climate to withstand the
climate, of the best materials, by
thoroughly competent workmen. We
give guarantees and submit proofs which
you cannot obtain elsewhere. Why not
give Britcms a chance instead of demand-
ing the label “Made in Germany”?
There would be no sense in making
Pianos here at all unless we made them
better, because we can get all the labor
and skill at much lower wages in Ger-
many.
azn«9 km in»tu oooa
SECTION OF UPPER PART OF PIANO.
42Z
ssf
SPACE AUOWING
ACCESS TO BACK
OF PATENT WREST PLANK
m
E
i
wffh
a,
%
g
i
SCAlC -ONE QUARTER
SOUNDING BOARD
WITH RIB
TENSION
SCREW.
WREST PIN
FULL SIZE
Twenty-Five Years’ Guarantee.
CASH or EASY TERHS ANYWHERE.
Catalogue and Circulars Free.
BEALE and CO.,
Limited,
474 George Street, Sydney
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
10l Brisbane Street, Launceston
207 King - Street, - Newtown
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide
015 Hay Street, Perth


YANKEE
DOODLE
Is man’s Best
friend. It brightens
all that is best in
life —Work, Play, and
Good Fellowship.
i
H


ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTEENTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
The...
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General
Meeting held at the Head Banking House, George
Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, Stnd January, 1907.
limited.
THE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
the Bank on the 31st December, 1906, and present the following report:
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bdls and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax,;and providl g
land and income taxes, and bad and doubtful debts, as well as granting to the Officers a bonus on then 4 ?
salaries, amounts to .. .. .. • • •• •• •• " '* ” ”
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To Payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum .. £ 50,000 0
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund 4 7
~ Balance being undivided Profit .. .. •• •• •• •• ■* ’ £90,860 4 7
During the half-year Branches have been established at Crow’s Nest (North Sydney), Peter-
sham Boggabri, and Gloucester in this State, and at Inglewood, in the State of Queensland.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable. COHEN. Chairman.
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including London Branch to 31st December by Cable.)
Cr.
To Capital
„ Reserve Fund
„ Reserve Capital
To Capital Paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
„ Notes in circulation
„ Bills in circulation
„ Deposits and other liabilities ..
„ Profit and Loss Account
.. 551,590 0 0
.. 1,439,722 10 5
.. 14,360,145 0 7
98,076 19 6
£18,564,534 10 6
By Coin and bullion in
hand £3,177,152 19 9
~ Cash at Bankers .. 156,711 4 4
„ Money at short call
in London .. .. 1,310,400 0 0
„ British Consols and
Governmentsecurities 2,058,350 0 0
„ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. .. 44,538 0 0
„ Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 1,881,24312 8
Notes and bills ot
other banks .. .. 79,855 15 3
£8,708,251 12 0
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank .. .. .. .. .. 9,391,532 18 6
„ Bank premises, furniture, &c. .. 464,750 0 0
£18,564,534 10 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills £7,216 14 11
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum 50,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 15,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next Half-year 25,860 4 7
£98,076 19 6
By Amount undivided from last half-year. .£22,877 15 4
Profit for Half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1906 .. .. ' .. .. 75,199 4 2
£98,076 19 6
RESERVE FUND,
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAIt, Accountant.
Sydney, 14th January, 1907.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared thebalances and_coun'ted the coinJP Branches*
Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compaied th ‘ >
and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
W. L. DOCKER, \
E. S. CAPE, /
Auditors.
The following 1 resolutions were carried unanimously,,
“That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among the
Pr thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the Bank
for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution." A DIBBg> Gbnerali Manager.
In comparing it,
i very pleased to be able to present to you a strong and very satisfactory Balance Sheet inarke d
tomary with us, with the Report that was presented to you twelve will be semi that
On the
The Chairman, in moving the adoption of the Report, said :
I am very pi
as is customary'
progress has been made, uur wiiaiugurtsiwve iumcmcu u, t —>--- -----..7 . . - , ro i: n
fairly claim to have received a full share of the business resulting from the general prosperity' of Aust*" ,a - . from
debit side of the Balance Sheet this expansion is made up as follows : Notes in circ . Circulation have
£488,000 to £551,000. This is the highest the. Note Circulation has reached in this Bank. Bl ' ls ln C . from
increased from £821, 000 to £1,400, 000, due to improved conditions of trade. Deposits and Liabilt
£13,165,000 to £14,360,000. On the other side, while our Coin and Cash at Jankers have remain P o ndon at
unchanged at £3,333,000, our Liquid Assets have improved £831,000, represented by additional loans he^“
Short Call of £223,000, and the investment of a further sum of £658, 0( X) iri G o yeinimerit Securities. T 8 duced
has been this expansion in Short Loans, I would point out to you that during the last six _ f monev in
our investments in this direction by the sum of £607,000. Taking 1 advantage of the big . Treasury Bills to
London, we have been enabled to purchase on favorable terms short-dated Government B - the total
the amount stated. Bills Discounted and All Debts due to the Bank, you will notice exceed by £1,072,0M• the total
of the amount stated In our Balance Sheet of a year ago. Our position, as I have said be > observed t V, a *. W g
that our Liquid Assets show 10s. Bd. in the £ for all our Liabilities to the public. You wil l have observedl ttaje
are making extensive alterations to our Head Office premises. The contractors are making ®^ s^°\ 0 * y P r ve g that
and we hope that at our next meeting we shall be able to give you better accommodation. K Proprietors
the Report and Statements of Accounts be received and adopted and ordered to be circulated amon 0 the Bioy • •
CRACKAJACK
SOMETHING
UNIQUE.
No. 14 SONGSTER.
One of the most wonderful and varied collections of Theatre and Music-Hall Songs
ever brought together under one cover. Includes all the pantomime successes,
funny stories, jokes, gags. etc.
And All for 6d., Posted 7d.
Look at the CONTENTS !
A Second-Hand Aristocrat. Harry
Bedford's big success.
Alice, Where Art Thou Going ? The
March Song which is being sung with great
success at the National Amphitheatre.
Ain’t Yer Gwine to Say “ How-
Do ? ” Oassie Walmer’s success.
Come Down, Ma Evening Star.
Sung by Florence Young.
Cheyenne (Shy Ann). The cow-boy love
song ; the sensation of 1907.
Charlie Macneil. Harry Lauder’s latest
BUCCGSS.
Dear Little Boy Next Door. The
success of the “ Spring Chicken.”
Do a Good Turn When You Are
Abie, and Don’t Tell the World
Your Troubles. Sung by Cassie
Walmer.
Everybody Gives Me Good Advice.
The latest hit by the composer of
“Sympathy.”
Everybody Works but Father. The
comic hit of the century.
Farewell, Soldier Boy. The new march
song.
Float Me, Charlie. Brightie Smith’s
great novelty song.
Keep on the Sunny Side. The roar-
ing success of “ Alice in Wonderland.”
Love Me and the World Is Mine.
Miss Ghiloni’s beautiful ballad.
Moon Dear. The over-night song success
sung to six and eight encores nightly in
“ Mother Goose,” by Florence Young.
My Carolina Lady. The greatest rag-
time song.
Old Man Moon. A bright little coon song
which the children sing in “The Power
and the Glory.”
Somebody’s Sweetheart I Want
to Be. The march song which is sweep-
ing the country.
Sympathy. (All you need is a line, a rod,
and a hook.) Victor Kelly's great comic
coon hit.
Sylvie. Olive Lenton’s dainty coon serenade.
Soldiers Seven. Post Mason’s military
song.
Smile on Me. Victor Kelly’s popular
chorus song.
Waiting at the Church. Harry
Phydora’s phenomenal comic hit.
Why Don’t You Try ? Sung by Harry
Clay’s entertainers.
Stowaway. Nellie Kilburn’s big hit.
And a ccuple of dozen others.
We have never offered bigger value in any of our Songsters, which is saying a good deal. It is
far ahead of any book of the kind we have published.
To be had of all music and book sellers throughout Australasia, or if he has sold out, send us 7
stamps and we will send you a copy.
ALLAN & CO., 276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne .
Wholesale Agents, GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO., Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AN EASY CHAIR,
A GOOD CIGAR—
And an Edison Phonograph
—singing to you the songs you love, to hear—
songs that bring back tender recollections of by-
gone happy days. The rollicking “ditties” and
choruses you remember so well —and the classical
selections of your favorite operatic star—all the
new ones, too.
EDISON
PHonog£rapH
will sing to you—play for you any selection you
desire —at any time of asking. _ Serio, Serio
Comic, Descriptive, Operatic, Violin, Guitar
Selections, are all included in its magnificent
repertoire.
W fMBK.
&
TRACE
cm-
V£tdff%d7?o<’?*
THE EDISON GEM PHONOGRAPH - - &2. lOs.
THE EDISON STANDARD PHONOGRAPH, &5
THE EDISON HOME PHONOGRAPH- - lOs.
RECORDS Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d., and Is. 9d. each
Lists ot New Records and Catalogs of Instruments, post free.
We are Wholesalers for N.S.W., and carry the Largest Stock of
Phonographs and Records in the city •
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd
My
Opticians/
IMPORTERS OF PHONO-
CRAPHS AND RECORDS.
393 CEORCE ST,
OPPOSITE
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY,
d
Which
Are You ?
m
TTJ.
Are you toiling: day after day at the same old stool ? Are you weary
sick and tired of your monotonous billet? Are you Quite satisfied with
your financial condition ? Don’t you really think you ought to be the
MASTER instead of the poorly-paid SERVANT?
Look ! Just put down this paper after you read this ad., and think it over. You know you
ought to he in the lead. Perhaps you’re waiting your chance—your opportunity. Well, we can
help you. It’s a remarkable hook we offer you. It’s title is :
“Seven Practical Opportunities.”
It is written hy a man who has climbed the ladder of life and is now a successful
and wealthy merchant. It fully explains SEVEN DIFFERENT TRADES which any man or
woman young or old, and WITH LITTLE OR NO CAPITAL, can commence-Seven Industries
whtah aJe EASY TO START, EASY TO WORK, and EASY TO PROSPER IN. Seven profit-
able paying concerns which you may start at now, and, if you will, make your fortune.
The hook is not an advertising sheet or pamphlet, nor is it any “ have.” Neither is it a hook of
Recioes ora “ guide” to success. We will promptly return the money in full to anybody who
does not think it the best work of its kind ever published. The 90 pages are chock full of rich and
nrofitable reading—secrets about business which you do not know—every line is interesting.
Each of the Seven different trades dealt with is treated very fully and exhaustively so complete
that no further information is needed to start straight awav to success on any of them. Now, it
rests with vou whether you will provide yourself with the knowledge which can undoubtedly
mike you a successful and wealthy man or woman. Will you act ? The first lot of books is
going for the very low price of Is. 6d. each, but the postage (3d.) must he added. You
should write now, as the price is going to be raised as soon as the first edition is sold.
a. J. SMITH & 6©., 14 HUHTEB ST., SVPHEY.
w.
mi
Wmm
Only ONE Moustache Producer,
That’s CAPILLARINE.
It is the only sure and safe preparation for making the
Moustache grow. It’s a Moustache forcer !
Price 10/0 Post Free under Sealed Cover.
-Simply follow directions and you’ll have no regrets.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 Georgy St., Sydney.
The “Son of a Gun ” Squirt Pistol
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
ft creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produce.d.
Pric%J2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The “JoKer” TricK Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
amaze-
ment o f
d
your friends, upon re-opening the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions/Td. post free.
PUZZLE PURSES.-sSuperior quality leather and
strong nickel frames. Price, post free anywhere,
1/9 and 2/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
B,ack. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
H. L. HUTCHINSON
The Look and Laugh Glass* I
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By i
getting a focus on \
passing pedestrians, '
horses, waggons, <
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
Tub Laughing Camera.
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Novelties ■
Writs for Price List B.
The Demon Rattle Box TrieK
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Rings,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
d
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET. SYDBfEY.
S*/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, 18. PACKET OF TEH, lOd.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. £lg * 0 £50
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13 S . to’ £31 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
national jjank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 186S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 51,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New’ Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife !
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability. 1
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The lion. C. J. Roberts, O.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
80UTHERN BRANDH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innas. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: L0ND3N & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of ||eui Zealand-
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow’,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
CAUTION.
The Public are warned against the many spurious
Imitations brought into the market under various
labels, and it is therefore necessary to ask for my
No. 4 Eau de Cologne,
distilled strictly according to the original recipe of
the inventor, my ancestor, which is known in all
arts of the world by the lawfully registered label
ere shown.
The addition of address "JULICHS PLATZ
No. 4 " alone warrants genuineness of my EAU
DE COLOGNE.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Julichs Platz No 4,
Cologne o. Rhine.
By appointment to H.M. KING EDWARD VII.,
and to most other Imperial and Royal Courts.
Shipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Porta.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE.
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
SANDAKAN .. ..' .. .. 12th FEBRUARY.
MAN ' LA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ SICISMU.4D .. 9th APRIL.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Oy eensland
ljtM JTKIt. "
Capital Paid-up £45",042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 08,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
BUDGE .ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throiuihout the 11 'orld.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOOOWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ď
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 23rd FEBRUARY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London ' .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 26 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Iteceived Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
Condon.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
MMILTIADES
A. Douglas, H.N.B.
H. A. Sehleman ..
T. K. Spalding
Noon, Feb. 2
Noon, March 2
Noon, Mar. 20
•Twirl Screw. fOalling at Hobart.
FAKES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
BOUND THE WOULD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Eeq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES ISORROWM AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
£ HOLIPAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
<&&«
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
,)orts), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Lta., iu Bridge St., SYDNEY.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
3J Days to Auckland 8£ Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 18, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA Twin-screw, sails APRIL 1, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THO 3. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
&
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
UNT.S.'W.
fflontdepieteD.»lUo.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
The Most
Interesting Route
to
Canada,
United States
and
England.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Feb. 18, March 18, April 15.
£2T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. fSJi
UNIO.I STEAM SHIP COMPA IY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coiri and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee. of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
• • •
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL—£1,900.000. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. Gkohqe H. Mookb, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHiPCO;
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports,’
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for ,
Ravensthorpe Goldfields, 'i 1
BRISBANE, I ,
MACK AY, f
TOWNSVILLE, J
And Ports North to Oairns.
S, S. Grantala (from Mel.
bourne), Wednesdev
' January 15.
5.5. (from Sydney)
Wednesday, Feb. 20.
5.5. Buninyong, Feb. 2.
■S.S. Warrego, Feb. 9.
S.S. Marloo, Feb. 16.
neat and Cheupest Ho ate to Hold fieldi
Saloon 1 assage Tickets are interchangeable after t.t.
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on
services subject to conditions, which can ba iSSrtShJ!
on application at the Company’s Office. ne^
O. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
-arKisr^JHagas^
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
1907.
Mar. 2
Mar. 30
April 27
Batavia, and Japan,
including table wines.
ea io l join bay, India, Chins
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,’
ENGLISH
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and pass.ng their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais 1
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney. * * S|
J- LOTH. Acting Principal Agent
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE ~
Will flr ‘d every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon ifield Paradt
ST. KILDA.
rpM Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 4-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER, [
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club,
đ
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERiIS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda ltai way Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 98. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week,
Business Announcements.
(I APARIO » TIL'S - LIKE COATING.
HnHDIV COOLS Best I Lasts Bust!
Insist that Oases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTA. Note Spelling:
Chief Ironmongers and “ A —B— A—B—l—o,”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark.
JOHN BRUSH,;
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
EASILY, QUICKLY, PlipCD
AND PERMANENTLY UUiILU
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease,comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial letters from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write to day.
DR. LANGSTON’S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED IQB7.
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.


IF YOU DON’T
LIKE THE HEAT
. . . WEAR . . .
Aertex Cellular
AND KEEP COOL.
“AERTEX” ventilates the body-lets out the heat
and keeps the skin dry and cool.
It prevents that uncomfortable warm feeling caused
by too closely woven underwear. It is beautifully
soft and will not irritate the most sensitive skin.
Doctors recommend it as the most healthy fabric
ever invented.
SHIRTS from 4s. ; SINGLETS from 2s. 6d.
Full Illustrated Price Lists and Samples Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
DAVID BRAHAM &CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
$
X
S)
rv
V
*
Jv
&
5V
&
V
<o
£
f 9 *S
The
&ICOCK
Table
IS THE
MONARCH
op •
Billiard
Tables.
m
m
f 27
PRIZE
MEDALS
A CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
FREE FOR WRITING.
FOR 30 DAYS, WE ARE GIVING AWAY
FREE SAMPLES OF THE WORLD-
RENOWNED EUCRASY.
A Boon to Wives, Mothers anti Sisters.
Cure for Sons, Brothers, Husbands.
EUCRASY DRINK CURE.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness has shed a radiance into
thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does its
work so silently and surely that, while the devoted wife,
sister, or daughter looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed
without his knowledge. A lady, who a few months ago
cured her husband with EUCRASY— he who had been a
hard drinker for years —now writes us that she has also
cured a near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women to save the drunkard.
FREE. FREE.
If you mention Tiie Bulletin.
FOR 30 DAYS WE ARE GIVING IT AWAY.
Send for Booklet and Sample. Enclose 6d. in stamps for
postage. This is a genuine offer for 30 days only.
CALL ON or ADDRESS :
THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter St., Sydney.
Your Fortune Free
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send ine your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/- for
postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and confi-
dential, a document of great value to you in the pursuits
of your future happiness in love, business, and other
fields of life’s activities. Thousands are this day blessing
the hour they first wrote me. Address-
Prof. Henri do Astro, 366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
500
SONGS (words) and a number of
RECITATIONS for 3/6. (13 Books)
4d. each, or the 13 Books for 3,6 post
free anywhere. All up-to-date.
Send order with postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send
date of birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and
postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
IV. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL {of London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA.
Private Address—Woodville, Mt. Albert.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Ad\ t.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
jrS
-7*5
7jt&
i
■3*
ms
R
J 8
s
&
«•»
liC
dliCi
UJJLI
<*>
w
TlowppDW
* XgVH 30VH1
Entertaining
the Boys’*
The girl who Is the most popular
Is the one whose home is tho mer-
riest. She can provide the best of
entertainments with an Edison Phonograph
because it talks, plays, sings and makes rec-
ords of her friends' voices or instrumental per-
formances. There’s always fun and music where
there’s an
IMPROVED EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
It Is ever ready to furnish whatever you prefer: popular or
classical music, band or orchestra, minstrel or vaudeville, in-
strumental or vocal solos. To appreciate how much entertain-
ment you can get from an Edison Phonograph and Gold Moulded
Records, hear one at your dealer’s, free of charge. Phonographs
cost up; Records, j/Q each.
'J-
Write for Illustrated Catalogues and Lists of Edison Record:.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. of AUSTRALIA, LT?
340 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
rjtF
-
SBISS
..
-• . ~
■. ■■ .A
if
■ ■ S
i;
fL«#
5
B
m
,
Reparations
“1 vailed For the Complexion,.
&/T4B
, -•*- nwi
MEDAL. PARIS. 1900.
VND PRIX. ST LOU IS. 1904. J*
FALL CHEMISTS
V* JPERFUMERS
Made by
P. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Qrand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women, No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
•VVill Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DespaiF.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
niinr Dll I C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
E3LUUU bUnt r'LiLo. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
... . Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
W63K women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness is. PUe Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6a
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST„ ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any lOs.
Chronograph made•
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
£3.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Ask your Stationer for aSampixo?
IWILUAM MITCHELL’SIH
io MITCHELL’3
<ol*l CLASS SHOULDER .
N?. 9. First Class Shoulder Pen
[the Original Quautv By the Original MAKER]
MAKES THE SHINE
THAI WONT COME OFga
There is no need to soil' _
the clothing with untidy
polishes. Hauthaway’s Peer-
less Gloss imparts a rich, black,
lustrous shine that neither injures
the leather nor soils
the garments. It is
cleanly. It is free from
acids. Millions use it.
You should try it. It
polishes without rubbing.
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
r Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN 5. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England
m
d
' i
C
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
On the hottest days I am cool and
comfortable because I am particular
to drink little, and to see th& the .Itle
I drink is either pure “Montserrat”
Lime Fruit Juice, or “ Montserrat”
Sweetened Lime Juice Cordial,
diluted with plain or aerated water.
'Montserrat ’is sold bj all chemists, grocers, etc.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE
QUEENSLAND
BETWEEN
ELLEN MULLEN
Plaintiff
and
WILLIAM DUNNE O’TOOLE
and
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED)
Defendants
TO the above-named Defendant—
WILLIAM DUNNE O’TOOLE
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
4th day of December 1906 commenced against you
and the Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
the executors and trustees of the will of THOMAS
HUSSEY KELLYdeceased and that the plaintiff
by her writ of summons claims to establish her
title to part of the land described in Deed of
Grant No. 14874 Yol. 6 Folio 101 County Parish
and Town of Clermont containing One acre more
or less such part being described as Subdivision 1
of allotment 2«.0f section 13 commencing at the
North West corner of allotment 2 thence Easterly
along Drummond Street 96 feet thence Southerly
five chains to Lime Street thence Westerly 96 feet
and thenoe Northerly to the point of commence-
ment and a declaration that she is entitled to the
said land for an estate in fee simple in possession.
And take notice that the Court has by order
dated the 7th day of December 1906 authorised
service of the said writ of summons on you by in-
sertion of this notice once in the Brisbane
Courier the Queenslander the Rockhampton
Morning Bulletin the Peak Down Telegram
and the Sydney Bulletin and by service of a
copy of the said writ on the Attorney-General and
the Curator of Intestate Estates.
And further take notice that you are required
within 30 days after the publication of the last of
the advertisements ordered by the Court inclusive
of the day of such last publication to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the Supreme
Court at Brisbane. And that in default of your
bo doing the plaintiff may proceed with this
action against you.
Dated this 15th day of December 1906.
HERBERT C. REEVE
Solicitor 62 and 64 Queen Street Brisbane.
Agent for RISIEN and MULLEN.
Solicitors for plaintiff
Drummond Street Clermont.
Missing; Friends.
NASSAU GEORGE SIMPSON, or if de-
ceased, his representatives, should apply at
once to Blake and Riggall, Solicitors, 120 William-
street, Melbourne, or money belonging to him
| will be divided by High Court in England
amongst next ot kin.
TLIRANK NESTE R (or NESTOR), aged about
21 years, son of John Nester (or Nestor),
deceased, late of Sydney, New South Wales,
cab proprietor, is requested to at once communi-
cate with M. MORNANE, Solicitor, 125 Queen-
street, Melbourne, when he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
ANNE WIGGINS, deceased. Information
desired of WILLIAM WIGGINS, last
heard of at Caboolture, Queensland, in 1889.
Apply, A. D. GILFILLAN, Solicitor, St.
Arnaud, Victoria.
JENKYNS, ALEXANDER—some time in service of
Adelaide S.S. Company, Melbourne, and afterwards
on Coastal Steamer Sydney—will hear of something to
his advantage if he calls on Allen, Allen and Hemsley,
Solicitors, of Martin Place, Sydney. Any person knowing
the whereabouts of the said Alexander Jenkyns will
kindly communicate with the above firm.
Compound
Interest
comes to life when the body feels
the delicious glow of health, vigor
and energy.
That Certain Sense
of vigor in the brain and easy poise
of the nerves comes when the im-
proper foods are cut out and pre-
digested
Grape
Nuts
take their place.
If it has taken you years to run
down don’t expect one mouthful of
this great food to bring you back
(for it is not a stimulant but a
Rebuilder).
10 days trial shows such big results
that one sticks to it.
“There’s a Reason."
Made by Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle
Creek, Mich., U.S.A.
For Sale or To Let.
WA VERLEY. —Gentleman’s Residence, with
grounds, in Paul-street facing the Park.
An ideal home, beautiful situation.
M. RIGDEN,
Dally-street, Waver ley.
DISPERSAL SALE
0?
THE RANCH STUD
OF HIGH-CLASS
TROTTING STOCK.
We have received instructions from Mr. W. B.
Veirs and Mr. Alex. Robertson, proprietors of
the celebrated “Ranch Stud Farm,” Glenroy (Vic.),
to sell at auction at our City Horse Bazaar,
Melbourne, on 6th March, 1907 (V.R.C. Autumn
Race Week), their entire Trotting Stud, including
the highly-bred Imported Sires, “Dixie Alto”
(2.24 3/sths), “Digitalis” (2.25 J), and about sixty
Imported American and Australian - bred Brood
Mares, Stallions, and Youngsters of the choicest
blood lines.
Catalogue containing full description and
breeding of each animal and terms of sale will be
posted free upon application to
CAMPBELL & SONS, Auctioneers,
Kirk’s Bazaar. Melbourne-
MURDOCH'S
sOs. SUITS
TO ORDER,
39/6.
THIS great suit offer of
ours is a pronounced
success and surpasses
anything of the kind yet
attempted.
Like all good things it
can’t last long, and tnose
who miss it will have re-
grets.
ď
MEN CAME AND SAW
—Men came and saw the materials and expressed
themselves as surprised and sceptical, but when
they received the suit, said they never got such
value for 39/6.
And no wonder —these are 60/- suits 1 The
few days of summer we have had so far is the
cause of this offer, and as we’re anxious to have
empty shelves the 50/- Suits to Order are quoted
at 30/6.
The Materials are the Newest and hand-
somest of Tweeds. The cutting and
fitting are our very best work, and the
finished suit is equal to ANY 63/- suit in
Australia.
Write for Patterns!
BUT—DO—IT-NOW!
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK ST., SYDNEY.
** Where the Good Hats are.”
m
OntIMEN
*
o
&
r
T
T9TAY OPtCDADD' Wl hGv/'
Amusements.
CRIT E R I O N .
Direction of .. Mr WAm>’v ® YO N E Y
SATURDAY « XT ,
SIDNEY co
En?liSh Do,nesti c Drama, '
HOME, SWEET HOME
- b y Prank Lindo.
Box Plan Elvy’s. Prices 9e i 0 d ~
Early Doors to Stall, and daUi?,,' ft E ““ k '" ! H
SIXTH WEEK and CONTINUED
ol the Celebrated Arne™™?,S2
TITTELL BRUNE
in the Romantic-Mystery Drama, entitled
PARSIFAL :
MISS TITTELL BRUME*!™* a ° s P KUND K*
-Prices as usual. Box Plan'at' J'
ROYAL, S^TdVev
■ Lessee .. .. .. j. o.’ WILLIAMSON Y '
every evening,
BLAND HOLT’S Romantic Austrian Military Mela
drama, entitled, > meo '
REVENGE!
Artistically Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic
Organisation of the Australian States
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES as USUAL.
p ALACE THEATRE. SYDnfv
r FEBRUARY 2nd, 4th and sth V
(Under Arrangement with J. C. Williamson)
THE PUBLIC SERVICE DRAMATIC SOCIETI
will present
THE SQUIRE.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of the Premier
the Lord Mayor, the State Commandant, Sir Franei
Suttor, etc., etc. Box Plan at Paling’s.
G. A. McMAHON, Hon. Sec.
\h/ ONDERLAND CITv
O , T. • ( The Cone y Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson
THE MECCA OF MERRY SOULS
CHEFALO AND SENORITA CHEFALO
Looping the Loop and Leaping the Fierv Chasm
Two Death-Deriding Feats of Sensationalism.
BAKER AND KILPATRICK’S SPECIALTY CIRCUS
Twelve World’s Feature Acts.
WEDNESDAY NIGHT NEXT-FANCY DRESS
SKATING CARNIVAL.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME
MISS CASSIE WALMER, MISS RHODA DENDRON
THE THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
CHANTI, the Marvellous Electrical Protean Artist
FRED. CURRAN, Singer of Quaint Songs and Parodies
SLLBO, the King of Clubs. Miss EMMIE MORRISON
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, CHARLES HOWARD
BABY WATSON, BELLA BERMAN,
MISS LEONIE DIXON, Mr. IRVING SAYLES
0 P 0 E , R £ HOUSE, MELBOURNE
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers
CORA CASELLI, Song and Dance Artiste.
HARRY LEWIS, Quaint Comedian.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
KING AND BENSON, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. SS~ PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is,
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ * Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera 00. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
j\|EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatio 00., in
Chas. Darrell’s Sensational Melodrama,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN as QUEENIE CARRUTHERS.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
piVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to 11 r.M. tST" ADMISSION od.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
Tlie Dassaler
Electric Pocket Lamp
UGH
Only 3/- carriage paid to any address.
PHIS Electric Pocket Lamp is guaranteed in thorough order,
1 giving a dazzling bright light. Though so cheap, it tt
f the highest quality. Just press the button and you h»t»
brilliant Illumination. The flashlight throwa suildenly
ato a dark corner often reveali very funny things, better
ban a lantern: no danger, no smoke, no smell, no on, no
latches- Always instantly available The w«nderfnl
ivention in electrical science. It contains its own bat f
nd can readily he carried in the pocket. Battery re ha g
rhen necessary by merely pouring in a little cold w*te . .
rice is only 35., including carriage to any aadress, tne
beapest ever offered. Every Lamp tested before issue and
uaranteed in perfect order. The same lamp jnthS
ye Magnifier, giving three times as muoh light, B>., carriage
aid. Obtainable only from
rhe Union Wlfgs & Agency Co. (
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
d
J3J
d
HERE’S A NEW HELP'
for the ears—a greater help than
has been before invented
I THE ELECTRICON. ,
/ It does what all other devices have l
I been trying to do. It does more. Itl
I actually makes the car better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust ana
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERNON COY.,
SO-64 Hunter Street, Sydney. '
đ
Victoria had an outbreak of weird men
and women last week. One was discovered on
ms hands and knees on Melbourne wharves,
hunting rats, under the impression that he was a
terrier. This doggy lunatic, when caught, refused
to do anything but chew paper and write pre-
scriptions in Lapn, but finally an electric battery
(in the gaol hospital) set him talking, and he con-
fessed that it was a weedy sense of humor which
had set him going. He had learned the dog-
JLatin (which suited his freak) as assistant
dispenser in a gaol. On the same day
a melancholy patient was hauled into the
.Ballarat Hospital, refusing to speak, to
move, or to open his eyes. After two
days he opened his mild blue orbs on the world,
ana would put out his tongue when ordered, but
at latest advices he had not said so much as a
cuss word, even though they forced him to make
his own bed. Just about s the time that he opened
his first eye, an elderly alcoholic maiden wandered
into the Ballarat lock-up, complaining that there
clock in her head, and that somebody had
forgotten to wind it up. There were the usual
persons with horrors, and people who had mislaid
their memories, but these three freaks were
beyond the average.
Port Phillip Bay is s full of sharks these
times. The other day, a stranger rolled into the
water at Sandringham, where a lot of fine, plump
girls were disporting themselves, and was wonder-
ing whether they would be offended if he joined
their party. Then something rubbed against him.
He reached out instinctively, expecting to clasp
the pliant waist of some damsel who had
dived, and was trying to scrape a submarine
acquaintance, when he suddenly found himself
holdingon to the midriff of a 10-footer, that gnashed
seven rows of teeth in his face. The stranger
got out of the water somehow, but didn’t stop
running till he brought up with a bump against
the wall of the £15,000 railway station that Bent
put up to please his electors. Further along the
beach, at Mentone, a party of youngsters started
to paddle out of the surf to the beach, when they
found the way blocked by a shark, 14ft. over all,
which grinned superciliously at them when they
started to yell out. A local fisherman rushed up,
found that the shark had over-reached itself by
getting into too shallow water, and, with assist-
ance, contrived to drag it out and finish it off on
the sand. People can’t go into the water at any
of the open beaches round Melbourne just now
without some fish that looks like a dentist’s ad.
strolling up and remarking, “Fancy meating
you l ”
Bent’s Ministers think no small beer of
themselves. To signalise his accession to salaried
office, the new Chief Secretary, Bangdon, fore-
bore to prosecute 112 shopkeeping sweaters who
had illegally worked their employees at pro-
hibited times, just as Kaiser Bill or any new king
might pardon a hundred or so prisoners. Lang-
don’s egotism is as exuberant as Sachse’s. And
see how it works out. There happen to be some
decent shopkeepers in Melbourne, who .treated
their employees fairly during the holiday season,
and lost business by doing so. That business
went to the sweaters, whom Langdon thus en-
courages in'“'order to pamper his blastiferous
vanity. If Langdon wanted to celebrate, he
should have done it by giving some of his own
money to a good cause. As it is, he ought to have
been hoofed out of office next day. A man who
advertises his new portfolio by 112 breakages of
the law he is sworn to administer can’t be hoofed
out with too much violence.
Notwithstanding the admitted prevalence
of dummying in N.S.W., and the whirlwinds of
judicial and Parliamentary execration that have
been periodically poured on the dummy and his
employer, only one man lias been sent to gaol for
the offence in N.S.W. since the passing of the
Robertson Land Act. That unfortunate was
landed there mainly by his own confession, and
he only confessed because he was fool enough to
lose his nerve.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Cos. report:—We sub-
mitted a catalogue of 3988 bales to a full attendance of
buyers. All sections of the trade operated with great
freedom, and the improvement manifested at last week’s
auctions was well maintained. The offerings consisted
chiefly of medium descriptions, with the exception of a
few good clips from the New England, Cowra, Quirindi
and Queanbeyan districts. Wools showing fine quality,
when fairly free, sold exceptionally well. At auction
and privately we sold 3831 bales. We sell again on sth
February.*


The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World
For over 50 Years
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
\ S it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £IS. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. Gd. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles,! 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzledoading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lh. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SIN6LETONS EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Hoad, London, Eng.
rcr
Medic*t*r, ilzi
3i laches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
with 4 months
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
kf° r
(0
HP
,<n
FAT FOLKS
REDUC E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physioians.
Book and particulars free. Address —
J AS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO PILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
JaDisinfectiMl
Fluid.
COLORLESS, Jt I
FRA'RANT,' 1/ 13
NCm-roiSCNOUS. Pint Bottles.
Oxidant Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms
Also 1/- Tin 3 Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
. Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
|k The “SANITAS” Co., A
Ltd., Limehouse, Agt
—London.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jtm
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Beruember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth’ng. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
d
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, 09 Pitt St., Sydney
THE BALLET GIRL
ď
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of s
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 9/3, G.P.O.m SYDNEY,
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
I
■fe
DIET
m.
m
*
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
d
Jr &
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down "or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-'* welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
&
&
V
&
$
&
$
&
AND
OINTMENT
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Will cure
The worst cases
Of Skin
Disease
From a
Common Pimple
On the Face
To that awful
Disease
Scrofula.
Try a bottle
To-day.
FREE
TO
THE
WEAK
NERVOUS and DEBILITATED.
Dr. Langston’s Medical Work, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano,” written after an experience
of 50 years as an Expert Specialist in
DISEASES OF MEN. You can have the
benefit of all this vast experience for the
asking. Write for the Book to-day, it is Free.
Posted, 2 Stamps,
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
Established 1887.
129 Collins St., Melbourne.
Mention this Paper. Consultation Free.
Free! Free!
To the Sick and
Ailing Everywhere
THE CUBE FOR YOUR DISEASE
Delivered Free—Free for the
Asking—Free to You,
To the sick—the suffering—to every man and
T
woman victim of
organio disease-
local trouble or
broken general
health—Dr. Kidd’s
offer of free treat-
ment is given in the
absolute faith and
sincere belief that
they can and will
stop disease, cure
it and lift you up
again to health and
vigor. There is no
reason why you
should not get well
if you will only
bring yourself to
take the free test
treatment of these
wonderful rem-
edies, no matter
what your doubtfl
may be.
I Want the Doubters
I want to give them the proof—the evidence
and the glory of new life in their own bodies—
and I want to pay the cost of this proof—all of
it —to the very last cent—myself.
I have put my life into this work —I hold the
record of thousands of cures—not “ some better ”
—but thousands of desperate sufferers, hearty
and strong and big and well; and their letters
are in my hands to prove every word I say.
Rheumatism, kidney troubles, heart disease,
partial paralysis, bladder troubles, stomach and
bowel troubles, piles, catarrh, bronchitis, weak
lungs, asthma, chronic coughs, nervousness, all
female troubles, lumbago, skin diseases, scrofula,
impure blood, general debility, organic vital ail-
ments, etc., are cured to remain and continue
cured.
No matter how you are, no matter what your
disease, I will have the remedies sent to you and
given into your own hands free, paid for by me
and delivered at my own cost.
These Remedies Will Cure
They have cured thousands of cases—nearly
every disease—and they do cure and there is no
reason why they should not cure you—make you
well—and bring you back to health and the joy
of living !
Will you let me do this for you—will you let
me prove it—brother and sister sufferers? Are
you willing to trust a master physician who not
only makes this offer but publi it and then
sends the test and proof of his remedies without
a penny of cost to anyone except himself ?
Send your name, your Post Office address and
a description of your condition, and I will do my
utmost to satisfy every doubt you have or can
have that these remedies will save your life and
make it all that nature meant to make it.
Let me make you well. Give me your name
and tell me how you feel, and the proof treat-
ment is yours at my cost. No bills of any kind-
no papers—nothing but my absolute good-will
and good faith.
DR. JAMES W, KIDD,
Box 506, PORT WAYNE, IND.
NOTE.—Dr. Kidd’s methods and his offer
are exactly as represented in every respect.


The Best
Summer Drink
oi\ Earth •
"'VIGOR
The best recommendation of
any remedy is that it gives
entire satisfaction.
WEAK BACK and LUMBAGO.
Te Awamutu, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Dear Sir, —In reply to your enquiries as
to how I got along with the Belt, I an.
pleased to say that I have not had occa-
sion to wear it now for about twelve
months. I used to suffer a great deal
from Lumbago, and it was for this com-
plaint I obtained your Belt, which has
certainly been a boon to me, and I shall
always feel that I made a very good in-
vestment when I purchased it. I hope
that other sufferers may readily obtain
some of the same benefits that I have.
Yours faithfully, G. FRY.
Our Cured Patients
are walking adver-
tisements for us.
SCIATICA.
JONES PLAINS, via Murrumbucca,
COOMA,
Dear Sirs,—In reply to your enquiries re
Belt. I can strongly recommend Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt for Sciatica
and Lame Back, for before using it 1 could
hardly stoop down to lace my boots, but
now I am pleased to say that I have not
been troubled with my back for about
eighteen months, and I have not got to
wear the Belt now.
Yours sincerely, CHARLES POTTER.
We urge you to wear
our Belt because we
know it will not dis-
appoint you.
GENERAL DEBILITY.
MINGINEW, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —I am glad to tell you that
your Belt has turned out to be all you
claimed it, and all I can wish for. I am
now as strong as ever, though I wore the
Belt for only three months in order to
effect my cure. I still wear it an hour or
two occasionally if 1 don’t feel just up to
the scratch. Yours truly,
FRANCIS C. BUTLER.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
J
k
?1
f
READ OUR FREE
BOOK .
If you are not close enough to
call, write for our Illustrated Book
and Diagnosis Chart. We can
cure you in your home as readily
as if you came to see us.
Our book explains our method
and shows how our Belt is applied
to certain complaints.
IT WILL NOT CURE EVERYTHING.
IT IS NOT A “CURE ALL.’’
of YOUTH!
OR YOUR MONEY
BACK.
HEALTH, STRENGTH, VIGOR,
VITALITY, VIRILITY, AND NOT A
PENNY UNLESS YOU ARE CURED.
Every suffering man or woman searches for a
remedy. Many search in vain. Are you one of
the many 1 We want you to listen to us for a few
moments. We have solved the riddle of disease
and its cure. We have discovered and know
the cause of weakness. Heed our advice and we
can show you the road to glorious health.
In every case that we accept as curable we
give a written guarantee to refund your money if
our Belt fails to cure you. (We reserve the right
to refuse any case we do not care to guarantee.)
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT,
worn while you sleep, gives sufficient life to the
nerves and tissues to conduct the entire functional
working of the body for the twenty-four hours, thus
enabling Nature to overcome disease. It gives the
heat and warmth to the body that are actually
the life of the organic system, and where the organs
have the supply of Electricity, as intended by Nature,
perfect health must exist. This is as much a scientific
fact as “that the world is round,” or that “the sun
lights the day.” Wear our Belt and you will never
regret it.
If you suffer from Nervousness, Debility, Loss of
Manly Vigor, or Functional Decline of any of the
organs, Inflammation of the Prostate Gland, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica, Liver or Stomach
Trouble, Bladder or Kidney Trouble, Varicocele,
or Insomnia, the only palliative that will cure you
is Electricity. We are so sure of it that we are pre-
pared to back our assertions against all possible failure.
CALL AT OUR OFFICE and let us explain our remedy and
plan to you. Consultation and Advice FREE.
Hours: 9 a.ni. to 6 p.m. Wed. and Sat. evenings.
THE Dr. McLAUGHUN CO.,
IOOW MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Bjl. 31/l/’O7. ■
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Cd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Ausr. Min bus’ G uide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman
AND THE CONFESSiONAL, Is 6d. TIIK ART OF JUI-JITSU,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for tiie British, 4d. Behind t.ie Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
đ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS I BEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pp- Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROiT THIS ADVT
*
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cuevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SAmio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leathe;
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Cockle’s Rntibilious Pills.—*
*■ l do not hesitate to sa y it is the best made pill in the kingdom."— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Roval College of Physicians oi London.
FASViED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY- Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
J'/je Xatjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benqer’s admirable
preparation.”
S/f* British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
d
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd fhe AGED.
Benoer's fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
The jerry-built, ill-ventilated, small-
roomed, terrace cottages still go up unhindered in
the suburbs of Sydney because there is no building
law to intervene. The hotelkeeper must provide
so much air space for boarders, but the landlord
is not required to comply with any such obliga-
tion, and piles up bricks and mortar without re-
gard to the health of those forced to be tenants.
There is one consolation, electrical railways will
one day cheaply open up the outlying spaces to
the working classes, and Mr. Jerry will then need
to increase his number of “ To Let ” boards.
If anything more is needed to wean Aus-
tralians off the habit of sending to England
begging parsons for subscriptions, a few samples
of cadging advts. from the British religious papers
should effect a complete reform. Note these :—
A DECENT CHURCH
to cope with our difficulties.
For His sake, send at once
ONE SHILLING for ONE STONE.
Yours verv faithfully in Christ Jesus,
(Rev.) W. SCHOFIELD BATTERSBY.
Holy Trinity, Blackley, Manchester.
CjT. SAVIOUR’S, LUTON.
Cautious friends say, “ We ought not to have
run the risk of a debt on our church, in this poor
parish.” I own that a debt is a great anxiety, but I
am not sorry we have run the risk. The building
has already proved the greatest blessing, and I am
hoping about Easter to receive many kind gifts
towards the £1442 which we now owe.
REV. JOHN C. TREVELYAN.
St. Saviour’s Vicarage, Luton.
"JV/TANY THANKS for 5s., 2s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 5s. In
looking over the estimates, I find for Porch
and Parvise, £55, and for stone figure of St. Andrew,
£15 ; total, £70. I have in hand £9 13s., so that
£60 7s. is the sum still needed. Weariness is begin-
ning to lay hold of me, kind readers, come to the
rescue.
W. J. WOOD,
Vicar of Ilketshall St. Andrew, near Bungay, Suffolk.
The Australian Bishop on the cadge has to com-
pete with that crawlsomeness ! It’s not a game
which a self-respecting Australian should allow
even his dog to play.


SCALY ECZEMA
looked More Like Piece of Raw
Beef Than Human Being—Doc-
tors Useless—Blessed Relief and
First Real Sleep in Weeks After
First Application.
SPEEDY CURE BY
. CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Words cannot describe the terri-
ble eczema I suffered with. I was
almost a solid mass of sores from head
d
to foot, and looked
more like a piece of
raw beef than a
human being. Blood
and pus oozed from
a great sore on my
scalp, from under my
finger nails,andnear-
ly all over my body,
and every hair in my
head fell out. I could
not sit down, for my
clothes would stick to the raw and
bleeding flesh, making me cry out with
sain. My doctor did all he could, but
got worse and worse. I did not think
I could live, and wanted death to end
my frightful sufferings.
“My mother-in-law begged me to
try Cuticura. I said I would, but had
no hope of recovery. But oh, what
blessed relief I experienced after apply-
ing Cuticura Ointment. It cooled the
bleeding and itching flesh, and brought
me the first real sleep in weeks. It was
as grateful as ice to a burning tongue.
I would bathe with warm water and
Cuticura Soap, then apply the Ointment
freely, and took the Resolvent for the
blood. Soon the sores stopped run-
ning, the flesh began to heal, my hair
started to grow, and in a short time I
was completely cured. Mrs. Wm.
Hunt, Newark, N. J., Jan. 11, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S. W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of aU
druggists. A single set often cures the most distressing
cases when all else fails. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
W Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Every numour.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
IS THE
UnderwooD
Cold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. CILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE DTTC'I* }
TYPEWRITER *
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT lor its STERLING QUALITIES.
PILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS : Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
For Sunburn
P quick relief can be
KJUiC obtained by the applies-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
Henry Skinner,
Clareudon-st., South Melbourne,
lephon* No. tou.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Mo3t
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
Marquees, tents and dancing floors
of Various Sizes Supplied.
100,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
BEWARE OF "
CONSTIPATION
It
Poisons
your
Blood
Constipation is one of the most dangerous of
common ailments. It poisons your blood with
impurities drawn from the stagnant matter in
your bowels ; you become dull and sleepy, you
have frequent headaches, piles, and often
offensive breath. Anaemia follows, or obstinate
skin diseases, and sometimes the kidneys break
down, leading on to rheumatism and uric acid
troubles. Mother Seigel’s Syrup regulates your
bowels, renders constipation impossible, and
cleanses your system of impurities.
“ For many years I was a great sufferer from
indigestion and constipation and became so
bad that I had to give up work. I had medi-
cine from various doctors and tried all sorts
of things, without relief. But Mother Seigel’s
Syrup completely cured me.” —From Mr.
George Lee, 2, Balmoral St., South Mel-
bourne, Victoria. July 7th, 1906.
Fosters
Deadly
Disease
MOTHE
IS
r*TTPF<t
CONSTIPATION
SYRUP
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU OF ITS WORTH.
CURES
INDIGESTION.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
ď
We despatch direct from oar Coventry factory
to an; one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade HEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prl.es.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
model's £3.10 to £B
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Do live rod
Free to any port In the World.
iatiiic inruTO wanted in each dis-
r AllllVt AbbNlo trict. Large guoflti
easily made. Write a- once, ÜBlng tuffleient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine. <
MEAD CYCLE CO*
Dept. 280
LIVERPOOL.
đ
ď
WILL forward to any addrrts our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on recei) t of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Ccld-F.iltci Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. in.lsct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
HERE'S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT,
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch, 0/_
Post Free.
Black, Cream or Black
Tipped with White
Worth Twice the Money.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent I ree.
MILLER’S FEATHER. SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston St-., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
đ
UEENEI^
UNS
r
are safe
and WEAR
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps”
1 The BEST SHOOTING
i Gun in the World.
For Cata? jguss write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
. . WEAR . .
BucKley & N unn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
15(3
ď
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.
(Melbourne), which wrote £42,000 off its reserves in 1898 :
To Re- Re-
Proftts. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1900.. £3971 6p.c. = £2250 £17211 5 , 7
A.,D., & M. Bank shares written up 1400 j ’ ,
Deo., 1900.. 3740 6 p.o.= 2250 1496 8,313
June, 1901.. 2795 6 „ „ 2250 545 8,858
Dec., 1901.. 2783 5 „ „ 2250 533 9,391
June, 1902.. 2436 5 „ „ 2250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902.. 3168 6 „ „ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903.. 3699 7 „ „ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903.. 3226 5 „ „ 2250 976 12,020
June, 1904.. 5352 5 „ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3332 5 „ t 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905.. 3768 5 , 2250 1518 17,722
Dec., 1905.. 5577 6 „ , 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906.. 5466 6 „ , 2700 2766 23,365
Dec., 1906.. 7061 8 „ ~ 3600 3461 26,826
A bonus of 1 p.c. for the half-year, added to the 6 p.c.
div., brings up the total to the rate of 8 p.c. shown above.
Expenses have been charged with a staff bonus of £569.
In the following, however, for purposes of comparison,
the special staff bonus is omitted from expenses :
Dec., ’OO. Dec., ’O5. Dec., ’O6.
Commissions .. .. £9,176 £10,360 £13,066
Interest .. .. 649 863 1,037
Expenses .. .. 5,611 5,818 6,209
Profit on funds, p.c. .. £7/14/9 £9/10/11 £l2/9,3
Trust estates .. .. 6,326,344 8,219,991 8,754,551
Expenses p.c. of estates 3/6 2/10 2/10
Apparently the large increase of profits shown is in part
due to the company’s conservative policy in the matter
of corpus commission; instead of taking credit for the
whole or a large part of that commission as the estates
come in—and large additions were made to the
estates in hand three or four years back—the co. with-
held portion of that commission, and is now gradually
crediting itself with the balance as the estates are
realised. Presumably the same policy is now being fol-
lowed ; anyway, commissions are shown “ after providing
for contingencies.” But at the botl om of the matter, ex-
plaining the excellence of the profits, is the size of the
business. At 2£ p.c. on the corpus of an estate and
2£ p.c. on annual income, the- average estate, which
takes say 10 years to realise, will pay something
between 6s. and 7s. per cent, per annum for the trustee
co.’s services ; the co.’s profit (if it is a trusteee co. only)
is the difference between that and the expense rate. And
while the receipts p.c. of trust estates in hand vary little,
no matter what the size of the office, the expenses run
from 28. lOd. in the case of this 8| million office to 7s. in
the case of the li-million Queensland Trustees. This ex-
plains the remarkable profitableness of the big trustee
co. ; itsexpenses don’t increase in proportion to its turn-
over. But this office’s expense rate of 2s. lOd. is subject
to one remark. The co. has a capital of £90,000 ; of this
£65,000 is in freehold. From this it only draws about
£5OO a year rent; so that for office rent with which it
does not charge itself, another annual 6d. per cent, of
trust balances may be fairly added to the 2s. lOd. On the
surface the co. improves the lcjok of its outgoings at the
expense of its interest earnings. But that is a small
matter, dwarfed by the co.’s notable prosperity and the
rapid increase of its reserves, which, of course, adds to
the protection enjoyed by persons interested in the trust
estates.
• * * »
The Sandhurst and Northern District Trus-
tees, Executors, and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Vic.)
'■Net Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897 £lllO 5 per cent. = £lOOO £llO £2436
1898 624 6 „ „ 1000 2060
1899 1174 6 „ „ 1000 174 2234
1900 1273 5 " „ „ 1000 273 2507
1901 2365 5i „ „ 1100 1265 3772
1902 1452 6 „ „ 1200 252 4024
1903 2386 7 ~ „ 1400 986 5010
1904 3091 8 ~ „ 1600 1491 6501
1905 4156 10 „ „ 2000 2156 8657
1906 3092 10 „ „ 2000 1092 9749
Of all Australian trustee offices, this co. publishes about
the most ample accounts ; yet even it doesn’t show the
value of trust-estate balances in hand—in other words, it
doesn’t show what amount its capital and reserves have
to protect. Still, apart from that, it gives all the infor-
mation that either shareholder or client can reasonably
want; and that policy seems to pay", judging by the profit
figures. Of its assets, £lO,OOO is in Government stock,
£6OOO is in freehold (which-last year returned net just
upon 9 per cent., so it apparently isn’t over-valued), and
£11,943 is on mortgage. Apart from the freehold men-
tioned, the Government stock, mortgages, and other in-
vestments give a return of a shade under 5 percent.—
altogether a remarkably good showing. In shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves), the profits last year were at
the rate of £lO 15s. lOd. per cent., which is fairly modest
for a trustee co. Still, as a trustee co.’s reserves grow,
the tendency is naturally for it to settle down in this
list, provided, of course, it puts its funds into invest-
ments which yield only a safe 5 per cent, or so ; where-
fore the safest trustee co. isn’t by any rpeans necessarily
at the top of the list in the matter cf earnings per cent,
of funds. j
n • „ ■* *
Parramatta Woollen Mills, Ltd., which has
suffered from the mongrel tariff, like most woollen
milling cos. in Australia, has given an option over 10,000
shares at par for two years. But apparently the business
isn’t flourishing enough to make the option worth any-
thing in cash; anyway, no forfeit in the event of non-
completion is mentioned in the notice issued to share-
holders, who have to ratify the agreement.
• * » *
One of the things shown by the lately-published
report of the N.S.W. Registrar of Friendly Societies is
that of nine building societies established in 1905, not one
was of the old permanent type. The whole lot were cut
out on the Starr-Bowkett pattern, under which you can
get a gamble as well cottage.
They have now in some lists taken Mt.
Morgan, out from amongst the gold mines and put it
among the copper mines. But the amount credited to
gold last six months was £218,789, to blister copper
(advances) £209,900, to copper precipitate £18,127 ; and
the 1767 tons blister copper produced by the converters
contained 20,838 oz. gold. In round figures, for every
20s. worth of copper, 30s. worth of go d is still produced.
» * * *
Cloncurry (N.Q.) has 400 camels struggling
with its traffic. Further north the flat-footed beast was
a failure, but Cloncurry seems to suit him better. All
are owned by Afghans and hooshtaed by Asiatic non-
descripts.
• * * *
How the Zinc Corporation is going to run its
extraction plant on a commercial basis by re-treating the
zinc concentrates with magnetic separators is best known
to the experts who figured the thing out. On the face of
it the scheme does not look enticing. The Broken Hill
Junction North found magnetic separators troublesome,
and they were scrapped. They may do better with a zinc
concentrate, but it is doubtful if the lead concentrates,
separated from the zinc, will cover working costs.
* * * *
The work that was done last year at the Central
mine, Broken Hill, and at Cockle Creek, gives some idea
of the losses in extracting zinc from the so-called tailings.
The Central’s “ tailings ” run about 21 per cent, of zinc,
some a little more, some a bit less. It took a shade under
3 tons of tailings to make a ton of zinc concentrates ; and
it took 3} tons of concentrates to make a ton of spelter ;
total, say, 11 tons of tailings per ton of spelter. Yet in 11
tons of tailings there are over 2J tons spelter ; so that,
while one ton of spelter is saved, over 1J tons are lost.
The Central—owned by the Sulphide Corporation—has
two processes : the magnetic, with which it started, and
the granulation, recently introduced. Whereas the mag-
netic plant Baved(as concentrates) only 68 T percent, of
the zinc in the tailings, the other saved 72 - 8 percent.,
and its recoveries of lead and silver were also better;
but the cost with the magnetic plant was only 9s. 7d. per
ton of tailings, as against 14s. 6d. by granulation. The
plant for the latter process is, fortunately for the work-
men, the one the co. has been extending : the magnetic
process is deadly in its^lead-dustiness.
From January to the end of November the 5-
head battery at Horseshoe Creek tinfield(Northern Terri-
tory) put through 1528 tons tin stone for 152 tons llcwt.
concentrates, valued at £10,972. The figures support the
opinion, previously expressed, that the Horseshoe is one of
the finest fields in the N.T. ; but, unfortunately, it has
drifted almost entirely into the hands of Chinese, who
are still flocking to it.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonSt?
WEST. AUSTRALIA f>f C
Hay ST Perth ft (i
QUEENSLAND f.V
Queens Edward St? Brisbane v|iJ
NEW ZEALAND
H 65143 Queen St. Auckland
IS3 LambtonQuay.Wellington.
236&25Z HighS I ;Christchurch.(
Princes & DowlingSt? Dunedirrjk
f
in
/fit's from
[lStewart Dawson's
its good:
Write the
store nee feet
you \
TtTTrrr
Any article shown here will be sent
free of expense and at our risk
absolutely—on receipt of remittance. When you open up the goods
and they do not entirely meet with your views, return them and
your request for your money will be like a cheque on a bank.
Catalogues on request. Write for one to-day.
G3s36.—Silver-plated Jam Dish
and Spoon, 6s 6d.
E4lB2.—Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 13s (id.
E3o44—Silver-plated
Butter Dish and Knife,
10s 6d
F 7095 —Silver-
plated Balance
Pepper Pot, 4s 6d.
Large, 6s 6d.
352 A. Silver-plated
Breakfast Oruet, 12/6.
353—Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 8s 6d.
G 3585 —Silver-plated Butter Dish
and Knife, 6s 6d.
E 2359. —Silver-plated Sugar and Cream
on Traj', £1 10s.
I)7739—Silver-plated Jam Dish and
Spoon, 17s 6d.
H2o6s—Silver-plated
Serviette Ring, 3s.
G2222—Silver-plated Tea Pot
Stand, 14s 6d.
64720—Silver-plated Cake Basket, 16s 6dL
A Special One, 30s.
E 6636. —Silver-plated Breakfast Frame, £llss.
Hl67B—New Style Silver-plated
Honey Jar and Spoon, 17s 6d.
G6B6o—Silver-plated Covered Butter Dish,
16s 6<L
G6Bl7—Small Size Silver-plated
Eose Bowl, 10s 6d.
G 4877. —Silver-plated and Engravei
Sugar, 128 6d.
Cream Jug to match, 10s 6d.
H 1679.
-Silver-plated and Cut Glass
Pickle Jar, 16s 6d.
68498.—Silver-plated Rose Bowl,
Small size, 7s 6d.
Gs2oo—Finest China and Silver-platea Fruit Dish, £2 7s 6d.
GBB42.—New Style Silve
plated Sugar Scuttle,
20s.
G426o.—Silver-plated Coyered
Butter Dish, £1 6s.
F 6131 —Silver-plated Toast Rack, 22s 6d
H44s—Silver-plated Golf
Cruet, 21a.
HlBOl. —Xew Style Silver-plated
Marmalade and Spoon, 14s 6d.
345 A—Cut Glass and Silver-
plated Butter Dish and Knife,
255.
F6l3o—Silver-plated Toast Rack,
• 21s.
E7B74.—Silver-plated Honey Jar
and Spoon, 255.
Gs262.—Silver-plated Cheese Dish, £2 ss.
H2o6B—Silver-plated Card Receiver, 10s 6d.
GBos2—Silver-plated Toast Rack, 13s 6d.
Hls9o—Old Sheffield Style best Silver-plated Entree Dish, £4
Others 425, 455, 52s 6d, 635, 70s.
•—Best Quality Silver-plate and
Polished Oak Biscuit Barrel, £1 Is.
G 8844. —Silver-plated
Bamboo Gong and
Striker, 21s.
G7sB3—Very Handsome Six-Oup Egg Oruet and Spoons, £2 10s
1 1
H2o62.—Silver-plated Child’s Cup, 10s 6d.
G4677—Silver-plated Marmalade
Dish and Spoon, 13s Sd.


đ
AT YOUR
SKIN
THERE IS . .
SKIN=HEALTH
and , , . .
BEAUTY. . .
In every tablet of
Zam-Buk Soap.
BEAUTIFY YOUR COMPLEXION.
The greatest aid to skin culture is ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL TOILET SOAP.
This unique preparation, containing true skin medicines, performs
wonders in beautifying the skin and complexion. It works hand-in-
hand with the natural oil of the skin, softens and strengthens the
weak parts, and enables the skin to resist disease.
Zam-Buk Soap is the ideal soap for the ladies’ toilet._ It will over-
come the coarseness and dryness of the skin due to the indirect use of
common toilet soaps or cosmetics, and will bring glowing, healthy
iskins and complexions.
In the glass every day after using Zam=Buk Hedicinal Soap and you
will note the wonderful improvement in the clearness and refinement of
its texture with each application!
The frequent use of Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap keeps the skin in
perfect health, and brings out its natural beauty. Simply removing the
dirt from the surface is not adequate enough to ensure skin-health. The
cause of skin disfigurement and disease lies embedded in the pores, which
all the surface washing will not remove. Zam-Buk Soap penetrates into
the inner cells and removes all injurious substances that may be choking
the passages through which the perspiration and waste matter is cast off
from the system, thus the skin’s duties are carried on in a natural manner.
All kinds of artificial aids in the shape of cosmetics, pastes and powders
to the skin and complexion are used, which clog the pores and rob the skin
of its sap or oil, hence it withers. The same remark applies to common
toilet soaps containing alkalies or soda now in general use.
You cannot hope to retain your good skin-health by the use of improper ingredients.
With Zam-Buk Soap you have a Pure Medicinal Skin Soap, and the satisfaction of knowing
the skin is receiving the very best treatment possible, and that its every function will be more
efficiently carried out as shown by the daily improvement in its refinement and texture.
Its antiseptic properties are of the greatest value for preventing infection from any source,
and it is just the soap for washing baby, whose tender skin it just suits. Mothers like it because
it soothes and comforts their children. Zam-Buk Soap purifies, preserves, penetrates, and
protects the skin against disorders that usually menace it.
Always have a tablet handy, and use it regularly on your skin and that of your children.
It gives glowing Skin-health.
CUT OUT AND POST COUPON BELOW.
FREE SAMPLE TABLET.
On receipt of this Coupon, with name and address attached,
and Id. stamp to cover return postage, we will send a dainty
FREE SAMPLE TABLET of Zam-Buk Soap. Address applications
to the Zam-Buk Mnfg. Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Name
Address
The Bulletin, Jan. 31st, 1907.
Eczema, pimples, gravel-rash, itch, blotches,
facial blemishes, priokly-heat, sunburn, ulcers, barber’s
rash, offensive perspiration from body and feet, red
and coarse skin, ringworm, milk crust, scalp diseases
and all childish ailments are entirely prevented by
Zam-Buk Soap.
ZAM-BUK SOAP may be obtained by the
Single Tablet at Is., or a dainty Box of
Three Tablets for 2s. 10d., or direct from
the ZAM-BUK MFNG. CO., 39 PiTT STREET,
SYDNEY, for the same price.
For BATH, NURSERY and TOILET.
d
Business, Robbery, etc.
It oocurred to the Vic. Government last week
to inquire about the Melbourne banana trade. It was
found that the business was mostly in the hands of the
Chows. There are only two Europeans in the trade, and
they have to fight the “ banana syndicate,” consisting of
all the Chinese importers, bound together into a com-
bine. The principal part of the business consists in
ripening the bananas, which are imported green. This
is done in little dens about 6ft. long, Bft. high, and Bft.
wide. The report of the fruit inspector and health
officer who made the inquiry was that all the rooms, with
one exception, were “fairly clean.” The exception was
filthy. The report suggested registration of these
ripening dens, so that proper health provisions—daily
sweepings, washing of walls with disinfectant, etc.—might
be enforced. But the business is hardly likely to be kept
on sanitary lines whilst the Chow is in charge.
* * * *
The Tobacco Combine had a good joke played
on it during the elections. Through Wills, it sent out to
all storekeepers samples of French cigarettes—poisonous
things made mostly of pepper and cabbage leaf—as pro-
ducts of the French Government Tobacco Monopoly, and
asked them to let smokers judge of the awful stuff
turned out by a State monopoly. A Bathurst firm pre-
tended to take the thing seriously, and wrote in reply to
Wills:—
“ We duly received your packages of cigarettes, the
product of the French 'Govt, monopoly. We followed
your instructions, and induced some of our regular cus-
tomers to try them and compare with your Capstans.
We may mention that the men to whom we gave the
French cigs. are all old cig. smokers. To-day these men
were in, and wanted us to stock the French cigarettes in
large quantities, and one of them said: ‘ These are
cigarettes indeed—cigarettes worth smoking, unlike
those Capstans, which are fit only for small boys.’ Will
you therefore let me know your best price for the French
Govt, cigarettes, and also how they are put up ? ”
• * * *
In a certain Australian bank a little comedy
is enacted when a new unfortunate joins the service.
The general manager, a benign old Pecksniff, beams
pleasantly across his gold-rimmed glasses with a warm,
friendly smile. “ Ah,” he says, “ so you are Mr. Starve-
ling-come to join our service.” (Here he reaches out a
fat, clammy hand and shakes effusively.) “ Well! well 1
I’m pleased to see you, and hope that by honesty, in-
tegrity, and devotion to duty you will win your way to
speedy promotion.” (Here old Pecksniff rises and, lean-
ing over, places a friendly, confiding hand upon the
shoulder of the new-comer.) “ Now, Mr. Starveling,” he
continues, in a soft, far-away voice that recalls memories
of the “ Old Homestead ” and the “Swannee River,” “I
take a keen fatherly interest in all my officers. I like to
have some—er—some slight.memento of them when they
are far away from me in the country branches, and I
make a special point of requesting each officer who joins
my service for a copy of his latest photograph.” Here
old Pecksniff’s voice becomes very touching, and the new
beginner turns away with moisture in his eyes, and, after
posing in his Sunday suit with a “ tempt-me-in-vain-with-
money ” look upon his countenance, forwards the result to
Pecksniff, and writes a long letter home telling them what
“a dear, kindly old gentleman” he’s working under.
And manager Pecksniff puts the photo carefully away,
ready to be handed to the police a few years later when
Augustus Starveling, losing all hope of promotion, flies
with what little cash is. available. Once, and only once,
was Pecksniff left in the lurch. A man who said he
represented a newspaper called on him, and asked the
loan of the photo of Ferdinand Hungry, manager of the
branch at Abraham’s Bosom. His paper wanted to pub-
lish it, a telegram having announced that Mr. F. Hungry
had saved the lives of about 13 children by dragging them
out of a burning house. Pecksniff lent the photo, but it
wasn’t published, and the alleged newspaper man never
came back, and there was no news of the act of gallantry.
An agitated telegram of inquiry revealed the fact that
Mr. Ferdinand Hungry had got three days start under
pretence of being summoned to headquarters.
* * * *
The other week “Santos” wrote from the New
Hebrides, asking for information about land settlement
in Papua (among other places) ; and “ Papuan," writing
from Port Moresby, sends this : “ The Papuan Territory
Constitution was only brought into force last September ;
under it lands are to be let only on lease. Now a Land
Act has been passed by the Legislative Council of Papua,
offering applicants long leases ; small deposits (£2 for 200
acres) as a guarantee of good faith ; no survey fees. First
10 years, no rent; for the next 20 years, a maximum of
6d. per acre; next 20 years, maximum of 10di Cer-
tain improvements are required, but terms are liberal,
and at no time need more than half the area be under
cultivation. For pastoral land the maximum rates are
about half the above. (There is only cattle land—none
good for sheep.) The Act has to -be ratified by the
Federal authorities, who, however, are not likely to alter
it. The Papuan Government, under Commonwealth
order, has started a nursery for Para rubber plants, and
planters will be supplied free. Other nurseries are to
follow.”
• * * *
“F.L.8.”; With reference to par. on page 37
(B. 3/l/’07): in the Solomons there’s no chance for trading
against the old-established experienced settlers, without
large capital. But the Government will help a likely
man to settle at planting by recruiting for him, if he has
no craft of his own. A vessel of some sort is necessary,
as local labor is always useless, because likely to leave at
any time. It costs about £3 a head to recruit. Wages,
10s. a month. Food for labor can easily be grown, other-
wise rice is fed. It is magnificent, well-drained, well-
watered land. Fever Is moderately rife.
* * * «
“ N.L.” : Re “0.K.Y.” on pill testimonials (B.
10/l/’O7). No doubt plenty are genuine, but one pill firm
used to give £6 per testimonial to anyone considered of
sufficient notoriety to help its good cause along. I haven’t
heard anything of that particular globule lately. Pos-
sibly it has departed this life through reckless generosity.
* * • •
A fraudulent pill broker has had many victims
in Melb. suburbs, and the police are now out after him.
He represented himself as the representative of a very-
popular pill foundry', and sold at reduced rates, no
reasonable offer being refused. Also he was willing to
take anything in barter for pills—stamps, jewellery,
cash, or goods of any convenient kind. The customers,
however, finding the pills “did nothing to them," had
their suspicions aroused, and the globules were subjected
to expert investigation, and found to be nothing but
bread-crumbs. Ladies who gave jewellery for large
quantities are especially fierce, and want to get the
wretch 20 years for forging and uttering counterfeit pills.
Had the fraudulent pill-founder been really wise in his
day, he would have put something into his pill that
would have averted suspicion by filling his patrons with
pangs. The average person holds no confidence in a pill
unless it hurts awfully.
• • • •
“ Philo ” : There seems to be a falling-off in the
number of diamond rings found in Sydney streets, and
offered to likely-looking pedestrians ; perhaps the ener-
getic gentlemen who used to find the jewellery are now-
in some other line of remunerative bushranging. At one
time it was difficult to go down town without having
some one suddenly drop on all fours in front of you,
and come up with a valuable-looking ring, and the re-
mark : “ That’s a Lit er good luck." Then he would
offer the find for anything from 6s. upward, depending
upon what sized mug they took you to be. One day I
encountered two of the profession inside half-an-hour.
I was feeling annoyed, and I got worse when an old,
beery, blear-eyed, unhappy-looking individual fell down
eagerly at my feet in the orthodox manner, and came to
the surface with the same ring. He remarked enthusi-
astically, “My oath, there’s a bit er good luck fer yer.
An’ I was just dying for er drink, and didn’t have er
bean.” I told him that I supposed he’d want to sell it
now. He remarked, “My oath," and added that he
didn’t know anything about its value, but that he’d
part with it for 10s. To be marked-down as the prey
of a simple-looking old fogey like that made me mad,
and I spat three mouthfuls of assorted language all
over that erring old man. He evidently thought that
I was annoyed because he had asked too much, and
brought the price down to 6s. I glared upon him with
bitterness, and walked away in disgust. Next morn-
ing, I saw an advertisement describing the ring, and
specifying the locality, and offering £3 reward. Now,
was that advt. genuine, or did the old wreck insert it
to clear his character and to promote faith in the ring-
discovery industry?
* « • *
“Hollihawk” : Please give my friend the Cow
a rest, and let me go for the butter factory—especially
the proprietary factory. In my district (Vic.) we supply
milk to the factory and get for it 4d. per gallon if it tests
•4 ; for separated milk we get BJd. The co. in many cases
simply tips that milk into its own cans, sends it to Mel-
bourne, and retails it at 4d. per quart, or Is. 4d.
per gallon. The cream that the public doesn’t get with
its milk is sweetened and goes to fatten Anti-Sosh. The
co. under such circumstances ought to be making thump-
ing profits ; only it has a horde of officials and a city and
a country office to keep up. The directors are mostly
landlords; and if our cheques mount up, so do our rents.
It is a beautiful system.
• • • •
At least one Melbourne photographic firm has
enormously increased its business by installing the upper
portion of a motor-car in its studio. Youths who would
hardly know a complete car if they saw one, show enor-
mous determination in steering the machine that has no
works and nary a wheel, and Ruby Beatrice, from the
factory, delights to arouse the jealous passions of her
workmates with a photo, of herself and her “ boy ” lolling
at their ease in a supposed motor. But Gertie and Sis
and the rest of them soon drop to the dodge, and do
likewise.
THE FOUR SHARKS.
(A Legend of Manly.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shell Beach at Manly was the scene
Of this stupendous lark marine.
A lawyer and two cronies gay
Were fishing from a yacht one day.
The yacht was kellicked from the shore
Some half a mile away, or more.
The Bay it rode in light and free
Is known as Little Cabbage Tree—
A name of foolishness profound,
But Anti-Federally sound.
The lawyer, like a Manly man,
Was clothed in garb amphibian—
A jersey old, and rough and tough,
A pair of pants of canvas staff.
His friends, who also graced the Bar,
Were dressed in fashion similar.
Around them breathed an atmosphere
Of ancient schnapper soused in beer.
They might have been—they smelt so high—
Head-chiefs of Ichthyophagi.
The Lawyers nothing caught at all,
Save catfish grim and groper small.
“ Good fish,” they said, “ are harder far
To catch than guileless clients are.”
Their rage aroused in each and all
The instincts of the cannibal.
And they, with one voice, did remark—
“ We’ll bait a hook to catch a shark.”
The hook was baited, safe and sure,
With pork—which is the proper lure.
(There is, as you may here remark,
No strain of jew-fish in the shark).
The pork was fat, and stale, and strong ;
They caught a shark some eight feet long.
With might and main, and language hot,
They hauled that shark aboard the yacht;
But there, so much it thrashed around,
They greatly feared they would be drowned ;
And so, with boat-hook, bar and oar,
They fell on it and beat it sore.
Then, seeing it had grown confused,
The one who was to horses used
Spake up—“ To keep it calm,” he said,
We ought to sit upon its head.”
But, ere they could so far make free,
Its head it opened wistfully.
Said they, “ This fish for us, we guess,
lias too much inner consciousness.”
It scanned them with a piteous eye,
And seemed to say, with heavy sigh—
“ If these my earthly brethren be,
Give me my brethren of the sea 1 ”
They saw upon the beach a lot
Of people gazing at the yacht.
And said, “ If to the beach we bring
The shark they’ll start cross-questioning,
And we may end by lying—so
To sea again the shark must go.”
They rose and heaved, with might and main.
The shark into the sea again.
They then took up the kellick, and
Made quick and lively for the land.
But suddenly one cried “ Great Scott!
The shark is chasing us, red-hot.”
’Twas so : the monster, stunned and blind,
Swam foolishly the boat behind.
Straightway arose a warning screech
From frightened watchers on the beach.
(They had not seen—these folks on shore—
The lawyers catch the shark before.)
But one (a client) said, with phlegm :
“The blanky shark is chasin’ them, 1 ”
At this, with pride and anger pale,
The proper Hero of this tale
Jumped in the sea, without remark,
And by the gills he seized the shark,
And led it to the beach forthright,
And all who saw the touching sight
Thought, while their eyes in soft tears swam.
Of Mary and her little lamb.
The people then, with awe profound,
The shark and lawyer flocked around.
Said one, with nose of concave curve,
“ That cove must have a blanky nerve !
“ He sees the blanky shark about,
And just wades in and drags him out!”
The Hero, feeling fine and good,
Struck an heroic attitude.
He answered them, with easy air—
Combing the fish-scales from his hair :
“ How I catch sharks you wish to know ?
My friends, I always catch ’em so. ”
The moral of this yarn, you’ll mark,
Is : Set a shark to catch a shark.
CREEVE ROE.


§£ Britisl)°flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, VY.C.
Two Doors from Southampton Row
and Kingsway.
Managing Director - - - J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
r*r
HUTCHISON'S INVENTIONS FOR THE DEAF*
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the Jury at the World’s
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
yvu'en'i'Uexandra
AT THE OFFICES OF THE “ ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,
EOUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Catalogue No. 2, ;ontaining all particulars, will be forwarded tree by Sydney'Manager.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
< * nil IS. FAVORITE” COLD EIVAMEIi (Washable) -Rich and
dnn ile ms real cold Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnislihig. For Furniture,frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
Hicyhpst class elidingenamel. Inexpensive, easily a.ppiieu.
" SAI’OMV EVAMEEiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
A beauiiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
BATH TUB EIVAMEIi. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot wafer. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
. Uo ma k 'rs of Japanese gold paint, "sapolin 1 ” floor
STAINS, kfc SAPO LIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
ď
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA, LUMBACO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i£& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand.
London, England
GOUT
Tine Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, &, CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any formofßronchitis
Breathin'* Hoarseness f4iu or Soreness'in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Co ds on the Chest it is invaiuable. as it
effects a Complete Cure It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic" no? to dSSop never been known to exist where »Coughshave been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i+
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .lly.
-Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act.
NOTICE.
It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
STARTLING DISCOVERY of the CAUSE of
đ
APPENDICITIS !
d
According to an authoritative report it is stated that Dr. Blanchard
has placed before the world his startling discovery as to the cause of
Appendicitis. It is asserted, moreover, that his opinion is endorsed by
Professor Metchnikoff, the celebrated scientist of the Pasteur Institute.
These eminent research workers, the report states, have discovered certain
parasites in the appendix of every case which they have examined. It is
further stated that there are three kinds of these parasites or intestinal
worms, the most dangerous of which is known as the trygocephal, and it is
this which causes the acute pain. Appendicitis is neither contagious nor
infectious, but it frequently becomes epidemic in character, more particu-
larly in hot weather. According to Professor Blanchard, the common vege-
tables of everyday use may contain parasites which set up Appendicitis.
Fortunately, however, there is a certain preventive of this dire scourge,
Appendicitis, which, if regularly adopted, will render us immune against its
attacks. This remedy is Kutnow’s Powder, which, when taken before
breakfast in a glass of water, quickly removes all parasites, foreign bodies,
and poisonous matter. It cleanses the entire system and gives renewed
activity to the digestive organs so that any waste matter instead of remain-
ing in the body and forming an irritant poison is regularly removed each day.
DR. H. E. WHITFORD writes:—
“Chicago, Illinois, May 2.
“Dear Sirs, —I find Kutnow’s Powder particularly valuable in childrens
cases, and also those cases of recurrent attacks of appendicitis, accomplishing the
two things necessary—balance of stomach and free evacuation of ailmentary canal.
I am, dear Sirs, yours faithfully, “ H. E. WHITFORD, M.D.
DR. J. BOND SULLIVAN writes :
“Knock, Ennis, Co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Having recently got from you a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, from which I
personally derived much benefit, will you now kindly send me a larger supply .
really feel unsatisfied without it myself, and I have recommended it to several la y
patients, who approve of it greatly. An aged clergyman to whom I recommende
Kutnow’s Powder tells me he finds it both effective and agreeable. n
“J. BOND SULLIVAN, M.D., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), &c.
REV. F. L. BULLEN writes:—
“Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, Southampton, Oct. 22.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publishing my testimony concerning
the excellent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it years ago.
In my case it has proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient, cleansing the iver
and kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain or discoimor an
regulating generally the whole organic system. “(Rev.) F. L. BULLEJN.
SIR JOHN B, MONCKTON
(late Town Clerk of London)
wrote :
“Guildhall, London, E.C.
“Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in stating
that for the last two years I have regularly used
Kutnow’s Powder, with the result that troublesome
and frequent attacks of lumbago, with other gouty
symptoms that had troubled me for years, seem to
have entirely disappeared.—l am, dear Sirs, yours
faithfully, “JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which
are sometimes sold for a few pence less. _ The
purchaser, through a misdirected spirit of
economy., little thinks that he is the means of a
direct incentive to fraud. The genuine and
original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly re-
commended by all leading physicians for the
stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on
getting Kutnow’s, which you can obtain at all
conscientious chemists throughout the world.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on . the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imita-
tions and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
REV. J. M. DRYERRE, LL.B.,
WRITES :
“Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset, Nov. 9, 1906.
“ Gentlemen,— It may be of some interest to you
to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder from
time to time with most excellent results, and I
consider it only fair to acquaint you of the benefit
I have experienced from so useful a remedy, which
fully carries out what it is advertised to do.
“(Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“ LL.B., F.R.G.S.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO, LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, EX.


Ml
IJSfAikm
A
'Y
NT,
Vi)
A
-V
Ti^W^V^
ELSE FAILS. 3/~
CHILBLAINS
ď
Rheumatism
i Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
A nee mi a
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Trouble
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body of
to ineffective action of the kidneys and liver A realisation of the work Performed Dy
organs enables us to understand why, when they fad, we necessarily suffer.
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the ext
of urine. The kidneys of the average man filter and extract about three pints of
this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to tw elve grains i “ N o w n U
and other animal and mineral matter varying from a t ir o dissolved in urine and leaves
these are solid matter, which, when the> kidneys are> workingttJTSSid matter remains in
the body in complete solution. When the kidneys fail. P P ,■ ] J ue ± 0 ur i n ary poisoning,
the blood, and, becoming actively poisonous, produces the various Stone and P Bladder
such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, ica jravei
Troubles. Sick Headache and Anaemia are also generally attributable to tne same
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely related. It is almost impossible for the
acid, which is insoluahle, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver UK■ aeaisl i
In SL r r e worfs P Se le hi„*| ”s°viSd and
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the kidUey& and
liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to hnd a curati
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so
intimately associated in removing the waste products of the body. Warner s Safe Cure possesses f
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the livery
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of al
urinary and biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is go necessity for anyone t( L. sutteif r
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica. Persistent Headache -Neuralgia,
Gravel. Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia. Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure is taken as directed. Even Bright s Disease yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A Simple Test to make is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust like
sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, ana
no time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less-
serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity will result. L4J
The Old Bush-Mother’s Sons.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BROTHERS, ye of the outer tracks at the
back of the Western hills,
Who walk untrammelled by printed Acts,
bye-laws, decrees, and Bills ;
Ye go your ways by the laws of Right that are
not of the parchment screed,
And ye read the law by the fadeless light that is
given to men to read.
The finnicky clerks of scrip and deed, the men of
anaemic mien;
The men that are meagre and run to seed, the
men that are pale and lean, —
These you will find in the town’s purlieus driving
their sorry trades,
Fighting disease, and want, and Jews, and sorted
in paltry grades.
But you, the broad bush-mother’s sons, that hold
the hill and the plain,
Ye ken the way that the wind-god runs, and ye
know the sun and the rain ;
Ye are kith and kin to the things of earth with
flower and beast and tree,
And the good grey soil that gave ye birth, and
your foster-dame the sea.
Yours are the hands that build the race of a
healthy blood and bone ;
The same strong hands shall assure its place, for
ye know the worth of your own ;
The same strong hands are fashioning true the
nation of years to be,
Firm on the soil assigned to you, and linked to
the girdling sea.
’Tis there, out there, that the race will grow—
where the tall men hold their sway ;
They are the weight behind the blow, the strength
that is bred to stay ;
The broad, brave land where the seasons sing gives
broad, brave men their birth,
And life goes on with its mighty swing from earth
to the good grey earth.
Ye hold not light by the eucalypt if ye have the
wit of a man,
Though ye leaned too much on the creed and
script since ever the world began ;
For there, out there on the singing downs, is the
home of the race to be,
And they that were nurtured not in towns shall
inherit the land and sea.
VIC.
C.G.A. COLLES.
Children of the Gulf.
THE BIG BONE TRANSPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HER funnel streamed like a cigar
through the dark Gulf night. She
picked her way from buoy to light, half
afraid, filling the darkness with strange hoots, like
a hot soul that could find no rest or peace on the
outer sea.
A fleet of pearling luggers lay inside the bay.
The Jap crews loafed aft, and the steaming Gulf
night drenched their faces with sweat. They
followed each movement of the strange visitor
with critical eyes. Sashino’s night-glass swept
her fore and aft.
“Too big for the guano trade, too heavy for
snotter or pearl. She has a strange goose smell
from here. Chinese crew.”
The night-glasses passed from hand to hand,
and each sheller grunted as he passed them on.
“It is the Shing Po, from Maoriland,” said
Matsu Haydi, the diver. “ The Sydney papers
speak her due here about this time.”
“ Shing Po ! ” Sashino stared across the black
span of water at the fuming China-bound steamer.
“ She is the big coffin-transport. Ohe, ka ! There
are two hundred dead Chinese between her decks.
The white hurricane of last week has shaken them
up. They will take more Chinese bones from the
cemetery beyond the lighthouse.”
Cloncurry Bill, sitting on the edge of the crimp-
house jetty, flung a baited shark-line into the deep
black hollow where the Malay’s child had been
taken the day before. Then he looked at the
coffin-ship, and spat freely, as though the sight of
her put an evil taste in his mouth.
“ Bully Hayes knew how to deal with those
Chinese stinkadores,” he said, sullenly. “I
shipped here with him when I was a lad. My
first job was getting a bone-transport.
“Y’see, Hayes was hard-up three days outer
four. Bully wasn’t a coward, but he knew the
exact moment he was hurt. He’d have stolen a
ironclad if there’d been a buyer in the market,
an’ with the dollars in his pocket, he’d have called
on the fleet Admiral, and tossed him for drinks.
“One night in June a big Chow corpse-boat
swung in ’ere an’ stuck her anchors in the mud,
’sif she was goin’ to wait for the resurrection.
She’d lost most of her top-hamper in a squall out-
side the Barrier.
“Haves looked at her for three minutes, then
he hunted up a Sydney paper, an’ read out the
names of the Chinese merchants and mandarins
on board.
“‘Guess she aint much to look at,’ he sez,
thoughtfully. Minute after he spat out his cigar
’sif he’d been knifed. A bright, cheerful look
come into his eyes.
“ ‘ See ’ere, Bill Howe,’ he sez to me, ‘ I want
a medium-sized tar-barrel put under the stern of
that floatin’ hearse yonder. Stick a match in it
an’ leave the rest to me.’
“ ‘ You ain’t goin’ to cremate the old transport,
cap’n ? ’ sez I.
“‘Guess if you’ll oblige with a tar-barrel I
am,’ he sez. ‘ These Chows are ratty about their
dead. When it comes to a square deal they’re
harder than Yankee Jews. But touch ’em about
their illustrious dead, an’ you hit ’em on the
damaged side of the brain,’ sez Bully.
“The night was darker than the tar-barrel.
Me and Sandy Thompson pushed it under the
transport’s stern an’ let her go. The ca,ptain of
the coffin-ship had gone ashore about a dawg, an’
when the Chow crew spots the fire an the purple
trimmin’ crawlin’ over the rail they performed
like rabbits chasin’ a flyin’ machine, ialk about
W1 ‘‘ d in the middle of it, dressed
in a smart uniform, calm as an ice-bucke , ' v '
dozen of the boys at his heels to keep the boodle
in its proper place. Hayes made a quick sp
to the Chows. Nobody listened.
“ Then he gob the boats loose from the cobwebs
in the davits, and helped the two old mandarins
and the other crowd into ’em. He worked for tw
hours like an officer an’ a gentleman ; his »u'|orm
wus burnt, an’ his whiskers singed sif he c
conductin’ the business-end of a volcano.
“ An’ all the salvage he got wus a couple ol
coffins filled with old bones.
“ ‘Cap’n’s ratty,’ I sez to the mate. ,
“ ‘Yes,’ says the mate, ‘ but don t let him ear
“ The mandarins put up at the Shelters Arms,
over there, an’ next mornin’ Bully sends me round
to inquire if they’d slept well, an to say that he
had salvaged most of the illustrious coffins an
Celestial remains. , ~ , ..
“It wus the on’y thing what troubled the
mandarins an’ the tea-shop men. They gave me
some wine, an’ one of ’em sez that Hayes wus a
white marble an’ a gentleman.
“Sez Bully to me, ‘l’m creatin a corner in
bones, Mister Howe. Guess we 11 have to hustle
to meet the demand.’
“ ‘ What do you want, cap’n ? sez 1.
“ ‘ Bones,’ sez he. ‘ Pigs’ bones, sheep s bones,
spare ribs, an’ a few calves’ jimmies.
“ ‘ Bullocks’ ’eads do, cap’n ? ’ sez the mate.
“‘No,’ sez Hayes. ‘There’s a bit too much
brow about bullocks’ ’eads. You can’t send cow’s
face into a Chinese temple. Pigs’ fittings and
ham bones will deceive experts.’
“ Bully ran his eye over a list of the deceased
Chinese in his hand. ‘We can do with emht
pigs’ heads, a couple o’ dozen feet, and as many
lambs’ faces as you can buy.’ Bully lit a cigar
an’ licked the edges careful like. ‘ I don t want
to disappoint these Chinese gentlemen, he sez,
‘and if they ask for bones, I guess we 11 have to
sit down an’ make ’em.’ ,
“ Next day he rented a shop on the I arade an
filled the back room with stacks of boxes. He
said if there wus anv dispute about salvage rights
he’d fight it out in court. The mandarins an’ the
merchants didn’t want to fight it out. -Lliey arst
for their illustrious dead at a reasonable figure.
“Don’t ask me how we fought the butcher for
bones, all sorts an’ sizes. About three in the
mornin’ Hayes an’ me started the bone-hunt. We
struck an old horse in the gully, tame and sorrow-
ful as a sheep it wus. We stood on the west side
of it, because Bully wanted to see the day breakm
through its ribs. „ T , „ ,
“In the afternoon the mandarin, Wah Boh,
came into the shop. ‘ Missa Hayes, ,he sez,
politely, ‘ me want my uncle, Willy Boh.’
“‘Bumbo,-on the starb’rd quarter,’ sez Hayes
to me. An’ I whips down a coffin with a sheep’s
head an’ a goat’s feet inside. .
“ ‘ Nice old gentleman,’ sez Hayes, pushm it
across the counter. ‘Seems to ave led a busy"
life runnin’ up an’ down the hills.’
“‘How much to pay?’ sez the old mandarin,
grabbin’ the coffin.
“‘We’ll call it a tenner,’ sez Hayes, on
account of your uncle’s small feet.’
“ ‘ Why for him small feet ?’ sez the mando.
“ ‘’Cause you don’t often meet such ornamental
sploshers,’ sez Bully. ‘ Most of the men in this
country tear up the sidewalks an’ the blue metal
when they run to catch a boat.’
“We passed him omt. Next in was the man
darin, Jimmy Ah Sing. Jimmy had lost the run
of his wife’s coffin. She was a Chinese lady.
‘You got my Sooly Foo here, Mr. Hayes?’ he sez.
‘ She welly goo’ wife, long time ago.’
“‘Pass down the little dove-cot, left hand
corner,’ sez Hayes to me. The coffin had some
frillin’ round the edge. Bully wouldn’t stand a
sheep’s head for the lady. That was dirt, he sez.
So we had to fix up a lot of pigeon bones, with the
breast of a duck smilin’ in the middle. Would
have been a good likeness if that darned Sandy
Thompson hadn’t left a lot of feathers stickin’ out
at the top. Sandy was a first-rate wood carver,
but he didn’t know enough about anatomy to
draw a mule’s hind feet.
“ The Chow looked into the coffin, an’ a white
duck-feather blew in his eye.
“ ‘ Don’t be downhearted, James,’ sez Hayes.
‘She’s goin’ strong on her angel’s wings.’
‘ ‘ ‘ Wha fo’ she blow feather ? ’ sez the Chow.
“‘Feathers,’ sez Bully. ‘D’ye expect her to
play the harp an’ take up a collection ? Ten quid,
James,’ he sez. ‘ Hand it over quick an’ lively or
I’ll dust the Pacific with your front teeth.’
“ He paid up and departed with Sooly Foo an’
the feathers under his right arm. Next to come
in was Hung Chat, a big 18st. opium-merchant.
“ ‘ Goo’ day, Cap’n Haye,’ he sez. ‘My poor
father here, you say. I take him back to China.
Welly ni’ temple to live in. Me glad you take
him flom the fire.’
“ ‘Number three in the goat-section,’ whispers
Bully to me. I handed him down a black box
with nine parts Angora and cow’s-feet inside.
Bully shed tears over that box.
“ ‘ Wha’ fo’ you cry about my father ? ’ sez the
big Chow.
“ ‘ Can’t help cryin’,’sez Bully, ‘when I think
of the way lie used to stroll about in the beautiful
sunshine, pickin’ up bits of nice paper here an’
there. He wus terrible fond of green stuff,’ sez
Bully, wipin’ his eyes. ‘He was a early riser, an’
never cared for dawgs.’
“Now Hung Chat was a decent fellow. He’d
have taken a box of dead elephants, or a gas-stove,
if we’d offered ’em to him. But he didn’t like
Bully sayin’ his father wus fond of green stuff—he
took it to heart, that an’ the early risin’ an’ the
dawgs. He paid up, though.
“ Bully was kept busy all day handin’ down the
coffins. An’ the hungry-eyed Chows crowded in
front of the winder askin’ for some more uncle an’
brother. When it came to the last coffin, Bully
called nine unsupplied Chows into the shop.
“‘Look here,’ he sez. ‘l’ve got a nice old
gentleman in this long box, an’ blow me if I
know which of you he belongs to. You can’t all
have him, an’ it might be years before you strike
another dead uncle. Just put a sovereign a-piece
on the counter, an’ I’ll lend you my dice. Shake
for him, an’ don’t smash the furniture.’
“A Chinky named Kum Sing threw 36 ; Haves
handed him the coffin. ‘ Some people ’ave luck,’
he sez, 1 while others put up with rheumatism an’
pains in the financial column. What wus in that
box, Bill Howe ? ’ he sez to me.
“ 1 Pig’s face at the top ; piece o’ brass bedstead
in the middle,’ I sez. ‘ I had to put the schooner’s
flat-irons at the end, cap’n, because he might
sispect the joint hadn’t any feet.’
“ ‘ You’re darned ixtravagant! ’ sez Bully m a
temper. ‘Bedsteads have gone up lately, an
don’t you mistake my shirt-irons for a Chow's feet
in future, Bill Howe,’ he sez.”
Cloncurry Bill hauled in his shark-lme from
the water. “You never knew how to please
Bully Hayes,” he said, sorrowfully^
ALBERT DOBRINGTON.
A Public Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ T HAVEN’T much sympathy, as a rule,
with the yelpers for libel laws,” said the
Public Man, throwing himself full-
length on the cushion of a first-class railway
compartment, and kicking the end of the carriage
with thick-soled boots. ‘ ‘ The Public Man should
take his gruel, hot as it may be at times, unless,
indeed, something horribly poisonous ha,s been
put into it. It’s only then I agree to asking the
court to interfere.
“Take me. I was elected last night. I his
morning the ferret-eyed suborner of perjury that
hangs about our town lying for 6s. Bd. a lie—he 11
rob you bare, if be can, but that s neither here
nor there —came to me with a lot of newspapers
in a parcel and begged and prayed me to let him
serve a writ on a hound of an editor who had
defamed me. „ ~
“‘No ! ’ I answered. ‘ I’m a Public Man. My
position exposes me to attack, and I must bear
criticism with dignity, always excepting such a
clmrge as would stamp me with infamy among
those whose good opinion I prize.’
“ ‘Well, listen,’ said the cat-wliiskered son of
law, and he read a passage where the villainous
scribe had charged me with robbing a bank.
“What did I do? Simply laughed.
“‘But listen,’ went on the solicitor; ‘lie says
here you stole widow Mulligan’s nest eggs and
poisoned her goat.’
“ ‘ No,’ I replied, ‘ I’m a Public Man. All these
things go in the day’s business. I want no help
from libel laws to square up imputations like
those. Keep your writs, sonny.’
“ ‘But listen,’ he persisted. ‘He says here how
▼our mother was buried by eharity, and that you
drowned Agnes Thompson, an old flame of yours,
and that you have quartered several illegitimate
children on the public institutions.’
“ ‘ Ha, ha ! ’ I laughed. ‘ The old reprobate has
a bad tongue, but, as a Public Man, I can meet
such accusations with the dignity of contempt.
No writ from me, sonny ! ’
“ The little beggar pulled his catwhisker, and,
drawing his thumb across another passage, said :
“ ‘ Didn’t you dog-fight Smith for £2O ? ’
“ ‘ A month ago?’
“ ‘Yes.’
“‘I did, and won. Ceesar was too much for
Smith’s mongrel. Man, you ought to have seen
that fight! Csesar just lay down on him and
chewed his head off.’
‘•‘That’s just it. Here, this paper says that
the fight wasn’t fair; that you bribed Farrelly to
give Smith’s dog a bait before the fight.
“ ‘What!’ I cried. „ , , „ ,
“ Well, now, sir, that's a charge I feel called
upon to refute. I ordered Oatwhiskers to issue a
writ forthwith ; and every penny to the credit of
Alderman Mat Heeny will, if needed, go in vin-
dication of his character. A Public Man, sir,
should not be thin-skinned, but there are aspects
of his character which he is called upon to defend
at all hazards. In such cases, libel laws are
necessary.”
B.


SERIOUS SIGNS.
Any sign of Kidney Complaint is Serious,
Because Kidney Trouble gets Worse
Every Day it is Neglected, and
is Bound to end Fatally.
Ctl
■ >
m
Q
71
m
m.
" Every
Picture
Tells
a Story. ”
Many people think that their kidney complaint will get
well again in time without help. But they do not know that
the kidneys can never rest from their great work of purifying
the blood. It takes them all the 24 hours of the day to do it
even when they are well, so that when they are ill the work
is hound to fall behind, and the blood cannot be properly
cleansed. The kidneys can never get well of themselves.
Be on the safe side, and begin with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills at the first sign of anything wrong—when there
is a pain or dull ache in the back, urinary disorders, bladder
troubles, uric acid, dizziness, headaches, loss of appetite ;
when the heart acts strangely; when your eyes are heavy, and
your limbs stiff ; when you feel miserable, irritable, nervous,
depressed, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure you, as
they have cured your neighbors. Bead the two statements
given below.
Sydney People Know This.
( Mrs. John Lawson, Bren nan-street, Leichhardt Hill, this city, says:—
X welve months ago my daughter used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
they cured her of pains in the small of her back. At the time she took the
medicine her back was causing her a lot of discomfort. She could scarcely get
about, and when she sat down it was difficult to stand up again. She blamed
sitting to close to her work for causing the trouble. The Pills made a perman-
ent cure in her case. She has had no sign of the ailment since, and it is twelve
months since the Pills cured her. My husband obtained an equal amount of
benefit from the same remedy. There is a lot of backache in Australia, but
this medicine seems to get at the root of the trouble.”
Mrs. Lawson adds in February, ’O5: —“It is some time since I made the
above statement, and lam glad to say that my daughter is still well. It is the
most valuable medicine that I know of.”
ANOTHER LASTING CURE.
Mr. Robert Ryan, 305 Sussek-street, Sydney, states :—“Four years ago, I
made a statement that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had cured me of kidney
ailment; I have been right ever since. For eighteen years, before I used the
pills, I was a regular victim to the kidneys. It seemed to me that I was never
going to get a cure for the trouble ; I had tried so many remedies which did me
no good. As I have been right for four years now, there can be no doubt about
the lasting benefit that comes from using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I
have not needed to take the pills since they cured me.’’
Mr. Ryan makes a third statement on 10th February, 1905 Since I
made the above statement, three years ago, numbers of people have asked me
about the truth of my cure. I say to them : ‘lt is all true. Doan’s Pills cured
me. to stay cured.’ A friend of mine was suffering dreadfully, and losing time
from work. To prove to him how valuable the pills were, I gave him a few—
for I always keep a box in the house. The few doses did him so much good
that he bought two or three boxes, with the result that they cured him also.
My cure still stands firm, and I know of many who have been cured of severe
backache, and other syrpptoms of disordered kidneys, by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street , Sydney, N.S. W.
\
d
Macleay-street and Red Rock-
Lane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MACLEAY-STREET looks to Mosman,
Across the other side,
With brave asphalted pavements
And roadway glean and wide.
Macleay-street hath its mansions,
Its grounds and greenery ;
Macleay-street hath its terraces
As terraces should be.
Red Rock-lane looks to nowhere,
With pockets into hell;
Red Rock-lane is a horror
Of heat and dirt and smell.
Red Rock-lane hath its brothels,
Of houses one in three ;
Red Rock-lane hath its corner pubs
As fourth-rate pubs should be.
Macleay-street, cool and quiet,
Is marked off from the town,
And standing in the centre
The tall arc lamps look down.
The jealous closed cabs vanish
That stole from out the row,
Fair women stroll bareheaded,
And theatre parties go.
Red Rock-lane, hot with riot,
Hides things that none should know ;
The furtive couples vanish
Through doorways dark and low.
Lust, thievery, drink and madness
In one infernal stew-^
And Mrs. Johnson, raving,
Walks out —bareheaded too.
Macleay-street hath its swindles,
But on a public scale ;
Macleay-street hath its razzles
Until the night grows pale.
Macleay-street hath its scandals,
But —only this is plain,
That nothing is a scandal
Down there in Red Rock-lane.
Macleay-street looks to Mosman
In morning’s rosy glow,
And freshly to the city
The summer-suited go;
While wild-eyed, foul and shaking
Red Rock-lane wakes again.
This morning at the Central
They’re fining Red Rock-lane.
The Central says “ the risin’,”
“ Seven days,” or what you will;
Macleay-street says, “Drive slowly ”
When any one is ill.
The law sends Black Maria
When Red Rook-lane is dead.
But doctors come in motor cars
When Macleay-street’s got a head.
The grey-faced, weedy parents
Sunk in Red Rock-lane holes—
They worry, pinch, and perish
To save their children’s souls.
The fairy of Macleay-street
Shall never soil her hands—
Her Pa is independent,
Or high up in “ the Lands.”
And —well, there seems no moral.
And nothing more to tell,
But because of that fierce sympathy
Of souls to souls in hell;
And because of that wild kindness
To souls in sordid pain,
My soul I’d rather venture
With some in Red Rock-lane.
N.S.W.
HENBT LAWSON.
Beyond Camooweal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEAR BULLETIN.—This bone-point-
ing business of the blacks seems to us
utter foolishness, but some of the niggers
appear to take it seriously enough. Others merely
say “Rats,” or its aboriginal equivalent, when
any half-tame myall points a bone at them. One
burly aboriginal stockman, whose left is positively
unclean, recently had the hind leg of a bunyip, or
something, pointed at him. He wasn’t taking
any bone just then, so he strode over to the savage
who held the weapon, and smote him violently,
giving him two black eyes. Then he picked up a
waddy and knocked every speck of dust out of
the flabbergasted myall’s hide. The others thought
it was great, and encored loudly, and the artist
responded with some fancy kicks he had learned
from a horse. The bone-manipulator resigned.
• * « »
Blacks cordially hate funerals. If one dies
close to a station, the remains must be buried,
and burying means digging. Digging in stony
ground is no joke, so they like their sick ones to
be well away from anywhere before they shuffle
off. Dangling from a limb, well wrapped in bark
and sticks, in the cool shade of a gidyea, is much
more pleasant than holding a few cwt. of earth on
your chest. The blacks have known this for
centuries. It’s worth trying, anyhow.
* • » *
Their faith in their ability to make rain fall
exceeds that of Wragge. They hold a big
corroboree when damp is needed. All night long
they keep it up, the gins maintaining the water-
supply by constant running to and from the water-
hole with billy-caqs or kangaroo-skin bags. The
ladies don’t sing at these affairs. Sopranos and
such like are warned off the course.
If no rain comes within a week or so and you
enquire from one of the basso-profundos why that
is, he will tell you that the whole affair was
abortive because “ Tsandy ” or “Major” or some
other fraud was absent and so spoilt the chorus.
Or if he wasn’t absent he was present, which was
as bad. They are never pushed for an excuse.
Rain is bound to come, anyhow, and when it does
the niggers mop up all the credit for it. Well,
there are some whites like that.
* * » •
They love lizards’ or iguanas’ eggs—nasty,
putty-looking things, with a skin in place of a
shell. I have watched a black stockman eat 25
at one sitting, besides bread and sundries —some
half-roasted, and some just warmed. After
drinking a quart of tea he lay back, surfeited and
somnolent, and said he hoped I wasn’t going on
for a while yet. I felt a bit awed at the feat, and
asked him to do it again, but he only smiled
feebly.
• • * #
The cook helped to bury a gin who died close to
his wood-heap. To begin with, he was annoyed
because she didn’t go afar off to die, so when she
would not fit the grave he had dug, he exploded.
The day was a scorcher. He told the corpse it
was no gentleman, and hinted at lots of things
concerning its past career.
Next morning a black imp told him another
gin was dying. This broke him up. Saying
something to the boss about being engaged as a
cook and not as an undertaker, he jammed his hat
on and hurried to the blacks’ camp. On being
shown the dying one he asked her what was the
matter. She would not answer. One of them
whispered that someone had pointed a bone at
her.
“Oh ! bone, eh ? I’ll give yer bone! ’Ere, up
yer get! ”
He bumped her hard with his foot. “Up yer
get! I’ll stop yer dyin’ round here.” (Bump,
bump.) “ Come on, then. Drop yer silly asterisk
rot about pegging out over a bone ! ” (Bump.)
The gin scrambled to her feet and made tracks
for cover. The cook chased her a mile and
threw everything he could find at her, and on
eighteen occasions the missile rebounded success-
fully off her hide. Then he went back and told
the boss she was cured. Next morning she poked
her head in the kitchen and said “’Bacca.”
* * * #
There’s very little beer and no skittles whatever
in the policeman’s life on The Edge. His horses are
never stabled, and so, when wanted for patrol-
ling, they have to be first found and then shod.
Horses’ feet won’t last long without shoes on this
country—nothing but hot rubble for hundreds of
miles.
The far-out police station has, as a rule, two
officers. All through the blazing summer these
men cook together, eat together, play cards toge-
ther, and curse and hit at flies simultaneously.
They get tired of looking at one another, and
each prays that the other will run himself in, or
fight somebody, or cause a sensation somehow. It
is impossible for them to agree in every little
thing, so their lives become a deadly monotonous
round of heat, bickerings, flies, and querulous
complaining.
Occasionally a report reaches them to the effect
that a man’s boot-tracks have been seen 40, or
perhaps 60, miles away from water. That means
a search for the corpse, for once a man starts
wandering about on foot any great distance from
water, the best thing he can do is to scratch his
will on his match-box while strength and reason
remain.
A blackboy usually accompanies a policeman on
missions of this sort. It’s risky going alone.
When they find the unfortunate, he is generally
stark naked, and burnt brown by the sun. A
grave is dug with a tomahawk and a stick, the
deceased is rolled in, and then covered to the best
advantage. You can’t dig much of a grave with
a tomahawk in stony country.
Men who get bushed whilst suffering from
jim-jams act queerly. They will cross and re-
cross a river-bed without attempting to go either
up or down the channel in search of water. Re-
cently a man died in this way, although there
was water not far from him, both up and down
the water-course. He walked further than
a sober man could have done, and finally leant in
the fork of a tree and pegged out there.
It is noticeable that men under the influence of
grog seldom divest themselves of clothing. Those
who become mad from thirst alone, and not from
d.t.’s and thirst, invariably die quite naked.
• » » *
A man found recently had pulled some bushes
off a tree and made a mia-mia to die under. He
was found on his back with his hands across his
chest, naked, and burned almost black. His
matches and a few coins were cunningly hidden
near a stump. He had apparently spent his last
hour concealing 2s. 3d. in the illimitable wilder-
ness lest dishonest persons might get at the
wealth.
• * * *
The Hindu hawkers hawk even here, where the
specks of civilisation are leagues and leagues apart,
and are only specks at best. Nothing annoys any-
one of them so much as to display all his
stock and fail to sell anything. Not long ago one
of the turbaned gen’l’men spread his rubbish over
the landscape in front of me and waved his arms
about furiously, pointing to the “nica br-rooch,”
and assuring me that the “Soap, ha ! He smell
verree nice ! ”
I told him I had no use for brooches, and, like
himself, never used soap. He smiled darkly, and
held up what looked like a handful of rainbow.
“ The pr-reety hangshiff, sare ? ” I informed him
that handkerchiefs were of no use to me, as I
always blew my nose with dynamite. That made
him think for about five seconds. He almost
thrust a sixpenny pocket-knife into my hand.
“No use to me,” I said ; “not sharp enough.
I always suicide with razors.” Before I could
think he had drawn a razor from its case and
tried to explain that “ the Germany make heem,
ha ! yes, sare, verree goot! ”
I told him I had three dozen new razors in my
room. When he heard this he grabbed up some
strops and said “ The shillin’.”
“ Strops ?” I said. “No good. I’ve got eight
dozen coming next coach.” He sighed, scratched
his turban, and thought hard.
“ Trouser, what ? ”
“No.”
“Oeegarette, hey?”
“No.”
He smote his leg with his palm. “Ha ! yes: I
know. The pill!”
Quickly unstrapping another case he showed
me a great assortment of patent medicines. He
handled them tenderly, as if they were his final
resource the last shot in his locker. His hands
shook, and he jabbered incessantly. I cursed his
pills.
He sprang into the air and said: “Gur-r-r!
Damn ! Whoosh ! Ha, chutney ghosh ! ”
I suitably responded,
Some Pathans get wild over nothing. This one
danced a can-can on some shirts and things and
howled : “ Yowahwallah ! Holee smoker-t-r !
Moorzoof nugga punkah curry choka you by
ghosh. Ratpore Cawnpore whoop ! ”
Then he remembered the one thing he hadn’t
tried to sell me, and he threw it at me. It was a
baby tomahawk worth about 6d. I smote him
with a bit of a tree, and left him raving in ten
languages.
LAKE NASH, N.-W.Q.
S.C.O. JESSOP.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there Is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It 19
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Bead this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East .Brisbane:
a
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
lf you are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEE & CO., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
Aver’s PUIs cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
a
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our eards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cesit.’s Silver Watch and Chain, _ Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction. ..
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
à
REGAL POST
Co.,
MEN’S RINGS.
LOW PRICED—BUT GOOD .
Direct from “the Store where Quality counts.”
We excel in rings, and make every one of
them right in our own workshops.
That is why we are able to guarantee the
quality of the gold that goes into the ring,
and also the setting of the stones.
Manufacturing the rings ourselves saves
you the customs duty, and you can always
depend on getting a ring here at least a
third better quality—for the same money—
than you could buy elsewhere.
THESE ARE FINE RINGS FOR
MEN, QUITE INEXPEN-
SIVE, TOO.
rIJIM
BAND RING, in 9ct.
Gold, set with One Opal
or Garnet ; price, 12/8 ;
oV, in 18ct. Gold, 21/-.
A POPULAR PAT-
TERN, 9ct. Gold, sets
with Amethyst or Garnet,
25/-; 15ct. Gold, 33/-;
18ct. Gold, 45/-. Set
with Opal in 9ct. Gold,
30/-; 15et. Gold, 37/6;
or 18ct. Gold, 50/-.
ss£«>
a
SIGNET RING, set
with Sardonyx or Blood-
stone, in 9ct. Gold, 25/-;
15ct. Gold, 35/- ; 18ct.
Gold, 45/-.
Many other rings, at prices to suit all
pockets, are fully illustrated and described
in our big catalogue, which also contains a
ring size measure. May we send you a
copv, post free ?
Every article we sell is sold on the dis-,
tinct understanding that if on receipt of
the parcel you are in any way dissatisfied
with your purchase, you can immediately
return the article and we will cheerfully
refund the amount paid.
ANGUS & COOTE,
George St. Boj ®f™ r *' de Sydney
(Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets).
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
à
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essenoe of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St. f
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To me.n until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele 1 , etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address I HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
sir:o:isr:E'2'-
TO BE FIRST
Is to occupy an enviable position. Many aspire for first place,
but few attain it. To acquire the lead, aspiration and push
alone are not sufficient-merit is required. T his is exactly why
BUCHAHS FIIIS
stand foremost among medicines-they possess real merit, and have proved
themselves worthy of a permanent position in the family medicine chest*
Trial purchasers become regular users, because they find nothing to equal
BEECHAM'S PILLS for dispelling
BILIOUS & NERVOUS DISORDERS, INDIGESTION,
SICK HEADACHE, LANGUOR,
and other such troubles which arise from a Disordered Stomach.
They regulate and tone up the entire system. The genuine worth o!
BEECHAM'S PILLS has obtained for them the unique position of having
the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in the World.
THE SALE EXCEEDS SIX MILLION BOXES ANNUALLY.
Sold everywhere In Boxes, price I/li {56 pills) and 219 [l6B pillsj.
á
A go
not nec
'V Si
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
hr GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
Letter from a Little Girl—
FATHER
GOMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Remedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is now cured, and the child is happy.
A Home Cure which Never Fails. May be
Given Secretly. Write for Treatise No. 5.
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
â
Superior to
CUBEBSand
INJECTIONS.
Cares the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon- .
ã
ä
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
a Gentleman hairing tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURB. Will
forward the same, tree of charge, to any-
“lddreST. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL l!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
belts free.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIO.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained ol all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYM E
Caution-— I Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to tne exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
TP
RE
ERIIWSB.TS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GXUMADLT tc Co’* INDIAN CIGAH-
Sold by ail Chemilti.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Trice Is. post free from this office.*


Use Your
Hose—Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sena For
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors,* Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIM
PSON
BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Common wealth:
Price 6d.
Posted 8d
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
oyer others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will-power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
Boeial success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested,' write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
wmm
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight,about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
So:
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
2/6
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle //<
Buffalo Handle -
Stag Handle
å
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
\~ KNiVES
N. are the
\ BEST.
DODGE “INDEPENDENCE” PULLEYS
H*S?U
ALWAYS RUN TRUE.
most generally serviceable, as well as tbe
most inexpensive Pulley, is without doubt tbe
Wood Split variety. Tbe best is tbe DODGE
44 INDEPENDENCE.” Every Pulley is balanced,
bores are standardized, and sbaft compression
is perfect. Keep tbem dry and tbey last for ever.
PARKE <a LACY COMPANY, Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
A VERY LARGE STOCK
ON HAND.
ST., SYDNEY.
Ltd.
H
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &e.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
mm
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
Motor Car
Tyres^
66
99
Made by the
Silvertouia Rubber Co.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
The Improved
CARD ORE
CONCENTRATOR.
NEW PATENTS.
Self-Lubrica ting Head motion,
giving greater differential
movement.
Self-Lubricating Track Rods.
Progressively Sizing Pulp
Feeder.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS!
N. GUTHRIDGE, L^P
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ā
THE TWO-PLANE
ADJUSTABLE DECK
Is the Greatest
Discovery of the
last 20 years
made in the
Concentrating
Art.
