

S/XTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
WHISKY.
10*7 Kent
Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors* Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBART
tjadley’s Orient fiotel
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowicl & Son, Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
Ruston, Proctor
and Co.’s
Portable
Embody Many
Valuable
Improvements
High Steam Pressure, Improved Expansion Eccentric for economising Steam.
Patent Steam Stay preventing vibration and taking up the strain. LeSS JointB than on other makers engines.
F ° r apply t?^o3^E S GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St, Sydney, n.s w.
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
MAMS 2
BACON.
CHUBB'S SAFES
the royal
EDISWAN LAMP.
fMW
:... '
Economy in Currbnx.
Equality op Light.
THE
MON & SWAN
United Electric
light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
ft CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNBY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT& CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED
DMEY
B. MACKENZIE, Manage
IMPLEX
[THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE
DURABLE
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economloal for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merohant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engines to
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St,, Melbourne.
#
BECKS LAGER
As supplied to the ‘ P. & o.’ & 4 N.D.L,’ Steamers
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
Regrd.
SPE &
a
Trade Mark.
METAL CEILINGS.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, " Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c., &c.
(Wholesale and Retail).
I
1
▲
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON SPA. Absolutely
~ «y
the BEST TABLE WATER.
jg, a
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1406.]
[Thursday, January 24, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 OASTLEREAGH ST
SYDNEY.
Lucas Malet, The Far Horizon, Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth
Binding-, 3/6, postage 6d.
Bookman, History of English Literature, 2 vols., 9/.,
postage 2/-.
Martin, The Future of Russia, 9/-, postage Bd.
Semenoff, The Battle of Tsu-hina, 4/-, postage 6d.
Wyld, Historical Study of the Mother Tongue, 7/6, p. Bd.
Hyslop, Borderland of Psychioal Research, 6/-, p. 6d.
Shenstone, The New Physics and Chemistry, 9/-, p. 9d.
Garland, Witoh’s Gold, a Novel, illustrated, 3/6, p. 6d.
Everyman’s Library, a fresh supply, send for List
Davies, How to Become a Colliery Manager, 2/8, p, 4d.
Hattersley, Uganda, by pen and camera, illns., 2/-, p, 6d.
Gwynne, Pair Hills of Ireland, illus., 6/-, p. Bd.
East, A., Landscape Painting in Oils, illus., 12/8, p. 9d.
Daily Mail' Year Book 1907, 1/-, post free.
Matthew Arnold, Essays, “ Everynian’sLibrair," 1/8, p, *d
Barker, Rise and Decline of the Netherlands, 12/8, p. 9d."
Synge, History Social Life in England, 8/-, p. Cd.
Perceval Landon, Under the Sun, 8/8, p. 84
The Author with the Largest Public
THE SALES of
NAT GOULD'S Novels
EXCEED
5,000,000 (five million) copies
Mr. John Long has, at enormous expense,
secured the sole rights of publishing all Mr. Nat
Gould’s New Novels. They are produced in more
attractive style than hitherto, with cover designs
in colours by Mr. Harrington Bird, the well-known
horse painter. The following are those published
by Mr. John Long :
Price 2s. each, picture boards ; or cloth gilt
2s. 6d. each. Crown Bvo, 288 pages.
N.B. —A Novel by Nat Gould without the im-
print of John Long is an old one. Therefore in-
sist on being supplied with those bearing the
imprint of John Long.
London : JOHN LONG', Pdbwshib
13 & 14 NORRIS ST., HAYMARKET
And at every Library and Bookseller’* throughout
the British Empire.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. ,
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
Foa the Curb of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza I
ana the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ ol voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected long.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE*
says:—
« Of great service in
affections of tbs
voice and throat*
MF* HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES "M
Unlike Oough Medicines, do nob cause gastric discomfort or digestive derangement.
“Thb Praotixionbb” says :—“Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.
Soft# by all Chemists . Tins, Is. 6ef.
THE RED PAGE
PARNASSUN, M.L.
A REMARKABLY high level of
poetic excellence characterises W.
F. Alexander and A. E. Currie’s
anthology of New Zealand Verse,
which has made its appearance in The Can-
terbury Poets series, published by Walter
Scott, London—an astonishingly cheap shil-
lingsworth. Comparing this collection with
the recently published Anthology of Aus-
tralian Verse, it must be admitted that the
M.L. verse makes a more distinctive national
appeal, while its general level of poetic
power is no whit lower than the concise an-
thology of Bertram Stevens. Doubtless it is
easier to make a characteristic collection of
verse when confined within the limits of
one small State; but credit must be given
to the high level of poetry produced by that
State. Maoriland is a nation of minor
poets. It is true that it is favored By being
a compact and isolated group, with a history
of its own; it must be much easier to feel
the inspiration of an island than of a wedge
of a continent, separated from its neighbors
merely by arbitrary lines upon a map. Aus-
tralia has not yet found a poet who has felt
the inspiration of being a New South Welsh-
man ; and it will be necessary to wait till the
unification of the Commonwealth is consu-
mated before the poet of Australia appears.
Meantime a community that, seventy years
a g°, did not exist, and now does not number
a million souls, has so exuberantly flowered
into verse that the editors of New Zealand
Verse were able to cull no less than 170
poems, the blossoms of a crowded garden of
55 poets. And though, in Maoriland as in
Australia, everybody writes poetry—except
editors, whose time is fully taken up reading
and rejecting it—the level of literary excel-
lence retained in the M.L. anthology gives the
island-State pre-eminence in poetic worth.
Surely one of the unnamed peaks of the
Southern Alps might be called Parnassus.
In their naive introduction the young edi-
tors, obsessed by the scenic beauty of the
islands, unnecessarily apologise for the
anthology being an anthology. They have a
hazy idea that it ought to have been a guide-
book in verse. The sole object of an antholo-
gist should be the maintenance of the highest
possible poetic standard. The editors doubt
the existence of a distinctive school
in Maoriland verse, with the possible
exception of a school of “landscape”
poetry. Undoubtedly in this anthology
there is evidence of a difference in taste that
severs Maoriland as sharply from the Com-
monwealth as her 1200 miles of sea. The
island bards distinctly favor the more classical
forms— e.g., blank verse and sonnets, to the
looser rolling, seven-foot iambic couplets
favored by Lawson and the Australian
“ horse ” school. This preference is partly
due to the overshadowing influence of Domett,
whose work is of the time, and under the
influence, of Browning. Domett may not
be read by the modern Maoriland public,
but he is read by the Maoriland. poet.
This predisposition toward the classic forms
is also partly due to the leaven of cul-
ture that consciously characterised the early
colonising schemes. A tradition of learning
has always been in the land.
There are evidences, too, of other
“schools,” in this little island-group
seething with poetic inspiration. The scenery
of Maoriland has wrung tribute from Domett
to Reeves, the sea has its call for these sea-
dwellers, and in this most remote of all the
countries of the globe it is natural to find the
song of the exile, as in Mary Colborne-Yeel’s
verses, and of the fervid patriot, as in a host
of others. But it is in the Maorilander’s
firiceless heritage of Maori and South Sea
egend, as strangely beautiful, as richly in-
spiring as the mythology of the Greeks, that
the island-State will find its unique place in
the literature of the world. Certain of the
Maoriland writers, notably Domett, Jessie
Mackay and Arthur H. Adams, have already
done good pioneer work in this subject.
The scheme of the anthology, allowing a
varied representation of the chief writers,
most of whom have allotted to them seven or
eight poems, permits a more precise judgment
of their merits than was possible in the
smaller space necessarily given them by Ber-
tram Stevens in his Australian anthology.
The group of women writers, chiefly in
Christchurch, the literary centre of the
State, is admirably represented by the
namesof B. E. Baughan, MaryColborne-Veel,
Jessie Mackay, Mary H. Poynter, Mary E.
Richmond, Dora Wilcox, and Annie Glenny
Wilson. One other contributor, Arnold Wall,
demands further notice in a subsequent
issue.
THREE NOVELS
Following the method of zoology, we have
divided Literature, the branch of the creative
arts with which we have specially to deal, into
three classes, K. L. M. —Knowledge, Litera-
ture, and Mud. Each of these classes we may
further divide into orders. Thus, the class,
Knowledge, may be subdivided into the
orders of theology, philosophy, history, edu-
cation, science, art, music, etc. Literature
proper may be split into the three orders of
poetry, drama, and fiction. And Mud, the
remnant class, may be subdivided into novels-
that-are-not-novels, guide-books, remarks by
Mr. T. Crosland, and other ineffectivenesses.
Then each of these orders may in turn be
divided into families, and—should it be
necessary for further identification—the
classification may be continued down through
genus to species, and even to variety.
Discarding zoology, we will, for the pre-
sent, confine ourselves to one of the three
orders of Literature proper—fiction. Let us
take three recent novels and scientifically
classify them. White Fang, by Jack London
(Macmillan, Lond., per Sydney Book Club),
we may place in the order of animal stories ;
family, wolf. The House of Islam, by Mar-
maduke Pickthall (Methuen, Lond.), is in
the order of studies of a civilisation ; family,
Turkish; genus, lacking love-interest;
species, religious. The Salving of a Derelict,
by Maurice Drake (T. W. Laurie, Loud.),
would be included in the order of popular
novels; family, adventure; genus, strenu-
ous ; species, cockney; variety, happy-ending.
For further classification we may also
divide fiction into, say, four grades of lite-
rary merit. These we may label FI, F 2,
F 3, F 4. Then White Fang, considered
solely as literature, would be branded “ ani-
mal story, FI ” ; The House of Islam would
be properly pigeon-holed as “civilisation-
study, F 3 ” ; and The Salving of a Derelict
would bear the illuminative tag “popular
novel, F 4.”
Below F 4 would begin the M’s ; the Ml
class Corelli and Caine would almost have to
themselves; while in M 3 Boothby and Nat
Gould would jostle with a host of crowding
competitors. And below M 3 there would
yet be the bottom ooze of literary mud,
where, with the brand “M 4 ” upon their
foreheads, nameless poets, compilers of
“How to Behave in Society,” and the
anonymous authors of Donf’s, would for ever
writhe. It is questionable, however, where
even in M 4 the utmost depths of literary mud
have been reached, and it may be necessary to
create an even muddier and oozier class,
labelled Slush 1, for the reception of those
feebly crawling things of the deeps who
chronicle the habits of the pet poodles of
aristocracy.
It would evidently save the reading public
and the non-reading reviewers much per-
plexity if the Government were to appoint
literary graders to examine and test all
literary produce as it left the publishers,
and in big black letters to affix their brand
to each volume. The Ml class of readers
would then be in no danger of getting
Maeterlinck for Marie; librarians could
place opposite their subscribers’ names the
figures that would designate their literary
desire; and literary criticism could be left to
sub-editors. But this development of State-
socialism is not in our time, and we must
ourselves—not altogether reluctantly—do the
necessary branding.
In White Fang, animal-story, FI, London
has triumphantly done a difficult thing. He
has repeated a success; he has added a sequel
to The Gall of the Wild. His first animal-
study had an air of novelty that is necessarily
lacking in this story. Yet the facile London,
in the midst of a ceaseless literary activity—
his output, covering a short space of years,
already comprises a dozen hastily compiled
books—has been able to invest White Fang
a cub three parts wolf and one part dog
with all the interest that the reader felt
in London’s earlier canine hero, Buck. In
truth, London's dogs are much more life-like
than his men. The Gall of the Wild showed
a domesticated dog inevitably giving up his
acquired tameness for his almost forgotten
ancestral habits. White Fang might almost
be titled The Recall of the Wild. It shows
the gradual taming of a wolf, who repeats
in one short life-time the story of his race
that began as wolf and ends as dog.
The cub had never seen man, yet the instinct
concerning man was his. In dim ways he recog-
nised in man the animal that had fought itself to
primacy over the other animals of the wild. Not
alone out of his own eyes, but out of the eyes of
all his ancestors was the cub now looking upon
man—out of eyes that had circled in the darkness
around countless winter camp-fires, that had
peered from safe distances, and from the hearts of
thickets at the strange, two-legged animal that
was lord over living things. The spell of the cub’s
heritage was upon him ... too compelling for
a wolf that was only a cub. He cowered
down in a paralysis of fear, already half pre-
ferring the submission that his kind had pre-
ferred from the first time a wolf came in to sit by
man’s fire and be made warm.
The story opens dramatically with the
half-dog, half-wolf mother of the pup run-
ning down two human beings conveying a
dead man upon a sledge through the wilds
of Alaska. Then the cub is born, and his
education begins.
He began to accompany his mother on the
meat-trail, and he saw much of the killing of
meat and began to play his own part in it. And
in his own dim way he learned the law of meat...
The aim of life was meat, Life itself was meat,
Life lived on life. There were the eaters and the
eaten. The law was: Eat or be eaten. He did
not formulate the law in clear, set terms and
moralize about it. He did not even think
the law; he merely lived the law without
thinking about it at a 11.... Had the cub
thought in man-fashion, he might have epi-
tomised life as a voracious appetite, and the
world as a place wherein raged a multitude of
appetites, pursuing and being pursued, hunting
and being hunted, eating and being eaten, all in
blindness and confusion, with violence and dis-
order, a chaos of gluttony and slaughter, ruled
over by chance, merciless, planless, endless.
White Fang meets man—a band of In-
dians, instantly recognises them as gods,
and learns servitude.
He felt the justice of the man animals, and he
knew them for what they were—makers of law
and executors of law. Also, he appreciated the
power with which they administered the law.
Unlike any animals he had ever encountered,
they did not bite nor claw. They enforced their
live strength with the power of dead things.
Dead things did their bidding. Thus, sticks and
stones, directed by these strange creatures, leaped
through the air like living things, inflicting
grievous hurts. To his mind this was power un-
usual, power inconceivable and beyond the natu-
ral, power that was god-like. White Fang, in
the very nature of him, could never know any-
thing about gods;. . . but the wonder and awe
that he had of these man-animals in ways re-
sembled what would be the wonder and awe of
man at sight of some celestial creature, on a
mountain top, hurling thunderbolts from either
hand at an astonished world.
The man-animals were gods unmistakable and
unescapable.... He belonged to them as all dogs
belonged to them. His actions were theirs to
command. His body was theirs to maul, to stamp
upon, to tolerate. Such was the lesson that was
quickly borne in upon him. It came hard, going
as it did, counter to much that was strong and
dominant in his own nature ; and while he dis-
liked it in the learning of it, unknown to himself
he was learning to like it. It was a placing of his
destiny in another’s hands, a shifting of the
responsibilities of existence. This in itself was
compensation.
So from these gods he comes to greater
gods—the white men. The battles to the death
that the dog—exhibited as * ‘ the fighting wolf ”
by his depraved master—is compelled to fight,
are told with a deliberate grimness; the cul-
minating fight between White Fang and a
bull-dog is almost homeric. Then follows
his meeting with the god who was to conquer
his fierceness by love, and the story of this
last taming shows no falling-off in graphic
power or interest. Unhesitatingly we can
place White Fang with London’s earlier dog-
story in the class FI.
The House of Islam, F 3, owing to the
strangeness of its subject, is more difficult to
“ place.” The life and ideals of the Turk
are so remote from the ordinary channels of
our modern civilisation that the book in-
terests rather as a study than as a piece of
literature. It is difficult to criticise, no
matter how consistently the work is carried
out, a book dealing with a civilisation that,
for instance, regards women as trivial toys,
and allows a saintly sheykh, as a matter of
duty, to take as his wife an old and hideous
slave who had been admitted to his harem
merely to wait upon his daughter. The story
of the two brothers, one a saint and the
other a self-seeking great official, moves with
a quiet inevitability to its close. An insight
to the Turkish mind is furnished by the
letter of the great Abd-ur-Rahman Bek,
written to his brother, the sheykh, when the
latter’s son relinquishes his ambitions to re-
turn to his father’s obscurity.
Though I grieve much for the loss of a youth
whom I had come to regard as my son (a thing I
could never procure of my own body, though I
have tried many women and begotten at divers
times no less than sixteen daughters, if I count
aright; so that I have come to hate girl-children
as a deception, and utterly fail to comprehend
thy infatuation for that girl who died), yet I will
not disguise from thee that the withdrawal of the
young one has done me good in my position. It
is but policy in the Sovereign to look askance on
the posterity of men of note; and that custom
of the Turks is wise by which honors descend not
from father to son. The eyes of many in high
places regarded with disfavor my fondness for
Abd-ur-Rahman; but now, an old man without
a sequel, I arouse no hatred, only expectation.
What am I, thus lonely, but a kind of eunuch, a
natural and unenviable appanage of sovereignty.
The Salving of a Derelict, F 4, is a prize
novel, and is deliberately prize -novelish.
The offer of a prize of £lOO by a certain
notorious London half-penny paper for a
novel by a new author attracted 600 com-
petitors, and Maurice Drake’s efforts
emerged. In the 699 unsuccessful manu-
scripts there may have been a work of
genius, but against the almost shameless
excellencies of the winning manuscript that
work of genius was obviously doomed to
oblivion. If the youthful writer wants to
know the sort of novel that will invariably
find a publisher, let him study this ex-
and, if he values his art, avoid
imitating it. It is a story built to be
serialised ; every chapter closes with a clang.
She spun on her heel and struck him full m
the mouth with all her strength. “Go * ” she
oried, and choked. “ Go. I pray God I’ll never
see vour wicked, lying face again.” She burst
into hysterical tears and ran from the room.
(To be continued in our next.)
“Run up some sort of a flag half-mast,” he
called to the bridge. He jerked his thumb
towards the cabin ; the man at the wheel growled
a surly assent, and Laurence went below again to
the compftny of the shrouded bundle on his
table.
(To be continued in our next.)
But her lips were smiling, though her eyes were
full of tears. Beneath their wet and fluttering
lashes they looked bravely into his own. And—
“ And must I ask you myself, then, Laurence
Averil 1 ” she said.
(The End.)
The persons of the novel are few, and melo-
dramatically sketched. Their characteristics
are easily grasped, their actions obvious.
The plot is a simple one, early allowing the
?ractised novel-reader a guess at its ending.
'he hero is a human brute—the strong,
wicked man of youthful femininity’s auda-
cious dream; the heroine, like so many
heroines of popular fiction, merely dresses
beautifully, weeps appropriately, and is
charmingly stupid. Still, the story, with
the exception of an excrescent first chapter,
is compact and neatly rounded. There is
nothing new in theme or development;
Maurice Drake has read his popular authors
too conscientiously for that. And he has
got £lOO for his manuscript, which is more
than 99 per cent, of authors get for a first
novel. Let the youthful author read Drake
—and beware :. . . F 4.
*
Bards are reminded that their Rubaiyats of
Australia (prize, one guinea) must be forwarded to
this office before Feb. Ist.
J*
Constance A. Barnicoat, in Deo. Nineteenth
Centwry, summarises the reading of the colonial
girl from answers to questions sent to schools
throughout the Empire. She finds the colonial
girl older for her years than the British girl.
When sixteen and seventeen, she tends to put
away such girlish things as Mrs. L. T. Meade,
and long before this age she scorns girls’
magazines. The colonial girl has a stronger
preference than her British cousin for boys’
stories. The South African girl is specially
devoted to books of the hair-breadth escape and
the blood-curdling adventure, which leaves her no
time for The Story of a South African Farm. With
Australian girls Ethel Turner is immensely popular
—also Boldrewood, Boothby, Gordonand Paterson.
The verses they like best are The Man from
Snowy River , The Sick Stookrider, Admirals All
(Newbolt), and The Recessional (Kipling). Barrie
is much more read by British than by colonial
girls, “ for whom he is probably both too Scotch
and too sentimental.” Of magazines the favorite
with colonial girls is (alack !) the Strand.


Send. Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading: Sydney Salesmen.
MICK. SIMMONS
Hay market,
Sydney, N.5.W.
..THE..
LEADING HOUSE
..FOR..
!k_J
<§
O
u
SPORTING GOODS
AND TOBACCOS.
WE PAY FREIGHT on all parcels of Sporting Goods bought at our Lists' Prices
(Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of £2 I Os. or more to all parts of the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
LISTS,
POST FREE.
WANTED
A FACE FOR LITTLE SNAP.
I
<s
m
¥
i
if
r
r
K«o'
✓
c
Little Snap wins, riding his Favorite Hobby, Magic Prices.
AL&O*..
WANTED A FACE FOR BABS,
£lO : O : O
TO WIN.
WANTED A POET,
WANTED AN ARTIST,
WANTED A LETTER.
LITTLE SNAP TOURNAMENT.
FULL DETAILS AND RULES IN
YOUR MORNING PAPER.
LASSETTER’S, Cheapside
THE STORE THAT SEEES
THE RIGHT GOODS at the RIGHT PRICES.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establi,shed.lB49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND 2-+ Secu e it £° <rFreeho,d or Leaseho,d
_ _ - B ' r City or Suburban Properties, or on
Pa ? toral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
+r ft *ures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to J) per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine]
DmECTOES-The Hon A W. Meeks, M.LC., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. , James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe. Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I.A. FFA FSS
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Metuaij) CH HE por NS W - 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Tempofary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BANTER. Res. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
\te are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
‘lllllll
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair Toots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toiiet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
“I have only used your 'HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
f/O Ift CP A l£Z per Bottle, from Chemists and
' ' * . ' Stores all over the world.
SSS/tass
-
'§iMm *1
mm
mmm
w
mmm
ssjafipfrr
-Edwards' “Harlene” Co.
95 fi? 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c. |
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments.
The Trade Supplied.
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, GAS FITTINGS, &c. DWSend for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited:
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO.
Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. Specially Constructed
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c. * onve y anoe ot
To and irom AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW & c .
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE .. 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,770
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE ..
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE .. .. ’
HAVERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS ..
Tons.
6,770
9,300
10.500
6,380
11.500
11,500
7,120
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Liu-hr
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. h
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Oordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuvo Buenon
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown a:nl Durban Smith a
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, Loudon, E.O. ’ Atrl!a -
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
Marß.l-3
PLASMON
The Food for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmoti Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, &c.)
ILL!
9
&
' )l| It
urn
.22 calibre cartridges cart
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests..
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack
or smokeless powder,
»
are accurate, sure of fife, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreased bullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective, on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
i!H111! fi' l: M! i«»i. BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A. ,i»
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt;
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT-.' Without It you have a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Pr.par.d only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SA’uT ’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. C. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists. &c., everywhere.
4ii
Va
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
BARTERS
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Priot.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carters


Doctors, lawyers, ministers, bank-
ers, merchants, business men every-
where, all rely upon
Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, whenever
they have a cough
or a cold. They
keep it on hand, at
their home, at their
place of business.
They carry it with
them when they
79
travel. They say there is nothing so
bad for a cough as coughing, and
there is nothing so good for a
cough as
iiiier’s
'Gherrii federal
It is the best remedy in the world
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping-
cough, influenza, and all throat and
lung troubles.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
die.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THci LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
« New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE BTREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
The besf remedy -
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Barm ing ton 9
and seetkatjrgujgti^
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene. * *
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
. ALSO .
Hanging Lamps.
DOES your LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS >
IF NOT, WRITE TO
►
►
►
WELSBACH LIGHT C
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MB FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
230 FLINDERS & ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH, W.A
PERRY BROS., BRIBBANE.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
COLUMBIA
Sottnd Magnifying Graph-o-phone
Absolutely New Principles.
OUR GUARANTEE.—It Reproduces with all the
Volume of the Original «
16 Times Louder than any
either Talking Machine.
f : ei i r
Style
“20th
Century
Premier
m
an orchestra in ITSELF.
Columbia “ Home Premier
Another Sound-
Magnifying Graph-o-phone
For Home Use.
The “HOME PREMIER” is a loud-sound-
ing G-raph-o-phone embodying the principles
ot the larger “ 20th Century Premier.” The
volume has, however, been reduced and
mellowed in order to make it AN IDE AE
INSTRUMENT FOR THE HOME. The
sound has that purity of timbre and distinct-
ness of articulation that are so pronounced
in the “ Premier.”
Both of those Machines use ordinary
Records (any make) and Special
Records “ HALF-FOOT ” LONG •
• ' V _ I
Write for v "
Vr HOW
Tone Mellowed & Softened.
PRICE MATERIALLY LESS
THAN LARGE MODEL.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH COm
255 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
PIONEERS AND LEADERS IN THE TALKING MACHINE ART. .
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Autumn Days.
Where the plovers cry at dawn,
Where the wild swans fly
Like a dark line swiftly drawn
Through a pink-flushed sky ;
Where the crumpled wavelet gleams
In the golden sweet sun rays,
There the Lone Grey Water dreams
Thro’ the Autumn days;
Shining out across the plain,
Like a sea of glass
When the daylight fails again,
When the sunsets pass.
Mystic when the silver beams
Make a shimmery starlight blaze,
There the Lone Grey Water dreams
In the Autumn days.
When the brown hills turn to green
Out beyond the plain,
And a thousand rills are seen
In a sparkling rain,
Comes a silence sweet and calm,
Falling on the winding ways,
Falling like a soothing balm
In the Autumn days.
Where the cattle-track winds down
In the twilight gloom,
Through the bracken, green and brown,
Where the dark pines loom.
All the winds are fast asleep,
All the world is wrapt in haze;
Nature has a peace to keep
In the Autumn days.
Through the golden afternoon,
While the swift hours run,
Eastward gleams a ghost-white moon,
Westward droops the sun.
Through the rippled reed-bed stream’s
Tangled, sunny, shadowy maze,
There the Lone Grey Water dreams
In the Autumn days.
Willow leaves are fluttering down,
She-oaks softly sigh;
All the earth wears green and brown,
Grey and blue the sky.
Magic there in soft light teems,
Haunting all the shining ways
Where the Lone Grey Water dreams
In the Autumn days.
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
98° in the Shade.
O to lie naked beside the sea !
Afar from the city to dream and roam,
Where wave-curls whiten and sea-mews glee
On shelving beaches a-wash with foam ;
0 to lie naked beside the sea !
Red drought is breathing a westerly,
The pavements shimmer and blaze with light,
And e’en the sparrow, a refugee
Beneath the eaves, is too limp for flight;
O to lie naked beside the sea !
White dust and smoke-drift are choking me ;
I think of a sprinkly pellucid pool,
Of dripping caverns, where one may flee,
And ocean murmurs and sea-wind cool;
0 to lie naked beside the sea !
O cool wet sand and shadowed lee !
The flies are sticky, and buzz like fun,
The dust-fiends dance a corroboree—
Ye gods ! will ever my work be done—
O to lie naked beside the sea !
I’d lock my office and fling the key
To Sheol —I speak from my inmost soul—
But who may wrangle when destiny
Pursues poor humans from pole to pole ?
O to lie naked beside the sea !
0 set, ye fiends, the south-wind free,
And freshen earth with the sweet sea-smell
(’Tis 98, by the saints that be,
And Satan’s loosing his brood from hell) ;
0 to lie naked beside the sea !
At last! Hence, inkpot! I’ve earned my fee,
O welcome chiming, ’tis half-past four !
I’ll foot it now to the busy Quay,
Where smoke-trails stream to the ocean-sfiore;
0 to lie naked beside the sea !
N-S . w .
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Tree of Stars.
One night I dreamed that all the stars
On unseen branches grew,
And thro’ the night they sparkled bright
To ev’ry wind that blew !
I dreamed upon that mystic tree
I climbed amidst the skies,
And you, my dear, were standing near
With wonder-laden eyes.
I shook the branches one by one
Till stars and planets fell
Down— gaily down on bush and town,
Where all my kindred dwell.
I shook the branches one by one
Till every twig was bare,
And “ Girl o’ Mine, those gems are thine,’
I said, “ for thee to wear ! ”
But ah, it was a dismal place
For one lone man to bide ;
I gazed below, and turned to go ;
“ Good luck !” the seraphs cried.
You stared into the naked slues,
Commingling joy and pain, _
Until I said “ Be comforted—
The stars will grow again !
N.s.w.
GILROONEY.


?v*
HOflD L.VWAY
Hi
L'k
tubes pass. thro.storage shed
;■ i'S"
I*
at-
sr-
n
**■ 11-w
II
■
lit j 1
.
RICHARD MORSE,
CONSULTING ENGINEER & ARCHITECT,
IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
16 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone 4666.
AN entirely new design by Mr. Morse is
here illustrated for conveying wool bales
from the mammoth new warehouse of
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Miller’s Point, to the
wharf, by gravity, through steel tubes. The
outer tubes (one being over 200 feet long) con-
vey to points 370 feet apart. An open steel-
work column, on trachyte base, supports each
tube at centre of roadway. The whole con-
struction presents a striking and unique
appearance.
The Hydraulic Lifts and Wool Dumping
Machinery in the same warehouse were also
constructed from Mr. Morse’s specifications
and designs in conjunction with Mr. James
Kidd, the firm’s engineer.
Communications hy letter or wire will receive
prompt attention.
Reports, Valuations and Designs furnished in
connection with all kinds of erg.naering and
building work.
■A. SUMMER BOON. Don’t forget
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER
Has the largest sale and is superior to all others.
RISK’S WHISKY
Is simply
Perfection.
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Will Anprape «* BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genillne edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Nigi'it, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hqffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal Frjsnch Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappiio, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr.
Warren Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St.. Melbourne
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
VECIM. LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
i
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
I
1
t
%
%
THE “BRUNSWICK”
Household
ICE MACHINE
COLD STORAGE FOR PERISHABLE
ARTICLES OF FOOD.
\X7HAT a lot of food goes bad during the hot weather
” in Australia ! All this could be prevented by
having a BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE. Especially to
Squatters and Farmers out wayback, too far to get ice,
to these the “ Brunswick ” is a necessity ; they could
enjoy all the luxury of ICE—all that refrigeration
means—even better than they do in the city. And all
required to drive this little machine is a £ H.P. Oil
Engine, which we can supply. The smallest sized
“Brunswick” gives refrigeration equal to the melting
power of 200 lbs. of ice right along.
Write or call; we will supply full particulars and
Illustrated Catalogues on application, post free.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So '« Aa ° n, “ 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
warn
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Cliee
fnglisfi ;
All Ji
Sold by
Jewellers
/niie to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just-forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given W/th Each Watch.
'saa
h** 6 *
\& x 1892
f /
ROTHCftMAinS
&
Estate
175 a
ffim
no
.
co
■
m
H 3
O
0 2
Seal
the
OF
APPROVAL
A
IS
mm
iifl
■ •*
v'
■Vj
to
e
m
i
j
0
'•zfrJM
:
mmt
m
has tmeArchitectsapproyal.
; ' ;F ° h .General iNp^!:
k I rich irCfm
'A. svdneV, N s w ««pR
i
; ■■-...■■
• 4
4
RUBEROID
may be
obtained
from all
Storekeepers
or
E + Rich&Co*
Ltd.,
SYDNEY
and
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.-No. 1406.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1907.
Price Gd
The camp will be pitched In picturesque sites, with fine views,
wherever possible, so as to cultivate in the students a love of Nature.
Those of the boys who bring cameras wilt be encouraged to
make snapshots of striking features of country life.
" If you kill a snake,
be sure that It is a
poisonous one first.
Instructor: “Ha, boys, here we see
three apples growing in most extra-
ordinary juxtaposition. This hint
from Nature to give you an object
lesson on State-borrowing is too
obvious to be disregarded.”
Although leading a free, healthy, out-door life, good manners will not
be neglected. Even a cow, it is said, appreciates politeness, and forgets
an injury when due apology is made.
THE N.S.W. EDUCATIONAL CAMP AGAIN.
ARRANGEMENTS ARE BEING HADE IN N.S. WALES FOR FURTHER SCHOOL CAMPS IN 1907.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tins Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thu Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to A ddress Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
qnyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persom instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
S/ierial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully rpad and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dialing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns'in length, or, say, 8000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nut tours in lllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those,
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetoion;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <fc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News A gentry, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Sjiecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6f in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1907.
WANTED, AN ELECTIVE MINISTRY.
The old Australian Parliament which recently
laid its bones in the sepulchre was a Legislature
of three parties. The new one will be a Legis-
lature of at least three parties—probably four, for
a section of the Anti-Sosh crowd is bitterly
dissatisfied with the alleged leadership of a
Yes-No who is never there to lead, and there is a
fair chance that a large section of it will break
away and follow Irvine, and thus make two
Anti-Sosh parties. It is no use weeping over
these facts and crying out for a return to “ the
two-party system and true Constitutional Govern-
ment.” That sort of thing is a mere crying for
the moon, and it is all the more futile since the
Foreign-trade Tory crowd, which demands a
return to the two-party system, is itself respon-
sible, by its refusal to become Protectionist and
Democratic, for the existence of a third party.
The two-party system was only possible
so long as politicians had no principle
save the desire for office, and so long as
the only parties were the Ins and the Outs.
We have advanced beyond that unwholesome
and immoral stage of politics. Already men,
through thinking for themselves, have evolved
three distinct political factions and some frag-
ments, and when they improve and think still
more for themselves, they may constitute five
parties, or even thirteen. Unfortunately the pre-
sent system of Party Government only works
where there are two parties and no more. Now
that it is a misfit and obsolete, the great need of
the moment is for a cleaner system of government
adapted to the cleaner conditions of tne day—not
for a return to an antiquated and unprincipled
Parliamentary method so as to avoid disarranging
the antiquated and illogical Ministerial system
which fitted in with it. When the table has one
leg longer than the other, there are two alterna-
tives —either to make a hole in the floor to accom-
modate the extra-long leg, or to improve the table.
The crowd which cries hopelessly for a return to
the two-party method demands that the floor
shall be spoiled to adapt it to the diseased table;
the more progressive party would rather have a
sound table that would suit a sound floor. If the
Australian Parliament is to have a chance—any
kind of a chance—to get on with business, it needs
to do away with the superannuated policy of
Party Government, and replace it by Elective
Ministries.
• * • »
The Elective Ministry, like many other busi-
ness-like political ideas, is of Swiss origin. When
a new Parliament meets it elects, one by one, the
members of the Cabinet, and, barring such mis-
conduct as might fairly justify their expulsion
from Parliament, they remain fixed for the
duration of that Parliament. There are at least
eight different points on which this method can
claim a vast superiority over the present hap-
hazard, illogical, and unworkable policy :
(1) Under the present system an Opposition, which may
be a mere handful, elects a leader, possibly by a majority
of one, and if his party grows and becomes a majority,
that man inherits the Premiership automatically, though
in the first place he was the nominee of a very small
minority. The elective system makes the Premier the
direct choice of a majority of the House.
(2) The elective system makes his colleagues the choice
of the House instead of merely the nominees of the
Premier.
(3) Under the elective system the Ministry doesn’t re-
quire “ the confidence of the House ” in the present
absurd sense—that is to say, it doesn’t require to have
behind it a party which will back it up in almost every-
thing, whether it is right or wrong. It isn’t expected to
resign if its Bills are defeated any more than a private
member resigns when his private Bill is defeated. It
is expected to administer its departments honestly
and capably ; but with regard to the passing of new laws
the House may reject or amend out of shape the whole
Ministerial policy without thereby implying that the
Ministry should resign. Thus a strongly Protectionist
House might, in the midst of a fiscal battle, appoint a
Ministry that was almost wholly Freetrade, if it hap-
pened that half-a-dozen of the most capable adminis-
trators were Freetraders, and if it then proceeded to
double the tariff it would cast no reflection on the Minis-
try by doing so.
(4) The Ministry doesn’t need to hunt for immoral alli-
ances to keep it in office, or give concessions in return for
support. It is fixed for the term of Parliament whether
it gets support or not, and it can’t give much in the way
of concessions, because, as often as not, it has no definite
party behind it to guarantee the fulfilment of its bar-
gain.
(5) The Ministry need not be of one mind internally,
and no. Minister need sell his convictions for the sake of
unity in the Cabinet. If the Premier introduces the
Bill for Giving Everything to Everybody the Treasurer
may speak and vote against it if he pleases, and the
House decides. The Treasurer’s duty to his chief con-
sists in being a good, honest Keeper of the Public Cash,
and nothing more.
(6) The House votes on public measures according to
its conscience, if it has one. Under the present system a
member often votes against a Bill which he thinks is
good, because it is a Government Bill and it is his busi-
ness, as a party man of the niost direadful description, to
get the Government out by defeating its Bill; or else he
votes for a measure which he knows is bad because he is
a party man of the worst character, and it is his business
to keep the Government in by passing its Bill. If the
Government stayed in just the same whether its Bill
passed or not, there would be no inducement for any
member to vote against his conscience.
(7) There is little stonewalling under the Elective
Ministry system. Stonewalling is mostly an effort to get
rid of the Government by preventing the passage of its
measures, and when a Government is fixed for the life of
Parliament a great deal of the inducement to stonewall
fades away.
(8) Most important of all, the system of Elective
Ministries answers equally well whether there are two
parties or 13. There must be a majority—even if it is
only the majority of one supplied by the Speaker’s casting
vote—for or against every separate proposition laid be-
fore the House. No amount of subdivision into parties
can alter that fact. When the multiplicity of parties is
no longer allowed to block business by perpetually un-
seating the Ministry, there is really nothing that it
can do. Once the Ministry is fixed there are in practice
only two parties—the one that is for the Bill or clause or
proposition just then before the House, and the one that
is against it. There may be thirteen different parties
and different programmes at the election, but for
practical purposes there are not, and can’t be, more than
two at any one moment in the House.
• • • »
The reason why Great Britain hasn’t adopted
this simple and obvious device appears to be that
a strangely busted old tradition is in the way.
Until quite recently British Ministers were
appointed by the King to carry out, as best they
could, the King’s programme, whether they had a
majority in the House or not. (Previously they
weren’t in the House at all, and they were
appointed by the King to carry out his pro-
gramme, so far as they could do so, though
they might not have a single supporter in
Parliament.) Even William IV. believed that
he had the right to appoint Ministers and
keep them in office against the will of the
people and of Parliament, and Victoria is
said to have come to the throne with the remnant
of a vague belief in the same prerogative. Nomi-
nally the power of royal appointment survives,
and is in full bloom to this day. So the British
Parliament doesn’t elect its Ministry, because to
do so would be an inroad on the royal preroga-
tive —the prerogative that is dead, but which is
supposed to be still alive and in splendid health.
Between the fact that the British Parliament
mustn’t openly and directly appoint the Ministry,
because that is the King’s exclusive job, and
the fact that the King dare no longer do what
is supposed to be his exclusive job. Ministries
just happen or arrive or transpire. Similarly, in
Australia, Parliament has not hitherto elected
the Ministry, because the Governor is vaguely
supposed to appoint that body without any refer-
ence to Parliament at all. He never did anything
of the sort, but it is felt to be a fine old traditional,
constitutional sort of thing to go on supposing that
he does, just as the King is supposed to do in
England. Then the Ministry must have a
whole legislative programme of its own, be-
cause the King or his representative is sup-
posed to create the Cabinet in a high-
handed way, and hand it his own ready-made
programme to be shoved through willy-nilly. He
still professes, in the speech at the opening of
Parliament, that it is his programme, which is
another comic and frisky survival. And the
Ministry is supposed to resign if it is defeated on
any part of its programme, no matter if it is the
best Ministry that the House can produce,
apparently because the House, when it rejects
some Bill or other, is supposed to be asserting its
independence against the minions of the monarch
or the Viceroy; the measure is supposed to be the
King’s unpalatable measure, and the House is
supposed to be rising in wrath against the King’s
nominees. And these nominees have no fixed
term of office, partly because the King is
supposed to reserve the right to dismiss them
when he feels that way, and partly because the
House would rather go to gaol than let the King’s
Ministers, appointed by him without any refer-
ence to the popular will, have a definite lease of
their billets. And the Speaker, who is very
silent nowadays, is so called because he used to go
and speak to the sovereign about the dreadful
way his majesty went on, whereupon, as in the
case of Peter de la Mare, he was sometimes put
in a large stone receptacle. And the Speaker is
elected, though the Ministry isn’t, because the
Speaker was supposed, in the British long ago, to
assert the rights of the House against the
Ministers —the latter being the King’s minions
and quite apart from Parliament—and even, at
times, to demand that they be beheaded. He
was the House’s elected representative as dis-
tinct from Ministers, who were the potentate’s
agents. It is all a mass of curious and cumber-
some survivals and suppositions, wholly unsuited
to a state of things in which the Cabinet is
responsible to Parliament and the people, and to
no other power whatever.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Forrest and Gr. Reid Meet.
There is again a Federal political situation.
G. Reid, clutching at a straw, voyaged to Ade-
laide last week, met there a mass of sympathetic
meat in the person of John Forrest, and from
the mighty collision of Fat it is said the question
has come, “ Why not a Deakin-Reid alliance?”
It seems pretty evident, too, that the question
has been put to Mr. Deakin, and that that amiable
and extraordinary politician is “considering”
it with vast deliberation. An ordinarily
sensible man would have said, promptly
and publicly, “Rats!” to the first whisper
on the subject, and thus saved a good
deal of trouble. But Deakin is no ordinary man,
and, though in some regards almost a man of
genius, he is not always sensible. It will be quite
characteristic of him to give an amount of pon-
derous thought to the question of the possibilities
of an alliance with G. Reid, which the absurd
subject does not merit. The results of the
elections leave G. Reid practically an outcast
in the political world. In Victoria every candi-
date tainted by association with him was rejected.
In N.S. Wales his direct following was reduced
by 30 per cent. In no State was RsiD-ism
as a policy given countenance. It but requires
now another fairly strong, or only moderately
weak, candidate for the leadership of the so-
called “Anti-Sosh” party to make Reid’s
deposition certain, for those who have come back
look upon the mournful list of the lost, and blame
the bad tactics of the leader for the staggering
defeat that the party has suffered. An alliance with
Reid therefore represents a union with an Old
Man of the Sea—it means paying a big price for a
deficit, purchasing an injury at a valuation, or
something equally senseless. Only two very fat
and very vain men, like Reid and Forrest, could
have hatched the idea of a Deakin-Reid alliance.
■ ♦
Resuscitating the Apparently Impure.
It is an axiom of good government that its com-
ponent parts should not only be pure, but should
appear pure. Not the most intimate friends of
the Victorian Labor party can glance back at its
attitude towards John Wren and Bung, in
connection with the Gambling and Licensing
Acts in the last session of Parliament, and con-
tend that it appears spotless to the unprejudiced
eye. Every friend of Labor must admit that two
great enemies of Democracy are gambling and
drink. The individual dominated by either of
them is a potential enemy to the worker. It is
only a matter of time before he gambles or drinks
himself into such a condition that he is willing,
for money or liquid refreshment, to become the
pimp or the dupe of any Trust, or monopolist,
or Tory that comes along. Yet, instead of
lending a hand towards the regulation of
these evils, the Victorian Labor party—or rather
the majority of its members, for there were a
handful who took an independent stand—fought
as they had never fought for any principle pre-
viously, in the interests of John, of the Colling-
wood tote, and Bung, the big brewer. No
factories legislation, no measure aimed to prevent
the mutilation or the poisoning of the working
classes, ever aroused these Laborites to greater en-
thusiasm. With wild fanaticism they worshipped,
with Wren’s tote-sheet for their confession of
faith, and Bung’s beer-pump for their totem.
Worse than all that, they succeeded in
what appeared to be a deliberate endeavor
to stonewall the Gambling Bill, in order
that it might not come into force until after John
Wren had scooped the mighty profits to be derived
from the Melbourne Cup meeting. It is quite
possible that the Labor party was actuated by the
highest motives—that it aimed simply at per-
fecting two most important measures, and that it
feared lest the passage of these measures with-
out due criticism might inspire Judkins to
further excesses. If so, its methods were so ill-
guided that it is easy to comprehend why the
party should be cruelly maligned at the present
time, not only by opponents, but by a large
section of those who have voted Labor solidly in
the past. So large is this section that the Labor
party’s chances at the approaching Victorian
State elections look worse than they have been
for years. If the Political Labor League wishes
to score —and, apart from its personnel, there
is no reason why the party should not come back
25 per cent, stronger —it should completely revise
its list of candidates. Hitherto it has been an
unwritten rule with all political parties that,
under ordinary conditions, the retiring member
should be again chosen. This time, the rule
should be reversed, and the fact that a candidate
was a member of the Victorian Labor party of
1903-1906 should be a reason why he should be
passed out, unless he can prove satisfactorily by
his speeches and votes in the House that he was
an exception and not like the bulk of the
party. Speaking broadly, the present Labor
party should be sent about its business; and,
with a few exceptions, an entirely new col-
lection of candidates chosen. By giving people
an opportunity to level charges against the
party, and identify it with Wren and the
drink traffic, the sitting members have done
their cause incalculable injury. It is not sug-
gested that they were guilty of corruption, but
men who commit such shocking blunders in
tactics, and have such a capacity for looking cor-
rupt without receiving the money, are too unlucky
to call for anybody’s support. There is a point at
which ill-luck becomes a crime.
4.
N.S.W. State Politics.
It is announced that certainly two, and probably
three, members of the N.S.W. Ministry will, so
to speak, “cheat the hangman” and retire from
office and from Parliament before the State
general elections. Mr. Ashton and Mr. O’Conor
are certain to do so; Mr. Carruthers isn’t quite
so definite about his intentions, but he probably
will also refuse to face the electors again. Such a
decision shows prudence, if not courage. There
is not the least doubt that with adequate opposi-
tion the Carruthers Government and its fol-
lowing will be cleared out of political life as soon
as the people can get at them ; and even if such
half-hearted and half-sensible opposition as it has
had in the past continues for the future, the
Cabinet will be in a position of grave peril when
it comes before the electors. The Labor party in
N.S.W. State Parliament has done little to earn
the confidence of democrats. At the last election
it refused to adopt an honest financial policy. In
Parliament it refused to be bound even to the
half-honest policy it had put before the electors.
In the matter of the Lands scandals it was clear
that the party had touched pitch and been de-
filed. It was not compromised to anything
like the extent of the party which found the
chief culprits, and the present reigning party
which shielded them ; but on some of its members
the taint of scandal showed, and the party hadn’t
the courage to act sternly towards them; and
the party was lacking in either the inclination or
the capacity to put the public will into effect and
force a full inquiry and an adequate punishment
Nevertheless, as compared with the Carruthers
party—the gang of extraordinary coincidenters
who have made the name of Justice a shrieking
farce in the State—the Labor party may
the verdict of the people. And if—as may hap-
pen—that party should, before the elections, put
its affairs into order and appeal to the public on a
real Reform platform, the fate of the Carruthers
party would be that of Kingston in Jamaica.
The Ministers who have resolved to sidle out
doubtless consider that far better than waiting
to be kicked out.
*
The Queensland Situation.
A Queensland Laborite begs for publication of
the following “to assist the cause of reasonable
Democracy in Queensland. The moderate Labor
party has practically no press representation, and
it looks to The Bulletin as its only effective
mouthpiece in Queensland ” :
The attitude of the moderate section of the Queensland
Parliamentary Labor party and its Democratic allies is
habitually misrepresented by the Tory press and the
Worker. In the first place, the Brisbane Worker is an
utterly impossible political guide for any party saddled
with responsibility. Its clamor for an extreme Socialistic
objective scares away thousands of decent Democrats;
its foolish references to “ gods and dogs ” alienate the
religious element among the Queensland working men ;
its inane policy with regard to Protection has been a
stumbling block to the Queensland Labor movement. It
is of no use mincing matters at this juncture. The
Queensland political position is so precarious that only
one thing can save it, and that is straight-speaking to the
reasonable Labor men of Queensland. Here are a few
examples of the kind of utterances (from the Worker)
that are ruining the Queensland Labor movement:—
“ Where Labor men and women of every faith and want
of faith assemble together, the order of the day should
be, ‘No gods or dogs ’ admitted.”
“ Wanted, a Savior ; no gods need apply.”
“When the Labor movement has to turn to God for
help it will be God help it indeed.”
With singular appropriateness, all this pitiful balder-
dash was published on the first of April, 1905. Whatever
may be the ethical merits of the above utterances, there
can be only one opinion as to the utter foolishness of
printing this kind of thing in a paper which is regarded
as a representative journal of Labor. Only a few months
ago the Socialist organ regaled its readers with this
delightful pabulum:—
“ Nothing less than the shock of the bomb-shell will
set the people’s mental apparatus in motion.”
“The way of Social salvation is not the ballot-box,
where the people are fooled into a slavery worse than
any known before on earth, but the swift doom, the flung
death, spreading consternation among rulers, toppling
over thrones and altars, bursting open the Gates of
Bondage, and setting the people free.”
When the present coalition was formed the Worker
supported it, professedly because that paper saw therein a
means to “One adult, one vote.” Now, when thatgreatre-
form has been attained, the Labor organ denounces the
Government that gave it and informs the people that the
way of social salvation is “ not the way of the ballot-box,
where the people are fooled into a slavery worse than
death.” True, the editor wrote this, not in a leading
article, but over his well-known pen-name of “Touch-
stone ” ; but it passes out to the world, and is used by
the Tory press as an expression of the genuine opinions
of a Labor journal. Another most objectionable thing,
from the standpoint of an Australian Democrat, is the
following dictum on the fiscal question
“The colored alien’s goods, if of sound quality and
clean, can do us no possible harm ; the colored alien him-
self is a moral plague in our midst and a degrader of
labor. . . But, it is urged, the colored alien’s goods
undersell our own, and in that way cheapen our labor
and throw our workers out of employment, just the same
as though he were here in direct competition with them.
In reply to which the challenged Laborite, who is not a
fiscalist, has no option but to flatly say, ‘ It is not true.’ ”
Here is a plain, undisguised advocacy of the employ-
ment of colored labor as a policy for Australian Demo-
crats. If every manufacture in N.S. Wales, Queensland,
and Victoria were wiped out to-morrow and supplanted
by goods from Hongkong, Calcutta or Japan, the
Worker would smile contentedly and say, “ The colored
alien’s goods can do us no harm.” And the amazing part
of it all is this—that the vast majority of the unionists of
Western Queensland are strong Protectionists and yet
allow their funds to be spent in the propagation of
Freetrade and cheap - labor fallacies of this kind.
It is the kind of stuff quoted above, and the utter lack of
political nous, that allows its publication that has
resulted in the present precarious condition of Labor in
Queensland. Queensland has at present to face this posi-
tion. The question is not will it have a pure Labor
Government or a capitalistic administration. The choice
is simply this : Will it take the Kidston regime, with its
record of successful finance and democratic legislation, or
go back to the old Philp party with its Tory prejudices,
its unspeakable finance, its policy of drift, its hatred of
reform, and its undying enmity of progress. 'Hie
Worker, with the full knowledge of all that Philp-isdi
means, savs deliberately “ Give us Philp.” With Philp
back in power the Worker can lie back comfortably, be
saddled with no responsibility, and fill its columns week
by week with the cheap diatribes its soul loveth. But
the Queensland Laborites will suffer.
♦
The Hard Mozzle of the Freetrade Journalist.
The obvious instruction to the men who write
the Freetrade articles in the Australian papers
nowadays is to shut their eyes to all that appears
in their own news columns, and rely wholly upon
imagination for their facts. On its page 4 Sydney
Evening News still professes to see virtue and
salvation in free imports, yet on one day last
week three columns of its other pages were busy
shouting at the top of their voice that page 4 is a
blithering idiot. First there was an article cn
“The Iron and Steel Boom.” Half a century
ago, it was pointed out, Great Britain produced
half the world’s iron ; this year it will produce
about 17 per cent. ‘‘ As iron producers, we held
first place until 1895, when the United States
got ahead of us ; in 1903 we lost second posi-
tion, being beaten by Germany. In other
words, under Protection Britain produced halt the
world’s iron ; then it decided to become a great
Freetrade nation, like Turkey the stagnant, and
it has dropped back to third place m iron, while
the two countries of High Protection have got for
their own people the work that Britain large y
used to have under Protection. True, British
iron-masters are busy just now; but (except on
page 4) the Evening News knows wh 7 • Frote . c
tion has brought such great; prosperity to the
United States and Germany that American and
German manufacturers are now so busy suPPty &
the requirements of their own markets that they
have little opportunity of entering mtocompe
tion with British makers for «ie time being.
But the Evening News, with its eye still oni th
blithering idiocy of its own page 4, continues
TotarTo good ; but all
points to the conclusion towards cn Gemany wjll
year the domestic demands of t ieg al . e adding
slacken ; while producers We capacities
to their plants, and increasing their p pproac hing time
at a rate clearly indicative of a rapid 7 PP America
when output will again exceed consumption
and Germany. .._ mr , mpn t that American
The moment that happens the Hi ie havg a BUrp i u s
and German producers of iron markets— they will,
over the requirements of their horn “dump” such
in all probability, once agam begin to ,
surplus in this country. Then down wi g


Foreign iron and steel will be “dumped,” and British
furnaces will be damped 1 Unless, of course, we adopt
preventive measures in the meantime.
Then, in the words of the Evening News’
authority (the one that deals with facts—not the
imaginative person who writes the leaders on
page 4): —
What that means we know from past experience—the
experience of having foreign tramway rails laid in our
streets, while our own mills have been idle and our
workers unemployed.
And as page 4, wl ■»ra he leading articles are,
scorns “preventive u isures,” the only possible
explanation is that ge 4 regards idle mills as a
good joke, and un< . ;;loyed workers as a mighty
line thing. The t i>e day the Evening News
dug up another b ohority on the same point—
this time the N...vs’own “Special Correspon-
dent ’’ in Argentina. Said he :
McKay’s Sunshine strippers, from Ballarat, are getting
a splendid run in this part of the world. The majority
of the agricultural machinery, however, sold here is
American —and don’t they know how to charge, as com-
pared with their Australian prices ! These gigantic
Yankee concerns seem to make their profits here and to
spend them fighting the manufacturers of such machinery
in other parts. In all Argentina one will not meet with
an agricultural machinery works. They could not exist.
Machinery for agricultural purposes comes in on a very
low duty, or if imported in certain ways absolutely free,
while mechanics can command very high wages. Under
these conditions, no one is foolhardy enough to open out
in the above line. Australians should take the greatest
care to see that the Yankee manufacturer is not allowed
to cut the Australian manufacturer out of the market.
Such, if it did occur, would be a calamity in the end for
the Australian farmer. No sooner would the factories be
closed than the price of machinery would go up 5 per
cent., then 5 per cent, more, and so on, until probably
the prices charged here were reached.
Heaven and the Bennett family only know why
the Evening News should go to all this trouble
to prove that its own page 4 is a doddering absur-
dity ; the fact remains that it does so. Meantime
—and more or less by the way—it is interesting
to observe that Sydney Daily Telegraph, also
last week, had another of its imaginative articles
on “Mr. Deakin and the Australian Future,”
in which it remarked that “with similar
wrong-headedness Mr. Deakin’s Governments
have clogged internal production by a Protective
tariff that increases the cost of the tools of
primary industry.” The Australian tariff has
established McKay ; but “ in all Argentina one
will not meet with an agricultural machinery
works ” —and, consequently, in the words of the
Evening News’ Argentine correspondent, “ don’t
the American machinery importers know how to
charge compared with their Australian prices !”
That experience would take some squaring with
the Telegraph’s theory—that is, if the Free-
trade journalist attempted the impossible job of
squaring the world’s experience and his boss’s
theory.
»
The Perpetuation of Degenerates.
Dr. Norris, chief of Victoria’s Board of Public
Health, recently touched lightly on the fringe of
a very large question when he wrote the Chief
Secretary, urging that, before children treated in
the proposed school for the mentally defective
were allowed to marry, a certificate should be
furnished showing that they were mentally
effective. Of course, the school is not yet, and
the defectives who will be treated there will not
reach marriageable age for a decade or so
yet—but that is only the fringe. The question
itself is whether the State should not take in
hand the whole question of the propagation
of the mentally deficient, or defective or
abnormal. The State, or society generally,
has in the long run to support practically all
defectives and degenerates, and therefore has, it
is argued, the right to insist that they should not
be produced if such can be avoided. Defectives
retort that it is not their fault they are so, and
that, being here, they have a right to all the
pleasures of matrimony or “housekeeping,” and
that if they can’t support a wife, she can, and
very often does, support them. Thirdly, there is
no certainty that degenerate does produce de-
generate. Genius certainly does not produce
genius, though mediocrity often does. Shak-
speare’s parents were, so far as is known, neither
abnormally brilliant nor the reverse; and there
is no evidence that the progenitors of, say,
Charles Peace or Deeming were criminals
or degenerates of any sort. And is there
any proof that mental deficiency is more
perpetuative than physical infirmity? A man
born blind does not usually have blind children ;
nor does a woman with a weak heart or bandy
legs necessarily bear children similarly afflicted.
Finally, who is to decide who is mentally effec-
tive and who is deficient or degenerate ? Nearly
all the great men of the world have been declared
by some to be mad. And yet—and yet—as a
Board of Health member put it, “ in the breeding
of stock all care is taken to prevent unsoundness,
but nothing is done at all to keep the race of
human beings free from hereditary taint.”
+
Privy Council and High Court.
“Constitutionalist” throws some further light
on the big constitutional law issue arising out of
the Outtrim case :
The question as to whether Federal officers are liable
to a State income-tax in respect of their salaries earned
as Federal officers is the specific matter involved, but the
question decided was an infinitely wider one. Most
people who have watched this controversy have been
influenced by what lawyers call “ the merits ” involved in
the particular question; but the real matter—the
matter of vital importance to Australia as a whole —
is the underlying legal point: whether or not there
are in the Constitution implied restrictions on
the powers given by it to the Commonwealth
and the States in terms which are, on the face of them,
unrestricted. The High Court decided that there were
restrictions upon those apparently unrestricted powers,
and in the case of D’Emden v. Pkdder laid down the law
in these words : “ When a State attempts to give to its
legislative or executive authority an operation which, if
valid, would fetter, control, or interfere with the free
exercise of the legislative or executive power of the
Commonwealth, the attempt, unless expressly authorised
by the Constitution, is to that extent invalid and inopera-
tive.” In the Income-tax cases the Court repeated this
statement of the law, and applying the principle so laid
down in D’Emden v. Pedder, decided that the State of
Victoria had no power to tax Federal officers in respect
of their salaries as such. So that the decision in the
Income-tax cases was but an application of a very wide
and important principle, a fact which the man at the
corner has never really appreciated.
The Council did not decide that the principle
laid down by the High Court did not apply in the Income-
tax cases, but denied altogether the existence of any
such principle, saying that no such implied restrictions
were to be found in the Constitution Act as were found
there by the High Court; or in other words, that the
powers conferred on the States in general and unre-
stricted words were unrestricted in fact, and any
exercise of those powers was valid except in so far as it
was expressly forbidden by the Constitution Act. To
both Courts it is plain that there may be many cases of
clashing sovereignty between State and Commonwealth
which are not provided for in the Constitution Act, be-
cause they are not of the open and direct kind which are
expressly guarded against there. Of such instances of
clashing sovereignty the United States law reports are
full. The High Court says in effect: " If these clashes of
power are allowed to occur there will be nothing but con-
fusion. In such a state of affairs the Government of
a country by a Federal arrangement is impossible.
There must be some restriction on these powers which at
first sight are unrestricted. What, then, is that re-
striction?” They found the answer in the case of
M'Odlloch v. Maryland, decided long ago in the Supreme
Court of the United States in circumstances which ap-
peared to the High Court analogous to those with which
it was then faced. The Privy Council, on the other
hand, says: “ True, these clashes of power may occur,
but such was the intention of the British Legislature as
expressed by the Constitution Act.” The High Court
says such could never have been the intention ; the Privy
Council replies, “It was.” The High Court wished to
construe the Constitution in such a way as to make it a
workable one, and looked not only at the words but at
the subject matter. The Privy Council looked only at
the words.
In dismissing the notion of any analogy between the
Australian and American Constitutions, as suggested by
the Australian Chief Justice, the Privy Council says that
the analogy failed in every matter which was under de-
bate. In what respects? Their Lordships do not deign
to state, but content themselves with pointing out that
“no state of the Australian Commonwealth had the
power of independent legislation possessed by the States
of the American Union. Every Act of the Victorian Coun-
cil and Assembly required the assent of the Crown. . . .”
Then this is why the analogy fails 1 In the case of
the American States, there is no power above them but the
Constitution, and therefore it may well be that some im-
plied restriction should be called in aid to prevent an
indirect invasion of Federal authority on their part, but
in the case of the Australian States there is a power above
them whose consent is required to any proposed legisla-
tion before it can become law. And this is our security
against clashing sovereignty. Hence, it is unnecessary
in our case to call in aid any implied restriction, since re-
trictions of this sort can only be implied of necessity, and
here there is no necessity. This must be their Lord-
ships’ argument ; otherwise the distinction is of no
force and is merely irrelevant. The answer is that the
power of royal veto was exercised at the time of the
granting of the Constitution for entirely different pur-
poses, and that it was never contemplated by the British
Legislature when it granted us our Constitution that it
should be put to such a use ; that as a security in fact it
is miserably inadequate. The Governor of a State, in
giving the King’s assent, acts on the advice of his Minis-
ters, who will never advise against the power of the
State. In disallowing an enactment that has already
become law, the King acts on the advice of his
British Ministers, who cannot be expected to
know whether it invades Australian Federal authority.
But that is the reason why, according to the Privy
Council, the ground for implying restrictions as in the
case of the Constitution of the United States, does not
exist in our Constitution ; a reason narrow and technical
to a degree, based on the existence of a power of veto
which, though real enough as a legal power of the Crown,
is, when looked upon as a security against clashing
sovereignty between States and a Federation, a mockery.
What is the High Court now to do ? In which way lies
its duty? It seems to Australian Federalists that their
Honors should prove themsel res faithful to the opinions
they expressed m such unequivocal language when refus-
ing leave to appeal from their judg'ment to the Privy
Council. They should fol ow their own decision regard-
less of the consequences and deaf to the clamor of the
anti-Australian, anti-everything crowd. In such matters
it was intended that they should be supreme, and that
theirs should be the only voice. By the merest mistake
another voice is heard. The High Court’s voice should ring
out strong and clear, and not attempt any discreditable
unison. Australians, true Australians, will listen toit. The
effective remedy, however, lies with the Federal Parlia-
ment. There are three ways out of this difficulty. One
is to remove the Federal jurisdiction from the State Courts.
The second is the amendment of the Constitution Act so
as to prevent such appeals. The third, and, if it can be
managed, the most convenient, is to secure the alteration
of the Orders-in-Council dealing with appeals from the
State Courts to the Privy Council. The present British
Liberal Government might possibly be brought to do
this if it could be made to understand the greatness of
the difficulty that has arisen.
♦-
£lOOO a Tear.
A pboblem which Australia will have to face before
long is the necessity for a very large increase
in the salaries of Federal members. The figure
should be raised to at least £lOOO a year. The
present amount (£4OO a year) represents abject
poverty, and is equal in most cases to only about
£l5O a year in any other pursuit. There are cer-
tain travelling expenses to be deducted, in the
first place. For a member with a wife and family
—unless he be one of the very few who live handy
to the door of Parliament House —there is the
expense of keeping up his home while paying
hotel or boarding-house or other hash charges at
the seat of Government during the session.
There are periodical election expenses, which eat
up much inoney. Then, between elections, the
member is expected to hire a hall periodically
and address his more or less enlightened sup-
porters. He has to wander about his elec-
torate and shake the more or less horny paw of
his constituent. Also, the member is the mark of
all the beggars and charity-mongers of his dis-
trict, and between the calls he can’t avoid, and
the calls he can only avoid with difficulty, his
£4OO a year dwindles to very little. Then the
position is more precarious than almost any other,
and when it goes there is no pension or retiring
allowance. The member’s business or practice or
connection or job has vanished during his legisla-
tive period, and he is simply a very poor man—
sometimes an old man as well—starting life
afresh. The visible, glaring, threadbare poverty
of many of the ex-members who gathered the
other day to celebrate the Victorian Parliamen-
tary jubilee with food and drink—of which several
seemed much in need—was a deafening com-
mentary on the fact that politics don’t pay;
and Federal politics, which may involve thou-
sands of miles of travel, pay worst of all.
Of course there is a Tory theory or tradition that
members should “serve their country” without
reward (except steals), and from motives of pure
patriotism, but the great bulk of them can’t, for
patriotism isn’t food, nor is it lodging. In any
case the theory was only invented by the rich in
order to restrict Parliamentary membership to
the rich ; if there had been anything more than
that motive of brute selfishness in it, there would
have been a corresponding theory in favor of un-
paid judges, civil servants, military officers,
governors, kings, and the like, who also serve
their country, and who have an equal right to do
it without payment. The proposition about the
glow of patriotic fervor being sufficient reward is
only applied where it came in handy to shut out
competitors among the proletariat; there being
no working-man competition for the job of
monarch or governor, it has always been held in
his case tljat the satisfaction of serving the
community and the empire is no reward at
all, and that a large, sordid wage is re-
quired. Such a wage is equally required in the case
of members of Parliament—in fact, it is more
urgently required, Parliament being of vastly
more importance than either king or governor.
The Parliamentary wage should be sufficient to
enable any man to afford to be in politics. The
only bar to membership should be lack of charac-
ter or lack of intellect. An increase of the
Federal Parliamentary salary to £lOOO a year
represents the lowest figure which is likely to
meet the case. The public might elect some in-
capables at £lOOO a year, just as they do at £4OO,
but at least they wouldn’t be compelled to elect
incapables because wiser men couldn’t afford to
come forward. The proverb about fools rushing
in where angels fear to tread has an application
hereabouts. It is only a very great fool who
thinks it is possible to live in any comfort under
the circumstances with the Parliamentary £4OO a
year as his sola support; and he rushes in. Some-
times he rushes in by a pretty large majority too.
Anti-Sosh Rails Against Itself.
Melbourne importers who lord it over Flinders
Lane are the apostles of Anti-Sosh, so long as Social-
ism is going to benefit somebody else. As soon as
they perceive any possible benefit to themselves
in Socialism they cry out for it. Melbourne
Harbor Trust is an Anti-Sosh body. That is why
it refuses to engage in the work of discharg-
ing, stacking, and delivering cargo. It has
handed all this work over to tne Victorian
Stevedoring and General Contracting Co.,
Ltd., which represents Private Enterprise.
This huge monopoly is making money out of the
importers, who have suddenly dropped their
Anti-Sosh convictions and are crying out for
Socialism. They want the Trust to wipe out
the stevedoring company altogether, and itself
enter into business and handle cargo. “We
want Borne responsible body to take charge of
cargo between the ships’ slings and the con-
signee.” They are quite right, too. They have
discovered that in this case—because it benefits
them —Socialism is a good and proper thing. The
fact is that the Melbourne port accommodation is
wretched. Cargo is pitched out of a ship by
the stevedores, stacked, and left on the wharf or
in the shed, with nobody to look after it.
At present, on most of the Melbourne wharves,
the cargo is left so absolutely unprotected that
there is quite a class of people who make a
living by pillaging, and a good living too.
Withal, stevedoring charges are high. All
this the Harbor Trust can do away with by
Socialism. The port of Melbourne is far behind
most other ports of the same size, and the reason
is that most other ports are run on Socialistic
lines, whereas Melbourne still labors along in the
slough of Private Enterprise. Perhaps the pro-
testations of such a fine body of Anti-Socialists as
the Melbourne importers may mean Socialistic
reform.
The Cow and N.S.W. North Coast Scenery.
“ X. Y.” WRITES from beside a Northern river
Years ago the North Coast district of N.S. Wales was
pronounced by the scarce and accidental tourist to be
beautiful almost beyond praise. The luxuriant growth
of primeval subtropical forest and jungle, impervious to
the sun’s rays, enriched with prodigal wealth of orchids,
tree-ferns, staghorns, bungalow palms and creepers,
stretched almost unbrokenly from the Richmond to the
Queensland border over the undulating volcanic slopes
of the famous Big Scrub. You might have travelled
from Lismore to the Tweed with scarcely a glimpse of
the sun, along avenues cut by cedar getters, suffused
with soft green light filtering through the feathery fronds
of ferns and palms and the higher dense foliage of giant
softwoods and creepers interlaced overhead. To men
from the Western and other districts the beauty of the
leafy profusion was incredible, and had to be seen to be
believed. The Tweed, especially—surrounded by ranges
of mountains dark with dense forests, dominated by the
peak of Wollumbin (Mt. Warning), and intersected in all
directions by arms of the river—was a Paradise.
But now you can travel this same route beneath a
blazing sun with never a break. The Big Scrub has been,
oris being, wholly destroyed. The people are obsessed
by the übiquitous Cow. Not even shade trees for the
cattle in the paddocks seem to be deemed necessary.
And, as for flowers, fruit trees or ornamental trees, well,
with few exceptions, the money-crazed Cow-cockies
prefer to be, and in wet weather often are, mid-thigh
deep in manure and slush. Their children’s lives are
exploited morning and evening, wet and dry, at the cow-
bails, pigstyes and separators. One State school that I
saw is hemmed in by pigstyes and cowyards. Close to
one corner is a pigstye, close to another a cowyard,
then another pigstye, and yet another cowyard. So that,
no matter from which quarter the gentle wind of heaven
may blow, the children constantly inhale the spicy
breezes wandering over beds of assorted manures ! This
school is known to the Public Instruction Department
as Dungay school I
Originally the banks of all the arms of the Tweed
River were overhung by dark, towering walls of virgin
forest, from which hung festoons of flowering creepers,
beautiful beyond description, occasionally lightened by
the flash of brilliant, golden-winged regent birds. Now
one island represents almost all that is left of this sub-
tropical wealth of vegetation. The Government, a short
time back, was mysteriously moved to reserve a few
small areas for the preservation of native flora. But
it has weakened to the cry of the Cow-men,
and to its own greed of revenue, and now pro-
poses to hand these reserves over to destruction—to
be levelled with the dust and strewn with cows, cowdung,
and myriad flies. Near Murwillumbah, on the north arm
of the Tweed, is one reserve of about 50 or 60 acres of
subtropical jungle which it is proposed to alienate, all
except about 15 acres of the part least fitted for cow-
pasture. A protest was attempted at a sparsely-attended
public meeting, and a committee was appointed to see if
it was advisable to retain this reserve ! The committee
viewed the matter according to its personnel. The
mayor, postmaster, a doctor and a publican were for re-
taining the reserve intact, but the other three, all Cow-
men, cried out for destruction and more Cows. Probably
the uprising of the legions of Cow and the apathy of the
townspeople will result in no protest being made. These
men should have no say in this matter. It is a question
for the whole State, or the Ministry as representatives
thereof. The reserves, if left sufficiently large to withstand
the unaccustomed exposure, would afford an object lesson
hundreds of years hence on the beauty of the perished
subtropical forests, and would be things of beauty in a
land where all else is utter barrenness and Cow. If the
trees, many centuries old, are destroyed, the British
Empire will be dead of old age before they can be re-
placed. This letter is an appeal, while there is yet a little
time, to the people of Sydney and the State, and to the
Ministry, to secure from ruthless destruction the few re-
maining flora reserves in this North Coast district, so
that it may not be utterly, completely and hopelessly Cow.
Much sympathy is now being worked up on
behalf of some few Australian-born Kanaka
children who haye gone back with their parents
to the Isles, though the children have, in all
instances, been returned to the islands at the
express wish of the parents themselves. The
drum has been flogged with extra fury for the girl
children, who, it is implied, will have to lead
lives of shocking iniquity in the archipelago from
which their parents came. No explanation is
given of the alleged iniquity, and, as far as
anybody can see, the girl will do nothing worse
than become the consort of a male nigger, who
will make her toil about half as hard as she would
have had to do in the old days in Queensland.
If there is anything worse than that before her,
then the missionary push, with its stories about
how, for fifty years and more, it has been
shedding light on the darkness and shovelling
away the gloom of Polynesia, is about the
biggest liar and the most scoundrelly con-
fidence trick now above ground. Mean-
while, there is another side to the picture—
one that is never exhibited. Consider the
fate of the Kanaka girl who is not deported.
There is only one opening for her. She will be-
come the plaything of the Chow and the Jap and
the other Asiatic scum which infest the north-
east corner of Australia, and her life, under the
beneficent influences of civilisation, will be a
short and unmerry one. There is practically no
escape for the female Kanaka child left in Queens-
land. Prostitution of the most repulsive sort is
her almost inevitable end, and the good people,
now talking so loudly about the injury which will
be done her by returning to the home of her
ancestors, shouid consider whether the life that
lies before her here is preferable to a monogamous
existence of semi-nakedness and affable loafing
under the sheltering palms of Malaita.
Randolph Bedford, in pursuance of a contro-
versy which threatens to be tiresome :
In B. of 3rd Jan. you say of my recent and much-dis-
respected opponent, J. N. H. H. Coo <—“ He consistently
supported the Watson Government when to do that was
to cut absolutely away from the more conservative sec-
tion of the Protectionists ; had practically a pledge of
Labor support at the 1906 election, and should not have
been opposed by Labor.”
This statement of yours emphasises my statement that
youdidn’tknow what you weretalkingaboutin this matter.
Cook wasaLaborite in the Victorian State Parliament,
and was defeated at the 1900 elections for ratting. As
sworn to by Mr. P. Keane in a statutory declaration
published in the Argus two months ago, the same highly-
disrespected Cook tried to get the Pedi ral Labor nomi-
nation for Bourke at the 1901 election, and his relations
packed the local Labor leagues for the purposes of selec-
tion, and didn’t get it after all. From this it is apparent
that fear dictated his truckling to Watson. But neither
Watson, nor you, nor anybody could guarantee immu-
nity from opposition in return for votes. That would
mean the practical disfranchisement of an electorate.
And if it were right to grant immunity for one term of
3 years, why not for 6 ; and if for 6, why not for 9 ; and
if for 9, why not for life ; and if for life, why not make
the job hereditary ?
The facts —at the risk of weariness—may be
repeated. The Labor Government when in office
could not exist without outside support. To the
men who gave that support, the Labor Govern-
ment promised to use all its influence to secure
them immunity from Labor opposition (Note :
Labor opposition, not any opposition, as our
correspondent would try to twist the yarn to) at the
next elections. The inter-State Labor Confer-
ence endorsed that alliance, though deprecating
such agreements in future. Thus Labor was
pledged in honor not to oppose Isaacs, Higgins,
Cook, Mauger, and others. The “motives” of
the men who gave Labor support in a crisis
could not be honorably questioned after their
support was accepted, when it came to a ques-
tion of paying the price agreed for it.
♦
The study of Australian politics, as presented to
the British public, has a special charm of its own.
Novelty and romance meet the student at every
turn. For example, a few choice jets of light
from the gas-bag of “a well-known Australian
politician in London,” which illuminate the
columns of the Standard (15/10/’OG): —
Within the next five years the State Customs revenues
will be absorbed by the Commonwealth in their entirety.
A pleasing picture of the Commonwealth, with
insatiable maw plotting the absolute starvation of
the poor State Treasurers, all in the interests of
“ Sosh ”:—
The financial situation is the great weapon in a fight
between non-Socialism, the States, and Socialism, the
Commonwealth.
Clearly our “ well-known politician ” is not in love
with Federation, the source from which all curses
flow, including “Sosh.”
The Senate is Labor to a man.
Shades of Symon, Gould, Clemons, and the
Mao Walker party.
New South Wales is discontented owing to the pledge
on the subject of the new Federal capital never having
been carried out. No steps towards this end have 3 T et
been taken.
Poor Federal Parliament! Its festive picnics,
the throes of its capital sites debates, the intri-
cacies of its divisions, its choice of Dalgety, and
the rejection of its choice by N.S.W., all sunk
already in political oblivion ! And so history is
made, and so the British Public acquires know-
ledge. The lean finger of suspicion points towards
our old friend, Horace Tozer, as the “well-
known politician.” The Bulletin’s columns are
open to his denial.
♦
The loud applause with which Sydney Telegraph
greets Premier Carruthers’ proposal to force the
Peel River Co. in New South Wales to cut up the
vast estate which it monopolises against agri-
cultural settlement, shows either a vacant mind
and a to-let understanding, or, what is more
probable, a smug hypocrisy. For what Joseph
Carruthers proposes to do in regard to this one
estate, by a slow, cumbrous and expensive pro-
cess, and with grave risk of scandal, is exactly
what J. C. Watson proposed to do in regard to
all the vast estates in Australia, which, like the
Peel River, are held by Monopoly against agri-
cultural settlement, and to do without expense
and without risk of scandal. Since the Tele-
graph so cordially approves of forcing one big
estate into use, why not others, why not all ? If
it is a good thing in the public interest to drive
the Peel River Co. to open up its lands to settle-
ment, why isn’t it a good thing to coerce the
A. A. Co., the Y.D.L. Co., the Victorian Western
District, and the Queensland Darling Downs
monopolists in the same way ?
♦
The frantic denunciation of everything Austra
lian, and the glorification of the imported article,
is sometimes checked by the imported expert
who, like Balaam, the son of Beor, blesses where,
he is expected to curse. At a recent dinner in
Sydney
Captain Stokes Bees, who will shortly leave the Aus-
tralian station, after spending two years here, remarked
that there was magnificent material in Australia from
which to evolve naval men, if they could only get at it,
but no material, however excellent in itself, could be of
any practical use until it was trained.
It was the simple truth. In Australia you can
get any sort of capacity you like to ask and pay
for. The capacity often wants training and de-
veloping, because there is nothing in the com-
mon daily life of the people to call it into action.
When the Australian navy comes the Australian
naval men will not be wanting.
»
The Englishman (Calcutta), on the Yellow Peril
in Australia :
Japanese ask for equality of treatment with Europeans,
and America is forced to answer “ yes ” or “ no.” If Presi-
dent Roosevelt wins, it means that all immigration barriers
that differentiate the Japanese from the European must
be pulled down, and the brown man accepted as an
industrial and social equal. The same demand will come
from China, and the same answer will have to he given.
Although the affair only affects America at present,
at any moment it may become of very great concern to
the British Empire. Should America grant equality of
treatment, Japan will naturally turn to Australia. Here
she will find humiliating barriers set against her people,
and a prejudice, that has developed into a natural senti-
ment, against the admittance of Asiatics. Australia is par-
ticularly desirable from the point of view of the Japanese.
It is only natural that they should look longingly
towards Australia. At present the question is shelved,
but obviously only for a little time. When the demand
for Japanese equality does come, as come it must, Great
Britain will be faced with an extremely difficult problem.
On the one hand, there will be the logical position of
her ally, Japan, and on the other the loyalty of the
Commonwealth, which would not stand the strain of
being coerced in this matter. The Australian attitude,
selfish as it may seem, is easily explained. Experience
has shown Australians that the Asiatic is a good and
thrifty worker, who labors long hours for small wages.
If freely admitted into Australia, he would quickly dis-
place the white worker, and Australia would surely cease to
be a white man’s country. Full political rights would
follow free admittance, and then the destiny of Aus-
tralia would pass into the hands of Asia. The four
millions of white people in Australia would rapidly be
absorbed by the stream of unrestricted immigration
that would flow in from Japan and China once the
barriers were removed.


THE^
Lone Hand
(Which will be The Bulletin
among magazines) is . . ,
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
Send in Subscriptions now to the Office,
214 GEORGE STREET.
12s. A YEAR (Post Free)
(When possible, the Magazine will be
delivered through the nearest news-agent,
but subscriptions may be sent in directly to
the office.)
FOUNDATION SUBSCRIBERS.
Since The Lone Hand will aim to be to
the magazine world what The Bulletin
has been to weekly journalism, some
historic interest will, no doubt, be attached
in the future to the first subscribers' list.
The publishers have decided to place the
first 50 subscribers—
The “ Foundation ” Subscribers
—on the FREE LIST FOR LIFE
after the First Year.
But you must send in your subscription
NOW by the first mail available after
reading this advt. (which will not be
repeated).
It doesn’t matter where you live in Aus-
tralasia; send in your subscription NOW
and you will have an equal opportunity
with the man living next door to The Lone
Hand office.
Address—
“ THE LONE HAND,”
214 George St., Sydney
Don’t neglect a cut or wound. Blood
poisoning may result. Apply Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm and all danger will be avoided.*
The Tyree Spray is pronounced by all
experts to be one of the most important inventions
ever introduced to public notice. It is being sold
largely for: —
Spraying dairy cattle for tick.
Spraying sheep for fly-blow or maggot.
Spraying fruit trees, vines, potatoes and other vege-
tation'with insecticides.
Spraying hospitals, gaols, asylums, schools and other
buildings with disinfectants.
Painting and white-washing dairies, butter factories,
creameries, piggeries, abattoirs, slaughter houses, poultry
yards, schools, factories, wool sheds, stock yards, bar-
racks, etc.
Killing prickly pear, gorse, lantana, briars, blackberries
with arsenic.
Painting green skins for export with arsenite of soda.
Fire extinguishing and cutting out Are breaks as a pre-
vention of bush fires.
Works without labor, and does the work well.
Write for particulars to W. Tyree, 314 George-
street, Sydney.*
250
(*A>
* TO eOU-SsfeOF
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
FROM
delicious
Chocolates,
CAILLER’S . p.o.box 136. A
S Y D N EY K
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Talk of the Town."
Hrr Majesty's “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal “ Revenge.”
Palace ' “ Jane.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall.. Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bondi “ Wonderland.”
Melbourne shows for coming week.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
AthenjEum Hall “The Kelly Gang” Biograph (last
nights).
St. Kilda Esplanade. .. “ Dreamland.”
-♦
Bland Holt’s new production at Sydney
Royal is patterned after “The Midnight Wed-
ding” and “The Face at the Window” rather
than the good old stock melodrama, in which
virtue wades toits happy conclusion through aseries
of events which, if not in the least probable, are
at any rate possible. “Revenge” is divorced
from all possibility; it gives the loud “Ha-ha,”
which betokens the contemptuous mind, to
reason, sense, and sequence; it frankly gives the
longarm of coincidence thego-byand welters in the
impossible. The wicked man and the wicked
women are candidates for no less than the throne
of Austria, and their machinations to foil virtue—
represented by the Queen of Austria and
her faithful and true lover, a Captain—
include an explosive ink-pot which goes off
pop when the hero puts his pen into it, and
blinds him with tears and ink. Virtue is cham-
pioned by this gentleman and a British naval
officer who has come up the Danube to Vienna on
his Dreadnought, and runs things generally with
a company of bluejackets. V hen vice has finally
to be foiled, these bluejackets capture the throne
of Austria, seemingly for the lawful Queen
and the Captain who is going to be her
lawful husband No. 2, the revolutionaries
having obligingly killed No. 1. All this
balderdash is illustrated by charming scenes
and brilliant costumes, and goes with a snap
which shows that the melodrama public can
swallow any crudity so long as the pill is well
gilded.
* ■* * •
As to the acting of “ Revenge,” the scene-
painter is excellent, the costumier a genuine artist,
and the stage-carpenter was not called before the
curtain to receive his due simply because the audi-
ence hadn’t enough sense of humor. The rest of
Bland Holt’s co. took subordinate parts.
** * *
“The New Clown” will not remark
“Here we are again” after Friday night. To
close the short Sydney season the Willoughby-
Ward Co. will stage on Saturday “ The Talk of
the Town ” —a farce comedy which Melbourne
preferred to “The Man from Mexico.” The
comedy will be ushered in by “ The Vagabond,”
a one-act drama in which Miss Grace Palotta and
Hugh Ward have “pathetic” parts, and coax
the tear from the eye with gentle sadness, instead
of forcing it out with the head-splitting laugh.
* * *
When the last figure has been added into
the total it will probably be found that “ Parsi-
fal ” has brought more money to Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, than any other piece since J. C. William-
son included Tallis and Ramaciotti; and that will
be the best sort of encouragement to the trinity to
plunge on their own and not wait for London to
first pronounce judgment. Certainly it isn’t every
piece that can hit the public in so many places.
First, in holiday mood, the people turned up to
see it as a spectacle. Then they proceeded to con-
sider it as a play ; then the everlasting question
as to the merits of Tittell Brune had to be
weighed ; now, the holidays over, and the dog
days heavy on the land, a community that is
mostly not feeling very well is debating whether
the play isn’t irreverential and all that. One way
and another it keeps the theatre full, and has
easily outlasted the panto., “ Alice in Wonder-
land.” Alice is now, so to speak, on her last legs,
and the matinees will end with this week.
Chanti’s quick changes hit Tivoli patrons
hard, and set them off on bursts of loud applause
before they have had time to think that Chanti
wouldn’t be anything special as a performer
without all the mechanical extras. As a sample
of ingenious stage management the turn deserves
the large splatters of ink on the bills ; except for
that, a small splatter would do. Otherwise and
generally speaking, the Tivoli performance con-
sists of a large quantity of good, honest variety
food—it has nothing that takes your breath, or,
when it is over, makes you go on forgetting that
you put your hat under the seat.
** * *
On Saturday night—Anniversary date —
if the citizens of this by no means mean city hear
reverberations, sounds as of explosions, and feel
tremors, and see glares, they need not run out to
camp in the open, or call upon their gods. Not
a great natural force, but Mr. William Anderson
will be the cause of the magnificent noise. The
bombardment of Port Arthur will be re-enacted
at Wonderland City. Also the Death Loop and
the Circus will help to keep things exciting.
** 0 *
“Jane,” at the Palace, helps along the
gaiety of Sydney, and by way of an olive, so to
speak, it is prefaced by “ Nan, tho Good-for-
Nothing.” Jane will dust her master down, and
be his official wife till further notice.
** * *
Miss Florence Archer will lift her con-
tralto voice at the Pianola Hall in George-street
to-night, and the lastest royal roads to playing
the piano like Paderewski will be exhibited. The
Henry M. Birge Co. gives these complimentary
recitals at short intervals, and up to the seating
accommodation of the Showroom.
In prose —this is the fifth week of the
panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), and the prosper-
ous concern is still in its golden prime.
* * * *-
A revival of “When London Sleeps ” is
threatened for Saturday (26th) at the Theatre
Royal. The retiring drama—“ The Village Black-
smith ” —belongs to the least amusing order of
Andersonian bellowdrama, but the things that
happen “When London Sleeps” have given The
Bulletin periodical bursts of astonishment for
many years. Saturday’s burst will be rather
more “grand and elaborate” than usual, it is
said.
** * #
At the Opera House, where for some time
past the principal turns have been frivolously
disposed, the appearance of Charles Leonard
Fletcher gives a touch of sombre relief to the bill.
Fletcher is an old man character-actor of fair
ability, who makes up his face in view of the
audience, and calls considerable darkness to his
aid when he is acting. His sketch of Mark Twain
as an after-dinner speaker is an impersonation of
the man —not a very faithful one, but sufficiently
clever. His Fagin (from “Oliver Twist”) and
Little Nell’s Grandfather (“The Old Curiosity
Shop ”) are more acceptable than his imitation of
William Gillette’s Sherlock Holmes, who was more
impressively imitated by Cuyler Hastings. The
new comer is not equipped with a fine voice, any-
how, and his “ impersonation ” of Charles Warner
in the second scene from “At the Telephone,”
gives no suggestion of mimicry. It is not even as
forcible as Julius Knight’s noisy treatment of the
same scene, but it will interest the large public
that was mostly not present when Julius in-
troduced the thrilling French playlet at Her
Majesty’s.
** * *
Owing to the fact that the Athenaeum
Hall is about to receive a much-needed wash and
a general redecoration, the season of “ The Kelly
Gang ” biograph will be cut short on Saturday.
Since the beginning of that brisk pictorial drama
the most popular incidents have been “padded”
with many yards of new film and bits of explana-
tory dialogue uttered by an unseen voice at the
rear. There are two voices concerned in the
Taits’ show. The other one is the splendidly
robust tenor organ of Sydney Monk, who warbles
popular ballads during the comic picture pauses
in the first part. Sydney Monk sounds like a
vocalist of great possibilities and limited train-
ing. At present he is in no respect the artist he
should strive to be. His walk is deplorable, his
appearance needs careful cultivation, his singing
method is crude. But his Voice—well, God gave
it to him, and he’s an unworthy Monk if he doesn’t
make the most of it.
* * *
“ Snell ” : The Tait brothers have a pro-
lific oof bird in their grand national cinema-
tograph drama, “ The Kelly Gang,” now showing
at Melb. Athenaeum ; but the gang is presented
in the pure spirit of twopenny-colored melodrama,
and the moral of the story is that it is nobler and
more righteous in the eyes of the gods to be a tall
bushranger and thieve and kill than to be the
despicable policeman who loses his life in
endeavoring to trap outlaws. These splendid’
bushrangers never come within a hundred yards
of a woman without taking off their hats,
and on occasions they remove their hats
as often as nine times to one woman. This is held
to be a glorious characteristic, and justifies all
Ned Kelly’s viciousness and villainies. They are
very respectful to corpses, too, these double-dyed
murderers, and when they have shot a wounded
constable in cold blood they all take off their hats
to his body, and say he was a brave man, and the
audience applauds feelingly, satisfied that Ned
Kelly was a gentleman of exquisite sensibilities.
There is a deal too much racket in connection
with the show—sometimes you can’t see the pic-
tures for the noise of horses, trains, gunshots, and
wild cries; but,"all the same, it is the sort of
bellowdrama that the lower disorders crave for,
and two-thirds of Australia will want to see it—
the two-thirds that believes Ned Kelly was a
greater man than George Washington.
** * *
Melbourne’s outdoor places where six-
pence buys admission and subsequent silver coins
purchase various extra joys, are doing a warm
summer business of late. Also the Australian
Exhibition has made a promising start. Inciden-
tal to the display in the big building there are
open-air concerts and other occurrences in the
quadrangle, especially on Saturday nights. As
regards opportunities for Edwin and Angelina to
tell their love beneath the stars whilst the band
is playing, Melbourne appears to be advancing in
its civilisation.
** * *
At Adelaide Tivoli, Fred Bluett has had
the support of Leonard Nelson, “ comedian,” and
Maud Faning, who can put a little colored coon to
bed with all the frenzied gestures of Lady
Macbeth. The Hippodrome relies largely on a
Scottish strong-man, Lex McLean. And every
evening, under the stars, “Professor” Fenton
encourages the public to step up and get its
immortal soul bucked out of it by his competent
horses and asses, bullocks and mules.
0 ! Pantomime, O ! Pantomime,
Your tracks upon the sands of time
Are indications, gleaming bright,
Of profits earned by day or night.
Some forty footprints up to date
Denote the gay and easy gait
Of one who, free from doubt and fears,
Rejoices in the public’s cheers,
Nor heeds the captious critic’s sneers.
O ! Pantomime, O ! Pantomime,
Not strong in reason or in rhyme,
You fill a want, you play the fool,
You entertain the kids from school
And please their elders, that is plain—
Men see you once and come again.
The public High Court judgment stirs
The bard to speak, so he “concurs,”
Like Barton, when the pleadings deep
Have lulled his Honor off to sleep.
If other tongues in praise run loose,
The bard concurs, for what’s the use
Of finding fault with “ Mother Goose” ?
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ The public is always anxious to hear actors abused.
It likes to spend its days buying- their picture postcards,
its evenings hearing how they beat their wives.” — Tub
Globe.
“ E.”: The Australian stage nowadays is seemingly a
dumping place for ladies who are threatened with fashion-
able divorce-court proceedings in their own country. A
third-rate actress is imported on her merits as a first-rate
co-respondent.
Harry Leston, well known amongst us as a teacher of
elocution and stage-business, was 56 last week. Harry is
very young for his age—juvenescent, in fact, his recent
illness notwithstanding. It is now 38 years since he
joined “the profesh."
Whilst tenor Caruso was in that little trouble in
America, the German Kaiser’s second son, Prince Eitel
Fritz, telegraphed to him that he didn’t believe he
pinched the lady. The wire doesn’t seem to have done
Caruso any good, though it will probably serve him as an
advt. in the future, but it has got the German Prince
into much hot water. The press unkindly hints that his
father represents about all the meddlesome omniscience
that Germany can stand just now. As one (Conservative)
journal politely puts it: “The universal conviction is
that the demand for oratorical and telegraphical mani-
festations is adequately covered.”
A new Australian inedodrama has been perpetrated in
Melbourne, by Bert Bailey, William Anderson’s breezy
comedy man, and Ned Duggan, brother of Miss Eugenie
Duggan and stage manager to the Andersonian shows.
It is understood that Bailey, who is the most irresponsible
of comedians, has constructed the serious part of the
drama—the aerated sentiment and the love and the
strong situations. Ned Duggan supplies the humor.
Anderson stages the play shortly.
Tom Dawson, who shares with Fred Bluett (his deadly
rival and firm friend) the topmost position among Aus-
tralian variety comedians, has been three consecutive years
with Rickards. Formerly he was on Adelaide Advertiser
staff, and then managed a photo establishment in the
Holy City. Rickards allowed him to show' what he could
do at Melbourne Opera House one night. He wasn’t
advertised, and no one knew' w'ho he was. The notice
boards at the sides of the stage read, “ Extra Turn.” He
hit 'em, and signed a contract with Rickards to open in
Sydney. Going across in the express he saw himself
described as “Just arrived from London, the eminent
English comedian and grotesque dancer,” or something
of the sort. Some day Dawson hopes to make London
laugh like mad, and, if he does, he w»on’t forget to let it
know that it’s an Australian that is raising the laugh.
Herold Bassett writes re par. in “Poverty Point”
(B. 10/3 /’O7) : I wish to call attention to quite a few
inaccuracies in Mr. Lincoln’s letter :
(1) I have never made, or attempted to make, Mr. Lin-
coln a scapegoat, and had he not written his letters,
should have made no intimation that he was liable for any
part of loss.
(2) Amount of printing ordered by me up to time Mr.
Lincoln took charge of the printing was £127 odd, with
which I thought to finish the tour of Australia.
(3) Mr. Lincoln ordered up to £283 odd in addition.
(4) I thought to guard against any extravagance by
Mr. Lincoln by making over to him an interest in the
tour, and is teas his own suggestion that he be liable in
case of a loss to the extent of 30 p.c.
(5) The printing account had nothing to do with my
insolvency, which was caused by Mr. Lincoln refusing to
pay a share of the losses. Investigation of the facts will
show that any extravagance was not mine.
(6) Never did Mr. Lincoln keep within his estimate of
expenses, and they ran from half again to double the sum
given me. I have his own figures.
(7) Mr. Lincoln’s idea of a “quick tour” is that of a
barnstorming company playing every night at every tin-
pot town through the country. That W'asn’t mine.
According to paragraphs in Paris papers of last month,
Carrie Swain hasn’t done with Frank Gardner yet.
Carrie, after the rupture, wanted half of Gardner’s for-
tune “ by reason of partnership,” but the question of
domicile was raised, and the interesting legal scrap was
postponed till it was settled whether Frank, of the Sitting
Bull countenance, was a Frenchman or a mere casual
tripper from England. The Paris American Register
(Dec. 9) alleges that Carrie threw at the court an affidavit
that Sitting Bull had sworn before the British Vice-
Consul, to the effect that he had resided in France for the
past 10 years ; and it was such a heavy affidavit that
Gardner’s counsel threw up his brief. The case will go
on, therefore, with the great Labori holding up Carrie’s
end of the argument.
A remarkable feature about Sydney and its suburbs is
the continuous increase of minor shows. “Passing”
they may be, but their successors crowd on. The effort
appears to be in showland what Tit-Bits and Snips and
Barks periodicals are in literature. There is still a
creditable support given to drama and opera of a good
school, but the development of taste is not towards that
class of stage performance As a body the public, instead
of paying ss. for one good performance, prefers to pay
ten sixpences for ten separate whiffs of excitement, con-
taining no information of value and leaving no memory
behind them.
“ Harry Browne ” : Re par (B. 13/12/’O6) on Australian
Aboriginalities versus English Chestnuts, for our Vaude-
ville stage, I prophesy : Announcement Mr. Harry
Rickards has much pleasure in announcing that he has
engaged Henry Lawson’s Mitchell for a season. Mitchell
will appear on Saturday next in “Bulletin Aborigin-
alities ” ; typical Australian outback Humor. Scene :
Gum Country. Orchestra: Wild Colonial Boy. Enter
Mitchell, swagman ; sits on his swag, filling pipe and
tells a “ hum ” story, say, a Steelman and Smith ; then a
Chinese Cook in Shearing Shed yarn ; a few blackfellow
stories (“ Plurry ” would be very popular); shearing,
tramping, and jackeroo “ pitches” ; to end with “Mac-
quarie’s Mate.”
H. O. Willard, who has earned the hisses and «,« w j
of the gallery for the last 10 years as the vntain n
way’s and Bilanderson’s bellowdrammers h»«
been frustrated for the last time. Some form of
has attacked his legs, and he is virtually™ I
matinee benefit for him is being- organised at ' A
Theatre Royal. Willard was l finevillainot'nld
d C on°eloh!m. fUlIydeSerVCS &U the kindness that can be
I* is hard to beat the average serio girl for choosing an
inappropriate costume. Whenever "her coon S on!?s
supposed to be the serenade of a buck nigger
the short skirt of a tameless life, but as sSon as the band
strikes up the prelude to the song of Carolina Su-ue who
is imploring her faithless Pompey to come back oh
do-oo Miss Serio can be depended upon to appear in the
kind of rig she regards as male costume. It would save a
lot of trouble and confusion if the serio would just dress
m any old way, but follow the funny man’s example by
a male ng * n ° S6 She means to im P er s°nate
thpnir O of n Ca d l t n lists f willin g to finan ce a new Melbourne
m i d thre ®, Slt ® B are offered, the Eastern Arcade
the old Cycloram a (back of Bourke-street—a site very near
to and similar to the Bijou) and Flinders-street, near the
Cathedral and the Gas office. But T. Bent is talkine- of
shifting the Town Hall into Lonsdale-street, and ufing
the Collins and Swanston streets position for businew
purposes. Part of this land would be an ideal site
for a theatre. Melbourne’s best traffic is now along
Swanston-street, this street having practically wiped out
old Bourke, and the home of melodrama should be where
the people are thickest, so that the crowd can be caught
coming and going. “ I want a theatre right handv for
the people when a ram shower drives them to shelter”
said an old manager to the scribe. A good sharp shower
at about eight o’clock is always worth about £2O to the
manager in possession of the Royal. The fact that people
don t go to the Princess unless they set out with the
deliberate intention of attending a theatre kills it as a
resort for popular melodrama.
A Sydney Herald reporter who went out to see
Katzenjammer Castle at Wonderland City found it all
strangely familiar—especially the racket, and the draughts.
Indeed, he said that if a few barrels of decayed herrings,
to represent the Stinking Fish crv, were scattered round
Katzenjammer might well be his office.
“Slavin’’: I have been song-writing- for music hall
artists and publishers for the past nine years, and dufing
that time have written and composed over 300 songs, yet
I. am practically unknown to the Australian public,
simply because I am an Australian. Publishers inform
me that they cannot attach my name to songs, as the
public will not buy songs unless they are written and
composed by some well-known American or English author.
Scores of my songs have been published as written and
composed by well-known foreigners. One publisher
in Sydney has attached his own name to several of my
songs. lam thinking seriously of journeying to Ameru a
or some other foreign place, and committing bigamy, or
manslaughter, or embalmed beefery, and exporting my-
self back to Australia, in the hope that this foreign-cursed
land will take me to its unmaternal heart.
“R.” : He was a plump, fatuous, smiling man, and as
he sat in the tram, was lost in obvious admiration
of actor Hugh Ward. That curly-headed come-
dian didn’t seem to appreciate the honor of the
situation, and moved to another seat. But his
admirer wouldn’t hold off. He got up and came up smil-
ing for a second round. “Do you know, old man, I
can’t help saying it. I don’t know you, old man.
But I admire you. Shake-—.” Then the fatuous
man tripped over his own large feet and fell
out of the tram—which fortunately had stopped
—and a passing cab nearly ran over him, and
the cabby completely swore at him ; and women shrieked
as he fell; and then everybody laughed ; and the comedian
looked as if he were wishing he could be as funny.
Christchurch is surely becoming demoralised by its
Exhibition. Hitherto it has been a staid city which led
the simple family life in all its purity. Now it is cultivat-
ing the tastes of degenerate Rome in the days when it
walked home from the wild beast show in the cheerful
glow made by the burning of an Early Christian. One of
the sensations at the Exhibition consists of the rescue of
a living woman from the top of a burning building.
Some night the arrangements will perhaps go wrong, and
the lady will not be rescued, and then Christchurch will
have enjoyed itself thoroughly.
“ Snell ” : The jaw of the actor man has more iron in it
than that of the policeman. Came upon an actor man in
Bourke-street the other day, who should have been out
playing leads with the Blood-thunder, Barnstorm, and
Guttersplud Dramatic Co. on its rounds in Gippsland.
He had his right hand in a sling. “ Resting,” he said.
“ Got a hurt in my fight with the villain. You know, I
have to punch him on the jaw in our big quarrel scene.
At least I hit at him, and they clap two planks together
in the wings. The other night I lunged for him as usual,
but miscalculated and got right on to his jaw. This is
the result.” He pointed to the broken limb! “ And the
villain ?” I asked, anxiously. “Oh, he’s playing leads
now,” said the actor man.
“A.E.M.”: The glamor surrounding the chorus lady’s
life fades rapidly when one is in the know. They don’t
get paid unless they’re in the current production. But
they are not allowed to get employment elsewhere
for the period during which they get no salary. When
rehearsing all day they buy their own food, except in the
case of dress rehearsals, when they get coffee and sand-
wiches, but nothing more substantial or more expensive.
In reputable companies the chorus girl may get up to
£2 10s. per week when on tour; when not touring,
she is lucky if she gets 30s.
J. C. Williamson is not the only earthquake realist
Chicago is responsible for a melodrama, “While ’Frisco
Burns.” Earthquake, lire, famine, and the ten plagues
of Egypt are written round the adventures of the blonde,
manly lover, and the grass-green maid is pursued for
four acts by the ruffian who plunders the dead and is
otherwise corrupt and dark-haired.
“ The Ugliest Woman on Earth ” is the high-sounding
title of the latest London melodrama. Ugly women have
been converted into walking posters to advertise the
show, and have drawn great crowds. In some cases their
lack of comeliness has even stopped the traffic.
La Belle Otero had better luck with the diamonds she
received from King Edward (B. 3/l/’O7) than those pre-
sented to her as a mark of esteem by Leopold the
Awful, King of the Belgians. When Leo was going
strong in his admiration of the Spanish dancer, he
handed her over a mass of glittering hardware, presum-
ably paid for out of his ill-gotten Congo profits.
La Belle wore them for some months, when Leo’s ardor
began to cool, and, one day, he suggested that they might
be given a more artistic setting. The lady thought the
same, and, after an interval, Leo brought them back,
looking better than ever. A little later, he kissed Otero
good-bye, and at a subsequent date the gems seemed to
be getting tired of scintillating, and wore such a worried
look that their owner took them to the nearest jeweller’s.
“ Paste,” remarked the man behind the counter, and he
brutally valued the lot at one lonesome quid.
We don’t have the comic-opera law-suit in Australia.
In London, last month, there was a real “Trial by Jury”
case between a tailor and an actress. Plaintiff pulled de-
fendant’s gown down to show how well it fitted, and she
walked “ majestically ” round the court to show how it
rucked up again at once ; and the titled Judge pl a y?*l U P
to them with “ I’m looking for all I’m worth,” and Come
along, pull away,” and even (straight out of the °P era )
“ Come up here by me.” And after a morning of loud
laughter ” the claim of £3 9s. was reduced to £1 75., and
they all went home happy.


“ Locust ” writes
Now that the elections are really over—the last Senate
return has just come in—one can see plainly that the
overdose of Anti-Sosh administered by the daily press of
N.S.W. acted like an overdose of poison, and caused a
beneficent nausea in the electorates. Not only did the
dailies alternately thunder and scold in their leading
columns, and suppress their opponents and puff their
own men in the ordinary and special political columns,
but the war of supplication and objurgation was carried
into other regions which usually don’t meddle with
politics. For example, the “ Land ” and the “ Soil ’’ men
spread themselves to intimidate the farmer by telling
him in parallel columns all he wants to know about
butter-fat and codlin moths, and also the dangers of an
equal division of all his goods under Socialism. The dog
column barked Anti Sosh, the hen column cackled it,
and that other hen column, the “ Ladies Page,” devoted
much space to it between advice on “ How to remove
freckles’’and “How to dress and look smart on small
incomes of £lOOO a year.” Nor was the egg-laying com-
petition column voiceless. There were exceptions—the
shipping column was strangely silent; nor did the births,
marriages and deaths column make any sign ; but these
were the only exceptions.
In our advertising columns will be found par-
ticulars of the dispersal sale of the famous Ranch
Trotting Stud, Glenroy, the property of Messrs. W. B.
Veirs and Alex. Robertson. Amongst the lots to be
offered are the imported American Trotting Stallions,
Dixie Alto (2.24 3-5) Digitalis (2.26 J) and about 60 head of
high-class imported American and colonial bred trotting
brood mares, stallions and young stock. The imported
American trotting stallions and mares were personally
selected by Mr. W. B. Veirs, in America, regardless of
cost. The sale will be conducted by Messrs. Campbell
and Sons, at their City Horse Bazaar, Sydney-road,
Melbourne.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The Great Nerve Tonic for Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains—
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd writes : —I was suffering from acute
neuralgia down the veins of the neck and over the whole
head and face. My mouth was much swollen. lam sub-
ject to these attacks, and was six weeks under a doctor.
After commencing to take “ FISHER’S ” Phospherine I
had immediate relief, and in one day was cured ; there
only remained a slight weakness from the excessive pain I
had endured.
Whatever is the matter with me in the future I will
always use “ FISHER’S ” Phospherine, for it is a most
wonderful MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.
An Infallible Cure for Headache, Brain Fag,
and Indigestion.
FIVE DROPS IN WATER AFTER MEALS IS THE
GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
It takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and makes
the breath sweet and pleasant when TAKEN HALF AN
HOUR BEFORE BREAKFAST.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/- ; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
BE SURE YOU GET “ FISHER’S.”
M4NUFACTURING PHARMACY,
FISHER & CO., Chemists and Druggists, 337 George Street, opp. General Post Office, Sydney
The latest British ohampion of American Henry
Arthur Jones, whose new play, “The Hypocrite,” was
recently produced at the Hudson Theatre, New York.
Speaking of the American language the other day to Yale
University students, he said, “It has more bite and
sting, and swarms with lusty young idioms, struck off
red hot with vitality. I hear them as I walk your streets.
I meet them as I read your journals, and try to under-
stand your politics. Your language is better fitted than
ours for the modern living drama.”
London Savoy, the home of Gilbert and Sullivan operas*
started a series of revivals last month with “ The Yeomen
of the artistically the best of the lot. It was a
startling success. Gallery enthusiasts began to gather
at noon, the doors were opened at four, tea was served
by the management, and the crowd then sang all the
best-known Sullivan airs till starting-time. At the end,
there was a wild scene of enthusiasm, especially when W.
S. Gilbert took a call. And the co. was rather a scratch
one, though all the papers agree that the Jack Point—
one Workman, with only a provincial reputation before
—is a real artist. In the original production, in 1889,
Wallace Brownlow and Courtice Pounds both had leading
parts.
Ada Ward, who once pleased Australian playgoers as a
handsome Rosalind, is about to revisit these parts with
an address entitled “ From the Stage to Christ.” Miss
Ward made her first Australian appearance in 1877, as
leading actress in Dumas and Nowski’s “Danicheff,”
under W. S. Lyster’s management. She again acted in
Australia about a decade later, and soon after gave up
the stage to turn “ evangelist.”
Genevieve Ward’s age is more or less settled by dates
given by herself in one of the year-books. She says she was
born in New 7 York, U.S.A., March 27, 1838 ; married Count
deGuerbel in Warsaw at 17 ; appeared asLucrezia Borgia
(under name of Ginevra Guerrabella), at La Scala, Milan,
in 1856. After some years of opera, her voice was in-
jured through over-exertion, but she taught singing in
New York for a long period, and did not make her dbbut
in drama till 1873, when she appeared at Manchester
Theatre Royal as Lady Macbeth. First appeared in
•‘Forget-Me-Not” at London Lyceum, 1879.
“E.F.”: I can speak of Miss Genevieve Ward’s age
from my own youthful impressions of her performance at
the Adelphi, early in 1874. She played a girl part in
“ The Prayer in the Storm,” and I remember to have
been struck by the absurdity of her impersonation. Her
remarkable face, her voice, figure, bearing, and O, her
legs, which showed under a short skirt, were, to my
boyish eyes, undoubtedly elderly. She reminded me of
Madame Celeste, an aged French actress, who had been
playing youthful heroines at the same theatre in the
previous year, and whom I, as a boy, had regarded with
horror. Madame Celeste, by the way, admitted to being
born in 1814. My next recollection of Miss Genevibve
Ward dates back to March, 1884 —nearly 23 years ago.
She was playing the name part in “Forget-Me-Not,” at
the old Princess’s Theatre, Meb.ourne, and she looked
almost as old on the stage as off it. Any Australians who
met her at that time will, I think, support me in the sup-
position that she was at least a woman of 50. “J.A.C.,”
in last Bulletin, suggests that Miss Ward “ must surely
have a good way to go before she reaches 70.” I am
practically convinced that she would have to go back-
wards to arrive at 70.
“0.K.”: A “Poverty Pointer” mentions Miss Edie
Stack, a well-known swimmeress, as “ a striking addition
to the Melb. panto, chorus.” There’s another damsel of
the same name—Miss Freda Stack—who cuts a charming
little figure as a dancer (with a sweet little voice) in the
same panto. She is one of Miss Brenan’s young pupils,
and this is only her first attempt as a professional
“ auxiliary,” but she shows all the style of one born for
the stage.
“Moff”: I went to “an Australian performance by
Australian artists for Australian people ” the other
night. There was a nigger on the stage, and he seemed
to dominate it. Presently, when two white women
stood up to do their turn they “ chucked ” the large nig.
under the chin, with a remark to the effect that they’d
“be happy with a boy like” the nig. aforesaid. An Austra-
lian performance 1 Heaven help us! And “ for Austra-
lian people ” 1 My next-door neighbor was a yellow pagan
from Hankow.
“ Hamer” : The success of the entertainments at which
prizes are given away to attract the otherwise indifferent
crowd is an evidence of the preponderance of the love of
gambling over the love of the theatre ; and yet Australia
is a theatre-loving country. The bare chance of winning
a small prize from a houseful of other hopeful people is
sufficient to attract a big audience. Writer was with a
show at one time which, after playing to houses averaging
£l5 a night, and going as low as £5, gave a bicycle away,
and that evening it scooped a cheque running into
three figures. The bike (given below cost as an
advertisement for its make) cost £5; the fine for
running a lottery, and the cost of proceedings took
£8 ; and a couple of pounds covered the extra advertis-
ing. There is a town in Australia, however, that turns a
cold shoulder to prize nights. A stranded mummer, who
was running dramatic classes in that locality, drew a big
house to one of his shows by the offer of “ a prize worth
three guineas.” When a stout, elderly, countrywoman
in the shilling seats had been adjudged the winner, the
prize was announced as a quarter’s tuition in the dramatic
art, under the artist who gave the show. When that
stout cockyess heard that she was expected, as a prize ,
to trudge three miles into town twice a week and learn
to be Juliet on a balcony, or Mrs. Macbeth, walking in
her sleep with a night-dress on, her rage was terrible.
“Snell”: A taste for the more extravagant forms of
melodrama is not necessarily an indication of mental
weakness in the young or of senile decay in the old,
although, speaking generally, it does go with an artistic
development on a plane with that of the Bosjes man or
the Westralian gin. At one metropolitan theatre, the
other night, I sat behind a very learned professor, who
was as much wrought upon by the strident acting and
the frantic situations of an amazingly bad bellowdrama
as the most susceptible factory girl, hanging with dis-
ordered hair over the gallery rail. Nothing in the way of
butchers’ heroics was too steep for the intellectual giant.
He forgot his surroundings in his excitement, and cried:
“Yes, yes !” “ God bless my soul 1 ” “ She is not guilty 1 ”
“Ah, ah, they will catch him!” “Thank heaven!”
And when the curtain came down, for an interval he sat
back, panting as if he had just run half-a-mile, and
mopped the perspiration from his dome-like brow.
The Inky Way.
“Onawe”: The dishonest methods of the Australian
daily press are apparent, not merely through the medium
of their own unprincipled rags, but by the outside in-
fluences Which they can exert. Maoriland seems to be
at their mercy for its cable news. A glaring example was
the recent Commonwealth elections. It was cabled over
the day after the contest that, “Judging by latest re-
turns, Mr. Reid’s majority in the House will not be
more than two. ” This distinctly implied that anti-Sosh had
wiped the ground with its opponents. Of course, a few
of us know how to interpret this bosh, but the great
majority receive a first impression which isn’t easily dis-
lodged. There are strong evidences, by the way, in this
State, as in Australia, that the daily press is losing its
influence in politics, and what wonder? When Seddon
wiped the Opposition out, here in Maoriland, at his first
personal appeal to the country, he had the whole press of
the country against him, with the exception of about three
journals, and the majority of the papers were against him
to the end, except during his wild jingoistic jag in the
farm-burning days. And Richard seemed to find it a
great deal better to have the daily press for his enemy
than his friend.
* • * *
“ Hamer Par (B. 20/12/’O6) about M.L. papers re-
fusing to comment on exhibits at the Christchurch
show except as advertisements reminds writer that the
M.L. papers—especially those of Wellington and Christ-
church—are, more than any other journals, purely adver-
tising affairs. They wouldn’t announce the second
coming of the Lord, if it happened in those parts, unless
the manager guaranteed an advertisement; and if it
wasn’t a good, solid ad. the notice would only be a small
par. I once collected some information about a per-
sonage regarding whom M.L. was rather curious, and
tried to get rid of it; but there wasn’t a paper that would
take it as news ; everyone wanted to collect something
from the personage for advertisement.
* * « *
A good deal of the country journalism of Maoriland
still consists of the dull vituperation of the Potts and
Slurk era, and clamors around in the dark ages of litera-
ture with such gems as the following on its reptile con-
temporary :
“ A poor weak-headed starveling, a half human smirch
on a decent profession, who grossly maltreats and
butchers the King’s English, and whose daily jabbering-
on politics and other things proclaims him to be as near
an approach to the congenital idiot or the mental par-
alytic as it is possible to be, and yet be permitted to go
at large. He is in every sense a human superfluity,
something that is not wanted, that serves no known use
ful service in the plan of creation but that must be pro-
vided for, a moral excrescence, a mental wart, an ugly
protuberance on the intellectual face of Nature.”
And the reply :
“ We have our faults, and many though they be our
captious critics cannot truthfully say that they ever saw
the journalistic ‘we’ under the table of the sanctum
sanctorum with an empty whisky bottle clasped to his
breast and the editorial chair in the occupancy of the
printer’s devil.” .
England is supposed to be slow in some things, but it
dropped this dreary kind of abuse thirty years ago. Even
the most backblocky paper in Queensland has got
beyond the Slurk stage these days, and in Queensland
journalism has struggled further out among the wombats
than in any other State.
* * » *
“ The Colonel ” : The death of William Carrington re-
vives memories of Melbourne Herald when it was owned
by Sam Winter and James Halfey, and (on latter’s death)
by Winter alone. These were the Little Collins-street
days, when the Herald was something approaching an
evening paper, giving all the news of the day sanely, with
leaders from the pen of George Walstab, instead of
ragged items by boys and ill-paid casuals, with slipshod
and yapping leaderettes by the printer’s-devil-knows-
wliom. Carrington was leader of the staff then. He
was helpful in the kindliest way to newcomers; I
ought to know, for I beg - an regular journalism
under Winter, James Middleton (the daddy sub. and all-
round journalist) and Carrington. “ Sweet William’s ”
innate affability ran into his prettily descriptive pen now
and then with rather gushy effect, but his occasional
“specials” were readable and grammatical, anyhow.
He took a live interest in the Newsboys’ Try Ex-
celsior Class, which the Herald fathered spaciously.
The class met in a music-firm’s lumber-room, higher
up the street, close to the old city lock-up, behind
the Town Hall, and my first regular night engage-
ment was its Friday entertainment, previously at-
tended by Carrington. Between us we ran that
highly-interesting and deserving little show into
more space than such things ever get nowadays.
When the Herald shifted through many proprietaries
into its present faked up bonded store, they made Car-
rington editor of the Weekly Times. He worked at high
pressure, and did a lot towards hurting the Leader (Age
weekly) in the country. But his mental equilibrium
suffered, and for a long time before his death the good-
hearted William was in retirement. He was ever a gen-
tlemanly, genial journalist, who neither drank nor
smoked. He came originally from Tasmania.
THE CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was very youthful—also fresh and full of mirth
I yearned to know exactly what the critics thought me
worth,
So I seized a treasured poem, and I hurried down the
street,
Where I found a carping critic, and I squatted at his
feet.
He was honored, he was mighty, and his lightest word
was law,
And he said my limpid lyric was the worst he ever saw.
So I thanked him most politely—l was very calm and
cool,
But I whispered to my conscience, “ He’s a most tremen-
dous fool 1 ”
Then I sought another writer, and I said, “ I want to
know
What you think about this poem ; ” and his voice was
soft and low.
He read it, and advised me to proceed upon the land,
And I prayed that he would perish as I shook him by the
hand.
Then I had a fit of thinking, and I muttered, “It is
Fate 1
Up to now my choice of critics has been most unfortunate-
They were evidently biassed—they were jealous—they
were dense.
I will search until I find one with a trace of common
sense 1 ”
Then I hit upon a simple and delightful little plan
With a formula as follows : “ Er—l say ! I knew a man
Who has got a knack of writing—now and then he has
a fit
Of composing little verses. Just see what you think of
it.”
Then I gather round the critic and I hand the beast my
screed,
And I curse him in my whiskers as I watch him grimly
read,
For he never fails to shudder, though he says, “You
ought to send
This effusion to a paper—or at least advise your friend ! ”
I have tried a many critics, and I’ll try a many more
If I have to keep on searching when I reach the golden
shore,
For I want appreciation, and there must be one I know
Who will like my little verses—p’raps he perished long
ago.
I will wander in the Spaces with the stars and planets
tipped,
Hunting always for my critic with my ghostly manu-
script.
And I’ll seize him when I see him and I’ll drag him to a
cloud,
And I’ll seat him down upon it whilst I read my works
aloud.
I am writing—always writing—and the odes mount one
by one,
And I think I’ll have a thousand by the time my race is
run ;
But it really doesn’t matter—it is all the same to me,
Once I find the proper critic, I can use Eternity.
Whilst the surplus stock of aeons rust within the store of
Time
We’ll admire the fair construction and the beauty of each
rhyme :
And there’ll be no interruptions save the songs of joy
afar,
When the Blessed Ones foregather in the radiance of a
star.
VIC.
KODAK.
THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the 66,000 th celestial conversazione David the king
chanced to meet Aaron the priest in the refreshment-
room, And behold Aaron wept bitterly. And he spake
and said:
“ No, I never got a fair deal from editors. As a literary
man yourself, you know what they are. ’Cept to some.
Now, there’s that sister Miriam of mine. When Moses
occupied the editorial divan, there was no blue-pencilling
for Mirry, or for others who could not write for sour
citrons. But as for me, his own brother ”
And Aaron resumed his weep.
Now David was a subtil man. He strolled out into the
main reception-room and sat him down beside Miriam.
And he lifted up his voice and said :
“ Fine thing that timbrel song of yours, Miss Miriam."
And Miriam answered and said :
“ Ah, but you should have seen it before Moses got to
work on it with his blue pencil. I was never fairly
treated by that man—never. He had his favorites—
Aaron and a host of others who didn’t know a rondeau
from a cabbage. But as for me, his own sister ”
And David smiled.
vie. '
N.L.
Trachseotomy in the Never-
Never.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A BLAZING day, with the sun streaming
down on several tents and a scattered
pile of buildings—the latter a veritable
rookery. The tents are inches deep with red
dust. Beds are jammed together, and patients
everywhere.
Tired and footsore, the few white-capped ones
bravely struggle to supply the never-ending wants
of their charges, some feeling bitter and others
heart-sick, yet trying to hide their feelings, as if
ashamed to admit the work too much.
Then, in through the hospital gates, as only
one drives who knows what a race for life means,
comes a man holding a girl-mite of three in his
arms. “Accident?” questions a patient whose
bed is in view of the window. He receives no
answer. Nurse is wondering where to put the
case.
Outside in the hall the man stands holding a
choking child in the agonies of diphtheria. For
one instant the matron pauses. There is no
operating theatre, no isolation ward, and few
nurses—certainly none to spare for special duty.
Then, in her usual tone, she speaks to the senior
nurse : “ Prepare the large tent for an immediate
operation—trachseotom y. ’ 1
A hasty note to the two honorary doctors sends
the wardsman flying across the paddocks—on foot,
of course. There is no horse, but the wards-
man has done that run often, and is in good
training.
The nurses fly, rather than run, to their work.
All else stands still for the time being. The
typhoids have to wait for their drink or sponge.
One peevish convalescent looks up as nurse passes
with her arms full. He says : “My arrowroot is
not quite sweet enough, nurse.” “Must wait,”
says nurse, promptly.
“The doctors are here,” announces a nurse,
“ and everything we have is in the tent ” The
old thin medico and the young fat one have both
made good time. The little patient is on the
table not a minute too soon. The father waits
anxiously outside the tent, trying to get a glimpse
of what is going on. There are other patients in
the tent, but they are screened off, and all are
wondering what is about to happen. ‘‘ Feathers! ”
orders the surgeon. There are none. The matron
speaks in a tragic whisper to the little probationer.
“Catch the rooster, nurse. Feathers we must
have.” The wardsman has just returned, panting,
from his message. The nurse is panting too,
having helped to carry tables, etc., down to the
tent. Despite their weariness they overtake the
rooster, and do a deed on him that outrages his
finer feelings.
Then there is joy all round. The operation
has succeeded. At sunset the hospital has re-
sumed the tenor of its crowded, dusty way. A
tailless rooster stands outside demanding the
return of his caudal appendage, and threatening
legal proceedings.
PRO BRO.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
G.V.N. : We’re constantly girding at the
blackmail to which winners of Tatt.’s sweeps are sub-
jected. But with little avail. Tatt.’s points trium-
phantly to the fact that the long-eared public patronises
more fervently the sweeps of which half the prizes are
stolen by owners than the “Specials,” in which black-
mail is impossible Pepitea : Hardly suitable. We
believe in arguing in our leading columns, and as much
as possible poetising in our verse columns. It’s no re-
commendation to a bit of verse that “ the facts are
right.” Paul Oupid : All been said before Claudie :
One lobster-drunk story enough for the present
Hard Luck : Thanks, but that same yarn came from
six different towns this year Mooch About: Aus-
tralian surgeons do some wonderful operations (at Prince
Alfred Hospital, Sydney, they operated once on an idiot
girl, and gave her a mind and a soul), but the yarns don’t
get into the papers often, because etiquette is so strict.
.... Wang : Brown’s yarn was, of course, an absurd lie ;
but not so absurd that it mightn’t be taken seriously, if
printed; and the Abo. column doesn’t want to deceive
anyone—only to revel in the harmless, humorous, juicy
lie Ande : You want much more skill yet before you
can make a living as a writer. To get more practice,
you should try and do something for your local paper
H. McL. : Th’at fact wouldn’t prejudice your copy at all.
Indeed, The Bulletin’s dream after a very gorgeous
night is to get on the contributing staff a man who has
been in Hades. He would have such a lot of interesting
stories to tell Long’un : (1) You write a fair para-
graph. (2) Tiie B. hasn’t the conscience to boom Beer as
a cure for indigestion. It might have cured you, but
there are as many varieties of indigestion as there are of
religion ; to most varieties Beer is a poison P.B.
(Yum Yum); Indifferent copy to come from such a
sweet place.. ..San: Southerly not fresh enough
T.T.E. : You aren’t a poet, and you’d better resign your-
self to the fact.. ..Manaku : Thanks ; it was a slip ; not
worth correcting Chicken-an’-ham : Glad of contribu-
tions from all sources. Sample submitted hardly bright
enough P.J.D. : The parted lovers, and the smile, and
the tear, and the sigh, and the little song she used to
sing, and the ramblings by the sea—lo and behold ! they
have all been done before P.: “ Man of Intellect ” too
morbid.... Tris: “Triolet” rather a small atom
E.J.L.: “ Idiot ” declined. Scrappy and melancholy....
O.J. W.: Poem about the weather being d—d hot rejected.
.... J.S.J.; “ Summer Storm” has points, but hardly the
right kind of points W.A. : Gave up “Ruby” as a
bad job. Why call her “Sweet Boo”? Signature
illegible (address, College Hill, Auckland) : There is just
one discrepancy in your argument—The Bulletin has
refused many columns of that person’s advertisements.
Don’t judge everybody by yourself Frog and Toad:
Joke received with a glassy eye and a metallic laugh
J. : “ Unto Death ”is so vague that the story is left
out, but one can see the shadow of the tail of the story,
and it isn’t pleasant J.D.G.: Last batch of sugges-
tions missed fire Ugly Duck: “Black Sheep” is too
loud a whoop for wickedness. Wickedness only c-'.is
for mild applause Bluey : “ River ” is pretty but
a hackneyed subject. “ Ham “ hardly does justice
to the immense topic of Pig T.H.R. : Man 3' thanks.
F.B.F. : Nancy went to the mountains, and—after
three verses—you went after her. That’s all Der-
went: Still weary of rose-leaves O.S. : Also depressed
by water-lilies, even though you spell them in a fresh
manner Resurgam : Please don’t! F.J.B. :
May “ interest quite a lot of people ” in Brisbane.
It doesn’t interest us Arthur Aola : One is trite.
Others almost slipped stealthily in, but somehow failed
at the last moment E.M.J. : Glad you liked the
Blue Mountains, but it wasn’t necessary to tell us in
verse Syd C., N7M, and other New Year poets: No
need to resurrect 1906... .A. H. : “ Summer showers ” and
“nectar sip,” “vernal showers” and “ruby lip”—we
seem to have heard all these before.. ..P.J.M. : It may be
original; you aren’t F.J.L. : Too laboriously funny....
A. 8.5.: A rather puerile production L.E.A.: Realistic,
but the theme is hackneyed C.D. : Hadn’t the ghost of
a chance Outcast: Thanks for your good wishes. Sorry
the screed isn’t good enough.. ..Crotan :Rather vague and
incoherent.. ..W.M.R. : Candidly, then, there’s not much
promise in them K.K.: Short, certainly, but too thin.
W. Ang: We’re rather tired of the controversy as to
whether the cocky is mean or n0t....J.L.D.: But whybe
buried at all? Cheer up and live and write no more
poetry S.: That chicken baby was a fact in Sydney
about two years ago. Not time yet for it to ripen into a
graceful lie Frenchie : Glad of your good wishes, but,
please, remember that The B. gets about 100 letters a
day, and can’t keep in mind all the letters of even the
most amiable enthusiasts M.M.: Re “ Knight-errant.”
Can only suggest that you should gird up your loins and
pursue the faithless bloque Charlie: “Apostrophe”
rejected with scorn Star : Merely twinkles
Sydney W.: “Mater Dolorosa” is a good idea too ama-
teurishly treated. Others lack distinction. Keep 0n....
Keon Ted: “Smith and Me” a rather plain drunk
K. : “Michael O’Flynn” is a purposeless rhyme
M.J.M.: The story of the man who habitually brought
home strange women to live in the house with him-
self and his daughters is far too steep J.S.R.: Don’t
agree with your contempt for the man who “puts on
canvas an Australian hill, swamp or gully, or gum-tree,
and calls it Art.” If he puts it on well it is Art, and the
unhappy fact that the bit of land is Australian and not
English or Italian doesn’t make it any the less Art
T.P. Deegan and S.R.T.: Little originality and much
diffuseness.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.B. : Picture very crude, and why should the pig be
so anxious to get into the cave? E.D.: Both jokes
and pictures still below par Jackson : Haven’t decided
whether the idea or the execution is worse. When the
point is settled will let you know Stacky : One may
serve H.J.0.: Yes, The Bulletin likes to help
immature talent —but to maturity, not to immature publi-
cation. Your little friend seems to have a natural
ability which should be worth training L.F.: To
illustrate Japan by a monkey is no more “offensive”
than Russia by a bear, England by a bull or lion, France
by a rooster. It’s part of the etiquette of cartooning.
You should send in now a year’s subscrip-
tion to The Lone Hand. It does not matter
what part of Australia you live in, send in
promptly on reading this and you may be enrolled
among the Fifty Foundation Subscribers. The
Lone Hand—The Bulletin’s new magazine-
will be one of the institutions of the Common-
wealth.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine,
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Bead the following statement:—
The Hon. Joseph Blumenthal (Tax-Commissioner),
writes “I am pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises,
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years.
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to you,
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
‘ EABOSCOPE ’ we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt Sc., Sydney, N.S.W.
Tii those Afflicted with Sore Eyes
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.
HAVE YOU TRIED . .
ROSS’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion.
The great Australian Remedy. This marvellous
preparation is an absolute specific for Sandy Blight
and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout
the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note
for 1/9 to the
Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO.,
631 George St., Sydney.
•V BEWARE OF THE MAE WHO HAS SOMETHIN!} JUST
A 8 GOOD.
Then there is ....
HELLO, THERE!
YOU MUST HAVE A
CRACKSHOT
~ CAMERA
PRICE ONLY 7 /g
A Perfect Gem, carries six
Plates, size 3£ x 2iin. ;
postage in N.S.W., 9d.
THE WINDSOR,
OUR GUINEA CAMERA, carries
12 Plates 4J x 3|in. (J-plate).
THE METEOR,
15/-, Magazine Carrie* 12 Plate*
4J x 3Jin. (J-plate). Postage,
N.S.W. 1/3.
HARRINGTON’S Famous No. 0 VICTOR
R.R. Lens;
Rapid Shutter;
New Model;
Size of Picture, 41 x 31in. PRICE 30/- Postage, N.S.W., 1/3. New Improvements-
For Higher Grades, we stock the World’s best makes —THE COERZ-ANSCHUTZ, VOIGTLANDER,
THORNTON-PICKARD, &c., &c., Prices from 3 TO 25 GUINEAS.
m ejm IOCO Have a Good Lens in your Oamera. We can fit you with the BEST —The Collinear,
LC/VOCQ< Voigtlander, Aldis, Beck, Dallmeyer, Goerz, Zeiss, &e.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
386 GEORGE BT. (Near G.P.0.), SYDNEY
AND AT BRISBANE
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
In one thing worms have the advantage of
some men—they don’t have to learn to crawl.
• • * *
Too much fuss has been made about the
New Year Banquet at which New York’s Smart
Set sat down to dinner with pigs. Can’t people
choose the company that suits them ? And didn’t
those people choose well ?
* * * •
In a Sydney daily paper, the other day,
“ choice ” apples were quoted at 9s. to 10s. a case;
“jam lots” at Is. 6d. to 2s. N.S.W. Board of
Health could do some good by vigorous inspec-
tion of the fruit at Is. 6d. a case that is to be
boiled into jam for human consumption.
• • * *
The Rev. Harry Worral, the Yic. parson
who libelled Parliament, says that no hotel-
keepers will go to Heaven. Perhaps, but we
never heard of the clergymen of Heaven; yet
we’ve often heard of the hosts of Heaven.
* * * *
“ Did you give your husband any provoca-
tion ? ” was lately asked of a slightly deaf Mel-
bourne wife whose husband had rebuked her in
the strenuous fashion customary on Yarra-side.
“Yes,” she answered, “we have eleven children.”
* * * *
A (Vic.) shire, the other day, increased
its rate from Is. to Is. 6d. in the £1 in order to
start making up the shortage of its late secretary
—now in Pentridge. Then it appointed a new
secretary at £5O per annum. And it probably
expects that man to be honest, too.
FROM HIS POINT.
HER: “ There, now; What do you think that hat's like?” Him: “ Like a week's screw.”
The enthusiastic Imperialism of the late
Louis Spitzel, millionaire, presents a very
humorous appearance in the light of the claim
made against his British estate by lawyer Woolf,
on behalf of Melbourne creditors. The creditors
have got a quittance in full from the British
executors of the Hempire-loving millionaire. To
have raised a legal question in the British Court
would have been to give publicity to the
Imperialist’s shady Australian past. The execu-
tors, therefore, agreed to pay all the liabilities of
the uncertificated insolvent, together with 23
years’ interest on the money, and legal expenses
appertaining to this remarkable claim. The
ghost of Spitzel should rejoice to think how he
afforded his creditors a strong incentive to
Imperialism. They will get their long-owed money
(with interest) because they belong to an Empire
on whose Insolvency Courts the sun never sets.
In making the startling assertion that
Adam and Eve didn’t “fall,” Rev. Reggie
Campbell, of London City Temple, overlooks the
fact that he is robbing many sanctimonious
dames of a dearly-cherished privilege. Those
ladies find a certain delight in being able to
regard another member of the sex as a “ fallen
woman,” even if she is, like Mrs. Adam, a distant
relative.
» * * *
There is something quite German about the
story which comes from Queenscliff (Vie.) fort con-
cerning a gunner who saw his children threatened
by a 10ft. shark, and in rescuing them, gave the
alarm to his mates. One of the latter rushed out
with a rifle, and, in defiance of military regula-
tions, fired a couple of shots at the shark, which
had just lost its dinner, whereupon “he was
placed under arrest and ordered to be confined to
barracks.” The military authorities indignantly
“deny ” the story, explaining that the man who
had violated the regulations by trying to kill a man-
eating shark had not been confined to barracks at
all. He had only been reprimanded.
* » * •
Here is a hotch-potch of divorce and
divorcees. The papers have already told the yarn
of how American millionairess, Anna Gould (of
the old Jay family) divorced her count, de
Castellane. Now, if neither party changes its
alleged mind, the divorced de Castellane is going
to marry the widow of M. Menier, the chocolate
man, who was also married once to Baron
Hirscli’s adopted son, but divorced him, where-
upon Baron Hirsch’s adopted son married the
sister of Lord Gerard. So far as the Goulds,
Meniers, and Hirschs, all millionaires, are con-
cerned, motor-cars seem to have been invented to
let them get quickly between churches and divorce
courts.
• * • *
Another woman has turned up in Adelaide
with the information that she “has lost her
memory.” Where do all these lost memories get
to? Do the police ever drag the harbors for
them, or search the scrub, or advertise ? There’s
quite a number of lost memories in Australia just
now ; it’s time some of them were found.
* * * »
An American journalist toured Maoriland
last year, and an article entitled “Where Women
Rule,” in the Woman’s Magazine, is the startling
result. According to him, the curfew tolls at 10
p.m. in Maoriland, and all the youths go home at
the first clang, for, “thanks to the purity of the
lives of Maoriland women, and their upholding
the morality of the nation, there is not a single
immoral house in the entire colony of a million
people.” From these sublime moral heights he
drops to the quality of the tea —“ tea which must
have received awards from the gods of mythology
in days of old.” William Bruce Leffingwell is the
name of the gentleman responsible for this guff.
Perhaps he spells his name at times Laughing-
well.
* * * •
A Caliban, ostensibly hawking peaches,
threw himself upon the lawn of a N.S.W. Judge’s
house, one afternoon lately, and howled till
Ermine toddled down for a look. Caliban
declined to move till an ambulance was sent for,
and, as the Judge expected company, a sovereign
was offered as a bribe to go away. Caliban took the
sovereign, but, as the police informed the Judge
next day, the alternative had varied considerably.
The sovereign was top-notch, Caliban having, on
the same plea, accepted 10s., 7s. 6d., 55., and
half-a-crown from the owners of other lawns on
the same afternoon.
“Bargain sales,” or something of the
kind, seem to produce strange ideas of value in
the feminine mind. At St. Kilda beach (Melb.),
one woman remarked to a man in charge that she
would take two of the penny chairs. She and her
small son were laboriously conveying the chairs
towards the tram, when they were hauled back
and informed that the modest “brown” merely
represented the hire value of the furniture.
VAIN.
THE CIVIL SERVANT: “'Pon my word, old
chap, I've discovered that history really
docs repeat itself."
THE BANK CLERK: “ Ye-es."
THE C.S.: “ Ye-es. The pattern of my new
summah trowsers is identically the same as
that I had three yeahs ago."
(They are both so overcome by this mighty
truth that they are forced to have two lemon
squashes immediately.)
The little Melbourne ’Erald has done a
dreadful thing. Learning by cable that the
Duke of Connaught was going, with his wife and
his daughter (the Princess Patricia, who wanted
to marry the King of Spain, but Alfonso was too
fond of Patricia’s plump cousin), on a tour to the
Straits Settlements, the ’Erald vowed that the
gallant Duke must come to Australia also, and
rushed the Federal and State Ministers with thesug-
gestion. They looked at the ’Erald reporter with
a glazed, imperial eye, and said, parrot-rotically
(that’s the nearest we can get to the spelling)—“ A
splendid idea.” Minister Sam Mauger (Defence),
instead of falling heavily on the reporter, and
pushing him down Parliament-house steps, cried
“By Jingo !” and said that he had just thought
of the same thing himself. (Which suggests that
besides wrecking the ’Erald office for this pre-
cious suggestion, there’s a call to wreck Mauger’s
hat-shop too.) The bill for the Duke of York
was about a quarter of a million-enough to build
a mail steamer or a warship. Ducal visits are an
expensive luxury; and all they do is to add a
little to the good-natured contempt which the
man in the street has for royalty.
* « • 9
Most of the Australian Ministers who have
spoken on the question of inviting the Duke of
Connaught to visit Australia show a feeling like
that of a worker in a big Australian factory who
is asked by a busybody to contribute to a “pre-
sentation ” to some unheard-of person in the firm’s
London house. The dunned toiler remarks:
“ I don’t want to seem mean, but who is he, any-
way ? Oh, well, if I must ” —— And accordingly
the nonentity who doesn’t want a testimonial gets
it from those who certainly don’t want to give it,
all because of the inevitable busybody—in this
case represented by the newspapers.
* * * *
The United States, it is reported, will cut
—or attempt to cut—the Panama Canal with
Chinese coolie labor. The decision flies in, the
face of reason and experience. Now that American
science has solved the first great difficulty in
Panama by exterminating the mosquitoes, which
disseminated yellow fever and malaria, white
men can work there; and in the wake of white
labor, there is no doubt, would come machinery
reducing the actual manual labor to a minimum.
The Yellow Man will work cheaply, but slowly
and inefficiently, and his importation will add
another race problem to America. The United
States, where the population has to roast a nigger
or two every week to keep one racial difficulty in
check, should be the last country to venture on
another experiment in slave labor.
“Philo”: Re
effective life-
saving appara-
tus for the
dangerous
and much-
frequented
beaches
about Svd-
ne y. Un-
doubtedly the
best, and, in-
cidentally, the
cheapest, life-
saver is the
canvas-cased
cork belt that ties
around the body.
With this device
an indifferent swim-
mer may go to a res-
cue with safety, and
by taking out another
belt for the victim he
can easily support his
patient. This saves the
great expenditure of
strength required in
keeping afloat a help-
less, water - weighted
body, at the same time
retaining a hold on the
bobbing, wriggling, cir-
cular devil of a buoy.
To force one’s way
through chokingbreak-
ers, pushing a large,
unwieldy buoy on the
end of a long, heavy,
water-soaked ro.'e, at
which the sand seems
to drag as though it
were possessed of a
cuttle-fish, takes all
the strength out of a
man before he reaches
the drowner. Also,
the rope is too easily
tangled, and it. gets
“bellied” —that is, it
curves between the man on
the end and the beach —which
makes it still more unmanage-
able. Instead of rope, pliable
wire, wound around a reel set on wheels, should be
supplied. It is less unwieldy than rope, and far
more easily run out, and does not tangle or
“belly.” Also it cleaves its way through the
water and sand instead of sagging along the bot-
tom like a drugged whale.
The Judkins cry to abolish the military
canteens still continues in Australia; and the
present Defence Administration seems inclined to
accede to the clamor and effect, by underhand
means, what Parliament refused to sanction.
Worth noting therefore that—
Resolutions favoring the restoration of the American
Army canteen for the sale of beer and light wines to
soldiers, under proper restrictions, have been unani-
mously adopted by Advance Tent, Independent Order of
Rechabites, of Washington, U.S.A., said to be the oldest
temperance organisation in the world.
Practical result of abolishing the military can-
teens in U.S.A. has been an increase of drunken-
ness among soldiers.
A Melbourne undertaker has an arrange-
ment with the Government to convey all found-
deads to the morgue, free of cost, on the off-chance
of getting the burial. When a body is fished out
of the river or bay, the police telephone for Mould,
who conveys it to the slabs, and then hunts round
for whatever bereaved there may be. When he
informs them that “ we took the deceased to the
morgue, you know,” he usually gets the planting
job, and then departs to put his plumes in curl-
papers for the morrow.
* * * •
Two of the well-found and splendidly-
equipped vessels of the Sydney Ferries became
temporarily disabled last week. One lost her
propeller up the Parramatta River, while • the
crack boat of the fleet broke her steering gear at
Circular Quay jetty. The locality of the accident
in each case prevented danger to passengers. But
the Sydney Ferries and the Balmain Ferry Co.,
in their search for profits, run their vessels across
the Heads to Middle Harbor in practically all
weathers, and, had either of these accidents
occurred while rounding Middle Head in a lumpy
north-east swell, the result to a crowded ferry
boat would have been awful. These ferry boats
are ferry boats, and not excursion steamers, and
though admittedly more than well-found, acci-
dents must sometimes happen. On a fine, bright
afternoon it is quite common to see a heavy roll
coming in through the Heads. Should a
ferry steamer suddenly become disabled and
helpless when staggering across the entrance, the
loss of life will be counted in hundreds.
UPRIGHT ADAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Adam did not fall." —Cabled statement of London
parson.
Oh, Adam noble, Adam good and brave,
Father of men who yarned with angels haughty,
What slanders have been uttered o’er your grave,
Declaring you were naughty !
We’ve been accustomed, with a squinting eye,
To thank you for your sin—although we chid it;
And, after all (so holy critics cry),
You never did it 1
The groves of Eden never saw you grin
That knowing grin we’ve thought of you as grinning ;
You never sinned enough to sin the sin
Which justifies our sinning.
Adam, we’re disappointed folk to-day,
No longer can we blame while we adore you ;
But if you didn’t do the thing they say—
We’ll do it for you.
VIC.
P.
A BARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dull dogs 1 dull dogs ! they plot and plod alon ,
While we poor careless hounds are making merry.
They grow inanely rich —we sing a song,
And so, by divers roads, we reach the Ferry,
Where all our bones —e’en those we wear —we throw
To avaricious relatives a-prowling,
And they, in turn, must do the same and go
The road we went. So, friends, continue howling !
VIC.
KODAK.


AN EASY BOOT
A
N easy boot—yet a boot with character
and smart shape—built to retain its
shapeliness and to be a splendid
wearer. We have known a pair of
these boots to take three half-soles
and still be good.
Male up light of genuine Vici Kid to give
absolute comfort.
PRICE,
22(6
A PAIR,
State size when
ordering’.
Messrs. Peapes & Op., Ltd., George St,, Sydney.
Please send me a pair of your boots (state
whether black or tan, and whether broad,
medium or narrow toe).
Size
NAME......
ADDRESS
PE APES & GO., Ltd.,
Hen’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
309-311 George-st. , Sydney.
Band-playing in the parks is being spoilt
in Sydney by peripatetic tract-distributors, who
cast about silly printed sermons on the errors of
being alive and happy. Judding in public parks
should be forbidden, and any person distributing
epileptic warnings about hell-fire in a place of
pleasure resort should be fined as a nuisance.
• • . .
“R.” : M.L. Premier Ward should take
a firm grip of his courage and do something at
Christchurch. The management of the Exhibition
is miserable and ineffective. There are too many
heads, and the heads which make the most noise
are empty.
• • * *
Sydney Health Officer Ashburton Thomp-
son strikes the right note in an interview with
Sydney Telegraph on phthisis
Compulsory reporting of cases, with proper medical
action following, associated with the segregation of the
more serious cases amongst the poorest branches of the
population, and the segregation of others for the sake of
treatment, with a view to recovery, would certainly lead
to the practical extinction of the disease.
The “extinction” of the disease in Australia—
that’s the ideal to keep in mind. Phthisis is as
foreign to Australia’s eucalyptic air as plague,
titles, small-pox, snobbery, or phylloxera; and a
campaign for its extinction, if conducted on right
lines, is almost sure of success.
* * * •
The newer school of Australian farmers
is right on top amongst the world’s agriculturists.
The revolution now developing in the rural
industries sees the youth of the country bringing
brains on to the land. For a long time the
successful farmer, or breeder of stock, filled the
boys with ideas that land occupation was some-
how a poor, demeaning game. The clerk’s desk,
the city counter, or the professional ranks were
set up as the proper aims of the ambitious. The
boys, in the starched collars and boiled shirt
equipment, flooded the cities and towns. Now
the stream flows countrywards. The youth of
the country is proving his adaptability to the
soil, and he is, aided by good seasons, making
things hum. That there is money in wel 1-directed
effort is proved by the case of two brothers who
are handling less than 300 acres in the Central
Division. Last year they netted no less than
£2OOO.
* * * #
Once more Premier Bent talks of removing
the big Melbourne Hospital, the Melbourne Gaol,
and the Public Library, and selling the land for
business purposes. A deal in land is Bent’s weak-
ness. Certainly, the hospital and gaol should be
removed —the former put away from the city, and
the latter done away with altogether, Pentridge
being large enough for all purposes ; but the idea
of shifting the library, museum, etc., is absurd.
* * * *
Observe the fine distinctions of Melbourne
Argus headings. “Leading Citizen Visits
Home” —that “ home” means England. “ Alleged
Embezzler Brought Home ” —in that case “ home”
is naturally Australia, even though the culprit
was originally imported from England.
• • * *
N.S.W. also has its disease-spreading slate
in the infant classes of the public schools, although
the iniquitous thing is not so common as in
Queensland. At the end of each day the slates
are gathered up to be indiscriminately distributed
next morning. And then folk express wonder
at the rapidity with which diseases spread amongst
little children.
THE MAIN THING.
S HE: “ Have you run into anything since you
got your motor-car ?”
HE: “ Yes, debt.”
“ A. 8.”: Surf-bathing should be absolutely
prohibited at Tamarama Beach (Bondi, N.S.W.),
where the last fatality occurred. I entered the
water there for the first time a fortnight ago, and
got a scare that spoiled my beauty for two full
days. The beach shelves so suddenly that there
is an undertow like a traction engine. To venture
twenty feet from the dry land was suicide, and,
even in a spot of comparative safety, it was neces-
sary to go down on all fours and dig your fingers
into the wet sand to avoid being carried out. For
the ignorant or venturesome, bathing there is like
fooling with live wires. Tamarama is hungrier
for prey than a tiger, and has more clawing and
dragging power than a herd of lions.
A SCIENTIFIC “PICK-ME-UP.”—No
better tonic and restorative for the victims of
spcial festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunvadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe,
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient.*
It frequently happens that old people who
live alonedie suddenly, and are not missed for days.
In an Australian suburb, last week, some of the
neighbors went to the police station and reported
that an elderly lady, who led a hatter’s existence,
had not been seen about for three or four days. A
constable was told off to investigate. The con-
stable, from past experience, guessed what he
would find, so, to avoid two trips, he took an under-
taker with him. Undertaker and bobby reached
the house and knocked loudly at the door. All
was silent as the grave. So Robert procured an
axe and battered the door open. No sooner was
it burst in than the elderly corpse, in a very much
alivestateand boiling with rage, appeared, demand-
ing, in shrill Scotch accents, what they meant by
axeing their way into her house. Robert and the
undertaker did not stay to argue. They dropped
their axe and scuttled out of the place without
even asking why the lady had played ’possum for
half a week. Now they are awaiting an action
for damages.
•'• • *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) police have a silently
humorous way of “ moving on ” the local
assignation house. There is no fuss or publicity
or law costs. A policeman in uniform is sent
around, and takes up his stand in front of
the premises. He is relieved at intervals, but
there is always a policeman there, once the cop
eventuates. He stays all day, and he lingers all
night. He is stolid like an image, and he gazes
hard at the house all the time. The rising and
the going down of the sun alike find the peeler
looking hard at the premises, and digesting
the identity of those who go in and those who
come out. The first day is followed by unutter-
able silence on the front step and fearful lan-
guage within. The second day the language
inside is worse, and grass begins to grow on the
front step. Third day the language inside is
terrible, and the furniture van comes for the
sticks of ill-fame. The John only goes home
after he has seen that van safely round the corner.
* • * *
Wellington (M.L.) Hospital Super., Dr.
Ewart, just returned from England, records
that
in some of the English hospitals was a rule that when a
doctor went to a ward all the patients who were able to
stand must get out of bed and remain standing until he
left the ward. This was enforced as a mark of respect.
The land of Crawl ! The rich grovel to Royalty ;
the doctors grovel to the rich ; and the hospital
patient is dragged from bed to show “proper
respect ” to the doctors !
* * * •
Said that a new plant has been discovered,
an infusion from the leaves of which drives away
the opium-hunger. Great kitchens are being run
in China where the decoction is dispensed to
opium-smokers. Minister Lyne is ordering
samples of the plant for use on the local opium-
smoker, who is now forbidden his pipe of peace.
It is claimed for the new plant that it cured over
14,000 persons in one district in Malaya.
* • * *
An Australian benevolent asylum has a
whole funeral staff on its premises. Among the
human derelicts there is a duly qualified doctor;
an undertaker, once in a large way; a full-blown
chemist; and a dilapidated clergyman.
“N.L.”: In my suburb the “musical
and elocutionary competitions” mania seems to
have fairly gone to the dogs. The dog
from the corner house usually starts
proceedings. Yesterday he managed
to force his way into the street about
midnight, and after remarking in a
neat speech that only prize-winners
were taking part that night, he em-
barked on the “ Pagliacci ” prologue.
I had no programme, but the next num-
ber appeared to be a setting for two
voices of “ Ocean, Thou Mighty
Monster,” in which the street dog
combined forces with a St. Bernard in
an adjacent back-yard. Though there
was a tendency to indiscriminate ap-
plause from all the yards within a wide
radius, this number went off really well.
Then the sweet soprano of the Daudie
Dinmont next door was heard in a
magnificent rendering of “ Bid Me
Discourse,” with throat-wind obligato
by the street dog. As an encore
she favored with Tosti’s “ Good-baye,”
which was also accompanied by the in-
defatigable street dog. Then about
40 dogs gave an admirable vocal version
of the “ Gotterdammerung ” overture,
which was specially notable for the
street dog’s brilliant staccato passages.
I am sorry to say that the close of this
number was marred by an undignified
wrangle, apparently caused by the
street dog’s allegation that some non-
prize-winners had dared to chip in. At
the height of the argument the baker
opposite gave his opinion in the form
of a well-chosen lump of dough, which
struck the chief disputant (the street
dog) fairly between the eyes. He
swallowed the dough and opened the
elocutionary section by reciting the
“ Seven Ages,” which he followed with
“The Dream of Eugene Aram.” He
took every sound from the other dogs,
hostile or otherwise, as an inducement
to further effort, and, after grappling
dogfully with “ The Yarn of the Nancy
Bell ” and “ Curfew Shall Not,” he
was half-way through “Paul Revere’s
Ride ” when I dropped off to sleep.
Victorian trade unionists make a mistake
in keeping their annual art union addendum to the
Eight-hourscelebration. Attorney-GeneralDavies,
it seems, has given his consent to it this year, con-
ditionally on the expenditure being kept within
reasonable limits, and the net proceeds being
handed over to the charities, and the alleged
prizes being genuine works of art. The A.N.A.
abolished its gamble, and not only lost nothing,
but gained by doing so. Are not the trade-
unionists game to follow suit ?
* * * *
Sir Evelyn Ruggles-Brise, Chairman of
the Prison Commission, London, lately gave an
account of the “Borstal” system of dealing with
prisoners between the ages of 16 and 21. The
Borstal system, he said, had reclaimed 50 per
cent, of the cases it had dealt with since its
introduction at Bedford Prison. The main idea
is the division of a term of imprisonment into
three progressively improving stages, with atten-
dant privileges. Other features are educational
lectures, choir practices, and physical drill, in-
stead of the monotonous “exercise” in the prison
yard.
* * ..f *
Why suffer from rheumatism when one
application of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm gives
relief ? For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
THIRSTY SOULS.
DOCTOR (who has just seen the patient): “He’s not any worse, but I think I'll have to tap him.”
PATIENT'S SISTER-IN-LAW : “ Oh, doctor, don’t do that I Anything tapped in this house never
lats over a week.”
Maoriland has a dark suspicion that all its
policemen are criminals. Whether the force is
recruited from the gaols, or merely becomes de-
moralised through donning a blue uniform, is not
known, but it seems a bad, wicked force. Its
recent record includes four Dunedin constables
gaoled for burglary; another charged with
assault; two Wellington cops tried for perjury ;
and an Auckland probationer-bobby leading a
blue-metal-throwing riot. The latest incident
was that of an active and intelligent officer
who was charged with assault and robbery.
Two juries disagreed over the matter, and the
case was dropped. Some years ago, Tommy Taylor,
M.H.R., had a Commission set up to inves-
tigate the wickedness of the Maoriland “ thrap.”
The Commission sat long and late, and heard
much queer evidence. In the end it made a
lengthy statement, and the force was supposed to
be cured of all its evil habits. But its habits
seem to be worse since it was cured than they
were before.
< * • •
Beer-drinkers at Rochester (Tic.) are on
strike, local publicans having put the popular
pint up to 6d., to recompense themselves for the
losses sustained by the curtailment of Sunday
trading. ‘‘For freedom and 3d. beers” is the
motto of the strikers, and as a means of ter-
rorising the poor publican, they threaten to have
Judkins and Woodful up to the town to conduct
an anti-beering campaign and assist on picket
duty.
* • • •
It is the little things that count. An easily
cleanable jug that has just come on the market
will probably be the means of saving many
infantile lives. The old, narrow jug was difficult
to clean, and often in careless hands became en-
crusted inside with a deposit of thickened milk.
This soured, deeayed, and the resultant micro-
organisms poisoned the clean milk put into the
jug. The new wide jug is so easily cleaned that
it can only be left dirty by intent.
■ft -ft * *
“ The Chiel ” : How is this for a small
funeral—a man, a bike, and a brown-papered
parcel strapped to the handle-bar ? I saw it, the
other day, at St. Kilda (Vic.) cemetery, and was
told it happened often. This particular ghoul
can scent the undesirable and obtrusive infant
afar off. It is his specialty.
• • • •
“A. 8.5.” : Why are not our German
colonists becoming Australianised ? Although the
inhabitants of the Fatherland are not very
numerous, their influence is becoming more and
more weighty every day, and too many of them
hold aloof from Australian sentiment. The sons
of the original German settlers of S. Australia are
still encouraged to speak their mother tongue,
and the topics discussed in the German clubs
throughout Australia would make a good backing
to a coming-war novel. In the United States the
Rhinelanders quickly become Americanised, for
Uncle Sam will not tolerate anti-American
citizens.
Dear Bulletin, —My theory to account for
the objection of the average Hebrew to manual labor
is that the Jew did so much hard work building
the Pyramids that he reckons it is up to him to
have a rest. The adage that it’s only fools and
horses that work was brought home to the Jew
before the rest of humanity bestowed a thought
upon anything beyond keeping the bears out of
its cave at night time. —H.
* ft * •
Occasionally Sydney gives the detectives a
mystery. The latest is the absolutely unaccount-
able disappearance of Robert Amos, past 80, a
clean-living, robust, intelligent Clarence River
(N.S.W.) farmer, respecting whom there attaches
no suspicion of levanting, and whose mental
faculties were remarkably sound up to the time
he was missed, two months ago. The old chap
was in Sydney last November staying with some
relatives at Erskineville, and started out one
morning with less than a pound in his pocket to
purchase some toys for his grandchildren. Since
that time not the faintest clue has been obtained as
to his whereabouts, dead or alive. If he had the
mind to, he had no means at hand to take a
steamer or train journey of any distance ; for the
same reason, there was little temptation for the
murderer (since the days of Butler murders aren’t
committed for less than £1), or a siren. He did
not drink, or gamble, or associate with any char-
acters likely to hold him for a ransom. Only one
suspicious circumstance—which may have no
value—points to foul play or to some adventurer’s
trick. Some weeks after his disappearance a
stranger, riding a bicycle, called at his dairy farm
on the Clarence, and asked strange questions,
and curiously looked around the property, and
rode off. But that is all; otherwise, there is no
clue to the old man’s fate.
■ft * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
OBIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo ! the boarder, sung of rhymesters, came a-whisp’ring
at my ear;
Told of lodgings, bourgeois lodgings, and of hashes, grey
and drear;
Raised his voice to heights fantastic,
Lilting glad refrains of stews—
Stews of mutton, weird and plastic,
And the odors they diffuse.
“I’m the boarder, famed of rhymesters, I am great
beyond the seas !
I’m the hero of versed hash-fights, and of lobster
thr nodies 1 ”
Weak his voice grew—weak and wistful,
As a limpid tear he dried.
Solemnly he spake, and tristful—
“ I’ve been overworked.” Then died.
vie.
JEAN SIBI.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Sootch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nioholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Victoria (Melbourne), from the
half-year when the “ ordinaries ” got their first bite :
Dividends. Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. serves. serves.
June, 1900 £28,654 £10,419 £13,266 £4869 £129,605
3 p.c.
Dec., 1900 30,178 10,419 15,919 3840 133,445
June, 1901 31,399 10,419 15,919 5061 138,506
Dec., 1901 33,136 10,419 15,919 6798 145,304
3£ p.c.
June, 1902 33,323 10,419 18,672 4332 149,636
Dec., 1902 33,715 10,419 18,572 4724 154,360
June, 1903 29,440 10,419 18,572 449 154,809
Dec., 1903 34,354 10,419 18,572 5363 160,172
June, 1904 34,556 10,419 18,572 5564 165,736
Dec., 1904 34,583 10,419 18,572 5592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905 34,260 10,419 21,225 2616 173,944
Dec., 1905 34,524 10,419 21,225 2880 176,824
4 i p.c.
June, 1906 37,212 10,419 23,878 2915 179,739
5 p.c.
Dec., 1906 42,912 10,419 26,531 5962 185,701
The Bank of Victoria has had a very good half-year, and
admits it; and, on the strength of that, ordinary share-
holders for the first time get the same 5 per cent, as
preference shareholders. In any further increase of
dividend the latter will have to share ; but after they
have had 7 per cent, in 10 half-years the preference ends.
This may mean that there will not be any further in-
crease-till the bank can pay 7 percent, all round; and
that will call for £51,730 a half-year instead of £36,950.
Anyway, the bank might go on paying 6 per cent, for
20 years and the preference would still be in full working
order ; whereas if it pays 5 per cent, steadily, and builds
up its reserves, and then with their help pays 7 per cent,
for five years, the preference will end for all time ; and
as on account of the preference the ordinaries didn’t get a
cent from 1895 to 1900, they will probably feel inclined to
make a sacrifice to clear the preference out. Up to now
they certainly haven’t shown much signs of having the
sacrificing spirit in any large quantity.
The Bank of Victoria’s figures show rapid pro-
gress :
Dec., 'O5. Dec., ’O6.
Notes in circulation.. £121,426 £141,404 Inc. £19,978
Bills, &c. .. .. 504,619 557,532 „ 52,913
Deposits at interest.. 3,507,801 3,753,000 ~ 245,199
Free deposits.. .. 1,856,458 1,903,361 „ 46,903
Liquid assets .. .. 2,105,592 2,210,504 „ 104,912
Advances .. .. 5,143,194 5,412,606 „ 269,412
Premises, &c., .. 427,995 432,848 ~ 4,853
There is money in that. The increase in advances has
exceeded the increase in deposits at interest, which
hasn’t been a common Australian banking experience
lately. Of course it means risk ; for the values of many
Australian securities are based on boom markets at pre-
sent. , But in many directions Australian banking profits
have been unusually high lately, and there is no doubt
that some banks are making large provision against pos-
sible trouble by and bye. ' Whether the Victoria is one
of them Tub Bulletin doesn’t know. That bank, with its
large new advances, is certainly taking the risks ; and if it
can make special internal provision for them, apart from
the very much increased profit which it shows, then its
recovery must have been amazingly rapid. Certainly, its
profits on the basis of capital and reserves are still com-
paratively small; but note the jump :
June, 1903 £3 12 2 p.c. June, 1905 £4 3 1 p.c.
Dec., 1903 4 4 2 „ Dec., 1905 4 3 7 „
June, 1904 4' 4 4 „ June, 1906 4 911 „
Dec., 1904 4 4 2 „ Dec., 1906 5 3 6 „
The public’s money in the business is not quite four-
times more than the shareholders’ money; and that
partly explains the comparatively low earnings. The
Bank of Australasia, in which the proportion is about 7
to 1, shows a return of about 10 per cent. True, the
Commercial of Sydney (7£ to 1) shows a return of only
about 6J per cent. But, then, whereas the Commercial
of Sydney had, at June 30 last, 54 per cent, of its debts
to the public in liquid assets, the Victoria has less than
34 per cent. Even allowing that the Victoria has, on its
published figures, made an excellent recovery, it looks as
if many of its assets were still only very moderately profit-
able at present book-values, and that the bank ought
now take a long spell before it adds again to its dividend.
•** « '
The Commercial Bank of Australia, from the
new general manager’s revaluation of securities in
1901
Profits Dividends
(less loss (3 p.c.) Writ- Added
on Assets on Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves. serves.
June,’ol £16,917
Dec., ’Ol ..£42,460 £31,758 £10,702 27,619
June,’o2 ~ 38,434 31,758 6,676 34,295
Capital forfeited .. 143,000 177,295
Dec., ’O2 .. 39,194 31,759 7,435 184,730
Capital forfeited .. 3,000 187,730
June,’o3 .. 37,442 31,759 5,683 193,413
Capital forfeited .. 2,500 195,913
Dec., ’O3 .. 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital forfeited .. 1,500 206,292
June,’o4 .. 38,746 31,759 £15,521 197,758
Dec.,’o4 .. 41,461 31,760 9,701 207,459
June,’os .. 39,470 31,760 6,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’O5 .. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June,’o6 .. 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 225,234
Dec., ’O6 .. 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
In 1893 the swollen Commerqial Bank burst. Its lia-
bilities at December 31st, 1392, were £12,635,066. The
scheme of reconstruction finally adopted involved the
issue of preference shares, which now represent
£2,117,350 of the total capital of £2,212,636. The capital
at the time of the smash was £1,200,000, in 300,000
shares, on which 12J per cent, was paid in ’92.
After the smash calls were made, and in all £9
10s. per share was written off. Heavy forfeitures
of capital also took place, so that now all that is
left of the ordinary capital is £95,286 in 190,573 shares of
10s. each. It represents something heroic in the way of
a cleaning-up ; and when any bank depositor, drawing
his 3 per cent., thinks jealous thoughts of the share-
holder’s 12J per cent., it will be like pouring oil on his
troubled brain if he also calls to mind what happened
respectively to depositors and shareholders in this con-
cern. Depositors not only got almost the whole busi-
ness, but were subsidised to the extent of about £1,100,000
of solid cash, put up by the shareholders, to take it.
Certainly the ordinary shareholders are not
quite done with it yet. True, they own only £95,286 of
the total capital of £2,212,636. But the preference share-
holders are only entitled to receive 4 p.c., of which 3 p.c.
is now cumulative. Four p.c. would call for under
£85,000 a year ; and after that has been paid, ordinaries
.can have a good time at very little expense. Twenty p.c.
would call for only £19,057 per half-year—a total for pref.
(4 p.c.) and ordinary shares of £61,404. That is in the
far future, no doubt; but it explains why Commercial
ordinary shares, which were nearly waste-paper a while
ago, and a little before that were a horror and a night-
mare, are now being picked up at 165., and put away in a
long stocking. It is all right so long as people remember
that, though the preference stops at 4 per cent., the pre-
ference doesn’t disappear after a certain number of 4 per
cent, payments ; also that ordinaries can get nothing till
another 1 per cent., absorbing £10,587 per half-year, is
paid to preference holders.
And there is a lot of the old trouble still left in
the Commercial. An Assets Trust was registered to
realise the worst-looking business ; and this concern gets
aid from the bank’s profits in the liquidation process. In
the past half-year £28,510 is applied to this purpose.
Bunching the Bank and Trust so far as relates to the old
trouble and the effort to get rid of it, we get this re-
sult :
Dec.,’ol. June,’o6. Dec.,’o6.
Liabilities of Trust £3,334,903 £2,919,788 £2,719,044
Assets of Trust .. 1,800,000 1,530,000 1,330,000
Deficit of Trust .. £1,534,903 £1,389,788 £1,389,044
Less Bank Reserves 27,619 225,234 237,825
Net deficit.. .. £1.507,284 £1,164,554 £1,151,219
“ Assets of Trust, £1,330,000,” is the official valuation ;
and a great deal depends upon the sort of valuation it
is. Recent conditions should have helped the Trust
(and, of course, the Bank) enormously. In the past
two. years £290,000 (valuation) of assets and £289,552 of
liabilities have disappeared. Meantime an annual
£57,000 or thereabouts of Bank profits have been ap-
plied to aid the Trust. But how much of that has
been applied to square any deficit on current trans-
actions, and how much to write down assets
in hand (by using the money to pay off lia-
bilities), it is impossible to say. And in the absence
of any accounts of the Trust, it is impossible to even
guess at the present value of its securities. This much
is pretty certain : if there were a Trust deficit of no more
than £1,534,903 in 1901, when the new general manager
was going through values, there is not a deficit of
£1,389,044 now, seeing that meantime something like
£280,000 of Bank profits have been put into the Trust.
Five years have elapsed since the business was last gone
into ; and it seems about time for it to be gone into
officially again. That is due to the holders of the deposit
receipts, and is all the more due to them because the
Bank lately announced that it would buy this paper.
The Bank cannot with any self-respect buy it at a penny
of discount without letting depositors know exactly how
the affairs of the Trust stand.
By way of a side issue, the management
announced last year that it would buy £300,000 worth of
old deposit receipts at the best price offering. The time
fixed was September. It was pledged to buy £300,000, no
matter what the price, if that much was offered. In the
past six months the liabilities of the Trust have been re-
duced by only £200,744. Did they, then, not get offers
of £300,000? Or if they did, what did they do with
them ? The situation calls for explanation.
The new business of the Bank shows very
notable expansion (and the change in the figures points
to altered conditions, which call for new information
about the Assets Trust): —
Dec.,’os. Dec.,’o6.
Notes in circulation £163,160 £195,987 Inc. £32,827
Bills, &c. .. .. 539,491 519,780 Dec. 19,711
Deposits at interest 1,653,763 2,015,995 Inc. 362,232
Free deposits .. 2,106,107 2,463,256 Inc. 357,149
Liquid assets .. 2,333,281 2,519,590 Inc. 186,309
Advances .. .. 4,145,756 4,700,345 Inc. 554,589
Premises, &c. .. 448,814 457,306 Inc. 8,492
The most striking thing here is the great increase in
advances—partly, no doubt, the result of opening
numerous new branches. Even now, though, its liquid
assets represent 49 per cent, of its new debts to the
public ; and, even though it holds a very large proportion
of current-account money, which requires a large coin
reserve, it is in a position to still further extend advance
business when that business offers. As for earnings,
including as profit the £28,510 paid over to the Trust, the
funds (capital and reserves) show £5 19s. 6d. per cent. ;
excluding the aid to the Trust, £3 12s. lOd.
* * * *
The City Bank of Sydney
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1900 .. £8,04L 4p.c.= £B,OOO £4l £109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8,223 4 „ 8,000 223 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8,105 4 „ 8,000 105 109,924
Dec., 1901 .. 8,157 4 „ 8,000 157 110,081
June, 1902 .. 8,016 4 „ 8,000 16 110,097
Dec., 1902 .. 8,108 4 „ 8,000 108 110,205
£109,000 transferred to Contingent Account 1,205
June, 1903 .. 9,351 4 „ 8,000 1,351 2,556
Dec., 1903 .. 9,052 4 „ 8,000 1,052 3,608
June, 1904 .. 9,045 4 „ 8,000 1,045 4,653
Dec., 1904 .. 6,158 2£ „ 5,000 1,158 5,811
June, 1905 .. 6,060 2£ „ 5,000 1,060 6,871
Dec., 1905 .. 6,068 2| „ 5,000 1,068 7,939
June, 1906 .. 6,066 2£ „ 5,000 1,066 9,005
Dec., 1906 .. 6,049 2£ „ 5,000 1,049 10,054
A patriarch at the half-yearly meeting last week asked a
rude question of that other patriarch, chairman Hugh
Dixson. He remarked that the chairman had referred to
the State’s great prosperity, and had quoted figures to
show that the City Bank had shared in it, and he wanted
to know how it was that, under such circumstances, the
profits were always the same, within a pound or two. In
reply, the chairman, full of years and wisdom, talked
right round the compass, and said that he had increased
his holding. It wasn’t an answer, but it was the only
answer the rude, inquisitive shareholder got; and then
the usual votes of thanks were carried. The City Bank is
a mystery, and the chairman wouldn’t lift the veil. The
present figures may be worthy of confidence ; but, if they
are right, it is quite certain those of a few years ago were
absurd. Is the bank earning more than £6OOO a half-year
now, or were the former earnings of £BOOO or £9OOO a
half-year to some extent fictitious, in which case were
the dividends paid out of capital? Compare the figures
for the past half-year with those of the latter half of 1903 :
Dec., ’O3. Dec., ’O6.
Notes .. .. £76,355 £85,839 Inc. £9,484
Deposits .. 1,222,331 1,125,813 Dec. 96,518
Liquid Assets .. 433,004 322,116 Dec. 110,888
Advances .. 1,135,954 1,160,805 Inc. 24,851
Premises, &c. .. 142,821 144,596 Inc. 1,775
A decrease in deposits, which in the ordinary way would
mean less interest to pay; a substantial increase in
advances, which in the ordinary course would mean more
interest to receive; and yet the directors reported a
profit of £9052 in the earlier half-year and £6049 in the
later 1 Under such circumstances, what confidence can be
felt in the figures ? So far as “ investment ”in the shares
is concerned, it is really a gamble. The shares, £8 paid,
are worth, one lot 725. 6d., the other lot (witli a £2
precedent liability) 675. 6d. Of course, these quota-
tions scorn the balance-sheet figures. Some of the
capital has been lost: how much? It is impos-
sible to judge, because of the apparent unre-
liability of the profit figures; they being under
suspicion, there is no basis to work upon. The matter
can, however, be probed with a little more success from
the depositor’s point of view. The bank owes the public
£1,211,653. It has £322,116 of liquid assets, leaving
£889,537 of the public’s money represented by non-
liquid assets ; and the book value of nondiquid assets is
£1,305,401. In other words, depositors are all right, even
if the £1,305,401 of securities are only worth £889,537 ; and
it is incredible that there is a deficit of that size. As to
shareholders, if they accept the present stated profits as
fairly representing the position, then, capitalising them
at 5 per cent., shareholders’ capital intact is £242,000, or
£4 16s. per share. That is, we repeat, assuming the true
profits are £6050 a half-year. On capital and reserves, as
shown in the balance-sheet, the profits are at the rate of
£2 19s. 2d. per cent, per annum.
There are two lots of City Bank shares; and
though both are paid to £B, one lot is quoted at 725. 6d.
and the other at 675. 6d. This is something like the his-
tory of the bank. It was established in 1863, arid £lO
was paid on the shares; but in 1871 £2 per share was
written off. For many years it had then a paid capital of
£240,000, in 30,000 £JO shares paid to £B. Twenty years
to the day previous to the date of the last meeting
(January 18) the shareholders decided to issue another
20,000 £lO shares to be paid up to £8 at £4 premium.
(They were the days of 12J per cent, divs.) Only £3 per
share had been got in by 1893 ; then it was hurriedly
decided to get in the other £9. Later in the same year
it was proposed to transfer from reserves enough to
restore the 30,000 shares to £lO paid and to pay up the
20,000 £8 shares to £lo—in other words, to reduce the
premium on the new shares to £2. But things happened
in 1893, and this benevolent scheme, though agreed to,
had to be abandoned in 1894; and, to give the public
confidence, the shareholders were at the same time loaded
with a reserve liability of £lO per share, so that the
present liability is this £lO per share on the original
30,000 shares and the £lO and the unpaid £2 on the new
20,000 shares.
* * • *
The Queensland National Bank, which made
a further re-arrangement with its creditors in 1897, from
which year the present reserves date :
Repaid Repaid Total
Gross Written Govern- Private Re-
Profits. Off. ment. Depos’rs. serves.
Dec., 1899.. £27,341 £15,341 £3OOO £6,000 £12,000
June, 1900.. 27,447 15,447 3000 6,000 15,000
Dec., 1900.. 27,712 15,712 3000 6,000 18,000
June, 1901.. 28,350 16,350 3000 6,000 21,000
Dec., 1901.. 28,745 16,745 3000 6,000 24,000
June, 1902.. 25,605 13,605 3000 6,000 27,000
Dec., 1902.. 22,329 10,329 3000 6,000 30,000
June, 1903.. 21,660 9,660 3000 6,000 33,000
Dec., 1903.. 21,777 9,777 3000 6,000 36,000
June, 1904.. 21,822 9,822 3000 6,000 39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823 9,000 42,000
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009 9,000 45,000
Dec., 1905.. 22,307 10,307 9,000 48,000
June, 1906.. 23,421 11,421 9,000 61,000
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 12,000 66,000
A few years ago Q.N. shares, with their £2 liability, could
not be given away. Three years back it was suggested
that they might be worth taking at a few pence by way
of old-age pension. Eighteen months ago (July, 1905)
they were on sale at 3s. 3d. Now they can’t be got for
15s. (The shares are £3 paid.) The chief cause of all
this rapidity is no doubt the Kidston rearrangement,
under which the old Government money (locked-up
loans) carries £2 12s. 6d. per cent.; the bank gave 16
promissory notes for the amount, dated at half-yearly
intervals from June, 1907, to June, 1921. The first three
of these have been prepaid, and there is little doubt others
will also be prepaid. As soon as half the pro. notes have
been got rid of the bank can pay 3J per cent, dividend.
But three-fourths of the net profits have to go towards
repaying private depositors, to whom (apart from the
deposits now represented by interminable stock) £912,974
is still owing. As shown above, of the half-year’s dis-
closed profit £14,420 was used to write down old boom
assets, and of the balance of net profit £12,000 goes to
the depositors and £4OOO to reserve. Assuming that the
bank would go on writing down assets to the same
extent, then in such a term as the past half-year only
£4OOO would be available for dividend ; and it would
take £2066 to pay a half-year’s div. at the rate of 1 per
cent, per annum. After five more pro. notes have been
met, a dividend depends upon the view taken of the
necessity for continuous writing-down. It is pretty
certain, however, that, so that private depositors may
have their half-yearly “ cut,”the whole amount of earn-
ings over outgoings will not be written off ; and if the
depositors get their “ cut,” a quarter of the latter amount
must also be available, either for dividend or for reserve.
Still, in any case, until the depositors are paid, the
dividend cannot go beyond 3J per cent. ; and at double
the average rate of repayment hitherto, it will take 32
years to pay off the depositors. Many things may, how-
ever, happen in much less than 32 years.
Since the 1897 reconstruction the following pro-
gress has been made in connection with the old trouble: —
Reduc-
-1897. 1906. tion.
Government deposits (re-
constructed) .. .. £1,833,327 £1,205,368 £627,959
Interminable stock (debt
to old depositors) .. 3,116,621 3,116,621
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,038,974 912,974 126,000
Due to bank (debts in
suspense) .. .. 742,835 426,419 316,416
The Government deposits carry £2 12s. 6d. p.c. interest,
the interminable stock costs 3£ p.c., and the old private
deposits in the third item (representing 6s. in the £ of
the private deposits) are free. The amount payable on
the whole £5,234,963 is therefore £140,721, or at the
average rate of £2 13s. lOd. per cent. ; and that is a
pretty large swag of interest to carry. The fact that
the bank has practically 5J millions of fixed deposits,
costing on an average £2 13s. lOd per cent.—apart from
new deposits altogether—is a considerable handicap.
Of the new deposits (£2,605,941), probably no more than
£1,000,000 is free money ; and £1,000,000 of free money
alongside £7,000,000 of money at interest would mean
poor profits for any bank that didn’t have a remarkably
good and consistent borrowing connection. The Q.N.
certainly hasn’t got much idle money ; but against its
£5,650,184 of advances there are a good many securities
that it wouldn’t take now for choice.
The growth of new business in the Q.N. is sub-
stantial :
Dec., ’O5. Dec., ’O6.
Bills and notes .. £752,949 £639,807 Dec. £113,142
New deposits .. 2,152,470 2,605,942 Inc. 453,472
Liquid assets .. 2,106,561 2,119,423 Inc. 12,862
Advances.. .. 4,953,744 5,223,765 Inc. 270,021
Premises, &c. .. 277,862 278,400 Inc. 538
But the increase of new advances was probably very much
greater ; old assets have been realised and new advances
have taken their place, and the above shows only the net
increase. A rush of prosperity to Queensland would in
this way bring a double blessing into the £40,000 palace
of the Q.N. —it would allow the bank to get out (witness
the recent Mt. Morgan deal), and it might restore to
Queenslanders a little of that confidence in their own
State which many of them have lost, and that would
mean more new business for the Q.N. and the rest.
* * * *
The Royal Bank op Queensland
Dividend and Writ- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. ten off. serves serves
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’OO 8,384 2£ p.c. = 5056 3500 48,423
Dec., ’OO 8,434 2| „ „ 5056 3378 51,801
June,’ol 8,657 2£ „ „ 5056 3601 55,402
Dec., ’Ol 8,758') /60S0 3000 55,080
June, ’O2 9,024 Ord. 3 „ „ 6700 2324 57,404
Dec., ’O2 8,646 V 4 7223 1423 58,827
June, ’O3 9,052 Pref. 3J „ „ 7227 1825 60,652
Dec., ’O3 9,455 J 1.7227' 2228 62,880
June,’o4 9,182 3J „ „ 8422 760 63,640
Dec., ’O4 9,569 3£ „ „ 8427 1142 64,782
June, *O5 9,673 3J „ „ 8463 1210 65,992
Dec., ’O5 9,896 3£ „ „ 8468 1428 67,420
June, ’O6 10,016 3J „ „ 8468 1548 68,968
Dec., ’O6 10,933 4 „ „ 9711 1500 68,690
The £l5OO shown as written off last half-year is trans-
ferred to contingency account, and, if that is a reserve,
it is presumably an internal reserve, and will not appear
again in the accounts. In one respept it is as good as
if it were added to reserves; and so the fact that the
formal reserves have to be reduced in order to make the
appropriations isn’t so disgraceful r s it would otherwise
be. All the same, if the real prof.-s are no more than
the published accounts show, then the increased dividend
was not justified. Looking at the improvement that has
taken place in Queensland (apart, that is, from the gold-
fields), it seems highly probable that the Royal is now
using some undisclosed profits to write down securities
(which would mean that some of the reserves formerly
shown were very doubtful), or is making very proper pro-
vision against a turn in the tide by-and-bye. It isn’t
much use discussing how far a bank is justified in keep-
ing its disclosed profits about uniform, and putting aside
the extra profits of a good year to counterbalance the
extra losses of a bad year, without letting the public
know that there were either extra profits or extra losses.
If the public was a cool, calm public, and didn’t flutter
over either large banking losses or profits, the case in
favor of bankers doing what most people know that they
do, wouldn’t be so strong as it is. The only thing to do
under the circumstances is to note the trend of a bank’s
disclosed profits, &c.—a single half-year’s statement is of
little value in most cases.
And there is no doubt about the trend of things
with the Royal of Queensland. Nor is there any doubt
that it has the foundations for very much larger figures.
One way and another Queensland got into such a state
that either the public wouldn’t lend money to the Queens-
land banks or the banks wouldn’t take it. At December
31st, 1896, this bank had barely more than 30s. of the pub-
lic’s money to every 20s. of its own. Even now it has less
than £2 Is. of the public’s to £1 of its own—as com-
pared with a proportion of £7 to £1 in some southern
banks. Under such conditions large earnings are im-
possible. The rate on capital and reserves lately has
been :
June, 1903 £3 10 2 p.c. June, 1905 £3 14 1 pc.
Dec., 1903 313 0 „ Dec., 1905 315 7
June, 1904 310 7 „ June, 1906 316 4 ’
Dec., 1904 313 5 „ Dec., 1906 4211 „
As for the past year’s progress in some other respects
Dec.,’os. Dec.,’o6.
Bills and notes .. £41,684 £48,278 Inc. £6,594
Deposits .. .. 928,256 1,056,848 „ 128,592
Liquid assets .. 360,876 440,153 ~ 79,277
Advances .. .. 1,080,215 1,138,937 „ 58,722
Premises, &c. .. 62,277 63,979 ~ 1,702
There is here the usual accumulation of money—deposits
have outstripped advances. One result is that liquid
assets now represent just upon 40 per cent, of the lia-
bilities to the public. The bank’s deposits, compared
with capital, are small, and 40 per cent, of what it has
got is earning little or nothing. So the trouble now
seems to be, not that Queensland banks can’t get money,
but that Queensland hasn’t got a great deal of confidence
in itself. Under the circumstances, £4 2s. lid. percent
on funds are pretty fair earnings; they couldn’t be even
that high with much dead business on the books.
* * » *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vic.):—
Written Added
off Pre- to Ke- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
June, 1900.. £3153 5£ p.c. = £2337 £Bl6 £58,933
Dec., 1900.. 3334 6 „ „ 2550 784 59,717
June, 1901.. 3542 6 „ „ 2550 £225 767 60,484
Dec., 1901.. 3629 6 „ „ 2550 300 779 61,263
June, 1902.. 3689 6 „ „ 2550 1139 62,402
Dec., 1902.. 3627 6 „ „ 2550 500 577 62,979
June, 1903.. 3474 6 „ „ 2550 250 674 63,653
Dec., 1903.. 4004 6 ~ ~ 2550 250 1204 64,857
June, 1904.. 3977 7 „ „ 2975 1002 65,859
Dec., 1904.. 3974 7 „ „ 2975 999 66,858
June, 1905.. 4028 7 ~ „ 2975 1053 67,911
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 „ „ 2975 1065 68,976
June, 1906.. 4050 7 „ „ 2975 600 575 69,551
Dec., 1906.. 4098 7 „ „ 2975 1123 70,674
This is Australia’s one and only “ provincial ” bank, with
a head-office and no branches, and a business that puts a
good profit into shareholders’ pockets and reflects a good
deal of credit upon the people who run it. Even in those
sad days when a ribald youngster chalked “ Bung ” on the
door of the Commercial Bank’s new palace in Melbourne,
and when other youngsters might have scrawled the
same rude word on a good many other doors, the Bal-
larat Bank hadn’t to do more than reduce its dividend to
6J per cent. Then, as now, it traded largely with itsown
capital; at present its own funds amount to £155,674,
and its debts to the public (including deposits) are only
£242,515 ; and its non-liquid assets might slump 10s. Id.
in the £ below their book values, and the depositors
would still be safe. This means small profits, compara-
tively speaking; but it means small risks for depositors
and shareholders alike. On the basis of capital (£85,000)
and reserves combined, profits in recent terms have
been : , (
June, 1903 ..£4 13 11 p.c. June, 1905 ..£5 6 1 p,e.
Dec., 1903 .. 5 7 9 „ Dec., 1905 .. 6 6 8 „
June, 1904 .. 5 6 2 „ June, 1906 .. 6 6 2 „
Dec., 1904 .. 5 6 4 „ Dec., 1906 .. 5 6 1 „
Sticking to Ballarat, which is to a great extent shut in
and smothered by the rich landlord of both agricultural
and mining holdings, the Ballarat Bank thus makes very
slow progress. Five years ago it had £222,562 on deposit
and £289,350 out in advances ; its deposits are now
£242,515 and its advances £301,678. In the previous five
years it showed a shade more progress. For, of course,
it is progress, though it isn’t anything like it should be
in a district of Ballarat’s natural richness.
* * * •
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd. —mine at
Broken Hill, smelting works near Newcastle, office in
London: —
Nomi-
Written nal Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1902 £13,927 Nil £ll,OOO £96,921
1903 35,935 5 p.c. pref. = £27,500 11,000 94,356
1904 65,512 7J „ „ „ 41,250 22,005 96,613
1905 102,422 10 „ „ „ 65,000 50,030 94,005
1906 136,364 10 „ „ „ 55,000 41,904 133,465
But, besides the amount shown as written off last year,
capital expenditure was written down by £14,115 out of
profits, that amount being charged direct to working
account, and £16,275 special expenditure due to creeps
in the mine was also charged to working account. Apart
from the latter item, the amounts written off for the
year are equivalent to the whole of the additions
to capital account plus some special writing
down (£1726) of stores, &c. The .total provided
for depreciation is thus £56,019. The capital is £550,00(1
preference and £412,500 ordinary (originally the issues
were the same, but, on the failure of the Ashcroft sulphide
process, ss. per share was written off the ordinaries). In
1897, £lOO,OOO worth of 5 per cent, debenture stock was
issued ; the co. only got 98J per cent, for this issue, and
must redeem at 105 at the end of December, 1907 ; but
only £79,600 is now outstanding. At June 30, 1905,
the liquid assets were £344,800; the liabilities,
including debentures, were £308,379, showing a
surplus of £36,421. Twelve months later, liquid
assets were £208,228, and liabilities £132,326,
showing a surplus of £75,902. So in 12 months the cash
position had improved £39,481 after paying a dividend of
£55,000. Outside the depreciation of stores, the amount
written off during the year was £54,293. The book-
value of mine and works was £1,129,041 ; so the amount
written off was a shade under 5 per cent. Though
the amount looks tremendous, 5 per cent, certainly
isn’t extravagant. What is extravagant is the £1,129,041
book value. As previously mentioned, on the failure of
the process which was to solve the sulphide problem out-
of-hand, ss. per £1 was written off ordinary shares ; but
the capital still stood at £962,500. In other words, only
£137,500 out of £1,100,000 was wiped out—which was
ridiculous, seeing that the process on which the co. was
formed (the Central mine being a mere secondary con-
sideration) had not only collapsed utterly, but dragged
about £150,000 of hard cash with it. Practically, there-
fore, the co. is now writing down out of profits what
ought to have been written down out of capital long ago.
The trouble is that the writing-down is being done at the
expense of ordinary shareholders; they can’t get a divi-
dend because the 5 p.c. required for writing-down pur-
poses takes so vast a bite. Reckoning all in, it has been-
enough in the past two years to have given ordinary
holders about 15 per cent, per annum. Certainly,
ordinary shares in the first place were issued against the
process that failed ; but it still is a question whether
pref. shareholders, who were supposed to have made the
most elaborate inquiries and tests, shouldn’t have also
suffered in the writing-down. The ordinary shareholders’
one crumb of comfort is that, when capital expenditure
has been sufficiently written down, they will still hold a
full three-seventh interest in the whole concern. Whether
they won’t be too dead to appreciate it is another
matter.
Meantime Sulphide Corporation ordinary share-
holders have to mourn over the tact that the book value
of the concern really isn’t being reduced, after all. The
mine has had a bad time in the way of creeps, &c., and
the plant has suffered so much that additions and re-
newals have to be made just as fast as values are written
down. Also, the co. tried to pioneer zinc-smelting in
Australia, and put up expensive works, and, though no
figures are available on the subject, it is certain that the
results have not given a fractional return on the total
expenditure. The co. has, in fact, had to grope its way,
do a vast amount of experimental work, and bear a cost
which the State might fairly have shared with it; or, at
any rate, the State might have held out something in the
way of reward for this special outlay. Still, with anything
like fair prices for metals, the situation is not absolutely
hopeless for ordinaries. But for the mine-smash, they
would certainly have got a mouthful this Christmas.
What that smash did is shown in the output of ore;
this and some other details follow:
Lead. Output Ore Values.
Av. Price. Ore, Tons. Lead. Silver.
1903 .. £ll 810 212,885 177 p.c. 12'Ooz.
1904 .. 11 9 9 201,541 17'0 „ 11*9 „
1905 .. 12 8 6 237,265 16'3 „ 11‘5 „
1906 .. 15 11 0 136,172 16'4 „ 118 „
The net profit was 13s. lid. per ton ; and another 101,000
tons, bringing the output up to the 1905 level, would have
meant another £70,500 of profit; in fact, as the depre-
ciation wouldn’t have been greater with the large output
than with the small, the smash took at least £lOO,OOO off
the year’s profits. And the ordinary shareholders wanted
the extra profit badly. With the 1905 output and the
1906 prices, the co. could easily have written off £60,000,
and then paid la per cent, all round.


TSha Best Tobacco
the world can
produce.
6d.
per
ounce.
3 STRENGTHS
At Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.^
/
4
/
o
A
o
3l
r 2oz. Tins I/-
4oz. Tins 2/*
Boz. Tins 3/9
/ 2
' i/i
f Sold Loose only by
'/k. A. MARKS,
George St.
'3lO George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
In a quiet way the public lias been invited mio
the Sydney timber and shipping business of Allen Taylor
and Go., Ltd., hitherto practically in two hands.
**.*,*
The Bulletin acknowledges having received
from Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, an illus-
trated catalogue giving an interesting description, of the
“Wonder” Air Hammer Bock Drills. These machines
consume only about 25ft. of free air per minute at 801bs.
pressure, and have well established the claims put for-
ward in their favor. There are several types and sizes of
“Wonder” Drills, from the “Little Wonder” Hand
Machines to the “Great Wonder” Mounted and “Water
Drills. The machines may be used with hollow or solid
steel. W. & J. Lempriere claim that the hollow steel
which they supply is superior to any other brands on the
market. This brand of hollow steel is made from solid
bars with the centre bored, out. On application from
intending customers, W. & J. Lempriere will furnish full
particulars. 11
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assay era and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * » •
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company Is
building a complete plant for its claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 38 feet; al7 inch
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
5 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H.H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
by steam from an externally fired multitubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoons to carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by 40 feet
wide. To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
plant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Bobert McLiutock, Engineer, of
Dunedin.*
* * * *
The British Australasian, in its issue of 19th
July, 1906, wrote regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited “The society has advanced
rapidly, especially during the last three years, and it is
pretty generally admitted that the directors are con-
ducting a large business on very safe lines.”*
* * * •
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *,
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X * * *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bomke-
street, Melbourne.*
» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
« * • *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming,refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * • •
Golden Bendigo. —The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street. Mel-
bourne.*
• * * •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
4 * * -k
The Reavell Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* • * •
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
• • • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Oanbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
The Sulphide Corporation expected to have its
granulation plant ready to work on Block 10 slimes this
O)ontb> but Oaq’t manage it. The Corporation is, how-
ewer, having a bite at the slimes, sending a few hundred
tons to Cockle Creek direct. About 56,000 tons alto-
gether were purchased.
The Gillies zinc-extraction plant on B.H. Block
10 wks to have started at the beginning of last October,
but it is still struggling against wilful and perverse
circumstances. After spasmodic activity for several
weeks, during which many adjustments and a few con-
centrates were made, the plant is again idle, undergoing
alterations. Also, when the recently-enlarged Potter
plant on the British mine was started, all the machinery
was set going, but only one little pan was put into
operation, and it got a rather poor flotation. There has
been some talk of the British mine taking over this
plant.
r * * * *
Manager Palmer, of the Junction North,
Broken Hill, is protesting too much. He has made a
public statement that his shaft never at any time col-
lapsed through a creep in the Junction or his own mine.
Call it what you like; something happened that blew the
collar of the shaft into the air, and set the ground boom-
ing and the stopes smashing together in the Junction.
The Junction North is a good little mine, and has plenty
of ore to go on with, though there is still some doubt as
to how that ore will pan out in the mill. But, especially
if they were satisfied that they could mill their ore with-
out trouble, it would have been a wise thing had the
directors decided 12 months ago to sink another shaft.
The old shaft is solid enough at present, but it will
always be at the mercy of a further movement in the
Junction, next door. As for the mill, it is doing as well
as can be expected of a new plant on its probation.
* * * X
When the British, Broken Hill, had proved its
rich carbonate body at the 200 ft. level by crosscutting
16ft. into it. the work was stopped for no visible reason.
There was great cackling on ’Change over the laying of
this remarkable egg. But, after all, important as the
find is, all these carbonate bodies are irregular, unreli-
able, and always shallow.
* * « *
The new lode at the 600 ft. level of Block 14,
Broken Hill, carries good ore, but it is narrow, so far as
has been ascertained. The diamond drill, which months
ago found both walls—they were then about 20ft. apart
—probably told the truth about the matter.
* * * •
The Australian Smelting Corporation, which
followed on after the Zinc Corporation, begins to look a
trifle more like business. It is, anyhow, asking for ten-
ders for its railway embankment and for an excavation
for smelting-works at Port Kembla (N.S.W.), the site
recommended by metallurgist Savage. But there seems
very little likelihood that the Zinc Corporation will go
in for zinc smelting in Australia. For the present Ger-
many will get that work to do —thanks to the induce-
ments which its Government offers, and the apparent
unconcern of Australia whether it ships dirt (worth £2 a
ton) or spelter (worked up to £25 a ton).
• • * *
Budgery, the parent, is looking round for a
manager at £650 a year. If it doesn’t want a metallur-
gist-copper metallurgists in Australia are scarce and
dear—it ought to be able to get a miner who knows
enough about his work to straighten up the show. The
directorate, like that of Queen Bee, is local, flabby, and
indefinite. Queen Bee, which has been developing very
well (and development was badly wanted) could get an
option at £2 per share ; yet the market sticks at a shade
under 30s.—partly because of the management, partly
because the show isn’t as far away as N. Queensland is.
As to Budgery, the most important work is the winze,
which has crept down about 30ft., with good black ore in
the bottom. That proves, anyway, that the rich stuff is
more than a flake.
• * * *
Though the parent Budgery has had a shake-up
on the strength of satisfactory work in the winze, Cobar
(N.S.W.) district excitement has mostly turned towards
Canbelego. About three months ago, a syndicate,
mainly officials of the Boppy mines and their friends,
picked up the Canbelego copper mine dirt cheap. For
some time past the owner had kept the pot boiling by
gouging a few tons of rich ore out of three or four
shallow shafts and some costeens ; there are records of
70 tons averaging 28 per cent. The lode, which has
been proved for over 200 ft. by these openings, is to be
tapped by a new working shaft; and the syndicate
seems now to have got on to the top of it. A neigh-
boring show, the Shango, has also got good ore—quan-
tity unspecified. The lode in the Canbelego isn’t very
big, though in one of the shallow shafts there was a
gossan formation 6ft. wide. The Canbelego and Shango
syndicates are in 100 shares each.
True Blue is now the bonanza of Wyalong
(N.S.W.). Gold-bearing stone has been proved to a depth
of 1200 ft., and levels are being driven on a 2ft. reef
carrying rich sulphide. The number of employees (120)
will shortly be doubled, as a lot of backs are ready to be
operated on. The Homeward Bound has been floated
into a co. of 25,000 shares. Golden Fleece starts the year
with 116 tons treated at Cockle Creek for 3670 z. ; and
Shamrock, from 45 tons, got 1420 z. The White Reef
line is showing out well, but what is wanted, instead
of indiscriminate prospecting on four separate properties,
is co-operation in sinking one good, serviceable shaft.
* • • •
Mt. Lyells have been to above 605., giving the
show a value of over £3,300,000. Any way the mine is
looked at, this is a pretty tall valuation. Rise is moie
due to the bears in London and Australia covering up than
to genuine investment. Position is that the co. has at last
got its sink at the North Lyell mine from 700 ft. to 850 ft.
finished in both the main shaft and the engine winze,
so a drive is going out from both to connect the workings.
The object of this drive, too, is to test the country ; but
if the story told be true, that the ore makes east, then
there cannot be much use for the drive save for ventila-
tion and mine purposes. Buying seemed to be prompted
because a little ore was got near the winze, and Queens-
town folk talked about a second formation. Work so far
does not prove much this way. The country is minera-
lised schist, but that is the nature of the North Lyell
formation, the fact being that rich patches sweeten up
everything. All the same, they have to be searched for ;
and that is the reason why the drill is always poking
about directly a level is opened up. Judging by appear-
ances, the ore body is still making east, and it is that
direction that has to be watched.
* * • *
This shows what the jump in copper, coupled
with the provision of plant to handle copper-ores, has
done for Mt. Morgan (Q.) :
Net Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
Year to May, 1905.. £135,604 15 p. c. = £150,000 £18,772
„ „ ~ 1906.. 136,150 15 ~ ~ 150,000 4,922
i-yr. to Nov., 1906.. 148,757 15 „ „ 75,000 78,679
Mt. Morgan treats, broadly, three classes of ore—the
oxidised gold ore, of which there is still an output of
about 60,000 tons per half-year ; the sulphide gold ore,
treated at the mundic works, in rather less quantity than
the oxidised ore ; and auriferous copper ore. The gold
ore used to go over 4oz. per ton ; in fact, in 1888, shortly
after the co. started, the average was soz. sdwt. 3gr.
But that was the cream. The oxidised ore last half-year
averaged only 6’43dwt., and the sulphide gold ore
10'64dwt., besides a little copper. To put alongside the
little table above, here is another
From Gold Ores. From Copper Ores.
r r *
Gold. Copper. Gold. Copper.
Year to May,’os. .122,280 oz. 177 tons.
„ „ '06.. 114,520 „ 304 „ 2,677 oz. 179 tons
i-yr. to Nov., ’06.. 51,878 „ 172 „ 20,838,, 1751 „
The total quantity of copper ore smelted to date is 62,870
tons, which represents 5T p.c. of the high-grade ore
shown (by drilling) to exist, and 2 - 2 p.c. of the total
quantity of the ore of all grades. The present divs., as
shown above, are £150,000 a year ; the highest point was
reached in 1890, when £866,666 (86J p.c. on capital)
was distributed.
* * * *
The recent joy in the Day Dawn camp, Charters
Towers, has faded. Early last year a drill was started at
a vertical depth of 1757 ft., and went down at an angle of
70 degrees east for 500 ft. The Block and Wyndham, on
the eastern side, shared the cost. At 425 ft. a 4ft. reef of
whitish stone was reported. The drill went on for
another 70ft. in footwall country. Now, a 4ft. reef should
be a very difficult thing to miss with a monkey-shaft; yet
that is what has happened. Even allowing for the erratic
nature of Towers reefs, anything up to 400 ft. of sinking
should have met the reef. Last reports show the monkey-
shaft down 580 ft., and only a couple of leaders have been
seen. The Block and Wyndham is working the Talisman
reef with satisfactory and fairly consistent results. This
Talisman reef was supposed to have got in front of the
drill that the Day Dawn used ; but the wretched thing
left before the monkey-shaft got there.
• i
The shaping of Brilliant Stockholm, outside
Charters Towers, was the field’s greatest disappointment
last year. Everything promised well for the co., which
was sorely in need of a rise. A crushing was torn out
from the straight shaft, and proved the reef to be large,
but low grade. Unfortunately, on opening out, it was
discovered that the shaft had passed through about all
there was of it; little could be found by crosscutting, or
in levels. At 714 ft. v.d. a second crosscut is going in to
hunt for another patch.
* * * *
Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, after
much marking time, has decided to advance—upon the
market. The wire-pullers point out that the No. 7 level
in Mills’ is looking lovely, and heading straight for the
Freehold. But they don’t ment on any of the other levels
in Mills’, though they happen to be closer to the Free-
hold’s boundary. The top ground in Mills’ was going to do
wonders for the cats that hung on to the eastern side.
There was a rush to pick up School Reserve scrip ; then
the crushings panned out ldwt. East Mexican went sky-
high, and the co. took advantage of the favorable market
to issue fresh shares. In place of the expected 4ft. reef,
they got a 2-in. leader. Yet both these shows are in a
more favorable position to locate and work the reef than
the Freehold is.
* * * *
Golden Alexandra, Charters Towers, carries a
capital of £25,000, in 100,000 shares divided into 40,000
paids and 60,000 contribs. Its underlay is getting close
to the boundary, and the ground in front is known as the
Alexandra Block, It was taken up as a spec. The
Alexandra wanted that block, or someone persuaded it
that it did ; so a meeting was called to get permission to
amalgamate. The voting was 41,000 for and 25,000
against. The motion was therefore lost, as a three-
fourths vote was required to increase the capital. Matters
were soon rectified, however, for when the amalgamation
scheme fell through, the Block was purchased for £3OOO
cash, without increasing the capital. The £3OOO may not
be too much for the land, as there is excellent grass
growing on it.
Wee Macgregor, Cloneurry (Q.), is really one of
the cheekiest floats of this boom. It is in 300,000 shares
of 10s. ; £35,000 went to working capital; vendors got
£15,000 cash, and are to get 125,000 fully paid shares
(when the London gang decides to let the vendors’ shares
loose), for a property which hadn’t a pick in it at time of
flotation. Warden Linedale, in his November report,
says: “The Wee Macgregor has also been slightly pros-
pected, but appearances are not too favorable.” Other
people who have seen the group say they are fine surface
shows. In his December report Warden Linedale says:
“At the Wee Macgregor prospecting has just been com-
menced... but the work is not sufficiently advanced to
enable me to speak with any certainty of these holdings.”
For all that, shares have been boomed up to 18s. Fact
is, Tolhurst’s firm got an option on 25,000 shares at par
for underwriting the first issue ; and the directorate—
Harvey Patterson, Weinberg, Saddler, and Tolhurst—did
the rest.
Glassford Creek (Queensland) will have to do
better or be reckoned up as another skite mine ; 333 tons
yielded 8£ tons copper, 3020 z. silver, and 18oz. gold.
Previous return was 32 tons copper, 10790 z. silver, and
620 z. gold. Shareholders who live handier to the mine
than Sydney is are shedding shares at 4s. or so.
* • * •
A Queensland paper on some alleged great
copper mines in Central Queensland : “ The Mt. Warmin-
ster Lead and Copper Co. is still in the development
stage, the big main ore body being as yet undiscovered.”
That does seem to be a bit of a drawback.
• • • •
Mt. Molloy (N.Q.) has driven 195 ft. at the
270 ft. level, and has discovered some dense iron pyrites
assaying about 3 per cent, copper. The manager con-
siders this a most important development. And so it is,
if there is enough pyrites ore to smelt the large accumula-
tion of silicious seconds, for it would relieve the co. of the
expense of putting up a concentrating plant. But it is
folly to rush at conclusions in front of development; Mt.
Garnet was an instance of that.
* « * •
As the Mitchell River Gold and Antimony Co.
(N.Q.) has been successfully got off—shares were doubly
subscribed in Australia, London and Glasgow—it won’t
be long now before a practical test is made of the new
M’Arthur antimony-gold extraction process. If it fails,
it won’t be for want of ore at the Mitchell River claims,
though it is doubtful whether the gold contents come up
to the reports.
•» * * *
The Dead Finish, the N.Q. tin show that has
come into the southern markets lately, was sold by the
men who found it, and who worked it for a while, for
£4000; and most of them are good tin-men, too. As
they are supposed to be still very well satisfied with the
price, the public can get a line as to what value the men
who know it best put on it. Still, this can be said for the
Dead Finish : if it is only a little thing, it is likely to last.
It is a narrow lode—as far as can be seen, it will not
average 3ft. —but it is strong and compact at over 100 ft.
deep. It is within about six miles of a battery.
• • * *
“M.C.”: Re “ Yarranderie’s ” inquiry about
smelting mixed copper and lead ore. There are no great
metallurgical difficulties ; it is mainly a question of quan-
tity. Chillagoe is completing furnaces for the special
treatment of ore assaying about 3 p.c. copper, 15 p.c.
lead, and lOoz. silver. The copper is recovered in the
form of matte from the lead furnaces, and is subject to
further treatment in the copper furnace. The trouble is
to find a smelter near enough that handles this special
kind of ore. Each smelter tries to standardise charges
of ore, flux, and fuel, in definite proportions; conse-
quently ore of a mixed nature can only be treated in a
furnace that deals particularly with that class of material.
Mixed lead-copper ore is very extensively treated in
America; also, as before remarked, in Chillagoe (Q.).
Metal deductions to cover loss are heavy, and in most
cases freight and smelting tariff eat up the return if the
ore has to be shipped a long distance. It doesn’t follow
that smelting cos. are robbers, as an agitation going on in
Queensland would imply.
* » * *
Maybe as the result of the Xmas holiday rush
of visitors to Daylesford (Vic.) and the adjacent
Hepburn mineral springs, there was a fleeting inflation of
Daylesford stock on the Melbourne market. Sarah
Bernhardt’s “ golden drone,” at its bygone best, was not
half so auriferous as the whisperings of Daylesford
tipsters in Collins-street, For a few days the little boom
looked vigorous; then its cheek took a sickly pallor, and
it seemingly went into a precarious state of health.
Thus far there has been nothing save the Ajax to
justify a revival of faith in the quartz of the volcanic
Daylesford district. The Ajax, which was started on
deceptive indications, struck an unexpected reef some
months ago, and now looks like a durable property.
Three or four 28. divs. have raised the shares
from Bs. last Easter to £6 ss. buyers at time of
writing-, and the price has been higher. But it takes
a lot of solid proof below ground to make an early 2s.
dividend mine a good investment at 1255. per share. As
for the specs, that emanated from the Ajax surprise—the
North Ajax, Nuggetty Ajax, the Florence, etc. —they
appear to be cats of the wildest nature. Local pre-
dictions, though naturally unanimous re the Ajax, are
stubbornly conflicting as regards the prospects of the
lesser claims. In the beginning of the New Year the
Ajax people tipped the Argyle as a certain winner ; but,
as soon as shares had risen a shilling or two, the insiders
took their profit, and the stock fell clean out of the quota-
tions. This much may be said for mountainous Dayles-
ford, with its extinct volcanoes and its rich a luvial past.
For 30 years i t was one of the drowsiest and most neglected
of old Yic. gold countries. Its long-standing reputation
for poverty in the deep ground—“ the Daylesford reefs
never go down ” —has not yet been fully proved to any
wide extent. What happened in the Ajax property may
happen again in one or other of the claims that are now
being- worked, or are yet to be taken up. The great
public of mining share buyers has not nearly exhausted
all temptations to lose money in looking for Daylesford’s
hidden possibilities.
* * * *
A long neglected reefing field, Twist Creek,
nearYackandandah (Vic.), is waking up. A local syndicate,
the Go Ahead, previously mentioned as raising ounce
stone, put through 56 tons for Xmas, which realised 180
oz. and a div. of £B4 a share. Lease comprises 48 acres,
and includes the Scandinavian, Shamrock, and Keep-it-
Dark reefs, parallel and only a few yards apart. All of
them paid, till the water got too heavy. Records avail-
able show that 1557 cons gave 1288 oz. The Polar Star (an
English co.’s) is west of the Go Ahead, and has cleaned
out an old tunnel and prepared to go further to get the
reef. South is Olingen’s Little Tunnel, which is putting
300 tons through the English co.’s new battery. There
are now three batteries on the Creek, and every squib is
being investigated.
* * # •
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), has cut the reef
at 1800 ft. not a day too soon. Co. went on for years
under old Zebina Lane—the Westralian Zeb’s father —
totting up divs. until the Board got sleepy and indif-
ferent as to the future. Zeb plre firmly believed
the lode would not underlie out of the lease. Directors
hadn’t the sense to have an opinion of their own.
So they let the next-door block slip away from them
when it could have been.got for next to nothing. Their
crowning act lately was to put up a big battery at a cose
of thousands. They had by that time indisputable
evidence as to the underlay of the reef; still
there was a doubt whether the pitch of the
shoot north might not carry it into a block
held by the company away from the Lord Nelson North.
Ordinary horse-sense would have suggested proving this
block before building a big battery. Co. now has a pretty
solid debt; it isn’t at all sure about the quantity of stone it
will get in its mine ; and it is less certain as to the quality.
Kecent crushings got down to about sdwt. Winze stone
from 1700 ft. to 1800 ft. certainly averages above that; but
the winze may have gone down in a good part of the
shoot, and as the lode has been disturbed by a fault it is
wise not to build on what’s ahead at No. 18 until the pick
proves the extent of the gold.
* * * *
The old Betha.nga mine, over which the late
J. A. Wallace first spent scores of thousands without a
win, and where J. Bull in late years was not able to do
any better, has slipped into other hands. Agar Wynne
and David Syme still have their bit in the show, but are
joined by a well-to-do crowd who think that there is a
turn-over, if nothing else, in the claim. Wallace mined all
the time, but the ore was too refractory. Chlorination,
cyaniding, ordinary battery treatment, all failed, so that
about all that remains to try is smelting. Ore carries a fair
percentage of copper as well as gold, with arsenic and
zinc to make things pleasant. Now that the water is out,
estimates of the ore in sight are made. These are all very
well, but there is a good deal of difference between having
metals in an ore and getting them out. There is very
little chance of cheap work at the Bethanga unless big
capital is forthcoming. What present co. could do would
be to prove the mine ; then it might get the irresistible
Baillieus and modest Tolhurst to pass it on to Bull per
Lionel Robinson.
• * * *
During 1906, 16 Bendigo mines paid only £4OOO
less than, a quarter of a million of dividends. Besides
numerous private mines, there were also 151 non-dividend
paying mines searching for gold. From 1851 to 1906—55
years —Bendigo sent 73 millions sterling of gold to Mel-
bourne. No other goldfield on earth holds such a record.
Miles of shallow ground still remains to be prospected,
and numerous neglected mines await re-opening ; and it
seems certain that the chief work during 1907 will be
carried on in comparatively shallow ground, for which
class of enterprise an enthusiastic and well-equipped bar-
racker has lately turned up in the person of George D.
Meudell.
The December return from Golden Pole (W.A.)
was £3742 from 1500 tons, or only 495. lOd. per ton,
although the reserves on October 30 were said to be
worth 645. per ton. The reason given for closing' down
the mill is that the Government dam is dry, and there is
no fresh water for the boilers. As all the mines in the
State had once to use condensed water for their boilers,
the excuse is rather lame.
The Kalgurli (W.A.) has sunk its main shaft to
1410 ft., and has stopped sinking, and commenced opening
out at 1250 ft. and 1350 ft. The lode was in the shaft for
the full distance from 1200 ft., and ranged from 2dwt. to
13dwt. The main ore shoots are on the east and west of
the shaft, and, if they prove as consistent as ever, the ore
reserves will be enormously increased. During the past
year the main shaft has been sunk 300 ft., and levels
pushed ahead at 1050 ft. and 1150 ft. During this period
112,800 tons of ore have been treated, yet the reserves
have gained on the mill to the extent of 102,000 tons.
During the current year it is expected that 132,000 tons
will be treated, but the ore reserves should continue to
gain on the mill, as two fresh levels are already started,
whereas last year the 1150 ft. level was only started in
March. The ore in sight, taking costs at 275. lOd. per
ton, inclusive of all expenses except depreciation, shows a
profit of 325. lOd. per ton, or £1,067,000. This works out
at 178 s. per share.
* * * *
The main shaft at the Hainault, Kalgoorlie, is
down 800 ft., and is to be continued to 1000 ft., and fresh
levels driven at 850 ft. and 950 ft. When the new
plant is running, the output will be increased to 7000
tons, and the profit to about £3500 monthly. At present
this seems the very best the co. is likely to do, as the ore
reserves are only valued at 315., all in, and costs aTtr
hardly likely to be under a guinea. Some optimists talk
the scrip much higher, but there seems no reason for this.
A fine body of ore is being opened up at the 750 ft. level,
and, as ore in sight is estimated at 241,000 tons, holders
of scrip have no cause for anxiety for some time to come.
* * * »
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, which has
been in the dumps for some time, has hired the North
Kalgurli 10-head mill, and will crush about 1200 tons
monthly in future. Manager Johns, who is one of the
most conservative managers on the field, reckons the
result will be about 40s. a ton ; but a better figure is
looked for by many people who have gone into the
matter. This mine has long been under a cloud, but
may continue a producer for a long time to come.
• » * «
Great Opliir, Davyhurst (W.A.), is a good
mine likely to go wrong through bad finance. The mine
possesses a wide schist formation averaging about 365.
per ton, and, in the oxidised zone, already 40,000 tons of
ore are exposed. Some 1500 ft. away the same ore body
has been exposed fully 12ft. wide and worth over 40s. per
ton. A strong financial crowd will some day get hold of
this and adjoining propositions, and then Davyhurst will
emerge from the obscurity brought about by the collapse
of the Golden Pole, Waihi, Eileen and other patchy
ventures.
* . * * *
Red Hill (W.A.), which has been silent for
months, is again being nibbled at. Go. has acquired the
Sons of Erin and adjoining blocks at Higginsville, to
which the plant is being, transferred. The reef on the
new property, though averaging only 2ft., is consistent,
and has been proved for a length of 3000 ft., though it
has barren patches. Manager Campion has great faith
in its future, and sees small divs. ahead. The long-
threatened Norseman railway, if ever built, will pass
close to the mine and materially reduce costs.
• * * *
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), continues to
open out well at the seventh and fourteenth levels, where
most exploratory work is being done. In the seventh
level, the lode at 1270 ft. south is' Bft. wide, and worth
80s. per ton : while in a rise at 1210 ft. south, values are
60s. over a width of 6ft. At the fourteenth level, at
830 ft. south, the lode carries values of 09s. per ton over a
width of 9ft. The importance of these discoveries may
be gauged when it is remembered that the eo.has bean
earning a profit of £5000.t0 £6OOO a month on ore averag-
ing less than 30s. per ton.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
BATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
tight, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing-
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything chat can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them, also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
.Routine is sometimes good medicine for
ennui or neurasthenia. An old circus horse,
which had for years carried the lady with the
abbreviated gauze skirts over hurdles and through
fire-hoops, and had steadily galloped its jog gallop
round the sawdust ring to the sound of the band,
while the gentleman jockey rider vaulted and
pirouetted and somersaulted on it 3 reliable and
unshrinking back, was, in the fullness of time, re-
tired to the old age pension of a nice grass paddock
in Maoriland. Instead of getting plump and fat,
and capering in wild freedom round the enclosure,
it grew sad and hung its under-lip in the grass.
The farmer filled it up with horse medicines, with
no result. Long, hairy neighboring farmers came
and looked at the horse from afar off, as Eliphaz
the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar
the Naamathite looked at Job’s boils through a
telescope in Uz, and they saw that the grief of
the old crock was very great, though they could
not imagine the cause. The farmer sent for the
circus-man and bade him take the old circus-horse
away, as he did not want him to set a bad example
by dying in the nice grass paddocks. The circus-
man took the dilapidated wreck back to his show,
and the moment the ruin heard the sound of the
band, and smelt the odor of sawdust, it lifted its
under-lip off the ground, took its feed, grew strong
again, and for many years thereafter it carried
the equestrienne lady with the abbreviated gauze
skirts over hurdles and through fire-hoops as gaily
as if it were a mere giddy foal.
MODERN FARMING.
It is time the farmers used the other constituents of
plant food in the wheat-field in addition to the super-
phosphates.—Agricultural Paper.
“ Blame me if a feller isn't called on to create a
new heaven and a new earth for hisself I”
The old, abandoned shafts are not the
only death-traps near mining towns. Now that
barges and dredges are nosing their way over old
workings, races have been cut for miles through
the bush to carry water to dams, for a summer
supply. At the dams a grating is fixed to catch
the flotsam and jetsam carried along by the water.
When the little bush kiddy goes missing, it is at
one of these gratings he is looked for —and often
found. A grating was being cleaned out recently,
and among a miscellaneous collection of branches,
leaves, sticks, and small insects, were found three
young wombats, a calf, two pigs, four dogs, one
’possum (with a rabbit-trap on his front paw),
several rabbits, a porcupine, two hawks, a crow,
and innumerable small birds. If the oldest in-
habitant had been missing he would probably
have turned up there also. The water in some of
these races travels at from three to fifteen miles
an hour.
* * * «
Two stories of early Australian life, re-
markable for their grim Jiumor :
A man was condemned in Goulbuni to be hanged in
Sydney. The mode of transition was by dray, in which
the prisoner was placed, together with the gallows, the
rope, the coffin and a constable. When the extraordinary
collection arrived at the spot where the Town Hall now
stands, a crowd of people, dogs and children accompanied
it. Some with fervid expectancy of a free show, hurried
ahead. “ Don’t hurry,” cried the man who was to be
the star performer in the subsequent entertainment.
“Don’t hurry; the fun doesn’t commence till I get
there.”
Talk about luck. The usual sentence for bushranging
had been passed, and he was to be hung on Gallows Hill.
But he wouldn’t hang. Each time the rope tightened it
broke, and he dropped from the low gallows onto his
feet. Three attempts were made, and then the death
sentence was commuted. It was subsequently dis-
covered that the rope used had been lying for a long
time in the Government store. Above it was a small
hole in the roof, through which the rain had dropped
on it and rotted it. When it was unwound these rotted
portions occurred at regular intervals. The man after-
wards went to Tasmania, where he was appointed—above
all things—hangman.
* * -K *
“The Geyser” : I have read “Silas’”par.
re bulls and bullocks (B. 27/12/’OG). Have been
an ox-conductor for 15 years, and am quite posi
tive that a bullock will decline and die if worked
constantly in the same yoke as a bull. Have
known ordinary bullocks to be worked for years
without any ill-effects alongside gelded bulls—
better known to teamsters as stags, flatbeads, and
tackhammers—which I think proves that the
death of the bullock is due to the very rank breath
of the bull; for, after a year or so of gelded life,
these stags lose that kill-stone-dead odor which
was so characteristic of them when in their
natural state. I can realise the necessity of
changing the bull’s mate regularly, but “Silas”
is mistaken when he says the bullocky works
“billy” in the pole to prevent him carrying
physical contamination to his mate. Any bullock-
puncher will tell you that bulls and stags are
mostly pointers, and for this reason, and because
they are very strong in the neck, he is content to
let them carry the pole, and only stands them up
in earnest when in a tight place, or when bogged.
* * * *
Some information re Mildura (Vic.) culled
from a person who went there for work, and
didn’t get it: —
All the havenues—they call all the streets runnin’one
way havenues —are plarnted with different trees, and
when you arsk the way anywhere a bloke’ll say : “ Go up
here till you come to a line of blue gum trees, then turn
up till you come to a line of pepper trees ; go on till you
come to a line of cocoanuts, and then look out for a row of
bananas.” Questioned as to what transpired beyond the
bananas, he said: “ Blowed if I know. I never got
beyond the bananas. I expect coral or seaweed or some-
thing, if you go far enough.”
* * * *
“ Agricola ” : I was lately passing from
Wileannia to Milparinka (N.S.W.), atid struck a
small waybaek school —regulation little galvanised
iron gehenna. The kid-puncher was an old friend
ot mine in the happy days when we
growled at the heat of Sydney, so I
accepted his offer of a rest in the school
till his lunch-time and leisure. He had
a full muster—three blacks, four whites,
and five brindles. Shortly I was seized
with an awful nausea, and feared heat
apoplexy, though it was rather early in
the year for that. I mentioned my
approaching demise to the nigger-
driver, and he laughed. lie said it
was only the smell of the aboriginal
class, and reckoned it acted that way
on him for the three months after he
first struck it. It took two mulga
whiskies to settle my stomach for
dinner. Teachers out-back are told
that they have no ambition —likewise
that they cause the Education Depart-
ment much trouble answering applica-
tions for removal. As to the ambition,
if you put that smell on top of the
early ambition of a Napoleon he would
become a retail greengrocer.
“ L.M.” on mules :
Odd and varied are the loads of the pack mule. In
North Queensland once I met a big hybrid carrying a
bored expression, also two waggon-wheels, a single-furrow
plough, and a 200-gallon square iron tank. I asked the
mule man in charge if the tank was empty. His eyes
bulged with something like contempt. “Empty be
blowed,” he roared ; “ think I do packin’ fer sport ? Why,
man, there’s close on 40 bags er sugar in that tank, besides
terbackc; ... 1 it 1 '— things.” I believe he was a liar.
Knew of a mule, Cooktown way, who once did duty as
a hearse. Two coffined corpses (Chinamen) were slung,
one on each side, and securely strapped. Then, amid
much jabbering and banging of gongs and other music,
the procession started. The sight of a dozen volcanoes
belching forth Celestials wouldn’t surprise most mules ;
but something—the curse of Joss, or snakes in his ear,
perhaps—scared this one. Suddenly he planted his hind
feet in the stomach of the nearest Mongolian, and shot
down the track, like a devil rushing to a public-house.
Some time later a mob of howling heathens were busy
gathering up splinters of coffin and lost funerals distri-
buted over a live-mile course through the scrub. When
last heard of, the mule was racing a railway train towards
the Palmer.
A Normanton mule-conductor told me he once packed
a 12ft. live alligator a 20-mile trip. The reptile was
enclosed in a strong rope net, and fastened frog-fashion
along the mule’s back. Didn’t ask him the length of the
mule, size of the net, or whether he chloroformed the
gator to get him there.
A timber-getter who had been insulted and aspersed
by an extra nimble mule, swore to get even. He caught
the mule, blindfolded him, backed him to the edge of a
bank with a sheer drop of 30ft. to the river, and then
tickled his heels. The mule lashed out, and, feeling
nothing but vagueness beneath his nether part, stretched
his neck and grabbed the nearest support, which happened
to be the timber-getter. They fell together and came
out together—the half-drowned human (who was a poor
swimmer) on the mule’s back. The latter selected his
landing place, scrambled out, allowed his rider to dis-
mount, then promptly kicked him in again. There the
timber-getter stayed, clutching mud and rushes, until
his enemy got tired and went home.
* « « •
If you are suffering from sick headache,
biliousness, constipation or indigestion and want
to try Chamberlain’s Tablets before buying a
package, send your name and address, with a
penny stamp, to Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and a free sample will
be forwarded.*
AN ARDUOUS LIFE.
OLD GENT : “ Your wife and daughter keep a laundry I And what do you do? ”
BILL JONES : “I post their correspondence.”
An Irish terrier in S.A. has been going
strong for the canine endurance record. Just
where the suburbs of Adelaide touch the hills,
tnere is an old lead mine, which, as is usual with
old mines, has been left as a man-trap for future
generations. One Weidenbach, living near by,
lost his dog on December 11th. On January 6th
he passed the mine, heard the faithful animal
calling for help, and went down with a rope to
bring up a dog that was very thin and sorry for
itself, but not a corpse. There was no sign of
food or water in the shaft, and, presuming the dog
fell down there the day it was first missed, it put
in 26 days underground.
> * • *
“ W.P.8.” : “ The Prooshan ” (B. 3/l/’O7)
says that the white cockatoo runs the crow a good
second for cunning. I cannot agrde. The cocka-
too is a fool-bird that yells like blue blazes at
lunch or any other time. If he were cunning he’d
shut up, instead of attracting attention like that.
As for not being able to get within 200yds. of
them, I’ve shot dozens, and I hadn't to exercise
any particular wisdom to do it.
mm**
‘ ‘ Onawe ” : Among the Maoris it is the
custom, when one of them dies, to burn down the
whare he turned his toes up in. His belongings
suffer the same fate, or are buried with him.
When the men of the tribe see a case is hopeless,
they generally carry the moribund person to the
most dilapidated whare in the kainga —one they
can spare. So Maori policies are not popular
among insurance agents.
*.**•*
“ H.G.” (Maryborough): Appeared re-
cently a fish of the “ tetrodon ” family, which,
by its powerful jaws and equally powerlul teeth,
crunches the oysters in the vicinity of Sandy
Straits and Hervey Bay. One well-known oyster-
man estimates his loss from this fish at not less
than £2OOO. Previous to the last drought they
were unknown in tins quarter, but it seems as if
they have come to stay.
* * * •
“ Falder ” : Be much recent nonsense
about lining bees to their holes. All of us round
here get part of our living with honey, and we
look lor nests in autumn, when there’s a fair
chance of getting a full one. We don’t worry
about following stray bees. We patrol the likely
timber, watching the tree-tops till we sight a few
bees flying round about one spot; usually a hole
in a dead limb. We then fall the tree, daze the
bees with smoke, and cut out the honey, the big-
gest trees usually yielding the smallest supply.
Ouiier times the nests are found hanging on rocks.
• m * *
“ Crabhole ” : The usual someone wants
to know how to get rid of meat ants. Let me
supply the funeral. Get enough bran bags (or
any other sort of bags), and spread them on top
of the holes. Then make an embankment of loose
earth all round the edge of the bags. The ants
won’t appreciate this attention, and will promptly
move on to where bran-bags don’t block their
doorways.
Tumut (N.S.W.) has seen the bunyip.
It’s in the local lagoon :
The creature has a cry like a seal, and very much
resembles this well-known amphibious specimen about
the head. The tail is described as being like that o( a
kangaroo, running from a fair" thickness at the root to a
taper at the punt. The bunyip swims rapidly, and as it
glides along keeps its head above water. Its length, from
the tip of the nose to the extremity of the tail, has been
set down at about 4ft., and the color of the creature is
reported to be black.
The yarn conies so circumstantially this time that
Sydney Museum authorities are sending an inves-
tigating expedition. Quite probable that Aus-
tralian inland waters have a creature of the otter
variety. But if the bunyip is to shrink down to
an otter four feet from snout to tail, a big romance
will founder on a very small and prosaic reality.
IN THE SMART SET.
SHE: “ You think it’s funny, but I think it's
foul.”
Dear Bulletin. — Be incongruous names.
'Way up here on the nor’-west (Queensland)
mineral field is a small postal township named
Friezland. Seeing there is only an envelope
between this place and Tophet, it should be
known as Frizzleland. Friezland ! Why, there
isn’t an adult inhabitant of Fryslaud who wouldn’t
give his best Sunday loincloth and a bottle of
lukewarm rum to anyone who could make any-
thing freeze for five minutes. About the only
frosts liable to occur are in connection with some
of the wild-cat mining ventures. Freezeland is
the natural home of the ’cat. So numerous and
voracious is that animal, that anyone is a fool and
a gambler who goes out after dark without a
loaded gun.—Yours on the rim of Sheol, Mallaba-
POONIE.
THE TOWNSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s an old one-horse township on Ballarat-road,
Like a derelict hull,
Grown dingy and dull,
On the bank of a stream that tumultuous flowed,
When life in the 'fifties exuberant glowed
On Ballarat-road.
It looks as if burdened with centuries grey ;
Though withered and mean
It once was the scene
Of luminous night, and of roystering day ;
And lusty carousing of men that were gay
From Ballarat way.
Here halted the team with its mountainous load
Of cornsack and bale,
And Her Majesty's mail
At “ The Rest and Be Thankful,” that cheerily glowed,
Changed horses and sipped of the neetar that flowed
By Ballarat-road.
Here tramped it together through thick and through
thin,
With blankets of blue,
Old mates that were true,
Who lustily cheered when, with wheels all a-spin,
With clanking of swords, and importance, and din.
The escort came in.
Now, worn with the winds and the rains that erode,
Its days are outrun ;
The alluvial’s done.
The trains and machinery follow the lode—
It’s long since the tide of prosperity flowed
Down Ballarat-road.
vie.
A.B.C.


The excruciating pains from corns or
bunions may be avoided by applying Chamber-
lain’s Pain Balm.*
Hundreds of grateful people testify to the
magical power of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm over
rheumatism. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.
NEW
JEWELLERY
DESIGNS
REACH US IN SYDNEY ONE MONTH
AFTER BEING MADE IN LONDON.
Our London buyers live by being ever alert for Novelties. Then we
have in Sydney Special Designers who are ever producing new ideas,
and so we are always right to the front, and yet our prices are as low
as our qualities are high.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Choice Diamonds and Pearls,
Pendant and Necklet, If inches
long, £22 10s.
Smaller Size, £l5 10s.
“ Mallarapoonie ” : 1 sat smoking in the I
scanty shade of a desert gum. A string of black
ants hurried like absconding cashiers between
two holes, some 40ft. apart, among the bare hot
stones and wilted spmifex. There were other
strings of ants junctioning into the main line.
These are the records : —782 ants passed a given
point, going both ways, within five minutes. Of
these 21 humped grass-seeds, 15 carried manna,
six bore along ant-eggs, five hauled one dead
caterpillar, three struggled with a grasshopper’s
hind leg each, and one staggered along under the
dead weight of a defunct relative. The other 730
carried nothing, but hustled to and fro like 730
life assurance agents. If these ants were union
ants, and worked union hours, the result of a
day’s work would be that 70,176 ants would hustle
like all Gehenna in the hot sun to no purpose ;
2016 would trundle a grass-seed every time ; 1440
would each lump manna ; 576 would daily help
along the birth rate ; and 480 ants would yank 96
dead caterpillars over hot stones; while 288
others were battling the back limbs of 144 grass-
hoppers down a hole. During the day 96 funerals
would pass by (which seems rather a high death
rate!). Now can any Bulletin reader, whose
wisdom is as the wisdom of the snake, inform me
why it was necessary for those other 70,176 ants
to hustle at all, seeing they weren’t required to
handle any merchandise? Does Nature waste
all that ant energy ? And supposing they had
simply got to hustle, mightn’t they just as well
hustle with an umbrella apiece to keep the hot
sun off their bald heads ?
» • • •
“ See Gee ” writes :
Horsham (Victoria), which held the Y.O. for beer-
drinking, lately attempted a strike against an increase
in the price of the brown substance from 3d. to 6d.
Following the publicans’ announcement, a meeting of
hard drinkers was called, at which oratory poured forth
as from a burst cask. A professor of cookery besought
the meeting “ not to take away his beer.” The chair-
man, in a voice that savored of a reading from the 4th
chapter of Crocodiles, commanded the crowd to stand
shoulder-to-shoulder (possibly to prevent it falling), but
when a temperance orator, taking advant ge of a
heated argument between the chair and a beer-chewer con-
cerning who was going to shout, informed the thirsty
mob that he had never tasted liquor in his life, he
was told that “he did not know what he had missed.”
The cold-tea advocate called upon bis “berruthers” to
take the pledge, and was rewarded with one convert—the
aforesaid chairman. Then 400 thirst-maddened sand-
heaps fled as the fly crows for the nearest public-house.
*
“H.7.H.”: Bulletin (29/11/’O6) errs in
calling Rose’s trip from Lissadell, Ord River
(W.A.), to Charleville, the record stock-drive. In
1884 M‘Donaid Bros, took out cattle from Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) to stock Fossil Downs, 200 miles
east of Derby (W. A.). Rose’s trip covered 2500
miles, and McDonald’s was well over 3300 miles.
Rose delivered 2100 out of 3750 he started with,
and he was never off settled and well-opened-up
country.
UNSELFISH M'ALISTER.
THE NEW MEENISTER: “ But surely, Mr.
M‘Allister, you are satisfied with a religion
of sweetness and love—you do not want hell
and all its horrors ?”
M‘ALLISTER: “ Ay , sir, I’m satisfied, but I have
a only maself ta theenk of.”
“ Cabby,” in a depraved frame of mind :
The average Australian back-blocks child gets his ideas
strangely mixed. Was at one time teaching in a little
country school near Narandera (N.S.W.). Some of the
pupils attended the Presbyterian Sunday school in that
town, and their parents drew the attention of the minis-
ter to the ungodly state of my flock. One day he called
and asked permission to give a little “ instruction.” He
commenced with prayer, but was rudely interrupted.
“ Please, Pm a Carthlic,” came a reproachful voice. The
“black sheep” was promptly ejected, and he was the
only one who enjoyed that quarter-hour.
The minister discoursed on “ Peace ” to the mystified
children. “And now, my dears,” he asked presently,
“ can anyone tell me who it was that brought Peace into
the world?” Blank-eyed, open-mouthed, the youngsters
stared, till suddenly an inspired whisper went round, and
all hands were waved aloft. “ The King ! ” they yelled.
The minister appealed to one of the Sunday school
pupils. “You ought to know, Gordon.”
A light shone suddenly over Gordon’s mind, and by its
rays he got the lay of the ground. He rose unsteadily to
his feet, and in an uncertain tone faltered, “ God.”
“ Yes,” said the parson briskly, “ or to put it more cor-
rectly, His Son. And because His Son brought Peace
into the world, He is called The Prince of ”
“ Wales 1” came in triumphant chorus from thirty little
heathen Australians.
The minister never called again, much to the regret of
“ the Carthlic.”
AT THE WAKE.
O’ROUKE: “ Well, well, well I ’Tis a sthrange wurruld, Mike. To-day I follow you ,
to-morrow yez follow me.”
“ Quidam ” : Be using native shrubs and
trees for ornamental purposes (“Janor,” B.
3/l/’O7). Let me bring under notice the dead-
horse creeper of Rockhampton (Q.) scrubs. -The
stock joke in its locality is to take an inex-
perienced stranger up to the creeper, which bears
great masses of pretty, white, lilac-spotted flowers,
and watch him fall down on account of the smell.
The dead-horse creeper would be eminently suit-
able for Stinking Fish apostles a'nd Yankee Beef
Trust magnates. Personally, I consider its smell
warrants its use as a fertiliser. By the way, I
once knew an old lady near Thirlmere (N.S. W.),
who tried somebody’s blood and bone manure on
her strawberry beds. The strawberries survived
it, but the family very nearly didn’t, and report
says that even now, after many years, the perfume
of that establishment is such that the fragrance
has to be deducted from the rent. And the dead-
horse creeper beats that cottage hollow.
“ Silas Snell ” : Millington was sitting in
the corner of Scougil’s bar at Nip-and-Tuck.
Millington had drunk much beer, and was in a
condition of unrelieved misery. When moderately
drunk he always
began to tell the
story of his domes-
tic sorrows. His
domestic sorrows
were endless, and
when very drunk
he was bathed in
tears while reciting
them. He had
made the mistake
of his life in marry-
ing, Millington
had. It took about
ten drinks to start
him crying about
it, but by the time
he had loaded up
he was a monu-
ment of misery.
“ I’ll drownd my-
self ; that’s wot I’ll
do,” said Milling-
ton, “ I’ll drown
myself. Nobody
wants me. Nobody
loves me.” He
staggered over to
Hoskins, and fell
on him, wretched-
ly. “ Comedown t’
th’ river with me,
George,” he said,
in piteous accents.
“Come ’n J see th’
last ov me; I’m
goin’t’ drownd me-
self. I ain’t any
use t’ anybody.
Th’ wife, she won’t
care she don’t
love me.” “Go
t’ ’ell! ” said Hos-
kins, coarsely,
shaking him off.
“ Oh, orl ri’,” said
Millington. “If
yeh won’ come wi’
me, I’ll drownd
meself in the troft.
Goo’-bye, George.’
He shook hands
with Hoskins, and
the tears streamed down his face. “Goo -
bye Mick. Goo’-bye, Charlie.” He shook hands
with them all. At the door he paused, and
turned a fat, tearful face. “Don’ take th body
’ome t’ th’ wife, boys,” he said, “she don love
me.” Then he passed out. Nobody seemed the
least distressed. They all knew Millington, and
they knew that Scougil’s trough was cracked and
had no water in it for a year. Millington had
“ drownded ” himself in it a score of times. Half
a minute later there was a wild, bovine roar out-
side, and then Millington dashed back into the
bar streaming with water, and made a murderous
rush at Scougil. “ You German swine, 111 tear
yer ears off ! ” he yelled. Scougil had mended
the trough.
“Bilya”: Be “ Falder ” (B. 20/12/’O6)
querying “Cocky’s” statement that sleeper-
hewers cut up to 18 sleepers per day. ihis
would, no doubt, constitute a record, for m the
iarrah country the best tally is about 14 sleepers,
cut in something like 12 hours. A fair average is
about eight in an eight-hours day-usual price
Is. 4Jd. But this question of high tallies leads to
a much more important one. In “Cocky s
tally, what was the proportion of marketable tim-
ber cut in comparison to the waste ? As a rule,
the hewer who is hacking great pieces out of the
landscape to put up a big tally is wasteful to the
last degree. Have known instances where not 40
per cent, of the log was turned out as the finished
sleeper. In the States where royalty is charged,
the measurement of the finished sleeper is taken,
so that the sacrifice of timber doesn t trouble the
cutter to any noticeable extent.
The divining rod is more or less under
State Government patronage now in Queensland.
Such success has followed the efforts of twig-
bearers on the Darling Downs that Minister for
Lands Bell engaged a diviner to prospect tor
moisture in the badly-watered, but extremely rich,
belts of country behind Rockhampton. At
several spots the twig gave way to agitation, and
bores are now being put down.
, * * *
“ W.G.” : Saw some weeks ago a goanna
v. snake scrimmage. They writhed and twisted
about each other, the snake repeatedly biting the
go., which ultimately proved the victor, almost
tearing the snake’s head off. I caught the goanna
and kept it for some hours. It was none the
worse for the mill. My own opinion is that the
snake was not able to pierce the go’s, leather skin
with its fangs.
* * * *
“ Mooch-about ” : Henry Lawson’s ladies
aren’t the only ones who go into a bathroom, wet
their towels, splash the water about, and come out
without wetting their toes. A medical acquaint-
ance told me, t’other day, that five out of 10 old
men in our benevolent asylums who’ve been com-
pelled to bathe once a week make a. great watery
noise in the bathrooms, wet their hair, and emerge
as dry as a western plain.
* * * *
About the most ludicrous thing that has
happened to the heathen Chinee in N.S.W.
occurred at a way back vegetable garden lately.
The days being excessively hot, the vegetable
Johns had resorted for coolth to a deep cellar they
had excavated alongside their residence. Here
the bland Celestials would chant their folk songs,
and eat preserved ginger, and think out new
methods of passing decaying fruit on to wily house-
wives. They would also say ‘‘Hoo ki la,” and
Other words of similar import, and smile at each
other in a mysterious, dark fashion, whilst they
rested there, immune from the sun’s rays. But
this day a fire broke out in their residence just
after they had retired to their cellar, and it had
just finished up the last of their valuables when
they emerged from the cellar in the evening.
And the bland heathens then spat on the ashes
of their Joss, and forbore to smile in a dark way
for quite a long period.
* * * *
“ Janor” : Here’s a wrinkle for “The
Prooshan” next time he cooks a satin bird (B.
27/12/’OG). By using the following mode he’ll
save a lot of time and consume the “ sweet bit ”
all the same. Select a round, smooth pebble of a
size to fill the cavity of the bird, and heat it until
incandescent. Open the bird with a straight cut
down the breast-bone, remove the innards, insert
stone, draw edges of opening together, and bend
neck over joint; wrap tightly in a piece of cloth
or sacking, and bury in a shallow hole in the
ground for one hour. It is then cooked ; the
feathers are easily removed, and you assimilate
the fowl done in its own juices. If one has an
appointment with his best girl what time the bird
is cooking it may be placed in his coat pocket
instead of in the earth. It will there cook while
lie’s hugging the appointee. The boiling of a
satin bird tender knocks a big hole in a week—to
treat a lyre bird a week does not suffice. Tried it
once when snowed-up out Mt. Pinnabar way.
Kept the beggar boiling for 96 hours, but, as he .
was getting harder every hour and was black as
the hob of the other place, shot him out. He
came in very useful later on to sharpen tools with.
* * • •
Jindabyne (N.S.W.) is saying in a very
loud voice that it isn’t taking any of Premier
Carruthers’ proposed Kosciusko deer reserve.
Jindabyne reckons that the deer
among the “rough and rugged battlements,” but
would move down and become an antlered
nuisance to the Monaro pastoralists. Jindabyne
says it has quite enough imported curses to con-
tend with now in the shape of rabbits, hares and
foxes, and has instructed Miller, M.L.A. (who
represents Jindabyne in a voice like a foghorn),
to shout something in Carruthers’ ear.
“F.H.R.”: Had an old sheep-dog who
could beat Sherlock Holmes at deducing things.
He could tell when I was going to town by the
trousers I wore, and, deducing that he would
most probably be tied up and left at the camp, he
would straightway go into obscurity, refusing to
reveal himself even when tempted with a piece of
meat. I mention the meat just to show you how
fond even a dog is of a trip to town. I lent him
to my mate while I took a run to Sydney, He-
turned Wednesday morning, saw my mate, and
left the dog with him. Got to camp about sun-
down (25 miles from dog). Thursday morning,
when I opened the tent door, the dog poured in
so suddenly that he knocked me back on to the
bunk. Now, how did he know whether I had
gone on to the camp or back to Sydney ? Did he
overhear me borrowing five bob from my mate,
and deduce from that information that I was too
“ stiff ” for Sydney, or did he just go out on spec?
I reckon he deduced things from the borrowing
transaction. He was a dog of such intelligence
that he was capable of borrowing five bob from
another dog himself.
“ Elmore ” : Every dog has his day, does
he ? Well, my dog Laddie—but here’s the yarn.
My three dogs and I were out hunting. Sud-
denly Laddie, with a yard or two of brown snake
coiled round his neck, came towards me at a
terrific pace. I put on a terrific pace, too (not
towards him). When he caught up I grabbed a
lump of tree, and dropped it on the snake s head,
quite forgetting the dog’s head was just under-
neath. I hurried home, leaving him quite dead.
Jones was there, and said he was laying strych-
nine baits for foxes, and advised me to tie up my
dogs. I was asleep next morning before
when Jones yelled out, “ Anyone up ? ” “ I am,
I said. “Well, you’d better come and attend to
your dog. I seen him eat two of my baits.
Scrambling out in my shirkl almost dropped with
astonishment as he threw Laddie over the garden
fence. “Well,” I gasped. “Snake-bitten,
brains knocked out, and now strychnine.
I guessed a gun was the only remedy, and went
inside to get my rifle. I looked about for Laddie
when I came out. He was right among my bee-
hives, where he proceeded to take a fit. Me had
only done his preliminary, so to speak, when he
overturned a bee box. It was tbe quickest fit on
record. He gave a mighty leap and cleared a six-
feet high fence. I got under the bed till the bees
quietened down. An hour afterwards, Laddie on
the edge of a 20-ft. shaft prepared to resume his
interrupted fit. I fired, and with a yelp he dis-
appeared. Next morning when I opened the door
to get my beef, which was hanging under the
verandah, there was Laddie outside the gate (he
was also outside my meat). And he has been
looking well ever since. #
A Dutchman’s moralising over his dog
You vas only a dojr, bub I vish I vas you. Ven you go
mit your bed in, you shust turn round dree times and lay
down. Ven I go mit the bed in, I have to lock up de
blace, and vind up de clock, and put de cat out, and
ondress mineself, and mine frau vakes up and aoolde, den
de baby vakes up and cries, and I haf to walk him mit
the house round ; den maybe ven I gets myself to bed it
is time to get up again. Ven you get up you shust
stretch yourself a leedle and you vas up. I haf to light
de fire, and out on de kettle, scrap some nut mine wife
already and get myself breakfast. You blay around all
day and haf blenty of fun ; I haf to work all day and haf
blenty of drabble. Ven you die you vas dead. Ven 1
die I haf to go to hell yet.
* * * *
“W.L.”: Re “X.P.D.” on versatility
(B. 10/l/’O7). I think I have got him beat. Sailor,,
9 years. Soldier, 1 year and 8 months. Publisher,.
2 years. Printer, 2 years. Financing and manag-
ing a theatrical co., G months (only lost £100).
Whisky traveller, 6 months (turned me down ; too.
many “pubs.”) Also bookkeeper, clerk, motor
driver, canvasser, secretary, and companion to a.
man who needed looking after from Glasgow to.
Melbourne. Have tried writing; you were the-
victims. My age is 29.
“ The Captain ” : “ X.P.D.” (B. 10/l/’o7)t
claims to be champion “ Jaclc-of-all-trades.” He
can give me eight vears, and yet I can beat him.
by about seven trades and 12 wives. Here is-
my record i Bar tender, jackeroo, station book
arid storekeeper, steward on an ocean tramp,
accountant, civil servant (Africa), pressman,
leader of a troop of insurgents in Cuba, ditto in a
South American revolution, secretary to success-
ful leader of same revolution who afterwards
became President (eventually got kicked out
of that job through being a foreigner), actor
(two weeks —didn’t have time to play Hamlet),
lecturer, miner (was half-killed by Chows in a.
Jewburg mine), and commercial traveller. Also, in,
desperation took up the role of a new Messiah in,
Nigeria, but was found out, and ran to escape-
roasting ; stowed away on a sailing vessel, andi
was fished out after a three days’starve. Priedl
a variety turn in a fifth-rate music-hall in 1 aris,
acted as chief adviser to a Kaffir chief (for which,
I received a handsome remuneration and the 12
wives before alluded to), and am at present,
keeping a wary eye on the High Commissioner-
ship- % * .
“ Te Ngaehe ” : Great is the tohunga of the
Maori! You needn’t be an archangel of purity
to persuade the M.L. aboriginal that you are a
spiritual leader. One of the principal tohungas
in a certain district was an inveterate thief. He
stole his grandmother’s pig when nothing more
was available, then stoutly denied it. Months
afterwards he gave out that the spirits had told
him to confess, promising in return an endow-
ment of supernatural powers. Other natives
swallowed this yarn, and he has waxed a mighty
prophet and layer on of hands. Among Ins
followers were a Maori M.H.R.. and an M.L.C.


MR. G. REID AGAIN SEEKS A COALITION.
MR. G. REID (as affably as he knows how): “Come in, Alfred. Come into my little parlor, and we'll talk things over.”
MR. DEAK IN (dubiously): “H 'm? Your little parlor seems to be a trifle upset since the general elections.”


ffapW} is < I^>pW^
Tie loc<\l .
The
*V ,nr i *
T?e go , ’
ArK -+0 -tort* of
"Were- Mo^« r
lon® ly rtow.
)fe Iws'f’ •
L'fc on $e v/2\Ve
fleef )n SigVfc \ j
'j'o*'
-fi'sb
l^ndi.
Dov« >5 sen|“
IF WARANGA BASIN SLOPS OVER.


Odol
DenHfrice
Oc/ot not only cleanses the
teeth but also Insures them
against decay .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Jamaica earthquake didn’t kill Hall
Caitie.
“ Did Adam Fall 1 ” Or can it be that he
Was pushed ?
Australia’s last ducal visitot Was the
Cipher of Yotk. The threatening one is the Con
Cipher.
Sant Mauger, M.H.R., has set ail example
Of trde li Australianism.” His new house at
Fdotscrdp (Vic.) is built entirely Of Australian
tinibers.
A Sydney artist has these 20 years been
reckoning on a reversionary interest in some valu-
able Kingston, Jamaica, property. And now the
earthquake has wiped out his expectations.
They say that Ashton, whose retirement
from the N.S.W. Ministry is announced, has
made quite a fortune in the land agency business
—not by dubious means, but by reason of the
enormous fees he was able to command.
C. R. Bell, who died recently at Casterton
(Vic.), was one of the oldest school-teachers in the
State. He carried on horseback, from Melbourne
to Ballarat, Gov. Hotham’s despatch to the
miners during the Eureka Stockade trouble.
A man from Kalgoorlie (W.A.) was trying
to tell some Melbourne friends where he had
spent the Sunday afternoon. “ I dropped in at a
big church, where there was a little man saying
‘I, I, I,’ when he wasn’t saying ‘ Me.’ ” There
was a chorus of “Judkins!” “ Well,” said the
visitor, “I fancy I did hear his name wasJud-
something.” Jud-something ! Such is fame !
Visiting sailor-man Frank Bullen, lunching
privately with Alfred Deakin, couldn’t perceive
that the affable Premier, when asked how he pro-
posed to keep out the Japs, courteously put his
questioner off with a non-committal, temporising
reply. Bullen should have known better than to
ask such a question seriously, and he must have
known better than to use the private conversation
as “copy.”
Miner Verran told theS.A. Assembly, the
other day, during a burst of eloquence concerning
the refusal of the Legislative Council to grant the
benefits of Wages Boards to miners, “The Council
Would wreck the devil, to say nothing of the State,
so long as they could Work their wicked will,”
Now, Jack Verran is a Methody local preacher,
and why should he object to the Council wreck-
ing the devil. Perhaps he looks upon the action as
a piece of unfilial conduct deserving of reprobation.
RETIRING POLICE SUPERINTENDENT
LARKINS (N.S.W.).
Photo, by L. W. Appleby, Sydney.
Rev. R. J. Campbell, of City Temple,
London, shakes the world by denying the Fall of
Adam.
They say that Adam did not fall,
And all the scandal we have heard
Is simply false and most absurd—
For Eve was married, after all!
That democratic parson, ‘ ‘ Brother Charles, ”
will probably forsake N.S.W. shortly. His term
with the Bush Brotherhood is up, and he has not
much encouragement to stay. The fashionables
of the Church of England in his district couldn’t
forgive him that he was not Anti-Sosh; they
expected him to preach Sosh on Sunday and
be fervently Anti-Sosh from Monday to Satur-
day. And he had not that convenient sort of
mind, and won much fashionable disfavor in
consequence.
That old political war-horse, R. T. Yale,
teetotal and sectarian fanatic, announces that he
will contest Ballara' 1 at the Vic. State elections
this year Vale k nearly 80 nowadays. He
stood for Yarra (Vic.) at the recent
Federal elections, and was badly
beaten by Tuaor. He was at the
bottom —the very cellar and
basement —of the poll for
Ballarat West in the
Vic. State elections of
1904, getting 552 votes
out of over 3200. He
stood against Beak in
for Ballarat at the
Federal election of
1901, and was hope-
lessly licked.
And he Was
wiped out at
the Ballarat
West State
election in
1902. in fact,
Vale’s Par-
liaftifentary
Star set quite
a while ago.
He has no
following ex-
cepting O.L.
and Cold Tea
circles, and if
he splits the
Tory vote with
that waning
influence, Joe
Kirton—a
case of the
sick man
struggling
with the
corpse—it is
probable that
a Democratic
candidate will
represent Bal-
larat. The
Anti-Sosh
crowd is more
or less pledged
to Kirton and
can’t well aban-
don him, and it
is no use arguing
with Vale.
“ Blister ” writes :
Strange how every capitalist thinks he is a fit and
proper person to represent the electors whenever he feels
inclined to wallow in the cheap glory and advt. of M.P.
Up till a few days ago nobody ever knew that old Ben
Dowling, cattle salesman and investor, of Ballarat, took
the faintest interest in the big- game, but the other night
he spent a shilling in announcing that he intended to
enter the Legislative Assembly. Ben’s only claim to a
vote seems to be that he is “ a fine stamp of a man ”
what the Yankees call “a good looker.” It is alleged
that he has never been heard to orate outside of a cattle
yard, and his feeler has not yet touched any substantial
promises of support.
Melbourne Age seems to have become con-
verted to The Bulletin’s practice of taking away
that bauble. Anyway, it refers to the creator of
Melbourne’s St. George statue as “Mr.” J. E.
Boehm.
“Warrym”: Jarrah Jack Forrest has
decided to be High Commissioner. How do I
know ? He’s had a coat-of-arms painted on his
carriage panels. It includes “supporters”—two
blue lions. Those supporters signify that the
owner of the carriage is a peer of the realm.
There’s nothing to prevent Forrest painting
coronets on his carriage panels if he likes; but
how those who are It in England would laugh at
the coat-of-arms if sported by the High Commis-
sioner of Australia!
A recent “ In Memoriam ” notice in S. M.
Herald recalls the fact that the North Devons,
under Colonel Bloomfield, were the first soldiers
to occupy Paddington Barracks (Sydney). The
11th held the barracks for nine years, and five
veterans, aged from 79 to 90, still survive in the
neighborhood of Sydney. They have reason to
be proud of their period of soldiering. Regiments
that preceded them in Sydney were public
afflictions. But when the 11th left, each soldier
was presented by the citizens with a written
address, and the officers with a silver dinner ser-
vice for the mess. The 11th cleared away the
scrub on the site of what is now the Cricket
Ground.
Thomas Cordingley, who died while visiting
Sydney last week, was the first man to make
meat extract in Australia. He and Alban Gee
were imported for Sydney Meat Works about the
same time —Cordingley ns meat-extract chemist;
Gee as canning expert. Later on Cordingley
went North, established on Alligator Creek, near
Townsville, probably the best-designed works in
Australia, and ran them with great success till
drought thinned out the herds and sent up prices
beyond the point at which there was much profit
left in the potting business.
Adelaide has lost an old identity in
“ King,” the life-saving dog at the Glenelg baths
(he was good enough to be a “ Personal ” and not
an “Abo.”). A heavy, white, short-haired mastiff
crossbreed, he had great power, and a love of the
water, and was trained to rush from the keeper’s
quarters at the sound of a bell, and drag anybody
ashore that needed it. He was overfed by picnic
parties, got pig-fat, and the first time he was
given practice in rescue work he carried it out
faithfully—and died on the steps.
There is one very prominent Adelaide
citizen who must have mixed feelings regard-
ing the destruction by earthquake in Jamaica
of James Fergusson, ex-Governor of S.A.
Way back in the seventies he was a young
and wealthy squatter, about to be married.
Fergusson was at Government House, a soldierly
figure of 40, having just buried his first wife.
And it somehow came to pass that the Adelaide
girl broke off her engagement at the eleventh
hour and married the vice-regal widower. She
died of cholera, 10 years later, in India, and not
till then did the Adelaide lover look for consola-
tion elsewhere. The undaunted Fergusson made
yet a third matrimonial venture in due course.
Police Superintendent Creaghe, of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), who retires after 44 years’ service, is
one of the veterans of the early-day mounted
force, which consisted largely of broken-down
English “ toffs,” ne’er-do-well adventurers, &c.,
who were “soft tack” to the wide-awake bush-
ranger of the time. Creaghe reached Maoriland
in 1861, and had as ship-mates a family named
Scott, one of whom later achieved fame as “Cap-
tain Moonlight.” He arrived in Sydney in ’62,
joined the police, and was stationed at Albury.
He had charge of the northern and southern gold
escorts. He officered the party that shot Clarke’s
confederate, Pat O’Connel, had several “brushes”
with the gang, one of which lasted about six
hours, and made things so brisk generally that his
men were called the “ Bellabula bloodhounds.”
CURIOSITY RESENTED.
"Hullo! George, what's up
with yer foot !”
“ Bill, I cannot tell a lie. I've hurt it.”
Professor Rutherford, the new occupant
of the Physics chair at Manchester (Eng.) Univer-
sity, is a Maorilander, and a graduate of M.L.
University. He has been for some time Professor
of Physics at the McGill University, Montreal
(Canada), and has made his mark in the ionisation
of gases by the Rontgen and Becqueral rays.
Tom Molloy, who had only climbed as high
as senior-constable in the Vic. police when Death
served him with a warrant lately, had a jealous
regard for his own religious faith. When he was
in charge of the lock-up at Geelong, a drunk was
brought along. The usual particulars had to be
filled in. “ Pfwat’s yer religion ?” asked Molloy.
“Romansh Cather-hic,” said the drunk, and
added: “You’re Tom Molloy-hic, ain’t yer?”
But the drunk, expecting sympathy and a soft
plank, had miscalculated. Molloy eyed him sus-
piciously, then stepped up and commanded :
“ Then make the soign of the Cross.” “ Whash
that?” the drunk wanted to know. “I thought
so, yeblaygard,” said the zealous Thomas; and
in the “ Religion ” column, this entry was made :
“Declined to state.”
The appointment of Street as permanent
N.S.W. Probate and Bankruptcy Judge in place
of Justice Walker (retired through ill-health)
was the result of a series of fortunate circum-
stances. _ When he received the acting appoint-
ment his seniors were unavailable. Gordon,
K.C., was away a-marrying; Lin gen was in
Europe; Dr. Cullen, K.C., was suffering from over-
work ; and Adrian Knox, K.C., would not accept
the acting billet for a mere three months term.
Street stepped in, and proved a success. He
showed a remarkable capacity for dealing rapidly
and accurately—without haste, without rest—with
the cases; and cleared the decks of a whole lot of
Equity and Probate work which had been clogging
the lists for months, and thus putting the public
to great inconvenience. Though the new Judge’s
merits were known to a few, he had never been
in big practice. He reaches the Bench in one
long stride, like the outsider on a racecourse that
gets a lucky opening—the opening that happens
once in 10 years—and goes through. It should
be also a lucky opening for N.S.W., where the
Bench is getting weaker owing to the dead-weight
of time. Street is a young man—comparatively.
Most of the other Judges are old men—and are
showing it. Also, in some cases, their law is even
older than they are.
“ Melb.” writes :
There died in our Brunswick suburb the other day Eli
Summers, one of a quartette of clever brothers : Eli,
Charles, Albert, and Joseph. Charles was the only dis-
tinguished one, but the others are noticeable. In another
way altogether they may remind you a trifle of the
Bronte sisters, with Charlotte sticking out. They were
sons of a Somersetshire stonemason, and toiled in the
quarries, with aspirations like Hugh Miller. Charles,
Eli, and Albert wanted to be sculptors ; Joseph’s aspira-
tions were for music, and I may move him out of the way
first by stating that he pluckily got to Oxford somehow,
became Musical Bachelor there, came to Melbourne, and
was a leading musical professor. Charles was taken in
hand by one Weekes,, art instructor, of London ; was
taught modelling, and carried off, first, the Eoyal
Academy silver medal for sculpture, and then its gold
medal with a fine work called “ Mercy Interceding for
the Vanquished,” reproduced in the Illustrated London
News. Watson, a rather eminent sculptor, became ill
when he had nearly done statues of Lord Eldon and
Lord Stowell, at Oxford. He handed them over
to Summers, who finished them well. In 1853
Charles, Eli, and Albert came to Australia. The
object of the trio was to make enough money, on the
goldfields, to enable them to study in Rome. They went
to Tarnagulla (Victoria), and had the luck to spot the
afterwards famous Poverty Reef. When within 4ft. of
that great find Charles gave up, thinking he would
obtain a job on the Hotham monument in Melbourne.
Eli and Albert struck the gold, and became well off.
Charles married a French lady. Their son is the present
notable sculptor, Charles Summers, now in charge of
statuary at Christchurch Exhibition. The elder Charles,
the genius if ever there was one, had a bad time in Mel-
bourne, crowned, however, by the Burke and Wills
monument. In that he had the competition of one
Sydney Camroux, who wanted to represent the explorers
standing side by side, with Burke pointing to the ocean.
Wills, senior, eagerly supported this. Paltry jobs of
Summers yet in evidence in Melbourne are the Cupids
and garlands on the Bank of N.S.W. frieze, and a figure
of Albion over a Richmond drapery shop. He managed
to get away in 1866, and thenceforth worked in Rome.
James Fergusson, killed in the Jamaica
earthquake, at the age of 74, fought in the Crimean
war as a Grenadier Guards officer. He was
appointed Governor of S. Australia in 1868, and
of Maoriland in 1873. He returned to England
in ’75, and held office in Salisbury’s second
Government. Laborist Clynes ousted him from
his seat at last general elections. His second wife
was a daughter of Mr. John Richman, of S.A.
Recent newspaper mention of “ Rev.
Henry John Noble” recalls the rather belated
slipping of a round peg into a round hole. Noble
(not then “ Rev.”) was once fairly well-known as
N.S.W. Deputy-Registrar-General, and, later, as
a member of the Old Age Pensions Board. His
inclinations were strongly “churchy.” When he
retired on a pension, a few years ago, lie joined
the C.E. Ministry, and was appointed curate at
Bendigo (Vic.). Recently he returned to Sydney,
and now fills a Leichhardt pulpit.
J. F. Hogan has been telling the Cockneys
how Charles Gavan Duffy gave the names of Cob-
den and Carlyle to Victorian townships in the
long ago. Cobden is still a flourishing Western
District township, but Carlyle, an incipient settle-
ment on the Murray, has long ago followed its
namesake to the grave. Duffy told Carlyle
what he had done, and the dour old sage ex-
pressed the hope that the town would have a less
melancholy existence than that of its sponsor.
Died in Brunswick (Vic.), last week, Eli
Summers, one of the famous Summers brothers
whose lives have been so much bound up with the
pioneer and artistic work of Victoria. There were
four brothers, one of whom (Dr. Summers)
went in for music, while the others took up sculp-
ture. All four found their way to Australia to
get gold to go to Rome and study more sculpture
and music. They reached Tarnagulla and pegged
the famous Poverty Reef, which Eli and Albert
stuck to until they dug a fortune out of it.
Charles abandoned his share just before gold was
struck. He rushed off to Melbourne because a
statue of Gov. Hotham was talked about. In
Melbourne Charles did a lot of work. The
Burke and Wills monument is his, and the
four great royal figures in Melbourne Public
Library. He went to Rome, and Eli and Albert
followed him there ; but Eli returned to Aus-
tralia and settled at Newbridge, not far from
where ho made his fortune. On all the baby
rushes during the last five or ten years, Eli,
though nearly blind from a blasting accident
(his reason for deserting sculpture), used to peg
out a claim, just for the sake of old times.
Mackey, the Vic. Minister for Lands, on
the question of the Duke of Connaught’s pro-
posed visit to Australia :
It is a splendid idea. He is a man of the highest military
attainments. Apart altogether from the fact that he is a
royal prince, he is one of the most prominent military
officers of the empire.
In Mackey’s manner of not telling the truth, we
have a fair sample of the methods adopted by
official persons in Australia to reconcile their
professions of democratic faith with an unneces-
sary utterance of grovel. The Duke of Con-
naught, as a military officer, cannot be considered
apart from the accident of birth which has placed
him in the billet of Inspector-General of the
Army. He was born to the position as unques-
tionably as his eldest brother, Albert Edward,
was born the heir-apparent to the throne. His
very christening confirmed the fact. The old
Duke of Wellington impressed upon Queen
Victoria the advisability of keeping the nominal
command of the army in her family, and when
her third male child was born—the second son
having been earmarked for naval “distinction”—
the aged Wellington acted as godfather, and the
baby was named Arthur, after him. Also, the
infant was christened Patrick, with a view to
fitting him for an Irish title when he grew old
enough to be duked. There was no attempt to
disguise the fact that Prince Arthur was intended
to become a “most prominent military officer of
the empire.” His present billet was made for
him by the British Government, and it is only the
Mackey sort of courtier who pretends that the
royal personage has the fullest natural qualifica-
tions for his billet.
LITTLE WILLIE JUDKINS.
There died on January 10, at Hobart,
Susan Hassall Sprent, aged 91. Deceased was a
daughter of Mrs. Oakes, the first white child born
in Australia. In 1834 she left her native Sydney
for Hobart, where she married James opren ,
«f Tasmania’s first Surveyors-General. ?
early married days Mrs. Sprent was on m
terms with Sir John and Lady Franklin,
quent visitor on board the Erebus and >
whose officers were engaged with her hus
astronomical work. These were the two
which were lost among the Arctic bears a
when Franklin and his men perished, Mrs.
Sprent leaves a number of grandchild > ,
only two great-grandchildren one the g
of Nicholls, M.H.A., and the other the son o
James Sprent, B.Sc., now at Edinburgh Uni
versity.


As manufacturers of Fine Furniture, have ever striven to combine Beauty and Utility in
everything produced in their Redfern Cabinet Works, and the illustrations show some
examples of the way Australian Capital and Australian Labor have been united in
converting A ustralian Timbers into articles of use and ornament for A ustralian homes.
2T/je KILLARA DINING ROOM SUITE
No. 49
Dining Room Suites, comprising Spring-seated Couch, 2 Arm Chairs and 6
Ordinary Chairs, with padded seats and backs, close studded with brass or steel
studs, frames of solid Queensland Maple, well finished and strongly built.
Upholstered in various shades of Pegamoid Leather, £lB 12s Od.
Ghe SHERATON DINING ROOM SUITE
1111111111 l
■
m
No. 50
Dining Room Suite, comprising Spring-seated Couch,
2 Arm Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, with padded
seats close studded with brass or steel studs, frames of
dark fumed Oak, well and faithfully built
Upholstered in various shades of Pegamoid Leather, &15 lOs.
Upholstered in best Real American Hide, £.lB lOs.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS’ FURNITURE, CARPET, and BEDSTEAD SHOW ROOMS are acknow-
ledged the finest in Australia, covering an area of nearly fifty thousand superficial feet, well lighted and lofty.
Here are displayed samples of MODERN ART RENAISSANCE, CHIPPENDALE. SHERATON, ROCOCO,
and other styles of Furniture, and while the claims of HIGH ART in MODERN FURNITURE are not forgotten,
neither is the necessity for the cheaper, stronger made and more useful kinds ignored. We can furnish a cottage
or a mansion with equal ease*
Several completely Furnished and Decorated Rooms are arranged in our main Furniture Show Room to assist
customers in making choice of suitable Furnishings, and they can see at a glance the general effect much better
than by selecting the several articles of furniture in different places.
ANTHONY HORDERN ®, Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
New Palace Emporium,
... Brickfield Hill, X £/ X •


f -LMJJX n. IT. \
* HOT DAY.
'Peter F. Heering'sj
.CHERRY BRANDY,
... WITH ...
ICED WATER.
The new telephone call with the “ owe’s ”
and “double owe’s” instead of “noughts” can-
not be construed into “ I owe or I double owe
you,” nor into “owe nought,” which would
better suit the Federal policy, and, anyway, it
doesn’t matter how a man calls as long as he
always calls for the right brand—D.C.L. Whisky.
With a proper daily allowance of D.C.L. it is
never necessary to ring off great business or
political enterprises for want of intellectual in-
spiration and support.*
Beauty was at one time to the great majority of
women, as a thing beyond—a possession for which Nature
was alone responsible. That’s all changed now. With
the advances made in Beauty Culture it is possible for
every woman to have what at least is Beauty’s greatest
attribute—a fresh, radiant complexion. Mile. Helena
Rubinstein, the Russian Skin and Complexion Specialist,
has in every sense altered the face of Australia. Her
Valaze Massage Institutes, at 158 Pitt-street, Sydney, and
274 Collins-street, Melbourne, are equipped with every
device for the attainment of feminine beauty. The jaded
society woman, tired out with the incessant round of
entertainment, may, by the treatment of face massage at
these Institutes, be made as fresh as a rose again. All
the weary nerves and muscles of the face are soothed and
strengthened, the circulation of the blood increased and
all the pores spurred into their natural activity. Sittings
from 4s. 6d. Then the removal of serious beauty
blemishes is also undertaken at the Valaze Institute.
Birth marks, moles, disfiguring growths, red noses, and
all the other list of hideous beauty ailments are removed
on the lines followed by the great continental specialists.
Of Valaze, that dainty Russian Skin Food, no word of
praise is needed. It is the boudoir belief of thousands of
Australian women. Other toilet specialties handled by
Mile. Rubinstein are Rusmo Hair Killer, for the self
removal of superfluous hairs; Valaze Herbal Soap for the
complexion ; Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure ;
Valaze Skin Lotion. These articles are sold by chemists
everywhere, or direct from Mile. H. Rubinstein & Co.,
274 Collins-street, Melbourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney
Dymock’s Circulating Library.— The best
resolution that can be made for 1907 is to start the year
by subscribing to our circulating library. We offer a
year’s reading of the best books published, whether it be
in fiction, travel, history, biography, or any other depart-
ment of literature, at rates for city and suburban sub-
scribers ranging from one guinea upwards, and for
country subscribers ranging from £2 12s. 6d.; for this
latter sum we send to any country address a parcel
of eight volumes as often as required. Shorter
periods or larger parcels to suit subscribers are quoted.
All our books are perfectly clean, and are covered in
a neat, distinctive green cloth, Conan Doyle’s “Sir
Nigel," Gertrude Atherton’s “ Rezanov,” Lucas Malet’s
“Far Horizon,” Mary Cholmondeley’s “Prisoners,”
and thousands other popular works are now available
and are circulating freely. Write for catalogues and
particulars to Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating
Library, 428 George-st., Sydney.*
Constipation Kills.— Not directly, but by slow
poisoning of the entire system. There should be no delay
in permanently curing it and no mistake in choosing the
remedy. Senior’s Liver Pills cure constipation for good
by restoring proper tone to the liver and bowels.
Senior’s Liver Pills are sold at Is. and 2s. per box, or
Is. Id. and 2s. Id. post free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246
George-street, Sydney.*
“ Goutez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AIMD
WHITE"
WHISKY
s>v
« “CRAV’EriETTCS’
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 22, 1907.
My Dear Arini.—
Lady Sarah Wilson, a daughter of the late
Duke of Marlborough, and aunt of the present
one, has been staying at the Australia with
her husband, Major Gordon Wilson. They
left for Maoriland on Wednesday. A brother
(Captain Wilson) of the latter is of the
party. The husband of the Dukes daughter
is an Australian, a son of late Mr. Samuel Wilson,
who had extensive squattages in this sunburnt
land. The distinguished group has been up on
one of the stations for some weeks. Lady Sarah
has not lost the good figure with which she
fetched Melbourne some years ago, soon after her
marriage, when she was staying there in Lord
Hopetoun’s time, and she does look as if she had
developed and perfected the temper of her ter-
rible ancestress, Duchess Sarah, Queen Annes
friend. She has fine eyes, that have a
strike-you-dead expression. She and husband
were in the Boer War, and Lady Sarah was
taken prisoner, and later, in the exchange of
prisoners, swapped for an ordinary Boer woman.
Anyone who thinks that that’s not enough to spoil
the expression of the fine eyes of the daughter of
a Duke must be a glutton.
Sydney is holding its breath and waiting for
the Prime Minister to tell them that the Con-
naughts are coming here with Princess Patricia,
and several gentlerhtn whose uniforms would
leave a good auriferous deposit if put through a
crusher. If the Connaughts come at the same
time as Princess Aribert we’ll get critical and
bored. It will be too much joyness and Highness.
The agility of the Northcote’s staff in evading
queries about Princess Aribert’s visit would do
credit to an oiled lynx.
The Allen Taylors, now free of the padlock of
the mayoralty, go to Tasmania on Wednesday.
Sonny Forster, who has lately returned from
M.L., where he has been relieving at one of the
Bank of Australasia’s branches, is to be left here
to keep house. And just a wee while before the
Taylors took office Forster had crochet round his
pinnies ! Now lie’s trusted to keep house —to
say nothing of a branch bank’s till.
Andrew Black, with the voice like the rolling
deep, is waiting here for the Sing-Song on
Saturday. He waits in a camp at Middle Harbor,
taking in sunlight and food (his attack, crescendo,
on a pile of Irish stew, two octaves high, is a masterly
achievement), and being blood-sucked by mos-
quitoes at night. This Scot is an incorrigible
raconteur and mimic, and to hear his de Richter,
the famous conductor, is better than haggis.
Richter, conducting a rehearsal of the orchestra
in Manchester, says: “Laties and shentlemen,
give me notice, please. When you play the
violins pizzicato ” —holding up the fingers of one
hand and indicating the tips, not the nails—
“play mit der meat, not mit der horn.” And
Richter, telling in reply to someone’s question of
Will Madame Richter come to the matinee?—
“Nein. If my vife do not downright lie after
lunch she schwindle,” meant that the lady’s head
would swim.
According to the basso, we have something in
the way of melody worth living for—the playing
of the queerly-named band, “ Besses o’ the Barn.”
Not to know that the combination takes its name
from a village in Lancashire is of course truly
awful ignorance, but enlightenment will be full a\
few weeks hence. All the players are artisans,
their conductor a young Welshman, who is a
miracle waving a stick, and behind the combina-
tion is a hundred years of heredity in playing
band music.
'Miss Tittell Brune writes to say how greatly she
is interested in the good work of the Child Study
Association, and how deeply she desires to help
it. To materialise her desire, Miss Brune will
henceforth charge two-and-six for her autograph,
and give the money to the association. Every
week Miss Brune autographs dozens of books,
poht-eards and portraits, and if the demand for
the signature (at two-six) keeps up, the worthy
charity will have reason to be grateful to the
tragedienne. (The tragedy will be in the cessa-
tion of autograph requests when seekers find they
have to pay.)
A friend in Melbourne sends a guinea to the
Child Study Association charity. Mrs. Fischer,
of Cranbrook, Burwood, and Mrs. C. M. Regan,
of Tamworth, also help along the good work to
the extent of a guinea each.
The baby daughter of the divorced wife of the
King of Saxony (same monarch who was so
shocked by Calve’s calling the tenor “head of a
sheep,” or some such) is to be brought up
as a nun. So the old man has decreed.
And some of the German press is so dis-
tressed by the “ ultipomatum ” that it is falling
over its irregular verbs. The infant was born
after her mother had fled from her husband’s
drab court escorted by a tutor, and the press
incites the lady to put up a vigorous fight
against the girl being compelled to wear a black
robe and veil when her natural taste might run to
Paris frocks and frisks.
It would be interesting to know how those
twenty-seven Maoriland housewives are getting
on with the imported (English, Irish and Scotch)
serving damsels. Are the imported giving the
importers back answers, breaking the china, and
telling the missus (of the work) “ That’s not the
way we do it at Home ” ? Some time ago a syndi-
cate of fifteen missuses in Napier district got into
communication with the British Women’s Immi-
gration Association, and 27 accredited young
women arrived lately. The lady who took charge
of them coming out tells that she secured them
with great difficulty. They had to be coaxed out,
and adds that there is not much hope of the ex-
periment being repeated on a larger scale., The
demand for good women servants is pretty keen
where those girls came from, and the emigrating
working woman prefers America as not being so
far from Home and friends as Oceania.
A few visitors from New Caledonia are making
holiday in Sydney, and vary the aspect of the
passing show. Both men and women are heavy-
weights. The latter wear one long, loose outer
garment, an overall; it is buttoned down the
front from neck to hem. Some of the men have
enormous moustaches, and one eating in a restaur-
ant had his tucked behind his ears. In one of
Jokai’s novels a robber chief always wore
his moustache so, only to each point was fastened
a heavy gold coin. The bushranger of the past
had a sense of the picturesque.
Some of the correspondence from London about
Australians abroad makes one feel prickly. The
writers have stock phrases that they intend to be
complimentary. “ Ada Crossley still keeps her
slender, graceful figure.” Pity they didn’t add,
“in spite of her age and infirmities.” Why, it’s
only a few years ago that Ada acquired that
graceful slenderness —and it isn’t likely that she’s
going to part with it before she’s quite in her
prime. When she left Australia for study she
was a thick-figured young party, and she stayed
thick for many years, until she practised the
right sort of physical culture. Another “ compli-
mentary ” phrase is, ‘ ‘ Mrs. Flood is looking
younger than ever.” “Ever,” since when? In spite
of the ingenue hat with the wreath of pink roses,
the Widow Flood looked, when she left here, an
honest sixty-five. Does she look the blushing bride
age now ? She is to have a smart, big wedding,
I hear—bridesmaids, a crowd, flowers, breakfast
—and the man-of-war ’groom will no doubt cut
the cake with his sword. In John S. Winter’s
military novels the officer always cuts the cake
with his shining blade, so, of course, it is the pro-
per thing to do. Haw !
A returned Australian tells me that one of the
little side shows to which she and her sisters
treated themselves, when on a fly round in
London, was secured in this wise: They would
see in the society columns of the press that the
Duchess of (say) Londonderry’s reception would
come off on a certain evening. On that
night the girls would have a late supper;
then, in evening dress, at about 12.30,
they would go round to the Londonderry
mansion, stand near the edge of the red carpet
and watch the Somebodies come out. The
watchers always knew who was who through the
policeman bellowing the name. “The Chinese
ambassador’s carriage blocks the way.” “ The
Countess of Warwick’s carriage blocks the way.”
A few deadbeats or late loiterers might be also
gazing, but from a greater distance. Whenever
the evening dress group arrived and stood with
their toes close to the carpet, the policeman
always remonstrated with “ You can’t stand here,
ladies—move on, please.” But he never failed to
wilt under their entreaty—“ O, don’t ask us to
go ; we’ve come all the way from Australia.” It
staggered him and flattered him, for he seemed
convinced that they had come all the way from
Australia for this—to see a peeress or an ambassa-
dor get into the carriage that blocked the way.
Mr. Bischoff van Ryck, whose black horses and
park phaeton have been known to Sydney for half
a year, goes hence for Asia, by the French liner
Nera, on Monday.
I have seen “Six Bachelors,” the gentleman
who has been sobbing into the Daily Telegraph
about his inability to get a suitable wife. There’s
only one of him, although he calls himself five
more—and he is about as anxious to call some
girl his Very Own as a cat is to do its own fishing.
M.L. Premier J. G. Ward, his wife and
daughter, will get to Sydney on the thirtieth of
this month en route by the Mongolia to the con-
ference in London. The enigmatic Wilson, who
used to be private sec. for J.G.W., is now
secretary to the Arbitration Court in M.L., so he
is out of this trip.
A rumor is flying about like a noonday devil
with wings, and saying that a mature couple who
got married a few months ago are about to sepa-
rate. They are not compatible, they explain, and
a long interval of single cussedness between their
first matrimonial ventures has unfitted their hearts
to beat as one. Both of them want the liver wing
of the chicken and the soft side of the bed, and
there is no peace.
Latest explanation for shoplifting is—influenza.
In a fashionable London case, the other day, the
judge accepted this explanation and suspended
sentence on “a widow of independent means,”
discovered prigging from a shop, on the plea, set
up by her lawyers and confirmed by medical
evidence, that she was suffering from the after-
effects of influenza, causing a mental unsettlement
which made her confused about meum and tuum.
It is, perhaps, just as well for the social organism
that only the rich can afford to have the benefit of
such astonishing medical testimony; otherwise
gaols would be empty and honest folk uneasy.
M.L.’s fatted cheque for the Irish Envoys is
£5500. Now, isn’t that past all whooping !
Miss Madge David, daughter of the Sydney
Uni. David, is engaged to a young civil engineer
named MTntyre, of Hobart. Mrs. David and
the newly-affianced are staying in Hobart.
Sydney is emptying, although the big hotels are
full. Manuka and Warrimoo have had to say
“no” quite firmly to scores of intending pas-
sengers to M.L.
Premier Carruthers’ private sec. has shaved off
his moustache preparatory to getting married.
Most men shear the moss off their upper lip
because She told them to do it. Yet in that
awful Kipling story, “The Gadsbys,” the Girl
says that a kiss from a man without a moustache
is like an egg without salt.
Beauty-culture is a better-paving line than
hoeing turnips. A law case, dragging through
the courts in London, hinged on a Mrs. Pomeroy
—her name has long been associated with skin
foods and such like —who turned herself into a
limited liability co. and became Mrs. Pomeroy,
Limited. She was the co.’s managing director,
and had a salary of £l2OO a year.
From London: —
Major Frank Maxwell, who is to wed Charlotte Osborne
(of the P. H. Osborne clan), at St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge,
on the 22nd, is a soldier with a record that includes the
Y.O. twice over. The Osbornes, now that the chicks are
leaving the paternal nest, find the mansion in Lowndes-
square too large for them, and have taken a smaller but
equally smart house in Wilton-place, where the wedding
reception will be held.
At the Austral Club “ Tuesday,” last week, Miss Doro-
thy Menpes, baby-faced, golden-haired, and frocked in
mauve cloth, was a dainty figure. She writes the letter-
press for her father’s (Mortimer Menpes’) sketches, and is
just now considering the offer of an enterprising Ameri-
can agent who would like to engage her as a lecturer on
Japan. Her years match'her looks in reality, and she will
be quite one of the youngest platform speakers if she
accepts.
Rifle-shooting is by way of being put amongst
the fashionable fixtures for women. Invitations
to receptions may have on the corner Shooting,
instead of music or dancing. “Come to lunch,
dear, and bring your rifle,” will be heard through
the telephone. And dressmakers will have to
study the making of the rifle coat just as they had
to invent the Bridge Blouse. On Thursday night
the new civic chieftainess, Mrs. Thomas Hughes,
will fire the first shot of a Sydney Ladies R™ e
Club. There will be a large audience, and 1 una,
after consulting the latest work on etiquette, that
it will not be the thing to crawl under the seats
when the lady raises the rifle to her shoulder.
Conceal your fear, and reflect that probably the
rifle will be loaded with blank cartridge, and the
bull’s-eye bell will be rung from behind the
scene.
All the elements for a first-class Bland Holter
are in the quarrel between President Ro° s ® v ®)®
and Mr. Storer, who has just been tumbled off his
pinnacle as U.S. Ambassador m Vienna.
Dramatis Personae: The President, the Am-
bassador, the Ambassador’s wife, an Archbishop,
a Roman Cardinal. Synopsis of the drama:
Mrs. Storer (who is known in Europe as the
American Ambassadress) puts a long, pointed and
well-manicured finger into every delicate dip-
lomatic affair that comes within her husbands
radius. Also she corresponds with the Presi-
dent, who addresses her as “Dear Maria,” and she
and her husband write to him as “Dear Theodore.
One of Mrs. Storer’s most cherished wishes is
the getting of a Cardinal’s hat for Archbishop
Ireland. In ’99 she began to make active sorties
after the hat, and asked “Dear Theodore, who
was then vice-president, to send her a telegram,
which she could show (at Rome) as a proof of the
high appreciation in which the Archbishop was
held. Several private letters were written by
Theodore in warm praise of the Archbishop, and,
though the writer forbade the lady to publish
them, he told her she could show them to her
dearest enemies and worst friends —under promise
of secrecy, of course. Secrecy was so well main-
tained that a copy of one of the letters went into
the possession of Cardinal Rampolla.
Theodore wrote ever so many letters entreating
Maria to recover that copy. She failed, and
the seventy-seventh scene jn the drama shows
Storer, prodded by his wife’s costly lace fan,
asking the Pope for that Hat. At this stage the
newspapers got hold of Maria’s desire for a Red
Hat —not for herself —so Roosevelt, instead of
continuing to call the lady “diplomatic,’ de-
nounces her as “intriguing.” The denouement
hurries. Letters of rebuke from the President to
Storer and his wife follow, the _ Ambassador is
hauled back from Vienna, and is_ now sending
Open Letters to the Cabinet at White House.
Think of the scenic effects, the Court robes, the
“interiors” of Austrian, Roman and American
palaces —and Walter Baker as Cardinal Rampolla,
and Bland Holt as an Open Letter ! Why, it’s a
cinch —whatever that may be.
Mrs. Margaret Thomas Gordon, wlm returned
with her K.O. last week, was pretty sick all the
journey here, and didn’t warble often. She went
to the Mongolia’s fancy dress ball as a nun. Mrs.
Charlie Deane, who was got up as “ Topsy,” took
the (first) £5 prize. The Reggie Allens returned by
the same liner ; they have gone on to Hobart. Mrs.
Reggie was a Tasmanian Grubb. The most admired
passenger (she got off at Aden with her husband
to shoot large animals) was Mrs. Wylder, whose,
diamond snake with emerald head blinded Syd-
ney a year ago. Eva Mylott was buying her
trousseau when the last mail left. Carrie Moore is
one of the best frocked i n London. She pretty well
runs the Apollo, where she’s playing in the “Dairy-
maids.” A correspondent tells me that Carrie’s
Sandow Girl is, as a dressing spectacle, the
“warmest” thing she’s seen on the stage. A
clinging piece of white samite, or something as
mysterious, is swathed tightly around the damsel
from under her arms down to about her knees,
where it flows out wide and sweeping. Emily
Sol dene was to have left for Sydney this month.
Mrs. Watkins, Mayoress of Waverley, Sydney,
will hold a reception at the council chambers of
the municipality on Tuesday afternoon.
My correspondent at Brisbane tells me these
things:—
How’s this for tact? His Ex. was at the Mayor’s
banquet, in Toowoomba, last week, but left early “ in
order not to interfere with the political discussion,
which I feel sure was the raison d’etre of your coming
together.” He was quite right, too —it was just an
Opposition rally.
Great are the preparations for the. Chelmsford F6te ;
and rumors of much new and original “ doings ” are
being vigorously whispered around. The doll-stall
already has 160 inhabitants; and a story competition
(with a fat money prize), a temple of mystery, and a
children’s play are coming to the boil.
Touching children’s plays, a sad tale is filtering out in
connection with the Girls’ Grammar School performance
last year, and it is to be hoped it has lost its truth in the
process. It seems, according to the yarn in circulation,
that when a “repeat” was proposed—this time in the
Opera House—Govt. House presence was promised on
condition that one item—a dance—was left out of the bill.
As Govt. House presence is a thing no self-respecting
Grammar School shivoo would be without, the pretty
posturing was promptly banished, and a Vice-regal party
shed its lustre on an expurgated programme.
Fact is, Govt. House is nuts on children’s parties:
but as soon as the chick has crossed into that misty
border-land which begins at the 12th birthday, and con-
tinues until she is ready to fluff forth in chiffon and
snowdrops, she is excepted to be kept under lock and key.
Especially her limbs.
To put it nicely, one more Brisbane bud has been
plucked to grace a station homestead. Miss Hilda Hood,
daughter of Mr. W. W. Hood, who occupied the old home
of Tom M'llw’raith, Auchenflower, is the party of the
first part, and the party of the second part is a Scotsman
named G. E. Mitchell, the seasoned owner of much
Warrego cattle. The bride elect is one of the few women
who can ride astride with grace.
Died on Monday last, at Eilden Hill, Barbara Drury,
relect of the late Col. E. K. Drury, for many a year
manager of the Q.N. Bank. The Drurys’ house was one
of the most hospitable in Brisbane, but after the Q.N.
smash and her husband’s mysterious death, Mrs. Drury
lived quietly with her daughters. She was far from well,
and her peaceful death comes as a rather happy release.
Her father, J. Grahame, was a well-known merchant of
Sydney in the old days.
Though Brisbane is pooh-poohing it, New Farm, a
comparatively clean suburb, has a bad outbreak of
plague : 14 cases one clay and seven the next were taken
off to Colmslie. Almost all children—probably the
result of a rat raid. Health Commissioner Ham says the
thing had better be published, so as to scare the suburban
dweller into a general clean-up ; but the property-owning
crowd is trying its best to hush things up.
The Bright-Foxton wedding came off on Thursday. The
bride was in white chiffon taffeta, with wreath and veil.
Speeches followed the knot-tying in the drawing-room,
after which Mr. and Mrs. Bright went to the Tweed
(N.S.W.) for a week before proceeding to Tasmania. The
bride’s travelling gown was of green tweed. The presents
included a set of silver letter-carriers and a cake-dish
from the P.O. clerks.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Governor-General Northcote, at the open-
ing of the Australian Exhibition in Melbourne,
treated his hearers to some straight Australian :
He had to congratulate not only the members of the
A.N.A., but the whole Commonwealth, upon the evi-
dences of abounding prosperity with which last year had
favored the country. Certainly the main factor that
conduced to Australia’s prosperity last year was the ex-
cellent season with which, under the blessing of Provi-
dence, the country was favored, but they m st also con-
sider that every year saw the growth of what he might
term national assets, which were independent of season.
Every year our agriculturists learned more and more as
to the qualities of those fertilizing agents which tended
to increase the products of the soil, and year by year the
march of Science showed increasingly the wealth which
could be obtained from the by-products or tailings of the
great mineral industries. ... He hoped members would
never lose sight of the duty incumbent upon them to
keep public opinion constantly attracted to such
objects as water and forest conservation, as the pro-
motion of agricultural and commercial education, and
many other public questions of a non-party character,
upon which they could bring weight and important in-
fluence to bear. No time could be more propitious than
the present for Australians to use every legitimate
influence to advertise their country to the world.
A short time ago the present Prime Minister announced
as one of the cardinal features of his policy “ Australia
for the Australians.” To his mind the natural
corollary of that sentiment was “ Australians for
Australia.” In visiting Australian factories he had
seen engines and machinery imported from Great
Britain, the United States, or the Continent, and had
sometimes asked if these machines could not be made
here. The answer was invariably, “ Yes, but there
is not sufficient demand to warrant us in putting
down an expensive plant.” When Australia had quad-
rupled its present population, such a reply would not be
given to a future Governor-General. If the country kept
before it the example which had made the United States
great, and which was developing such countries as Canada
and the Argentine, and when it had a native Australian
population, in whose strong right hands the defence of
the country might be safely entrusted, its people
would add to the legitimate weight which they
ought to have in the councils of the Empire—an influence
which Australia’s geographical position and energies en-
titled her to. Then they would speak with a voice of far
greater weight than at present in the councils of that
great Empire, of which Australia was proud to be a com-
ponent part.
You should send in now a year’s subscrip-
tion to The Lone Hand. It does not matter
what part of Australia you live in, send in
promptly on reading this and you may be enrolled
among the Fifty Foundation Subscribers. The
Lone Hand—The Bulletin’s new magazine-
will be one of the institutions of the Common-
wealth.
“ Janor ” : The very large percentage of
informal votes cast at Federal elections stresses
the need for an improved way of voting. The
cross is not a happy idea by any means. It is
popularly regarded as a “bad mark,” and is
associated with disapproval rather than of appro-
bation in most minds. What’s wrong with a
ballot paper carrying the names of candidates
encircled with perforations and so arranged that
the voter could remove those of candidates he
wasn’t going for ?


M
BOLOGNA
CAMBRIDGE,
OXFORD,
PORK & BEEF
SAUSAGES,
VfOU have doubtless tried different
“ brands of Sausages.
But haveyou triedQ.M.E. Sausages:
They are made of the very finest
quality, specially selected ingredients,
backed by a guarantee of absolute
purity.
Their flavor is of a character you
have not before experienced in
Sausages. Try them Ask your
grocer.
«
m
Smart Dressers are
now asking for...
The “GIBSON”
Dress Shield ...
If Your Draper is
Up-to-Date he has it.
tor
SEASCJK
'M'
A
o
c>
Oo
ir
c\
m
o
K
f§
A
rv
vc
Cors
i^S
vf^sci
tv
Ask For
1.V4
m/
HERES A
NICE
CUP OF TEA
'm.
A
Tiptons
Teas
| ALL GROCERS
Duncan Preston (SL Co.
Sole Representatives for Australasia,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne:, January 22, 1907.
Mi Dkar Yarrie,—
Miss Stuart-Wortley wore, at her marriage
with Captain Cecil, a unique veil lent by
Lady Talbot. The bride was the only soft-eyed
charmer we’ve had at Stonington on a visit.
Mostly the occasional guest at the Malvern man-
sion has been severely Puritan, with a rigid spinal
column and a grave countenance. Miss Wortley s
new mate is the Aide who grew fat and lazy in
the service of Governor Brassey what time that
Ex. was falling off various things.
Alan stands in wonderment round the tobacco
stalls of the A.N.A. show. He is amazed at the
rapid play of female fingers in the process of cigar
and cigarette rolling. To the he-spectator it is as
fascinating as the minuettings of a canary to a
cat. The dexterous play of fingers is interesting.
It never errs, never pauses, never slackens speed.
After being glued to the spot for quite ten
minutes, I asked the “hands” how they were
enjoying themselves. One pallid wench passed me
a laconic stare, looked along the line of males,
expanded her features into a playful grin, and
said “ Orlright; this is play to-day. I asked
another freckled-faced, sharp-nosed youngster of
fourteen how many cigarettes she could roll in a
day. “ Four thousand odd ” was the reply. All
work right on while providing tags of informa-
tion. The fingers flash without a pause. The
work is so mechanical that the eyes can roam any-
where. 1 didn’t notice any of the “ Carmen
type among these Australian tobacco girls.
The White Workers at the Exhibition attract
the second sex. The machines hum in different
keys, but monotonously. The deftness of the
pedallers sets the mind whirling cyclone-fashion.
Every part of the machinist is a-quiver with the
rapid motion of the feet. Collars are being
stitched. The workers are invariably 14 or 40.
The intermediates must be married. Their
Song of a Shirt is ended or suspended till the
“old man” dies, or is invalided, and woman comes
back to the machine. The fourteen-yearer has
her frizzed locks hanging loose round her ears.
She doesn’t bend to the machine. If she did, her
mane would of a certainty be gathered into the
lightning run of stitches. Her machine goes with
a speed that stings the senses. Her eyes the while
scan the crowd with automatic jerks. A corner
of the collar is turned without the help of the
eyes. The fingers act as eyes. They have
unerring sight. All day long they are turning
collar corners. “You get used to it,” said one
red-headed worker with the blasd air of an old,
tired fashionable. All wear ear-rings, or pearl
necklets and rings and other decorative odds and
e ids. But like the cigarette rollers, their faces
are expressionless—or deadly stoical. The con-
centration of mind controlling feet and fingers
locks up the face. Poor little souls ! Not being
toured philosophers, but merely girls with a
tteady job, kept off the edge of slavery by a
Factories Act, they get along happily enough.
The Queensland court makes the most impress-
ive effect. It is showy, big, picturesque. Cotton
in the raw is massed into tall pillars, beams,
balconies. The fruits tower up to a luscious
height. Pines on the point of yellowing bristle
aggressively from their plant-pots. The tobacco
leaf has a special show of its raw and dried and
finished states—its final cigar form. The tropical
profusion makes the pulse beat faster. The fruits,
the grasses, the palms —they set one dreaming of
a hot, languorous rich land, where the big sun
pierces all things and gives a glory of color to its
products. The efforts of all the other States to
look prosperous are eclipsed by tropical Banana-
land.
The eldest son of the late Bryan O’Loghlen
faces the altar shortly. She is a Mount Gambler
girl—Miss Blanche Beazley. Marriage is rare in
the O’Loghlen family. There’s a quiverful of
of whom has just disengaged herself in
the Big Smoke from a Londoner who didn’t prove
interesting or attractive enough. Amother Miss
entered the Loretto Order. The cloistered sister
was actually the beauty of the family.
A fetching mummer, whose spouse is quartered
in another section of the globe, found she had an
anniversary of her marriage to celebrate, a while
ago. She was puzzled whether to observe it, or
to mark the day with a dirge. Some Johnny pals
decided for her. They gathered in force and had
a wild corroboree. Several toasts were listed in
honor of the event, and no one seemed to see the
irony of a semi-detached charmer glorifying a
marriage anniversary with a shoal of other men.
The only toast that approached a cynical view of
the proceedings was “Many Happy Returns of
the Nuptial Day.”
The nautical girl hereabouts is rejoicing over
the Sayonara victory. It appears to her a good
thing for the Sydney craft to be licked, seeing
that the visiting boys make such a close hobby of
the game. Members of the Rahwiti crew were
lodged at Menzies’, and did things ashore in
style; nevertheless the nautical charmer barracked
for the local boy with heavy emphasis.
Colonel Stanley is being warmly welcomed
back to Melbourne. The girl hereabouts has yet
to learn if he polkas as well as of yore, or whether
Sydney has steamed dance-energy out of him. ,
J. C. Williamson signalised his youngest chick’s
arrival at her fourth January by a big kiddies
panto, treat. He got together all the children of
the local orphanage, appointed them front pews
in the gallery at a “Mother Goose' matinee, and
at the interval presented each youngster with a
large tin of candies. The performing lads of the
panto were similarly dealt with. It was the
greatest munching audience Her Majesty s has
produced for a length of years.
Two local widowers have entered a second
martyrdom. Both have contracted the bargain
for better or worse with dames wearing the
willow or the lilac of divorce and owning tat
incomes.
A great discussion arose recently as to the
selection of the bride-helps’ frocks. When a
number of fat and lean, short and long, dimpled
and bony girls are lassoed in for a wedding bevy,
the style of raiment to prevail is a big question.
Generally all submit to the proposal of the
smartest. Recently the helps struck and de-
murred at the selection of garb by a
chubby dazzler. She chose color and style
according to her own dairy complexion scheme
and snug little figure. But one tall girl, lacking
chic in her clothes and color in her cheeks, was
unhappy, dreading her appearance in a style
chosen by Rosy Dimples. She confided delicately
to the bride her fears that she’d look a fright.
The orange-blossom nymph told Pale 1 ace to
cheer up, that the ceremony wouldn t take long,
and the crowd wouldn’t really look at the maids.
“As long as you all make a nice, fussy group,
you’ll do.” So Pale Face had to prepare
merely to be a sort of nail in the frame of the
great picture.
A new engagement is already bumping along
badly because the male party, recently rescued
from appendioitis, refuses to take his fiancee out
in her hospital uniform. He reckons he looks
like a weakling in the company of a strenuous,
protective blue cloak and cap. Or, at least, like
the victim of a pillow-patter. Cap-and-Cloak
says, “ Nonsense,” and ties her cravat with deter*
mination under her saucy chin. I saw them the
other sultry noon, looking unhappy together. He
was quite miserable, and .she was piqued. Put
my sympathy is with the male. Fancy if each
She who captured a brute were constrained to
appear, ever after, with the net or fishing-line
with which the seizure was effected ! And Blue-
Cap-and-Cloak represents just that.
A little chick breaks out of her youthful shell
next week at Mrs. W. B. Cummmg’s dance—
Miss G. Keats.
More business for the auctioneer. The splendid
home of architect Marsden is up for auction, with
all its artistic fittings. Empty houses now yawn
in every suburb.
Lady Plunket and her eldest chick landed here
with an aide and a Cook’s guide, the other day,
and lodged at Menzies’ pending the departure of
the Ortona, by which they sail to the Cold Coun-
try. A Maorilander —Mr. John Holmes dipped
the flag, so to speak, of welcome; but the brace
of Governors abiding hereabouts were not in evi-
dence.
Miss Elsie Burston, eldest hope of Colonel
Burston, is engaged to Dr. Douglas Cooke, son
of the frozen-calf Cooke.
A dame wanting a nice, amiable, agreeable,
snug, young travelling companion to take her
deck chair out of creases, and her appetite out m
the salt air, and her toupee out of its evening
crimpers, sought round in her suburb and circle of
friends for the girl of the right shape, size,
appetite and age. One was thrust upon her,
marked Perfection. The dame took her for a
trial trip to a sea-side resort. In the first jflace,
Perfection lost Madame Dives’ trunks. Then
Perfection lost her own head. She was nice.
The boys gathered at her smiles like the birds at
a shower of crumbs. The dame was deserted.
Her temper got off the chain. Perfection failed
to tie it up again. The week spelt disaster to
the scheme. At present an elderly lady is search-
ing for some girl buck-toothed, freckled, un-
popular, religious, dull. It’s her only hope of
securing attention. That kind of person isn t
easy to find. This is a capital where the shop-
girl licks the Toorakite for style and Mary Ann
knocks spots off Claudia for chic. The dull, good
girl is rare.
Miss Elmhirst Goode has taken with Miss May
y a le—the skilled dauber—Arthur Streeton’s flat
on the banks of the Thames while the artist is in
Australia. Miss Goode has been singing at the
Austral Club ; and earning favorable notices.
’Tis said that a Victorian team of she-cricketers
sails to the Flyspeck Isle for revenge next month
“with 30 supporters.” It sounds sportive and
jolly. It means that there are 2| supporters
apiece. Could any wicket Miss desire more ?
The question of how much mourning a. girl
should wear for a fianci who has departed pre-
maturely from the earth agitates the feminine
bosom again. A bereaved charmer has just
burdened herself with the habiliments of woe and
frustrated hopes, and the sex cries out. It says
in effect: “Methinks she doth protest too
much.” ,
Wedlocking, last week, of Miss Aileen Rowan
and a Ceylon planter, Norman Farquhar Macrae,
was a showy turn-out, with a team of girls glitter-
ing in silver harness. Vigneron Andrew Rowan
gave his bonnie lass away. The newly-linked pair
go to dwell in Ceylon, where the matrimonial and
other breezes are spicy.
The cousins Landale face the Eden Chant this
Wednesday. Annoying to think the bride does not
change her name —only her prefix and the prefix
is such a very little thing.
The Justice Molesworths are getting excited
over the near marriage of their eldest chick, who
encountered her Jianci on one of those extension
tours that usually end in husband. He is Brevet
Lieut.-Colonel Walker, of the Goorka Rifles. it
sounds a seasoned title—curried, spiced, and well-
pickled. . . ,
A strolling player of large, impressive oui
has deserted the stage for a while to enjoy a spell
of freedom plus a bride and her expensive trous-
seau. Mr. Claude Flemming had charge of
several small but elaborate both the
Knight-Jeffries and Sweet Nell Co. s. He sailed
to Uncle Sam’s land with the latter, footlighted
it in Old Drury, and, at the close of itsrunre
turned to Australia to marry one of the lovely
Dunne sisters. They are a trio of brunettes
all Dunne brown. Bridegroom has a thatch of
pale rippling gold. But the bride has a better
kind of gold. Her’s jingles.
Christian Science must pay. One of its local
apostles, who is a priest and doctor in one, lives
in notable luxury on her soul-practice.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide
George Reid, with his new defeats thick upon him,
arrived in South Aus. for the end of the Science Congress
spree - and Gov. Re Hunte took him by the hand and led
Mm to the Chief Justice’s garden-party. Astonishing
how many attractions little South Aus. was able to rake
up'for the Scientists 1 The Ways have a picturesque old
garden littered with native birds of every hue and cry .for-
tunately for these fowl, G. Reid had left the dog at home.
The hostess received the crowd in a heliotrope K°wn
of considerable splendor, but otherwise there were few
frocky revelations. Mrs. Herbert Rynnll supported her
mamma in cream with blue furnishings; and Miss
Boothby, Miss Rennie, and one or tvvo local maidens cast
the requisite note of youth and frivolity on the learned
scene. After the spree, Mr. Reid was rushed bj his Ex.
and the tiny, pink-cheeked aide, Walter Stuart Baillie-
Hamilton, to a bachelor dinner at Government House.
News of the latest South Australian engagement conies
from ’Ome. The lady is Miss Cissie Brccksopp one of a
family of ramblers; the necessary man is Mr. 1 ranK
Oruttenden, at present located in Calcutta. •
Sir James Fergusson, who was killed in the Jamaica
earthquake, was an impatient old anstocrak, who was
once Governor of South Aus. At a G ? 7,
ball during his term of office, a lady, with whom the Ex.
was dancing, complained of the heat of the ballroom.
He called one of the vice-regal lackeys to open a window
and when the window proved to be so stiff that man
couldn’t budge it, his Ex. seized a stick and smashed the
glass. There’s something romantic and affluent and high-
handed about the yarn, and it is quite startling to count
all the women who are busy telling the story, and
claiming that it was she for whom the deed was done.
The first Lady Fergusson died in South Australia , the Ex.
then married an Adelaide girleen, Olive ® ,ch ma,n> niece
of Walter Hughes, who, ’twas said, cast a cheque tor
£20,000 at the bride. ...
A woman turned up in Adelaide, the other day, with-
out her memory. She didn’t recall her name or any thing
about herself, except that she had just arnved from
Westralia in a cab. Unfortunately, she couldn t Produce
the cab and the horse. The horse, anyhow, would have
been worth a mint of money to an Adelaide tram com-
pany. For, don’t think we’re going to have our electric
trams all in one disconcerting lump. They are to be
broken upon us gently and by slow r degrees.
The G. A. Wallmanns, who sold their pretty place at
Beaumont a year or so ago, and migrated to an estate at
Bu<de Ranges, come back to town in the near future, and
the" return of the lavish entertainers will be hailed
with loud youthful cheers. Their place in the Bugle
Ranges has been bought by the Timings, of Blackwood
Sl Oulnina, the late Walter Duncan’s station in the north-
east of S.A., was sold t’other day for £53,000. It was
bought by pastoralist W. J. Mcßride, of the Burra, who
owns Outalpa, the adjoining station, and a few other
small places like that.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Old Townsend MacDermott, father of the
Victorian Bar, did not remain long to wallow in
the £1 a week granted him by the Bent Ministry.
He died last Monday at Ballarat aged 89. Com-
pared with the centenarians and oldest inhabi-
tants whose records are so off-liandedly quoted m
the press, MacDermott was not a very old man,
but there is a huge difference between the real
indubitable ancient whom everybody knows, and
the telegram stating that John Brown has died
at Brannigan’s Hole, aged 104, and distinctly
remembered the battle of Waterloo in his last
hours; so people regarded the deceased lawyer
as very, very ancient indeed. And if he hacl
lived six years more an astonished community
would probably have made pilgrimages to see
him and yet it would have gone on accepting, as
fuit’e a matter of course, the death at Branmgan s
[ole of Brown, aged 104. Townsend MacDermott
was 66 years at the Bar in Ireland, Victoria and
Maoriland. He dabbled a little in politics, being
Solicitor-General under Premier Kerferd for 12
months some 32 years ago. He left politics, or
rather, thev left him, in 1877; mining specs left
him badly in later years ; and his law practice
deserted him during the last half-decade of his
life. Altogether, the world wasn t too good to
Townsend MacDermott.
Subscriptions to The Lone Hand have
been showering in, by telegraph and post, smce
the publication of last week’s Bulletin, and, to
allow of a fair deal to all Australians and Maori-
landers, the opportunity of securing a place on
the “Founders’” list—entitling to a free copy for
life —is still kept open. Subscriptions—posted,
telegraphed (though there is no need to telegraph)
or delivered at The Bulletin office-by Janu-
ary 31st will range equally for the Founders
subscriptions. They will _ be divided into
batches representing (a) Sydney ■ ; (b) the rest of
N S. Wales ; (c) Melbourne ; (d) the rest of V ic-
toria; (e) Queensland; (f) Maoriland ; (g) S.
Australia; (h) W. Australia;, ft) Tasmania;
and the first happening to be picked out will be
the Founders. Many of the most distinguished
names in the Commonwealth are included already
in the subscribers’lists. ,
“AF.”: Sydney may well bewail the
fact as it does, that its two daily newspapers are
both Conservative. But the question may well be
raised whether Melbourne is much better off in
that respect ? Deakin being the only leader who
could possibly carry out the Age policy, it was
obviously the duty of the Age to support Deakin
to the utmost. Instead of doing so the paper
showed a disposition, whenever it got a chance,
to prefer some other candidate to a Deakinite,
providing they were both Protectionists. The
Age is clearly responsible for the election
of Irvine, whose sympathies are all with
G. Reid, whereas the other candidate would have
been a reliable supporter of Deakin. For weeks
after the campaign commenced the Age took up
the ground that as Irvine and Nichols were both
Protectionists, it was a matter of indifference to
the cause which one was elected, and the choice
could safely be left to the individual preferences
of the electors. A few' days before the polling
the Age determined to oppose Irvine on the
ground that his utterances on Protection were not
sufficiently definite. The mischief, however, was
done. In connection with the Age the criticism
of the late Francis Adams may have more founda-
tion than is generally .supposed. The Age, said he,
is constantly holding in the dog of democracy
while pretending that it encourages his efforts ;
but some day the dog will taste blood and go for
his prey in right earnest, and the .Age will then
try to appear as if it had been sooling the dog on
all the time.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is unequalled for
outs, bruises, and sprains.*
Oscar de Satge's main employment for the
last doxen years of his life in England was an
endeavor to get capitalists to take up a railway to
Cape York. He wanted an unbroken rail from
Adelaide t > Torres Straits, so as to have an over-
land route for passengers to Batavia, China and
Japan.


No external application is
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm for sore
swollen joints.*
equal to
muscles or
Furniture Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIS
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hat, -dozen, free, by post throughout
A ustrulia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandohic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
The efficacy of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm in
the relief of rheumatism is being demonstrated
daily. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
u
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, 4c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
eYPNIY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Barraba (N.S.W.) Gazette unearths what
it calls another land scandal, the letting on im-
provement lease in 1902 of the Lindsay holding.
According to the Gazette, the area is suitable for
agricultural settlement.
Sydney Herald last week announced that
a serious effort was being made to get William
MacMillan to consent to be Premier of N.S.W.
But so far, N.S.W. doesn’t seem to have heard of
its own anxiety to have Calico William as its
Premier.
Mr. It. D. Meagher, the leading light of
the Sporting League, claims that he and other
members of the executive earn their livelihood
“as honestly, probably, as Mr. Carruthers him-
self.” The Bulletin has examined the statement
carefully, has looked at it sideways and endways,
and, after mature consideration, decides that it is
probably about true.
£6OOO has been voted for further tinker-
ing at N.S.W. Parliament House, and a much
larger sum will be spent in the future. The
£6OOO goes in a few repairs at the rear of the
building; the larger sum is to spent on remodelling
the Macquarie-street front. N.S.W. Parliament
House is a sink for loan money, and the fewer
members it accommodates, the more money seems
to be wanted.
There is another split in the camp of Bruce
Smith’s “ Hempiah ” League. The women’s
branch revolted some time ago. The present row
is about a proposed exchange of flags by school
children in Great Britain and Australia. Persons
named Edward Smitherst and Coleman Hyman,
and Delicious, or De Lissa, or something, make
kaleidoscopic appearances in this rag row.
HON. ALBERT HINCHCLIFFE, TRADES
HALL, BRISBANE (Q.).
A large-sized blunder has already been
discovered in Victoria’s new Licensing Act, and,
as might have been expected, it is the fault of the
Fat Landlords. They inserted an amendment
prohibiting restaurant-keepers who hold wine-
licenses from sending out for other liquid refresh-
ment that a customer may wish to take with his
meal, though a restaurant-keeper who holds no
wine-license may do so.
Forecasted that if the United States intro-
duce—as is proposed, the House of Heps, has
turned down the Bill by one vote only—a compre-
hensive system of shipping subsidies, to revive
the American mercantile marine, it will be as big
a blow to British shipping interests as were the
British shipping laws to Dutch sea supremacy;
and it is likely that the last vestiges of Cobdenism
in England will vanish with that new develop-
ment.
The simplicity of King
Edward’s diplomatic art
fulness seems to be as
effective as a Machi-
avellian policy in
sma 11 matters.
Lately, that page-
ant - loving mon-
arch held a chapter
of the Most Noble
Order of the Garter
—the first for 50
years—for the purpose
of installing his son-in-
law, the King of Nor-
way, as a Knight of the
Suspender. Incidental to
the gorgeous old mummery
there was a State banquet at
Windsor, and to this gathering
of kings, queens, dukes and gold
dinner services, John Burns and the Welsh demo-
crat, Lloyd George, were invited. Burns retains
his sympathy with the masses, but, from the royal
managerial point of view, he is a “ nobbled”
radical. Presently he will be “nobled,” unless
he can persuade his wife to let him refuse a title
for himself—and her.
More Socialistic legislation. Last year,
the S. Australian Government set an expert to
certify the weight and quality of a dozen
shipments of wheat. Results: The buyers took
the Government guarantee without demur, and
merchants and growers got extra-prompt settle-
ments ; and markets which had been hitherto
closed to S. A. were open to produce bearing the
State brand. The experiment cost the State
nothing, and paid the growers and merchants.
Suggested now that Rose Bay, Sydney,
should be improved by, among other things, re-
moving the monstrous wart that the O’Sullivan
placed there and called Lyne Park. The im-
provement should be made, and then Rose Bay
will provide an object lesson in borrowing. First,
money was borrowed to build a wart on Rose Bay.
Next, the wart was used as a stone-breaking yard,
where men were paid with borrowed money to
break stones. It was mainly useless labor, for
machinery could have done the work at a fraction
of the cost. Now the wart will probably be re-
moved with borrowed money, and the puzzle will
be to find the permanent and reproductive asset.
The ruction created by certain ill-regulated
leather exporters at the action of the British
Customs authorities in stopping quantities of
Australian leather because it was over-loaded
with glucose, etc., is further testimony to the
efficacy and advantage of Federal legislation.
Under the Commerce Act a leather exporter must
either get an export certificate with the Com-
monwealth stamp, or he must affix to his
goods an exact trade description of the dressing
contents thereof. If the Commerce Act is
honestly administered it will presently put a stop
to a lot of trade practices that are chiefly
swindles; it will do a good turn to the honest
manufacturer and dealer; and it will get Aus-
tralia a first-class reputation for the genuine
character of its goods.
Thus Premier Price, of S.A., at a lamb-
exporters’ luncheon:—
I am one of those wicked Socialists, those fellows whom
the world fears, before whom people of business and
commercialists tremble. Yet I have had the adminis-
tration of this State in my hands for 18 months, and
everyone seems very comfortable. I remember when I
moved to extend the use of the Export Depdt to other
produce than wine, and so enabled it to be used for the
exportation of frozen lambs, I was looked upon as a wild,
irresponsible Socialist. But I am proud to remember
that to-day, when the export trade in frozen lambs is
such as it is.
The trade has increased in eleven years from 2000
carcases to a quarter of a million, and the ex-
porters of the frozen baa-lamb now invite the
wicked Socialist to lunch as a token of their
gratitude.
As if to point the spiteful folly of the Yic.
Fat Landlords last session in shelving a Factories
Amending Bill that extended Wages Boards to
shop assistants and drivers and carters, a cartage
contractor had the gall to defend a case in Mel-
bourne City Court last week in which he was sued
for a week’s wages in lieu of notice by a dismissed
employee. The lorry-driver in question swore
that his wages were 355. a week, less 6d. a week
for the groom, and that he averaged 73 hours a
week ! Fivepence three farthings an hour ! He
mostly started at 3.30 a.m., though once or twice
he had lined up at 12.30 a.m., and he was seldom
finished before 5 p.m. On the day of his dis-
missal he had started at 3.30 a.m., and got back
to the stables at 5 p.m. (defendant’s manager said
it was 4.45); then he was told to go to the
abattoirs, get a load of fat and take it to Colling-
wood, and return. That meant, the manager
admitted, an additional five hours’ work, without
extra pay. The driver refused, and was sacked.
One of the deputy-returning officers for a
Yic. electorate tells a story which gives a very
vague, uncertain sound to the political Voice of
the Country. Among the utterly uninformed
persons who applied to him for guidance on
election day was a raw Scot with hair in his ears.
In the first place, this free and unenlightened
voter wanted instructions as to which names he
should put a cross against. The officer told him
he could give no advice, but he would read the
names aloud. The Labor candidate for the di-
vision had a name beginning with Mac., so the
voter promptly seized on “Mac.” as the mon of
his choice. The list of names for the Senate had
to be read twice over to him before he could sepa-
rate the Scotch wheat from the chaff of either
nationalities. Then he proclaimed his intentions.
‘ ‘ Simon Fraser ” —weel, he’d gi’ a vote to Simon.
“M'Coll”—yes, he was a guid mon. Finally,
after a further pause, the sturdy patriot thought
he couldn’t go wrong in giving his third vote to
Skene. It was a Scawtch name, ye ken. So he
took his papers into the place of secrecy, and re-
corded a Labor vote for the House of Reps., and
three Tory votes for the Senate. His troubles
about the Fiscal Issue, Socialism, or Sectarianism !
The Caledonian ticket was good enough for him.
BUT WHAT GOULD YOU EXPECT?
If our friends had the same zeal as our enemies we
could easily sweep the polls.— George Reid, at Adelaide.
The Immigration League of Australia has
lately passed a sensible resolution :
That the policy of this League is to assist in settling on
the land the people already living in the country, and
confining any subsidies, assisted passages, etc., intended
to stimulate immigration, to British-born white citizens.
There is no objection whatever to white citizens
who are not British-born ; but the British-born
have first call on the limited assistance that can.
be given.
London Daily Mail’s special in Asia
shows to what extent Japanese insolence and the
white man’s complacency can go. Dr. Allen, the
American Minister at Seoul, offended the Japanese
by attempting to protect the Koreans against the
brutal tyranny ot their new masters. President,
Roosevelt has summarily sacked him “witb
rather less courtesy than one would show to a
disgraced lackey.” The British Minister at
Seoul, Mr. Brown, has also been forced out by
the Japs. The Daily Mail concludes :
Three years ago the trade of Korea was open to every
man. To-day the independent administrator of the
Customs has gone, his place being taken by a Japanese ;
concessions and contracts have been showered upon
Japanese speculators by Japanese officials; and foreign
employees have been reduced in number to make room
for Japanese agents.
The N.S.W. Local Government Act is a
big advance on the previous Acts, which were
based on legislation passed by N.S.W. in the
sixties, and copied from the old English Acts of
the thirties. In the 200 odd sections are con-
tained the broadest powers, capable of applica-
tion in the most conservative and in the most
socialistic municipality or shire. The smallest
civic body in N.S. VV. can at will acquire powers
superior to those of Glasgow or London, and can
acquire them in a handier way. The shire coun-
cils are already at work. The municipal councils,
which were elected on the old plural franchise,
have a year to prepare for the new order of things.
With the new franchise, a progressive municipal
party could be organised in N.S.W. by February,
1908, which would not be afraid to exercise these
powers.
Victoria has just discovered one of those
“permanent and reproductive works” that the
more or less recent pioneers gloried in. It is in
the shape of a stone weir, 20ft. high and
10ft. wide at the top,away up in the Gipps-
land hills where the Mitchell River rises.
Some fool Government spent £23,000 on the
job, and then disremembered all about it—
though probably Cohen recollected the
matter when he drew his interest. It had
just about vanished from memory when
Bairnsdale shire got a new engineer, who
saw it and got the idea that the flow of
water might be made to generate enough
electricity to light Bairnsdale town ; so a
little of that £23,000 may be recovered
after all. This country would be a lot
better off to-day if some of those old
pioneers hadn’t been so beastly fond oi
pioneering at posterity’s expense.
George Wills, head of the old Australian
firm of importers, left an estate of £718,000 for
the British Chancellor of the Exchequer to draw
Probate duty from. “He bequeathed a total
sum of £5OOO to charitable institutions in Ade-
laide a tithe of the amount that goes in Probate
duty to the country where he spent his income, or
most of his income. In death, as in life, “ ship-
per ” Wills was a converter of Australian money to
British uses. His business policy was to snort at
Australian manufactures, and the departed spirit
of that deplorable Australian merchant cries
“ Stinking Fish ! ”
A large shipping deputation has waited on
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers—the local shipping
cos., which were pushed in the front rank; the
British cos., which spoke little, and the foreign
ones, which maintained a discreetly subdued
demeanor, were in the rear. The deputation
clamored for a big reduction in pilotage rates at
Sydney and Newcastle, and Carruthers hastened
to say “Yes.” Now the purely local Austral-
asian cos. don’t pay any pilotage whatever.
Some of the British vessels do, many are exempt,
but 90 per cent, of the foreigners pay. So
the reduction will benefit foreign ships hugely,
British ships somewhat, Australasian ships not at
all.
An obscure humorist named Black, of
Billabong Creek, Parkes (N.S.W.), wrote last
week to the Sydney papers demanding, on behalf
of the Socialistic party, the “nationalisation of
light.” The humorous cuss based his joke on this
basis: —
If it is a fact (which, viewing the almost alarming
strides of astronomical science in the present day, there
is little reason to doubt), that the light from the sun and
moon occupies some thousands of years in travelling to
this earth, it is apparent that the light now in common
use must have been performing its pilgrimage prior to
the time of Julius Caesar. It seems to me, therefore,
that the people of the present period have no moral or
legal right to the light with which they have been making
so free—not paying one penny for the use thereof.
They don’t know everything at Billabong Creek.
The light from the moon reaches the earth in one-
and-a-half seconds, and from the sun in about
eight minutes. Black’s emergence from his
Billabong was a mistake.
An electoral law reform which will make
the Commonwealth and States ballot papers uni-
form is badly wanted. The average elector is a
slow-witted animal and easily flurried on election
day. When a cross on one paper elects a man
and on another rejects him informal voting is
bound to follow.
Section 42, subsection 4, of the Victorian
Licensing Act:
All claims (for compensation) shall, if the Compensati n
Fund is available, be paid thereout in the order in which
the various premises are deprived of licenses, and where
several of such claims arise on the same date, such claims
shall be determined by lot am ones t the various claimants
at a time and place to be fixed by the Minister.
A lottery in an Anti-Beer Act. Holy Jugkins!
The economical kink in the popular mind
that suggests it’s a good thing to keep the inmates
of gaols, reformatories, orphanages, hospitals, &c.,
in idleness seems incurable. JLcoke (M.L.)
Orphanage set up a brick-making plant, the other
day, and made all the bricks for its own new
building. Then it went on the public market
with the bricks and competed successfully. But
objections were raised and the Government
stopped the competition.
A political fable :
A Maoriland owl, struck by the enormous pig-raising
possibilities of the island, devoted its moonlight nights
to the reiteration of the cry, “ More-pork ! more-pork!”
considering, with Lord Beaconsfield, that the main thing
in any agitation is to have a party cry, and continually
to give vent to it. After a year’s fruitless effort, he ex-
claimed, “ Any owl can give men a good idea, but even I
cannot endow them with the brains to understand it,”
and expired.
J. Ramsay McDonald, British M.P., has
been writing about us. He describes Australia as
“ a land of vastness, and of solitary and mournful
men,” and speaks of “a funereal solemnity
brooding over masses of scrub, which enters one’s
soul like a chilling mist.” Other visitors call us
a frivolous and pleasure-loving community, with
a gregarious instinct towards racecourses and
football matches and two-up schools. But then
it is impossible to please everybody.
The barracking of the Fairfax newspaper
people for the importation of Englishmen to fill
high Australian positions is an old fad, and the
family has paid away good Australian “splosh”
over it. When Justice Innes, on one occasion,
gave judgment against the Herald for libel, the
Echo, the Herald’s ill-bred young brother, let
go thus in a leading article: “We doubt very
much whether any British Judge would place
before a jury the issues in the manner in which
they were put forward by Mr. Justice Innes.
But, then, his Honor has not had the benefit of
an English training.” So it was always. The
Full Court considered the article a contempt, and
fined the family £250. So the Fairfaxes paid
handsomely for barracking for “English training.”
A MERE FAD.
“ 'Ang me if I see wot we want we physical
culture .”
Blackburn (Eng.) has achieved such au
unenviable notoriety in the matter of infant mor-
tality that its council has started a restaurant to
supply, gratis, meals and pertinent advice to
poor mothers for some weeks prior to and after
their confinement. This is a distinctly Socialistic
step, purely in the interests of the babies and the
State generally—but, so far, no Cold Country
anti-Soshers have raised any outcry about “dis-
rupting the marriage tie, or smashing up the
’appy ’ome.”
In Maoriland the administration of the
Department of Toil is once more like it was in the
days of W. P. Reeves. Millar has a good know-
ledge of the workings of most trades, and has
just announced that he is going to settle for him-
self if the scow is a safe animal in Maoriland
waters. It is long years since J.A.M. stood on
the bridge and shouted orders, but he is going to
don the oil-skins and navigate a scow from
Auckland to Bluff. He reckons at the end of
that trip he will be in a position to say whether
the scow ought to be let loose or not.
“Philo”: Be the proposal to plant a
colony of Jews in Australia. The Jew has shown
himself to be eminently successful on the land.
The Jewish colonies of Palestine are all flourishing
and the American Jews are leaving the Ghettos
and going on to the soil in large numbers, and
doing surprisingly well; Canada has two very
successful Jewish agricultural colonies. There
are many Jewish colonies in Argentine, and the
Russian Minister for Agriculture says that the
Jews are the most successful agriculturists in
Russia. [When ? Ed. B.]


Pianos
Exchanged
If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, why
not ex-
change it
for a new
one from
Paling’s
<
Call or write to
Paling's, who will
tell you how to make
an exchange, and at
the same time asK
for a Catalogue.
Palingfs
338 George St.
Sydney
65
TalKing'
Machines
at Palings.
worn
Edison Phonographs.
Columbia
Graphophones.
Gramophones.
BEST QUALITY goods
at LOWEST PRICES.
Write for free catalogues.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
Ronisch
Pianos.
Sole Agents-
Paling’s.
These
fine Pianos
commend
themselves
to the art-
istic buyer.
New Models.
New Designs.
New Scales.
Price consis-
tent witK grade.
Catalogues Free.
***
Sole Agents—
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
54
‘c wr
'l
•^0
S'
0 c-> (
<m
m
**6,
¥* OiH
MA/y
WATER)
Rq£w FuAT springs
Crr
m.
*
LAND 3
The MODERN
HOSTESS. *
“I give you ‘KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious,
ll sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water lirm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY
KATOOMBA.
tALLAKAI.
“ROCKY CREEK” and
“ CURRANGANDI,”
BARRABA DISTRICT, N.S. WALES.
SUBDIVISION SALE, by order of the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Executors of the Will of the late JOHN AItNDELL.
About 25 miles from Barraba, to which a railway is being constructed.
AVERAGE RAINFALL—26 INCHES.
The above Properties will be submitted to PUBLIC AUCTION at
Mechanics Institute, Barraba, on THURSDAY, 14th MARCH, 1907,
A years^an'd°balance sat)end^o 5 at ) end^of 1 alf^frthelperiod of
payable Quarterly at 4J per cent., comu.-mcmg one month from date of sale.
“Rocky Creek*’
comprises an area of 3,207
acres, Freehold, with sub-
stantial Brick Dwelling,
Wood Shed, Hay Shed, Outbuildings and Yards, TO BE SOLD
IN ONE LOT. Homestead situated in charming position at
foot of large fertile valley, surrounde 1 by large ranges and spurs.
Elevation about 2,800 feet. Climate and Rainfall, Good.
“Currangandi
Subdivided into Fourteen
Lots in areas ranging from
500 to - ; 700 acres, compris-
ing Freeholds, O.P.’s and O.L.’s ; the various allotments clearly
pegged out by the Surveyors. The land is eminently suited for
Mixed Farming. Watered by the Horton River and several
creeks and wells. Timber—Box, Apple and Gum.
“PTTTtR ANOANDI.” —Intending purchasers desiring to inspect should communicate
with Mr S. H. Nicholson, at “ROOKY CREEK,” via COBBED AH.
For full description of each Block, see Lithographs. For further particulars apply-
Messrs. Hill, Clark & Co.', Sydney.
Messrs. Garven & Cousens, Tamworth.
Arthur Bull, Bingara, or
0. G. Williams, Barraba.
Agents in
conjunction.
LIVE STOCK, PLANT AND FURNITURE will bo SOLD AT “ ROCKY CREEK ” about Three Weeks later.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkee),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
P„so„.l ?Sd £ .nfeb%™?LSS°Tom,o« T Ss S ,NO BOOMS OH GROUND fLOOR.
m
Bhe BULLETIN POST CARDS
w/ / . ..A •• M teu mil
PACKET OF TWELVE, 18
PAD T OF TEN, lOd.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Oup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Glass A, First in Class B, First in
Glass O. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Rheumatic pains are promptly relieved by
Chamberlain’s rain Balm. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
You should send in now a year’s subscrip-
tion to The Lone Hand. It does not matter
what part of Australia you live in, send in
promptly on reading this and you may be enrolled
among the Fifty Foundation Subscribers. The
Lone Hand—The Bulletin’s new magazine-
will be one of the institutions of the Common-
wealth.
Pratt’s Motorcar Spirit.
Highest Grade DCTPHI
American . . . ■ t ■
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY. „ , ,
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCH’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Mess re. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING- ST., BEDFEBN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Lion hunting is a rather unusual sport in Aus-
tralia, but a crowd of shooters at Bateman’s Bay had an
excitina outing Saturday last. A lion and lioness had
escaped from Eroni’s Oircus, but the male animal was
promptly seized by the circus hands before he got out of
the tent, and booted back into a cage with his tail
between his legs. The lioness, like the human female
animal, proved much more ferocious, and after mauling
horses in the tent and scaring the audience nearly to
death, got away. A party hunted her all night,
and twice fired without effect. The Erom party
found her next morning a mile or so out of the
town holding down a cow, and one of the Eronis
wounded her. She backed off and turned round about
200 yards away to fight it out. Two more shots plunked
into her, and she charged, the shooters dodging her
round a tree. But it was close, so close that she tore the
sleeve from one sportsman’s arm. Then she charged
Maloney, and Maloney, finding himself in a tight place,
aimed steadily and killed her. The Eronis have had bad
luck with their animals. A hyaena got loose on the pre-
vious Thursday night, but the circus men, armed with
clubs, surrounded it, and the lion-tamer grabbed the
brute by the back of the neck and hurled it into a cage.
That tamer is a man with whom it is an honor to drink.
* * * *
The atmosphere of the Six Days race at
Madison-square Garden, New York (U.S.A.), had a very
Roman flavor about it. The succession of sensational
smashes, and the tales of the tricks that were being re-
sorted to to “ out ” competitors in the interests of bet-
ting, drew a vast crowd of brutal and degenerate sensa-
tion-hunters. The huge building was crowded to excess,
and crowds were turned away for lack of room. More-
over, it was shockingly unventilated to prevent the riders
getting a chill, and the result was that they stood a very
good chance of being poisoned and suffocated. Hour
after hour, with haggard faces and bloodshot eyes, they
whirled round and round the monotonous track, seeing
nothing, hearing less, through an atmosphere where the
tobacco-smoke hung like a fog, breathing in the exhala-
tions of thousands of human bodies. The result was a
kind of stupor. Many of the spectators never left the
building from the time the race started till the finish,
and ate and slept in their seats. Ruffianism
and robbery were' rampant, and fast harridans
in private boxes drank champagne, whooped the
riders on, handing their favorites dollar bills as they
passed. When this amusement palled the dear creatures
fought and tore each other’s hair and clothes One of
the riders, Vanoni, the Italian, just missed a knife thrown
at him by some drunken hoodlum. On the fifth day the
smash the crowd had been waiting for came. Two riders
fell, and were spreadeagled over the track. A bunch of
eight following them blindly, madly, crashed full tilt
into the struggling mass, and the result from the stand-
point of the wild beasts looking on was satisfying.
Hips were fractured, ribs broken, and Vanoni’s nose was
smashed flat. Twenty-five yards of the wooden, saucer-
shaped track of battens were ripped up, and the race
was suspended till the battens were relaid, when the
weary grind resumed. So far, absence of news to the
contrary indicates that the Australian team, Pye and
Clark, were in the race at the finish. This affair doesn’t
seem to be sport in any way, but merely a degrading
exhibition of endurance, brutality and luck.
* * • *
Judging by his performances at Christchurch
Championships meeting George Sutherland, of Maori-
land, is still as mighty a sprinter as ever. And what a
wonder he has been ! His fearful rush at the finish dates
back to the days when races were held on the high
machines, when all the rest of the present-day flyers
were youths in knickerbockers. It was in the last Five
Miles Championship that Sutherland showed his sterling
qualities. Plunkett, Arnst, and Burton overtook him in
the last lap and entered the straight nearly three lengths
ahead. It was the sudden upheaval of the spectators,
roaring applause, that told them the Old Lion was on
them. They saw him race alongside for a moment, and
his head went down a shade lower, and he shot, like a
stone from a sling, clean away from them, winning by
two lengths clear, which he seemed to have gained in the
last ten yards.
* * • •
Saturday’s round of Sydney First Grade cricket
added to the. rank and dignity of Gordon District Club,
which is now leading the competition with 14 points,
which is no less than seven ahead of the second club,
Paddington. Paddington in its turn is succeeded by Glebe
and Central Cumberland with four points each, and close
behind Burwood and Waverley struggle along with three
each. There was some excitement over the Burwood-
Waverley match, at St. Luke’s Park, on Saturday. The
previous week Waverley had scratched up 254, and Bur-
wood had lost a couple of sticks for 65 runs. With four
wickets to fall only 43 were required to win, but the bats-
men failed miserably, notching only 32, and leaving
Waverley top dog by 11 runs. Central Cumberland’s win
over North Sydney was of the plain slogging variety.
When University closed its innings with 333 for the loss
of seven wickets it took chances. Sydney defied the col-
legiate bowling, and had scored 29S for the loss of seven
wickets also, when the sun went down and time ran out.
The afternoon yielded only one century, that of W.
Bardsley, of Glebe, who smacked up 111 against Balmain.
M. A. Noble reached 94, when Barnes, of Redfern, caught
him off one of Goddard’s. Some of the bowlers did well:
Matthews, of University, took three wickets for 17, Ridge,
of Middle Harbor, took four lots of Glebe’s timber for 49.
Macartney and Pitt, of Gordon, took five for 20 and five
for 37 respectively playing against Balmain, and Whit-
ting, of Balmain, retaliated by knocking down four of
Gordon’s for 37.
* * • *
Syd. Gregory—for whom a benefit cricket
match is proposed—had a long innings in N.S.W. cricket.
In 1888 Gregory first “ represented ’’ against Queensland ;
the next year against Victoria ; and in 1890 against South
Australia. Gregory had a place in six Australian XI.
teams to England (which is a record); and in “rep.”
cricket scored 1738 runs in 73 innings, an average of
25-94 runs per innings. Gregory saved more runs in the
field than he scored; and, although he was dubbed the
finest fieldsman in Australia, he was the smallest.
* • * *
The Victorian cricket team to play against
N. in the last match of the season will contain some
new blood not yet seen in Sydney. T. Horan (a son of
“ Tommy ” Horan—a once brilliant Vic. player), Vernon
(a bowler from whom great things are expected), Hazlitt
and Vaughan are strangers to inter-State cricket in
Sydney.
* * * *
Although Alfred Shaw had reached the respect-
able age of 64, the news of his death, following close on
the announcement of W. W. Read’s departure, is another
reminder that first-class cricketers in England are very
second-class “ lives ” from an insurance company’s point
of view. The name of Shaw is associated with Shrews-
bury, his partner in the management of two or three
visiting English teams for Australian tours. Shrewsbury’
died at 53, and of the men whom they managed many
failed to reach the prime of life. Briggs, Lohmann,
Barnes, Scotton, Ulyett, Maurice Read—all of them gone
long ago. Briggs and Scotton died insane. The cable
probably has recorded, or hasn’t recorded, the deaths of
other and less notable cricketers who visited Australia in
the 80’s. Those aforementioned, with the exception of
W. W. Read, were professionals, and it was the strain of
playing in two matches a week for five months of the
year that undermined their constitutions. When they
weren’t playing, in all sorts of weather, they were standing
about in the pavilion waiting for their innings or looking
at the rain. The toilers of the cricket field take many
risks, apart from the beers and whiskies, incidental to
their calling. It is a damp and biting-windy game, in-
volving occasional touches of sun-stroke, and bodily in-
juries for the players. No other class of professional
out-door athletes are so persistently engaged in wearing
themselves out. Australian “ crack ” cricketers have a
comparatively easy time, on the average, notwithstanding
their trips to England. And they don’t swallow nearly
so much beer, man for man, as their harder-working
rivals in the Cold Country. Beer, probably, has a lot to
do with the death-rate among English cricketers of note,
in which regard they are the “flanneled fools” that
Kipling called them. # ,
Cricketer Cotter asked N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation for a bonus in return for his services against S.A.
and Victoria, on the grounds that, being out of
work, he could not claim for loss of time,
and he did not wish to ask for anything under
rule 19 and thus become a professional. The
chairman ruled a motion to grant the bonus out of
order. But it was stated authoritatively that it was
through playing for N.S.W. against S.A. and Victoria
that Cotter had lost his employment. If this can be
shown to be true, Cotter is certainly entitled to some
consideration.
* * * *
“The Captain ” : “Sunny Jim” Mackav, who
sailed away to Afric’s golden banket beds, will not find
himself in a bed of roses as far as cricket is concerned.
There are a few nasty snags there among the bowlers.
R. O. Schwarz, the Jewburg crack “ Bosanquet ” bowler,
is undoubtedly the best in Africa, and equal to, if not
better than, any I have seen in Australia. When
S’Africa sent a team to England in 1904, Schwarz headed
the first-class bowling averages of the English season,
being far ahead of all the cracks—Hirst, Rhodes, Lee and
others. Mackay will also have to face Kptze, the Cape
Colony man, who has the reputation of being the fastest
bowler in the world. Walter Niemeyer, Pretoria’s crack,
is also a good man, and there are others behind them.
Lots of sportsmen in Australia look on S’Africa as a
second or third-rate cricketing power—well, in the only
test match played during its English tour, the S’African
XI. defeated All England by an innings and 123 runs.
When Pelham Warner took his team out there last year,
he was soundly beaten in four tests of five played. Two
of these were lost, I think, by a whole innings. _ It was
the Australian visit in 1903 that put the S’Africans on
their metal, and they have improved out of all recogni-
tion since then. It would be an excellent idea if the
Australian Board of Control invited a Springbok team to
Australia; even N.S.W. would find the S’Africans worthy
opponents. * » *
N.S.W. Cricket Association, having discovered
that Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees had recently given
the use of the ground free of charge to another body,
suddenly bethought it of the fact that its overdraft now
amounts to £477 16s. 6d. So it decided to ask the Trus-
tees to remit the usual 15 per cent, ground charges for
the inter-State matches played this year. If it can get
this rebate, the amount will about square-up the over-
draft.
• • * •
The automobile reliability test from Parramatta
to Bathurst and back will start on January 25th, and
should be concluded by the evening of the 26th. Twenty
contestants have entered no less than 11 makes of cars :
Four Clement Talbots, three de Dions, two C. Humbers,
two Darracqs, two Innes make, two Minervas, and one
each of Vulcan, Argyle, Rover, and Reo cars. The dis-
tance is 223 miles, and the cars will start at 8 a.m.
* * * *
| (The race on Saturday for the combined cham-
pionship of Sydney Sailing Club and the Flying Squadron
was robbed of much of its interest, first, by the absence
of Australian and Christian Webb, who are on their way
westward; and, second, by the collision between Arawa
and Donnelly, which brought the latter’s sails tumbling
round the ears of the crew. The impact was due to the
carelessness of the Donnelly crew, and the referee imme-
diately hoisted the signal of disqualification. Later on
he hauled it down, and Donnelly started about 3min. late.
Arawa had to retire. Then Mona’s throat-halyards gave
way, and, her mainsail coming down, she dropped out.
Zena (skipper Firth) led home by 17sec., with Viking,
Vision and Scot in that order behind.
* * * *
There is something like ill-feeling over the La
Carabine Cup contests. The Port Melbourne yacht S.J.S.
not having been measured before the race, her rating was
only approximate. The first heat was won by Rawhiti,
with Heather second and S.J.S. third. The second heat
fell to S.J.S., with Heather again second and Rawhiti
third. This left all three yachts level, with four points
each. In the final, Heather sailed into first place, with
Rawhiti second and S.J.S. third. Then the club had
S.J.S. measured, and it was discovered that she was
entitled to more time allowance than she got. It made
no difference in the first and second heats, but did in
the final. With the extra allowance to which it
was entitled, S.J.S. would have dead-heated with
Heather, and the Royal Yacht Club ordered the
yachts to sail another final to dispose of the ownership
of the Cup. Mr. Stewart, of the Heather, refused to
re-sail unless the race was held at Sydney, and the
Rawhiti, which was out of it in the original final,
excluded. The Club refused to exclude Rawhiti, and
Stewart declined to sail. So the race was ordered to be
sailed off on Tuesday afternoon, when Rawhiti and S.J.S.
would be the only competitors.
Judging by her showing in the race for the
Sayonara Cup, it was the desperate attempt to reduce
rating by taking out her ballast that lost the Sayonara
yacht the La Carabine Cup. In the Sayonara contest the
yacht had been restored to her normal state, and in the
final, in spite of a bad start, during which the Sydney
yacht gained nearly a quarter of a mile, the Victorian
boat overhauled the challenger and won by 6m. 17s.
m •* 4 m
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. will hold its
reliability test on February 2nd, weather permitting.
Boats over 30ft. long and 6ft. 6in. beam will start from
Berry’s Bay, round Shark Island in Port Jackson,
through the Heads to South Reef, and round a boat
anchored 15 miles to windward, back to Manly buoy,
round Shark Island, then away up Parramatta River to
Ryde, and back to Berry’s Bay. Boats under that
measurement will start from Berry’s Bay to Ryde, thence
back to Shark Island, across to Manly Buoy, and away to
Ryde, and back to Berry’s Bay. The race is open to all
boats that like to compete, whether owners belong to
the club or not. It is to be a genuine test to discover
which is the most all-round reliable type of craft. Marks
will be given for relative speed, general condition of hull
after trial, security of arrangement of ignition installa-
tion, arrangement of fuel supply, economy of fuel on h.p.
basis, efficiency of reversing, ease of control in working
to marks, silence and smoothness of running, starting
motor, relative flexibility of motor speed with relation to
normal speed, and accessibility of installation. Each
i boat can carry as many passengers as the owner pleases,
' but must carry an official observer appointed by the
judge from gentlemen nominated by club members, each
of whom may nominate one. Contrary to general ex-
pectations, none of the speed boats has a beam of
6ft. 6in., and none therefore will be seen outside.
Among the boats whose progress will be watched with
keen interest is Papa Relph’s Van Auken, which the
owner is straining every nerve to have ready in time for
the fixture. This will be the smallest twin-screwed boat
in Australia. Mr. Relph’s Invincible will be there, and so
will Mr. Davies’ new Fairbanks racer, and motorboat men
are trying to persuade Mr. Don McKay to allow his boat
to be brought up from Port Hacking to take part, but as
Mr. Mac will be up country at the time it is doubtful if
he will trust his flyer to alien hands. All the same, he is
anxious on his return to meet Mr. Davies’ Fairbanks
boat in a match for £5O.
Only 14 entries were received for the Motor
Boat Club’s reliability test on February 2nd, which, con-
sidering the number of boats owned in Sydney, is remark-
ably small. It is more than doubtful whether any of
them will be called upon to run the outside course.
• * * *
N.S.W. Anniversary Regatta, coming Satur-
day, promises to be a huge affair. For sailing races 190
entries have been received, while 10 rowing races have
drawn 44 entries, and seven motor boats will compete in
two events.
• • * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association is considering
ways and means of encouraging country rowing. The
Hunter River, the Clarence River, and the Shoalhaven
ought to be haunts of amateur oarsmen, each supporting
its own clubs, and sending representatives to the big
regattas in Sydney. Now the Association has asked all
existing clubs to affiliate with it, and proposes to take
steps to form clubs where none already exists.
it * * *
The inter-State dinghy racing at Sydney on
January 30th, promises to be fairly representative, as
both South Australia and Queensland will be there.
This is the first time the wine and wheat State has sent
a boat to compete, and the innovation is due to the
energy of Mr. C. G. Tolley, who is bringing over his
champion sailer, Vigilant. There will be four Queensland
representatives. The absence of Victoria is to be re-
gretted.
• • * *
Rev. Dill Macky appeared in a new r6le on
Saturday. Hitherto no one has suspected him of
any sporting tastes ; but on Saturday last he figured as
owner of a boat named, of all names, Colleen Bawn, which
won £3 10s. in a general handicap at Manly regatta.
* * * *
In spite of a heavy sea rolling in through the
Heads on Saturday, the Manly regatta was an unqualified
success. The yacht race provided a splendid finish.
Kukuburra led the fleet away to Shark Island and hack
again to Manly, and won by a few feet from Fleetwing,
with Oooya only inches behind her. A decent-sized sail
would have covered the whole fleet. In the rowing
races, the Fire Brigade again wiped the floor of the
water with the Navals. The ladies double-sculls cham-
pionship brought out five crews, two of married ladies,
and the others of spinsters. The spinsters won. The
Misses Lewis, sisters Gertie and Kitty, representing
Middle Harbor, went to the front with a bound at the
start, and made the water fly at such a rate that they
were soon leading by two lengths. The Grainger girls
hung on to them, but never managed to draw abreast,
and then their strength gave out, and Mesdames Wool-
bridge and Hyde rushed into second place.
• ■» * *
Sporting men in Maoriland are deploring the
death of John Kirkwood, a famous old Auckland sport.
Far back in the days of the Maori wars he was in the
softgoods business, but finding there was more profit in
the wet goods, he took to the wine and spirit trade.
About 10 years ago he retired from that, a rich and genial
old man. He was one of the founders of the Auckland
Racing Club.
* •* * <
Despite the loud whoop with which Judkins
ushered in Bent’s Gambling Act, it doesn’t seem to be
effecting much. The Collingwood Tote has not by any
means suspended operations. The masked and mysteri-
ously-robed gentlemen who in the glad old days acted as
clerks are gone. “ Aunt Sally’s ’’skittle alleys are there
instead —and the telephone. With the help of these the
tote flourishes almost as of yore About a thousand men
visit the tote on a race afternoon, and shy balls at Aunt
Sally. All the most confirmed gamblers have taken a
sudden dislike to Sally, and can’t be happy unless they
are throwing things at her. At City Tattersall’s Club, of
which John Wren is only a member (he has said so him-
self, so it must be true), betting at starting price, or any
other price, or on the tote, can still be had as freely and
as ungrudgingly as of yore.
* * * •
Horse-racing on the modern system seems to
have originated with the Greeks, who started with chariot
races, and later on introduced the mounted contest. The
Romans copied it (as they did most other things) from
them, and introduced it into Britain. But, previous to
the coming of the Romans, the Britons not only seem to
have had horses, but to have raced them for prizes. They
had the craze pretty badly, and among the Germanic
tribes it was an absolute vice. When the Romans left
Britain horse-racing stayed on, and Jutes, Angles and
Saxons all took to it when they settled down on their
stolen property. St. Augustine was very much opposed
to the sport, and cursed it with bell, book and candle.
People who attended the meetings and put on their little
bit he excluded from attending church, and he laid a
heavy curse on the others who actually ran the n eddies.
The first Council of Arles, in its fourth canon, declared
that members of the Church who drove chariots at the
public games should be denied communion. But as time
went on horse races became a recognised feature at
church festivals. The Saxons, however, lost interest in
horse-racing—flat contests with the Danes took up all
their spare time, and also a lot of it they could not afford,
and the horse sank in public respect and affection till the
Normans came along. Edward 111. ran a stud, and charged
its upkeep to the country. The Tudors looked coldly on
the sport, but all the same, in the year 1512, the city of
Chester held public horse-races. When the Stuarts came
in, horse-racing revived. James the first held meetings
at Croydon and Enfield, and ran an Arab himself.
In 1609 Robert Ambyre, sheriff of the city of Chester,
devised the sweepstake, and set racing on a financial
basis. Professional trainers appeared, and a proper study
was made of the preparation of horses for the meetings,
Charles I. gave a gold cup for races held in Hyde Park,
London. Cromwell was mildly interested in the sport,
but regulated it with parental care, forbidding, it for
about eight months in the year. However, it still
flourished, and Epsom course-seems to have originated
during the Commonwealth. Charlie 11. was very horsey.
Round courses were introduced in 1666, and he gave
plates of precious metal as prizes, and after that most
races were either Cups or Plates. Charles 11. was the
first monarch who entered and ran horses in his own
name. Anne lost much money on races. In George ll.’s
time an Act was passed prohibiting the running of ponies
and weak horses, and competition for plates, cups, or
other trophies of less than £5O value. Ascot course
seems to have been laid down in 1727, for the recreation
of royalty at Windsor, and Goodwood came into existence
in 1802. These facts come in the main from the “ British
Encyclopaedia.”
* * * *
The visit of swimmer Billington to these parts
promises to shake up some of the State Governments to a
S’Australian sense of duty. Billington’s manager, Chas.
Bastard, runs the baths at Adelaide, with the assistance
of a Government subsidy for teaching local noviceshow to
swim. In the character of a public servant, he bore a
letter of recommendation from the S’Australian Premier
to brother Bent when he brought his “ star ” artist to
Melbourne last week. Bent, under the circumstances,
can’t refuse official patronage to the Billington show at
Melbourne City Baths. In giving it, he practically
admits that swimming is a uniquely valuable athletic
accomplishment, whilst he calls attention to the fact
that his Government does nothing towards spreading
the accomplishment. Vic. State school education should
begin with lessons in the easy art whereof Billington is a
boss exponent. And there are other States where this
gate-money show can claim the character of a missionary
enterprise. For that matter, the object of most mis-
sionary enterprises is boodle.
• • • •
Sydney Board of Health proposes to inquire
into the presence of swimming baths in close proximity
to sewers in Sydney harbor. And it isn’t too soon, either.
While it is about it, perhaps the Board will have a
look at the pontoons and structures which support hun-
dreds of screaming enthusiasts on “ carnival ” nights.
The collapse of a staging can be just as unhealthy as the
intrusion of typhoid germs.
The Deakin Government having promised
£lOOO towards the visit of an Australian rifle team to
Bisley, the riflemen looked upon the thing as settled.
But, with only a few weeks to go, the council of the Rifle
Association has suddenly found that nobody seemed
anxious to make up the sum of £355 which must be
raised in N.S.W. before Ma can be represented in the
team. It is still doubtful if Ma can find tne £355.
* * * »
The cricket bat as a deadly weapon is some-
thing new. A Staffordshire (Eng.) man tried to murder
his wife with one last month. He had a knife (with
which he afterwards cut his own throat), but to settle
the lady he laid on the willow—as the sporting reporters
say.
* • * 0
A new generation of pugs seems to be rising up
in Melbourne. Last week a 9st. 21b. star appeared in
Hughie Meaghan, one of the “novices” discovered by
Jack Wren’s tournament. Meaghan w'as matched against
Ranji Moody, the smart little half-caste, and though
Ranji fought a clever, brainy battle for seven rounds,
Meaghan never gave him a chance, and belted him to the
floor for seven, eight, and nine seconds every round or
two. Moody got the very mother of a hiding, and after
knocking up both his hands in vain attempts to make
some impression on the other fellow, he just saved a
knock-out by chucking the fight in the seventh round,
when Meaghan was climbing all over him looking for a
mortal spot. Meaghan is a big, lumpy sort of a lad, with
a peculiar smother, and a determined way of putting his
whole 1281 b. of weight behind every hit. He makes
every punch a knock-out—it it gets on the right place.
He does not know much about the ring yet—is a novice
beside such a tactician as Moody—but that will come,
and then Meaghan will be a star of the first magnitude.
• • • •
“Suss”: John Wren goes to every fight in
Melbourne Cyclorama these days. So do I. John goes
to look at the fight. Igo to look at John. It costs me
ss. every time, but I get about 395. worth ; so it’s cheap.
John sits in the “ stalls,” right up against the ring side.
Round him ranges his court. Before the fight starts John
sits bolt upright like a prince of the blood honoring some
village festival. As soon as the boxers enter the ropes,
he becomes obviously interested. Each of the men
in turn leans over the ropes and “w’ords” him.
John is visibly proud that every pug makes obeis-
ance to him before going to battle. Bashi-
turi te salutant 1 As the men shake, John takes
his hat off and reveals his noble brow, wearing a look of
grim expectancy. The gong sounds. They’re off. So is
John. As the men spar (I don’t look at the men ; I see
it all in John), John wriggles violently, his eyes bulge,
his feet struggle, his hands clench, 'lhen a blow is
struck. John’s mouth —he has a prehensile mouth—takes
up a position in direct Echelon under his ear. One
eye closes. More blows are being delivered ; the Wren
face convulses ; his fingers claw the air; his tongue
appears through a hole that seems to have erupted up
between his chest-bone and ear. “ Break ! ” cries the
referee, and John’s face springs back to its normal cari-
cature of Judkins, just like an india-rubber face that has
been stretched in different directions. John fights the
mill from start to finish. Every nerve of him jumps ;he
is partly like St. Vitus’ dance, partly like a 3d. mechanical
toy. If I could catch John and tame him, I’d make a for-
tune showing him on a stage against a dark background
watching a fight that I’d arrange in the wings.
* * • *
Stimulated thereto, no doubt, by the sudden
eclipse of Mike Wil iams, Frederic Buckland, lightweight
champion of S’Africa, is coming to Australia on the
chance of finding a grave for his reputation here. He
will arrive in Sydney early in February.
• • • •
Although Thorn, of Westralia, won the feather-
weight championship of the continent at Sydney on a
foul, there is but little doubt had the fight gone to its
natural conclusion, he would have won it all the same.
Frost, the Sydney representative, was worsted from the
very start. The Westralian made a fight of it, and the
Waler a boxing exhibition, and the result was that most
of the time the Sydney boy was on his back, trying to
discern the roof through the clouds of tobacco smoke.
It speaks well for his stamina that he managed to endure
the walloping Thorn gave him for nine dreadful rounds.
Apropos, it is time the people who run the Gaiety Club
were made to shift to some better hall. The Gaiety is
a dreadful place, and unfit for a dog fight.
« » * *
Followers of stoush looked forward to the scrap
between Cocker Tweedie and Clark at Sydney Gaiety on
Saturday night to provide some skilful slogging. They
were disappointed. Clark got home on the jaw with the
“ Jeffries lunge ” so successfully that Cocker was counted
out before the first round had properly begun.
* * * *
John Johnson, the Amurkan heavyweight who
is said by the papers of his own country to equal Peter
Jackson at his best, arrived in Sydney this week. Jeffries
and other top-notchers have drawn the color-line against
Johnson, and it has been printed that their objection
was not so much to his color as to his dirty right. _ He
comes under engagement to James Brennan, who, it is
understood, will open another boxing hall in Sydney
that will vie with the National Amphitheatre. It is
just possible that Johnson may be overrated—Amurkan
papers have been known occasionally to exaggerate ; one
described Louis Riel as a combination of Caesar and
Hannibal a few weeks before Louis went under to a mob
of Canadian militia, led by Garnet Wolseley, who was far
from being a military genius. Hopes are entertained
that Mr. Johnson and Mr. Squires will shake hands in
the ring before the latter leaves for Amurka.
• . * * •
“Skull”: A convincing demonstration of the
speed with which athletes develop when prosperity
shines on their particular game, is gives by the sudden
rise of new boxers in Melbourne. On two successive
Mondays, at the Olympic Club’s Cyclorama, reputable
experts have been whipped by novices. It’s true that in
one case the referee could not see the plain fact; but,. in
the second instance, young Meaghan gave no opening
for doubt by administering a handsome licking to cham-
pion Ranji Moody in seven rounds. Ranji is a half-
colored pug who came from Sydney with the ban-
tam championship, a few months back, and Meaghan
is the winner of one of Wren’s novice tournaments. Up
to meeting Moody he had only fought tenth-raters. His
improvement has been rapid, and he fought the cham-
pion like a finished craftsman, hisstopping being excel-
lent. There was always a glove or an elbow there when
Ranji landed a fat punch. Meaghan has a good shooting
left, and follows very quickly with a strong right. Moody
showed the effects of much punishment,,and although he
claimed to have broken his hand in the 7th, he was
beaten all along the line, and never for a moment looked
like mastering the new arrival. J. Stokesbury refereed
the fight to please the boys, and got a rousing reception.
It is hoped by patrons that the club will make up its
difference with Joe, as he is the most satisfactory referee
it has had.


Why Did You
Buy a Piano ?
Presumably for the music that is in it. But how much of that music do you and your
family get? The average piano gives about one-tenth of the pleasure which, under meal
conditions, it is capable of. In other words, you are missing 90 per cent, of the music
that you might get from your piano. . . M 0 .
Where there is a Pianola-Piano everyone can play all kinds of music with equal ease anu
artistic completeness. It gives you the missing 90 per cent, of enjoyment lying dormant
in the ordinary piano.
The Mew Pianola Piano Is an Upright Piano of the Highest Grade, with a Metro-
style Pianola inside its case. It is in every particular a Perfect Piano, and, in
addition, contains within its case a complete Metrostyle Pianola, the only Piano-
playing device endorsed by the greatest living musicians.
It can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
It can be played bv means of a Pianola action inside its case.
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog M.
HENRY M. BIRGE CO.,
Head Office & Warerooms 185-7 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Branches at 357 George-st., Sydney; 311 Queen-st.,
Brisbane s 38 King William-st., Adelaide.
‘ ‘ Philo ” : Be The Bulletin (3/l/’O7),
the disabilities to which the Jewish children
were subjected in Montreal (Canada) were fully
abrogated by a Bill passed in 1903. Here are the
full facts of the matter: By the Provincial
Education Act, Protestant and Catholic school
commissioners maintain separate schools, and
previous to 1903, the Jews were given the option
of contributing their taxes to either the Protestant
or Catholic panel. Mostly they chose the
Protestant schools. The taxes were paid by the
landlords, but as the number of Jewish landlords
was very small, the Protestant Board protested
that the taxes paid by the Jews were by no means
in proportion to the number of Jewish pupils attend-
ing their schools, and declined to acknowledge any
obligation to educate children of the Jewish faith,
and claimed the right to refuse to receive Jewish
pupils. A court case, instituted by a Jewish
parent, whose child had been refused a scholarship
which it had rightly won, upheld the Protestant
side. Immediately steps were taken to obtain
fair play for the Jewish children, and in April,
1903, a law was passed to the effect that all Jews
were to pay their taxes into the Protestant panel
and their children enjoy equal rights with the
rest of the pupils in the Protestant schools, and
given freedom in the matter of religious obser-
vance.
Nothing much ever happens in Australasia
according to “Whitaker’s Almanac.” In the
new issue, among the elaborate list of “Remark-
able Occurrences” of the last year, the following
sample extraordinary events —outside Australasia
—are noted :
The mission conveying the Order of the Garter for the
Mikado left London for Japan. The Prince and Princess
of Wales reached Rangoon. The Duke and Duchess of
Connaught arrived at Kimberley. A great fall of rocks
from the cliffs took place at Cheddar. A petition was
presented against the return of Mr. Fell for Yarmouth.
Prince Arthur of Connaught and the members of the
Garter mission were greeted by the Mikado in person at
Tokio. Japanese sailors from the Iyo Maru visited St.
Paul’s Cathedral and Westminster Abbey. The King,
travelling incognito, arrived in Paris. The King and
Queen received at Windsor a party of officers from two
Japanese warships that had visited Portsmouth. The
collection of wild animals presented by the Maharajah of
Nepal to the Prince of Wales arrived at the Zoological
Gardens. Mr. Winston Churchill, M.P., presided at a
festival dinner in honor of Miss Ellen Terry, held at the
Hotel Cecil. The King presented new colors to the 3rd
Battalion Grenadier Guards. The Report of the Royal
Commission on Ecclesiastical Disorders was issued. In a
collision between a motor-omnibus and a tramcar near
the Elephant and Castle several persons were injured.
The Bishop of London consecrated the enlarged chancel
of St. Margaret’s, Westminster. A fire occurred in a shop
in Seven Dials, by which three persons lost their lives.
Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyle, opened a new High
School for Girls at Headingly, Leeds.
And while these stirring episodes were taking
place, what was happening in Australasia?
According to “Whitaker” only five remarkable
events happened in regard to Maoriland —the
M. football team beat England; the M.L.
elections gave Mr. Seddon an overwhelming
majority; Mr. Seddon died, was. buried, and a
memorial service was held for him in St. Paul 3
Cathedral. And Australia had even a blanker
year. Only three events happened—according to
“Whitaker” :—A great fire broke out at Sydney,
N. causing damage estimated at £150,000.
The jubilee of Responsible Government in New
South Wales was celebrated at Sydney. The
Legislative Assembly of Westralia, by 19 votes
to 13, decided that the union of that State with
the Commonwealth was detrimental to the in-
terests of Westralia. That’s all.
A Sydney Herald advt. February 16,
1835, announced: —
IMPORTANT SALE
OF
FIRST RATE TOWN PROPERTY,
On MONDAY, 2 MARCH, at 12,
In one or more lots.
Twelve new-built brick dwelling' houses, oountmg-
houses and spacious vaults, opposite the main guard,
and comprising' the whole of Queen’s Place, and the
adjoining Quay. .
This valuable property has a frontage in Queen-street.,
and upon the Tank Stream, over which the new line of
Pitt-street is proposed to be carried to the intended
Quay behind Macquarie Place.
And 38 feet 4 inches to the open passage leading into
Bridge-street. ~ ,
Terms, 10 per cent, cash deposit; the residue qy
approved bills at three and six months, without interest,
and security on the property if required.
Purchaser to pay his own conveyance.
This advt. is from the Herald, 12/l/’O7 :
BY ORDER OF THE EXECUTORS OF THE ESTATE
WM. CARY, ESQ., J.P.
CITY FREEHOLDS
in
ADVANCING POSITIONS.
To
CAPITALISTS, INVESTORS, TRUSTEES, MERCHANTS,
AND SPECULATORS.
LOT I. QUEEN’S PLACE,
between
PITT and GEORGE STREETS,
a few yards North of Bridge-st. and Circular Quay.
That CENTRAL, VALUABLE, and EXTENSIVE COR-
NER BLOCK OF LAND having a frontage of
91 FEET 3 INCHES TO QUEEN’S PLACE,
with a depth of 78 feet 7£ inches along a side lane.
On it is
QUEEN’S COURT,
consisting of Twelve Offices.
The two advts. cover the same buildings, which
are in much the same condition to-day as they
were 72 years ago, but the Tank stream has been
covered over, Pitt-street has been extended to
the Circular Quay, and the wharves at the Tank
Stream have disappeared. This little bit of old
Sydney remains amidst the general improvement.
It is said that Henry Parkes with his young family
lived in one of these houses soon after his arrival.
That would be when he was acting as tide-waiter,
discharging ships in Sydney Cove.
if YOUR DEALER SAYS NOT,
CHANGE YOUR DEALER
If you Cycle or Motor
You should know everything there is to know about
MIEAOULUM, the sure puncture stop. When
vou do know, you will have it in your tyres. It
seals punctures at once, without deflation. It
makes porous tubes good. It does not lift sound
patches, and your pace is as fast as ever. It pre-
serves the rubber, and when we sell an inner tube
charged with
MIRACULUM
we guarantee the tube against perishing. Can we
do more ? All dealers stock it, and the better sort,
who have tested it, and KNOW, recommend it.
Poll and see for vourself, or write for Booklet iif
telling you frankly what MIEAOULUM will do and
what it will not do.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTORCARS, from 30s.
MIEAOULUM DEPOTS:
266 LATROBE STREET, MELBOURNE.
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KUGELMANN’S
'P&r.
8
7/*
<8?
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
H-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and UP'^ANE.
Memories of the old Quetta, wrecked
off Cape York, in Torres Straits, some 17
years ago, were revived the other day by
the arrival at Sydney, by the Japanese
steamer Kuraano Maru, of several tons or
copper, steam tubes, and a lot of tin, portion ot
the luckless vessel and its cargo. Salving is still
going on, and the wreckers anticipate a good haul.
The Quetta’s bell, by the way, is still in service
at Quetta church, which was erected at ihujsday
Island in memory of the 133 victims of the
disaster.
“ The Mussel ” Wky does a plaintive,
dreary, monotonous drone appeal to the person
whose life is a fierce battle with all social organisa-
tions ? Just now in our street the band played a
plaintive monotonous melody—about lo verses,
and never a variation. At the 14th verse I had
figured out in my mind the whole thing, this
was about it—
. Never again shall sainted mother
Bash the head of dear old dad.
Over both the green sward clusters—
Heaven help an orphan lad !
While the band was playing this dirge, the
special brand of people I am talking about
sauntered out of the alleys and pubs, and occupied
more or less conspicuous positions according to
their then present financial conditions. Blimey
spat heavily on the footpath “Say, boxy,
that Weedin’ toon alius gets on me nerves
alius makes me feel like a baby wan tin to suck
one o’ those injer-rubber dummies,” This is no
exaggeration. I want to know why pathos
appeals more to the animal than to the man.
“ Snell ” : A thoroughly disreputable poet
once took me to his den over a very odorous
Chinese cook-shop in Carpenter’s Alley, and while
we sat luxuriously on the kerosene box settees, and
drank three pen’orth of beer out of lemonade
bottles, a fight arose in the alley below. The
contestants were two blousy females of about 40,
and they were disputing over beer. (Rarely is
there a dispute over anything else in Carpenter s
Alley.) The rest of the inhabitants took no
interest in the fight, as the fat women rolled and
tumbled on the garbage-covered road, and tore
each other’s hair and faces, and squealed like pigs
at dinner. Presently the smaller of the two
women came uppermost, and made such excellent
use of her advantage that she soon had the other
helpless and incapable of retaliation. At this
juncture, a thin, sandy man lounged to thedoor of
the fly-specked greengrocery opposite, removed
his pipe from his mouth, and said, slowly,
“That’ll do, Ceelier. You’ve give her quite
enough. Don’t forget yer a lady. Ceelier
then withdrew from the scrap, leaving her victim
groaning on the road.
You should send in now a year’s subscrip-
tion to The Lone Hand. It does not matter
what part of Australia you live in, send in
promptly on reading this and you may be enrolled
among the Fifty Foundation Subscribers. The
Lone Hand—The Bulletin’s new magazine-
will be one of the institutions of the Common-
wealth.
THERE’S TROUBLE AHEAD
if you ride Cycle Tyres of the cheap
and nasty order. Specify Vulcanised
when purchasing your machine—or replace-
ments —and you can then rest assured that
you have the Best Tyres that Money
can buy. Roadster Tyres guaranteed
12 months. Beware of Imitations.
THESE TYRES ARE MADE BY
AUSTRALIANS FOR. * #
AUSTRALIAN ROADS.
LOOK
OUT!
Duniop Tyres
DUNLOP RUBBER CO,,
All States and N.Z.


A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;
15ct. Gold, 16s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 50s, 60s. Solid Gold,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. (Sold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
»et Pearls and Rubits
or Sapphires, 25a.
,'U
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4|in high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15e. Gold. 30s.
A. SAUNDKKS.
18ct. Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10a.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6cf.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
SSLw.- ; i-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
a_a
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
16et. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £8;
8 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamond*
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pine Ilobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s Gd.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 2Cs, 255.
//>
■m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Lear Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embosse
Size sin x 3Jin, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, Ss 6d, 10s 6d;
Silver Filled,
63 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s &
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Luck”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, Oct. Gold Mounted, 10s 6J
smaller 8s 6d. Other Styloi,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving Brush and
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20s; 15ct. Gold, £2;
18et. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double
cut Diamond. £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6|in
long, 3s 6d. Other Styles, 6s 6d, 15s 6d.
Solid
Silver,
£2 .
HSI
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
Solid
Gold,
-£7llOl-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDEKS
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishb
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
Slot. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BucKle
Ring, 17s 6d;
16ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS. „ . „ fe
Book Marker, Solid Silver-mounted. New Zealand. Gwens on
long, 4s 6d. Other Styles, 2s 6d, 4s od.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811,
Opposite !
Railway S
813,815,817 George-si
SIDNEY, N.S.W.
lew
ation,


“Speak, my darling'! Speak before you leave us!”
(Gasping'.) “Where’s my CAPSTANS?” (Gasp.)


“ W.” : In the course of a windy war on
the question “Is there an Australian dialect?”
lately raging in the West Australian, a corres-
pondent ventured the opinion that “one reason
Australians are disliked in England is their vile
distortion of the King’s English.” It is news that
Australians are disliked in England. But there are
types who pose as representative Australians who
would be hated anywhere for their blatancy, for
their vulgar ostentation, and for their base ingrati-
tude to the country that gave them all they possess.
One such returning from Europe, some years ago,
in the same boat as the wife of the then Governor-
General, sought desperately to be included in the
circle of which she was the hub. ‘ ‘Your ladyship
must hate to leave Home and have to live a nexile.
No society, no goin’ to court, no theayters worth
mentioning ” —he began to freeze as he met the
lady’s supercilious glance—“ But all the same,
yer ladyship, if yer ever in Perth you must come
to my little place.” “I never intend to visit
Perth ” was the reply, in accents that had been a
week in the refrigerating-chamber; and she never
did. Throughout the voyage the blatant little
snob was assiduous in his desire to “shout a
small bottle” for the lady, with a result that may
be guessed. Before the departure of the vessel
from Fremantle he made one huge effort to gain
the lady’s favor, and sent her a case of champagne
from his own cellar, with a note begging her
acceptance thereof, and the assurance that she
wouldn’t get better in her own house, for it cost
him “fifteen pound a dozen, and a bargain at
that.” And of such are “the representative
Australians.” But the worst are those who make
all they own here and then take it away to the
“deah old land,” where they struggle to enter
county society by disclaiming themselves as Aus-
tralians in any shape or form. Some day some of
these foolish people will learn that a true
Britisher does not despise them for being attached
to their country as he is to his, but has only
scorn for those who deny their patriotism, and
affect a love for a country in which they are, in
fact, little else than aliens.
“The Prooshan” : I am of opinion that
snorers are a curse to any country, and should be
heavily taxed. I would load them with a license
of at least £lO per annum, and compel them to
wear the license or snoring badge on some con-
spicuous part of their person. I would, more-
over, compel hotelkeepers to furnish special
snorers’ sleeping apartments, where these human
hogs could toot their foghorns as oft in the stilly
night as they chose without discomfort to other
tired flesh. To occupy a bedroom with a man
who owns a snore is to go to hell before you die.
I have rushed to bed at five minutes to nine,
hoping to get off to sleep before the arrival of a
snore lodger with his heavy artillery, but the
very dread of those awful runs and sudden barks
and yaps has kept me awake till the wretch
bowled into the room and said, “ ’Ope yer don’t
mind snorin’. I sometimes lies on me back.”
Well, I have lain and listened to the “piff, piff ”
prelude, then the “n’gare, n’gare, piff, n’gare”—
listened with black murder in my brain. I have
hearkened to that awful blast with cramped
nerves and a lump in my throat. I have shied
my left boot, my right boot, my trousers, my
curses at that infernal snore—in vain. Right up
till midnight has the storm raged, and upstairs
into the morrow. Cursed be the snorer !
“Poet-Scorner : ” Stood on the Gr.P.O.
steps one recent afternoon for a quarter
of an hour. In that time 150 persons of both
sexes passed, and 32 of them wore glasses. Twenty
of the wearers were women. Are Australians
becoming a short-sighted race like the Germans?
Or is it just affectation—especially on the part of
women and medical men ? I recently attended a
soiree at a well-known suburban doctor’s. It was a
long narrow room ; in it were twenty-two people of
both sexes, and only four of them without glasses.
Was asked to sing, and as I rose to comply all
glasses were focussed on me. Remarked to the
girl next to me that I felt (juite like a hot-house
plant. Come to the conclusion that if you haven’t
got brains you want dignity. Dignity gives the
appearance of brains. Glasses give dignity. So
if you want brains get glasses.
THIS RAZOR isa
Post Free, 10/6
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razotea Lightning' Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
SEND lOs. 6d. FOR
THE PLUM RAZOR
—and if you don’t find it worth all that and
more, send it back for another one, or the
full return of your money.
The Plum is a keen cutter—always in good
condition—requires very little attention and
gives great satisfaction.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
CURE OF RHEUMATISM
PRICE,
POST
FREE,
3 5h
DID you ever feel the torturing twinge of
Rheumatism ? Then you don’t need to be
urged to purchase something that will
actually relieve and positively cure.
THE
0. & J. MEDICAL BATTERY
was devised for those suffering from
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, NERVOUS DEBILITY, etc.
It is used by medical men all over the world,
and is a sure cure—a hundred times more efficient
than the finest and most expensive electric belt
ever made. It can be made weak enough for an
infant or strong enough for an adult.
The case contains the battery and a number
of appliances to apply to the parts affected.
We will send it anywhere, post free, for 35/-,
and refund money in any case of dissatisfaction.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd
My
Opticians,
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS
jt 393 GEORGE ST.,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY,
PROTECT YOUR FEET. A Wonderful Discovery.
Dr. Hogyes’ Patent Asbestos Soles.
Prevent and Absolutely Cure Hot, Perspiring:, and Inflamed
Feet, Corns, Bunions, Wet and Bad Feet, and other Ailments,
Before Using
Asbestos Socks
DR. HOG YES, an Army Surgeon, discovered that at the end of a
comparatively short march, soldiers suffered considerable pain
and inconvenience due to SORENESS OF THE FEET, and not to
ordinary physical fatigue. After long investigation he found that the
evil was attributable to the irritation set up by the leather insoles in
their boots. Many attempts have been made to overcome this
trouble in the bringing out of Cork and other Soles, but all these have
more or less failed to give the wearer any appreciable or lasting
benefit. There is a unique virtue in the wearing of DR. HOGYES
ASBESTOS SOLES, or Socks as they are called, not to be found in any
substitute. The material is very ELASTIC AND SOFT, and as the
double movement is avoided, the powers of endurance are greatly
increased. ASBESTOS—a non-conductor—keeps in the heat and
keeps out the cold and wet. COLD, WET, PERSPIRING and INFLAMED
FEET, CORNS, BUNIONS, &c„ are thus prevented, and where any of
these’ complaints already exist, they will quickly disappear after a
short use of ASBEST OS SOCKS, which ease the feet at once, and give the
complaints a chance to cure themselves in a most natural manner.
If, therefore, you are suffering, or liable to suffer, from SORE-
NESS or IRRITATION of the feet, or from any of the complaints of
the feet which come to us so often, GIVE DR. HOGYES’ ASBESTOS
SOCKS A TRIAL, and the result will surprise you.
After Using
Asbestos Socks
Dr. Hogyes’ Asbestos Socks are used by the Hungarian Army.
Read the following testimonial:—
x Percy Chamberlain, Factory Manager, LIFE, NEW IDEA, &c.. Fitchett
Rrof Melbourne writing on March 22nd, 1906, says:-“The pair of DR. HOGYES’ ASBESTOS SOCKS,
uurchased from'you in September last, have been quite a “ GODSEND ”to my father. He is now
nblfi to walk about without any inconvenience, although previous to wearing the Socks it was
Ditiable to see him limping along. Please send another pair 2s. quality, and wishing you success
with these “ PAIN KILLERS.’ ”
Made in 2 Qualities, viz., Is. and 2s. per pair.
Postage 2d. per pair extra.
ALL SIZES LADIES and GENTS. ALWAYS ADVISE SIZE REQUIRED.
A. J. SMITH CSb CO., 14 HUNTER. ST., SYDNEY.
PUBLISHED FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION.
THE CHILLAGOE COMPANY, LTD.
etheridgT railway.
ISSUE OF 300,000 NEW SHARES, MAKING THE BHARE
CAPITAL £500,000 IN 1,000,000 SHARES OF 103.
IN accordance with the resolution of Share-
holders authorising the issue, the new shares
are offered at a premium of Is. to Shareholders,
pro rata to their holdings, on the following
terms :
Is. on application 3s. at three months
2s. on allotment 4s. at six months
making the shares paid up to 95., and leaving Is.
per share to be called up if and when required.
It is intended to devote not less than £150,000
of the proceeds of the issue to the purposes of the
Etheridge Railway, including all preliminary ex-
penditure already incurred, and the costs of the
issue.
In order to fully cover the cost of the railway,
it is proposed to supplement this issue of shares
by an issue of debentures, secured on the
Company’s interest in the railway, and, if re-
quired, by an increase of the existing debenture
debt to the extent of £75,000. The consent of
the Company’s debenture-holders to this increase
has been given.
The entire issue of 300,000 shares is under-
written, and any shares not applied for on or be-
fore 7th February, 1907, may then be allotted to
the underwriters.
C. L. HEWITT, Secretary.
39 Queen Street, Melbourne,
17th January , 1907.
THE CHILLAGOE COMPANY LTD.
ETHERIDGE RAILWAY.
THE proposed Etheridge Railway is authorised
by the “Etheridge Railway Act of 1906,”
described as “an Act to validate an Agreement
entered into between the Secretary for Railways,
for and on behalf of the Government of Queens-
land, and the Chillagoe Railway and Mines
Limited, for the construction of a line of railway
from Chillagoe to Georgetown, and to authorise
the construction of the said railway, and to make
provision for certain matters incidental to the
construction, maintenance, management, and
working thereof.”
In the Agreement specified it is provided, inter
alia /
CLAUSE 2.—The Etheridge Railway shall commence
at or near Chillagoe, and shall proceed thence by a route
to he mutually agreed upon, and to be approved by the
Commissioner, to a point at or near Georgetown, on the
Etheridge goldfield, to be selected and approved of by
the Commissioner and the Company upon considerations
of probable traffic and construction cost.
CLAUSE 6.—The cost of construction, including the
actual cost of material, duty, and charges made for
freight, carriage, and insurance, and of labor, including
supervision and inspection, and of survey, and of broker-
age, and of underwriting charges incurred in providing
the money necessary to cover such cost, and of law costs,
shall not exceed £450,000, and the amount thereof shall
be ascertained and decided as follows :
All payments shall be duly vouched for, and
vouchers'for such payments shall be audited by the
Commissioner, and if in his opinion such payments
are fit and proper charges against the Railway
Construction Account, shall be passed by him as
such.
Upon the completion of the railway, the total of
such vouchered expenditure, duly certified by the
Commissioner, shall be the cost of construction of
the railway.
CLAUSE 7.—The Etheridge Railway, when completed,
shall be worked, manned, and maintained by the Com-
missioner with his own staff.
CLAUSE B.—The rates of tolls, fares, freights, and
charges for the carriage of goods, live stock, parcels, and
passengers, to be charged by the Commissioner on the
Etheridge Railway shall be calculated on a mileage
basis, and shall be the same as the rates authorised on
the Chillagoe Railway under the schedule of rates, fares,
and freights, dated 12th September, 1900, and authorised
by the Governor-in-Council under “The Mareeba to
Chillagoe Railway Act of 1897.’-’
CLAUSE 9.—For all the purposes of this Agreement,
the cost of the management and working expenses of the
Etheridge Railway shall be ascertained on the basis of
the train mileage' and the cost of maintenance on the
basis of mileage length; but the total working and
maintenance expenses charged by the Commissioner shall
not be higher than one-and-one-quarter times the average
annual total cost of working and maintaining the Chil-
lagoe Railway during the three years preceding the date
of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 10.—From the commencement and until the
Etheridge Railway is actually acquired by the Govern-
ment of Queensland in the manner hereinafter provided,
half-yearly balances shall be made, and any profit made
from working the railway in any half-year over and
above the bonus or subsidy hereinafter mentioned, shall
go and belong to the Company.
CLAUSE 11.—The total cost of the Etheridge Railway,
as specified in Clause 6 hereof, shall be provided by the
Company with the assistance of the Government, such
assistance to be as follows :
(a) The payment by the Government during the cur-
rency of the Agreement of a sum equal and amount-
ing to 2£ per cent, per annum on such cost
actually incurred (and not exceeding £450,000),
payable half-yearly; but in the computation of
these half-yearly payments, the moneys expended
by the Company on this work during the currency
of any half-year shall only be taken into account
as from the end of such half-year, and the total
expenditure for the half-year shall be treated as .
if it had all been incurred on the last day of that
half-year whereon interest shall accrue during,
and be payable on the day after the end of, the
next succeeding half-year;
(b) by the purchase by the Government of the Ethe-
ridge Railway at the termination of fifteen years
from the date hereof. The price to be paid by
the Government shall be twenty-eight and four-
sevenths times the amount of the average
annual net earnings (that is to say, the excess of
receipts over management, maintenance, and
working expenses) of the line during the period
of five years immediately preceding the date of
the purchase of the line.
CLAUSE 12.—The payment by the Government of the
amount due to the Company for the purchase of the
Etheridge Railway shall be made in London to the Com-
pany or its nominee, and may, at the option of the
Government, be made either in cash or in inscribed stock,
bearing interest at 4 per cent, per annum.
CLAUSE 15.—1 f there be any difference between the
amount of the price of the Etheridge Railway—to be
ascertained as herein provided—and the certified cost of
its construction, the amount of such difference shall be
divided equally between the Government and the Com-
pany. If such price is less than such cost, one-half of the
deficiency shall be added to and be payable with the
amount of the price. If, on the other hand, such price is
greater than such cost, one-half of the excess shall be
deducted from such price.
The length of the Etheridge Railway, according
to the surveys conducted jointly by the Govern-
ment and the Company, will be about 147 miles.
The cost of construction is estimated by the
Engineer-in-Chief of Queensland at £348,368 15s.
9d., and by the Company’s Engineer at £325,059
18s. 6d.
The territory—mineral and pastoral—within
the sphere of influence of the proposed railway is
very extensive, and apparently possesses great
natural resources, the development of which has
been retarded or made impossible through the
absence of a railway.
Within the territory is embraced the Etheridge
Goldfield.
In 1905 Mr. E. A. Weinberg, M.I.M. & M.
(London), was engaged to ascertain and report on
the economic value of the mineral resources of the
field in direct relation to the proposed railway.
Mr. Weinberg devoted some months to the
work, and his report is conclusively in favor of
the railway. He gives the area of the field as
about 4000 square miles; the number of known
reefs, 140; and the value of gold won, £2,000,000.
Over a large portion of the field contained in
the “Granite” area, Mr. Weinberg states, the
reefs are more or less heavily mineralised below
the water level with iron pyrites and galena,
accompanied by blende and copper pyrites, all in
combination with gold and silver, but that such
ores, owing to their complex character, as well as
through the existing isolation of the field, cannot
be worked at present to any advantage.
He likewise calls attention to the great possi-
bilities contained in the “ Sedimentary ” area of
the field, which shows abundant evidence of the
presence of many rich silver-lead and copper
lodes, hitherto remaining practically untouched
for want of proper means of communication with
the outside world.
As all these ores require to be smelted, it is safe
to assume that the most natural outlet for them
will be found eventually at the Chillagoe Works,
which, with their modern installation, will be in
a position to offer to the mine-owner the best
facilities for the economical treatment of all
classes of smelting ores.
Mr. Weinberg’s report, in concluding, states :
“ It would be impossible for anybody to express
in absolute figures the possiblities of expansion,
but taking the field as it is to-day, without allow-
ing for the chances of some future discoveries,
which, in the enormous area affected by the new
railway line, may reasonably he expected. I
believe, the field to be capable of supporting a
settled mining population of 5000 to 6000 people.
Furthermore, it must not be overlooked that the
Etheridge Railway is to be regarded above all as a
great pioneering enterprise, whose object it is to
open a large tract of country to capital and labor.
One thing is certain to lead to another, and as the
line will eventually be the main outlet for the
whole Gulf country, the elements of speculation
are reduced to a minimum.”
In a subsequent report, Mr. Weinberg states :
“In my opinion, by the time the Etheridge
Railway is completed, a mineral traffic of about 80
tons per day may be depended upon. It is reason-
ably certain that this will increase from year to
year, so that one may be justified in saying that
within three years of the completion of the line
the probable quantity will have increased to about
150 tons, or say 45,000 tons per annum. This
does not take into consideration any ore reserves
which are certain to be discovered between the
time actual construction work on the line has
commenced and its completion.”
The mineral traffic indicated should chiefly or
wholly consist of ore for treatment at the Com-
pany’s metallurgical works at Chillagoe. Small
trial parcels of ore have been carted to the works,
at a reported cost of £9 per ton, the journey
occupying about fifteen days. One lot is reported
to have contained over 20 per cent, lead, o'9 per
cent, copper, 3oz. 14dwt. gold, 3qz. Bdwt.
silver per ton ; another lot 36 2 per cent, lead, 1
per cent, copper, 16dwt. gold, 6oz. silver per
ton ; another lot 39’2 per cent, lead, IT per cent,
copper, 14dwt. gold, 6‘9oz. silver per ton. The
Directors have been advised that other parcels of
silver-lead ore, containing over 60 per cent, lead,
and from 60 to 90oz. of silver per ton, have found
their way to the coast via Croydon-Nor man ton
for shipment to southern smelting works, and
that there appear to be large quantities of ore
similar in character available, which can jinly be
profitably dealt with by smelting, and with rail
connection to Chillagoe should eventually all
come to the Company’s Works.
As to the probable effect of the proposed rail-
way on the traffic returns of the Company’s
existing line. The latter is practically an exten-
sion of the Government railway from Cairns, as
the new railway will be an extension of the
Chillagoe line to the Etheridge. The total annual
receipts on the Cairns Railway prior to the open-
ing of the Chillagoe Railway were considerably
less than the working expenses, whereas for the
last official year the net earnings were officially
reported to have been £37,523.
The influence of the Etheridge Railway on the
Chillagoe traffic receipts would be felt over a con-
siderably greater mileage, and the advantage
should therefore be proportionately greater.
The Company’s Superintendent, Mr. F. Back,
has givGn this matter careful consideration, and
he has furnished the following opinion -.—“Ethe-
ridge Railway.— Within six months of com-
mencement the revenue of the Chillagoe Railway
should be increased by 15 per cent. ; on comple-
tion, 20 per cent. —without including any mineral
traffic. With one additional smelter furnace, 40
per cent.; with two additional furnaces, 60 per
cent. These figures are conservative. As the
fixed charges on the cost of maintenance of the
Chillagoe Railway will remain practically as at
present, the profit on the additional business will
considerably exceed the present ratio of profit.
Expert reports point to the conclusion that as
soon as the Etheridge Railway is completed,
sufficient ore will be available to render an addi-
tional smelter furnace immediately necessary.”
The gross revenue of the Company’s Chillagoe
Railway for the past three years was as follows: —
1904 £49,128
1905 £63,871
1906 £81,009
The approximate gross value of metals pro-
duced at the Company’s Works for the same
period amounted to :
1904 £142,625
1905 £125,217
1906 £229,200
C. L. HEWITT, Secretary.
17th January, 1907.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. PacKet of 12.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. lOd. „ 10.


s
i M
m
a
m
IS
"H
Vft .. -
<£>
\
1
J. vfoiiov
Ward's stove!
has no equal
* »Y
& ■* - -i
James’Ward,
501 Geo. St.,
Sydney..
Hotelkeepers !
MAKE YOUR
OWN . . .
AERATED WATERS
s._.V
AT A COST
OF LESS
THAN
4d.
PER
DOZEN
WITH
1
iHmtnwtiiiiintiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiyyiitHiiii'iiinnii
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE'S.
These Machines are the only ones used by the Australian
Squadron and leading hotels in Australia and
New Zealand.
Prices, from £lB and upwards.
Write for CATALOGUES. AND PRICES AND
PARTICULARS FROiT
ECKERSEEY SONS,
214 Queen St., Melbourne.
As supplied under Royal Warrant
to His Majesty the KING
((
BOOMERANG”
BRANDY^
IS DISTILLED WHOLLY
FROM GRAPE WINE •••
># &
THE LANCET ” says: ** It is a sound and honest brandy, and of a Fragrance, Purity
and Quality second to none*”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
BON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Bank of fleui South |]|ales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1.475,000 0 0
Reserve Inability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 6,475,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.0., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
lUciiard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Jambs Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
national j}ank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 6 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) ~ 61,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit S.tock . .8,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
fhe Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDDN & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Hem lahni.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £ 1,000,000.
Reserve Fund .£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Rokburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
SUppmg.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
BOOKED to Egj-pt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA anti JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE.
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
SANDAKAN 12th FEBRUARY.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. ..9th APRIL.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, *
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c,
The Rogal Bank of flueensland
hi mi Tibi).
Capital Paid-up £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve PuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Loudon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
*fMILTIADES
A. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, Feb. 2
H. A. Schleman .. Noon, March 2
T. F. Spalding .. Noon, Mar. 20
•Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Gape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 25th JANUARY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
AFRIC to follow.
FAR US— Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalf/ety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Bmith, Esq., 0.M.Q., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
> HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. *
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., W Bridge St., SYDNEY.
o
CEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
3J Days to Auckland 8J Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, Twin-screw, sails JAN. 28,1 p.m.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 18, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all -
Security.
Classes - of
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
uxr.s.-w.
f||ontdepieteO.?||.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
GANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-HED ROUTE.
The Most
Interesting Route
to
Canada,
United States
and
England.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Feb. 18, March 18, April 15.
43T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT ...
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
iHT SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL—£I,BOO,OOO. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W. A., Port for J
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. 1
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Nort-h to Oairns.
, S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), January 30.
S.S Grantala (from Mel-
bourne), Wednesday,
January 15.
-S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 25.
S.S. Buninj'ong’, Feb. 2.
Best and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
hist Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL St CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
1-rench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
partq COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
, “ . TsT AM/invo-jr, AUUUt, Ulima,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J- LOTH, Acting Principal Agent
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBI N£,
Queen’s Mansions, if to 5 Beacon3fleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
fpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club,
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
%A#IIVI POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda ltai way Station and Gable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Business Announcements.
11 TILE - LIKE COATING.
COOLS Best 1 Lasts Best 1
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job.
“ARABIC
WHITE or COTTA.
Chief Ironmongers and
Color Merchants.
Note Spelling:
A—E—A—B—l-C,"
Trade Mark.
JOHN BRUSH f;
Saddler,
371 George Street,
aYDJXTEY.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
w SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘ PA MPA 5
, POCKET
KNiVES
are the
BEST.
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
"PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116'
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle • » ° 2/6


VICTORIA
Collins
& S wansfon S* Melbourne^ -
WEST. AUSTRALIA
i
Hay S* Perm IIK
QUEENSLAND V.V
QueenS Edward Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
H6&148 Queen SL Auckland
l-g-3 LambtcmQuay. Welling ton
236 S23S Christchurchi
Princes S DowlingS* Dunedjn
fetes
If its from
Stewart Dawsoms
P| its good.
w Write the
store nearest\
you.
99 ©©©©0®0®®0©
THE best things that can be said about a Watch is, “ It’s an Honest
Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you never find it mis-
lead you. If you want just such a Watch we can recommend for your
perusal our 4-8-page Booklet of Honest Watches, prices for which range
from 14/6 to £7O. We will be pleased to post a copy to any who will
make the request. We mention on this page dependable Watches, any
of which we will send free and safe by post, together with our written
guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
The Presentation Watch .
S. D. & Co.’s Gentlemen’s Gold Keyless Half Chronometers
are the very best make, highest possible finish throughout. Finest
#-plate movement, Chronometer Balance,, adjusted to keep correct
time in all climates. Brequet Spring to counteract shocks caused
bv iumping, riding, &c. Jewelled in the finest rubies, perfect key-
less action; Damp and Dust Proof, 18-ct. Gold Heavy Cases suitable
for merchants, bankers, and professional gentlemen generally. I hese
Watches are unsurpassed as timekeepers, or in elegance of design,
quality, and excellence of
manufacture. Warranted
for 10 years. Price
Price with Double Hunting
Cases, £27 10s.
The “Derby”
Double Chronograph .
Our “ Derby ” Double Chronograph gives an instantaneous record
in minutes, seconds, and fifths of seconds of any racing event. The
chronograph works act quite apart from and do not interfere with
the time-keeping of the watch in any way. It has perfect start,
stop and fly-back action. The movement is f-plate and jewelled m
rubies, is fitted with
Brequet spring and
with fine compensating
balance, with 18ct. Solid
Gold Case and Crystal
frontpiece.
Price, with hunting
cases, £22. In silver,
£6 10s. Open face, £7
10s., hunting.
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably withm his reach,
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance. The
movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring, and compensation balance, the
winding is keyless, and the cases are of the Hunting style,
made of Hall-Marked Solid
Silver. We guarantee and
sell this Watch for
We supply this Watch
in two Higher Grades, £4
10s. and £6 10s.
The “ Premier ”
Watch .
This is the highest quality of Silver Watch made. The
movement is the celebrated English Lever, and is nnishec
by hand. It has all the improvements which go towards
the making of a high-grade watch, and it will be as gooc
after 20 years’wear as it was when new. lne Hunting
case is a solid, hall-marked Silver one, thus ensuring
durability. Fully jewelled,
brequet liair-spring, com-
pensation balance, ad-
justed. The price is
um
A Special Dust
Protected Watch.
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, £-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance, and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it, to-
gether with our
warranty, for
MAKERS PRICE
The Lady’s
Gold Filled.
The ideal Watch for a Lady. Ladylike in size, and in
the exquisitely decorated genuine Gold-filled Case. Key
less, of course, and fitted with a real good quality Elgin
Lever movement. A watch of beauty, a watch of satisfac-
tion, and guaranteed to outwear two or three cheap all-
gold watches. Price only
Price with 25 years’ guarantee,
14ct. Gold-Pilled Cases, £5.
A Three-Quarter
Plate English
Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full-plate Watch. The balance-wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance,
English Lever Watch,
with guarantee, for
I
The Famous
“ Nonpareil ”
Lady’s Gold Watch .
These Magnificent 18-ct. Gold KEYLESS “NON-
PAREIL” WATCHES are truly a specialty amongst
specialties, much recommended to ladies who desire a
unique, compact, and elegant inexpensive gold watch. The
entire Watch is most exquisitely finished, fine full-jewelled
movement, 18-ct. Gold Strong Cases, perfect keyless action,
convenient and reliable.
Hunting Cases.
Price, with open
face, £6 10s.
I
The Steel Lever .
We can recommend this watch for Country wear, the
Steel Cases being so strong and fit so closely that dust can-
not penetrate. The movement is al5 Jewelled one, Joy-
less, g Plate, with exposed winding wheels. We find tnem
to be most excellent timekeepers, and they have a larg
and ever increasing Sale in all our 8 different Lsta j s
ments throughout Australasia.
Price only
Price with Crystal
Open Face, 255. •
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise tne
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Cold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeoing, and were made especially to our order by tne
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc.,
is on the same system as
the men’s size. We will
post one free with guar-
antee on receipt of
I
The Old Reliable
Keywind English Lever.
This is the good old reliable English Hunting Silver
Keywind Capped and Jewelled Lever Watch. We have
sold this make' of watch throughout the civilised world
during the past 31 years, and we can truthfully say they
have given general satisfaction. The movement is a gilt
and jewelled one, and is fitted with compensation balance
and a dust excluding cap. The case is a substantial one of
Hall marked silver. The
price,
Price, with three pairs
extra jewels, £4 10s.
Open face, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
p
An Ideal
Lady’s Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to 1
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety HairSpring.'
It is a High-Grade Watch in every way, and will give ?
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
With 14ct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £lO 10s.; with lOct.
Gold Hunting Cases, £8 10s.
M
r>
Special Gold
Waltham .
For a gentleman nothing can be more suitable than the
14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Waltham Lever Watch. It is
handsome in appearance and not at all bulky—is a depend-
able timekeeper. The works are f plate to allow the
balance wheel to be out of danger, below the level of the
top plate. It has 15 Jewels, Compensating Balance and
Brequet Spring.
Brice
Price, with Best
Movement and
lSet. Cases, £2l;
lOet. Gold Cases,
£lO 10s.
1
Get a Gold
Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure; buy
it now, when you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine g-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this excep-
tional one, with
full case and move-
ment guarantee,
for
Special Circular
on application.
©


Missing: Friends.
Re ARCHIBALD KENNEDY, deceased.
IF this should meet the eye of Mary MacDonald
and Archibald MacDonald they will hear
of something to their advantage by communicat-
ing with the undersigned. Any information con-
cerning their whereabouts will be thankfully
received. J. W. ALEXANDER, Solicitor,
Flinders Street,
Townsville, Queensland.
NESTER (or NESTOR), aged about
21 years, son of John Nester (or Nestor),
deceased, late of Sydney, New South Wales,
cab proprietor, is requested to at once communi-
cate with M. MORNANE, Solicitor, 125 Queen-
street, Melbourne, when he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
ANNE WIGGINS, deceased. Information
desired of WILLIAM WIGGINS, last
heard of at Caboolture, Queensland, in 1889.
Apply) A. D. GILFILLAN, Solicitor, St.
Arnaud, Victoria.
JENKYNS, ALEXANDER—some time in service of
Adelaide S.S. Company, Melbourne, and afterwards
on Coastal Steamer Sydney—will hear of something to
his advantage if he calls on Allen, Allen and Hemsley,
Solicitors, of Martin Place, Sydney. Any person knowing
the whereabouts of the said Alexander Jenkyns will
kindly communicate with the above firm.
Legal Notice.
Re J AMES STEWART OR JAMES HUNTER
STEWART DECEASED.
THE persons claiming to be next-of-kin accord-
ing to the Statutes for the distribution of in-
testates’ estates of JAMES STEWART or
JAMES HUNTER STEWART late of Childers
in the State of Queensland Sugar Planter who was
born at Prestwick Ayrshire Scotland who died at
Childers aforesaid on the eleventh day of Novem-
ber 1904 living at the time of his death or to be the
legal personal representatives of such of the said
next-of-kin as are now dead are hereby required on
or before the eighteenth day of March 1907 to
send in particulars of their claims to Queensland
Trustees Limited 41 Queen Street Brisbane the
Administrators of the said deceased. And notice
is hereby given that after that day the said
Queensland Trustees Limited will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto having regard only to
the claims of which they shall then have had
notice.
DATED this fifteenth day of January 1907.
CHAMBERS & McNAB,
Adelaide St., Brisbane,
Agents for
STAFFORD, CORSER & HARRINGTON,
Maryborough,
Solicitors for the said Administrators.
THE GOLDEN FLEECE GOLD MINING COM-
PANY, “NO LIABILITY," WEST WYALONG,
Consisting of 24,000 Shares.
A DIVIDEND of 3d. per Share has this day
been declared out of the profits of the above
Company, due and payable at the Registered
Office, West Wyalong, 19th January, 1907.
ANDREW A. DUNCAN,
West Wyalong,
18th January, 1907.
Manager.
DISPERSAL SALE
OS'
THE RANCH STUD
OF HIGH-CLASS
TROTTING STOCK.
We have received instructions from Mr. W. B.
Veirs and Mr. Alex. Robertson, proprietors of
the celebrated “Ranch Stud Farm,” Glenroy (Vic.),
to sell at auction at our City Horse Bazaar,
Melbourne, on 6th March, 1907 (V.R.C. Autumn
Race Week), their entire Trotting Stud, including
the highly-bred Imported Sires, “Dixie Alto’’
(2.24 3/sths), “Digitalis” (2.25 J), and about sixty
Imported American and Australian - bred Brood
Mares, Stallions, and Youngsters of the choicest
blood lines.
Catalogue containing full description and
breeding of each animal and terms of sale will be
posted free upon application to
CAMPBELL & SONS. Auctioneers,
Kirk’s Bazaar, Melbourne-
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
w Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
mT'Ar m „T.,- LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY COMPANY including ’
MISS GRACE PALOTTA, the Fanious Beauty Actress in
THE NEW CLOWN.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON & EVENING NEXT
Grand Farewell Production, for Six Nights and Two
Matinees—THE TALK OF THE* TOWN !
PRICES ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
H E ?t MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON
. .. FIFTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of the Celebrated Young American Tragedienne, Miss
TITTELL BRUNE,
in the Romantic-Mystery Drama, entitled,
PARSIFAL ;
or, THE REDEMPTION OF KUNDRY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE .as... KUNDRY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling's.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Under the Direction of J. C. Williamson.
EVERY AFTERNOON, at 2 o’clock,
LAST THREE MATINEES and FAREWELL
PERFORMANCES of
“ALICE IN WONDERLAND.”
LAST THREE APPEARANCES of this CLEVER
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIAN JUVENILES.
PRICES AS USUAL.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Romantic Austrian Military Melo-
drama, entitled,
REVENGE!
Artistically Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic
Organisation of the Australian States.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
“|* HE PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Director and Manager .. .. C. SPENCER.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE COY.
IN THEIR THIRD NEW PROGRAMME,
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Prices as Usual. Day Sale, White Rose. Plan at Paling’s.
ONDERLAND CITY
(The Coney Island of Australia).
w
FUN
DAY AND NIGHT.
CHEFALO AND SENORITA CHEFALO,
Looping the Loop and Leaping the Fiery Chasm,
Two Death-Deriding Feats of Sensationalism.
BAKER AND KILPATRICK’S SPECIALTY CIRCUS.
Twelve World’s Feature Acts.
ANNIVERSARY NIGHT—THE BOMBARDMENT OF
PORT ARTHUR.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of OHANTI, the Marvellous Electrical
Protean Artist, in his Mysterious Quick Change Act.
PRED. CURRAN, Singer of Quaint Songs and Parodies.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. Miss EMMIE MORRISON.
Miss CORA CASELLI.
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, CHARLES HOWARD,
BABY WATSON, BELLA PERMAN,
MISS LEONIE DIXON, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
STEWART & LORRAINE, THE ROSE SISTERS,
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
KELLY & AGNES, Comic Entertainers.
OASSIE WALMER in Latest Songs and Dances.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
THE ALASKAS, French Acrobats.
KING AND BENSON, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. 03T PRICES—Bs, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FIFTH WEEK.
An Unapproachable Record Achieved by
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in a
Great Christmas Carnival Attraction,
THE YILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
For First Time in Australia.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
CIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
r WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . , .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to il p.m. ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
For Sale or To Let.
WA VERLEY. —Gentleman’s Residence, with
grounds, in Paul-street facing the Park.
An ideal home, beautiful situation.
M. RIGDEN,
Dally-street, Waverley.
(''i IVEN
Or AWAT
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/ The Bunch.
/ O Post Free
3 Tips with Osprey*.
Black, or Black tipped *vith White.
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLCR’S FEATHER. SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne,
Mention Tiib Bulletin.
FREE FOR. A£KMG.
BUCRAST,
A Certain and Positive Cure for Drunkenness.
SO Days’ Free Offer. The EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
St., Sydney, will post Book of Instructions and a
sample of Eucrasy on receipt of stamps, value 6d., to
cover postage. FREE FOR ONE MONTHi
The Capture of Harry Groat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER a night of rain, the warm sun
shone on a clean country road from a sky
of the richest blue. There was a lilt in
the piping of the birds, and a keen freshness in
the washed air that made Harry Groat sing with
all the light-heartedness of 21. In the distance
he saw the white flash of a sun-bonnet, worn by a
girl on a restless horse. He quickened his own
pace. When the canter of his own horse reached
the ears of the animal under the girl, it began to
curvet and toss its head ; then it began to buck.
He galloped to her assistance. The girl was a
good rider, but he saw she was getting nervous.
Reining in and dismounting, he ran to seize the
horse’s bridle. It plunged and swerved swiftly ;
she lost her balance, and was pitched almost on
top of him, and they rolled on the damp ground
together; while the freed horse galloped with
jingling bit, mane and tail streaming, along the
road. Groat scrambled to his feet, and went to
the girl.
“ Hurt ?” he said, anxiously.
“ I don’t think so—l’d like ter kill the brute.”
“ You shouldn’t ride a half-broken animal like
that.”
“ I broke it meself. You frightened it,” she
said, indignantly. He felt relieved. Then he saw
she was a rather pretty girl, none the less so from
being dishevelled by her fall. He laughed
lightly. She glanced up, then shyly down again,
and pulled down her skirt. His eyes began to
light.
“ What shall Ido ? The ’orse ’as gone, ’an I’ve
ter go to ther township.”
“It’s only another mile. I’ll walk with you. I
expect somebody will find the horse there.” He
helped her to her feet. Placing the bridle of his
own horse over his arm, he stepped out beside her.
She would not look at him directly, feeling his
eager eyes scanning her face. He was tantalised.
Her eyes were very blue too, and her skin was
clear, aglow with health.
“ Have you been long in the district ? ” he asked.
“ I wus born ’ere. 1 know you, Mr. Groat.”
“ It’s curious that I haven’t met you before. I
was born here, too.”
“But you’s a squatter, ’an I’m on’y cocky
Waddel’s daughter.” There was a touch of
attractive defiance in her voice.
“You’re a neighbor then. I often ride'past
your place.”
“ That’s ’ow I know yer.”
“ I’ve a keen eye for a pretty face, and wonder
that I missed seeing you before. You are pretcv,
you know.” She tried not to wriggle with
pleasure, which relieved him from the embarrass-
ment of his crudity.
“You gentlemen is all alike; besides, I’ve ’eard
that before.”
“ You’re the first who has heard those words
from me.” He gazed at her half admiringly, half
quizzingly.
“Do you really think I’m pretty?” She was
wholly serious.
“Yes,” he answered, slowly. “Pretty and
strong. Your hair is auburn and peeps from
under that sun-bonnet in the prettiest little curls,
and your dress has the simplicity of the highest
art.”
“ You’re laffln’ at me,” she pouted.
“Beauty has never been laughed at seriously
yet.” She looked puzzled. “ I mean that—that
—perhaps I ought not to tell you.”
“ Oh do, please,” she asked, eagerly.
“I mean, then, that beauty is always laughed
with, not at. ’ She was stjll puzzled. Suddenly
her eyes lighted merrily.
“ You mean that yer likes me,” she said.
She was a simple-minded maiden.
Every Saturday afternoon, for two months
past, Tom Jones and Dick Smith had come
to see Mr. Waddel. They were both slightly
over six feet, proportionately built,, and
powerful men. Their occupation was post-and-
rail-splitting or fencing contracts. At present
they were on a contract, fencing for old Mr.
Groat. When the work was finished they pro-
posed to buy farms. They were rather silent men,
and listened to Waddel’s instructions on the art
of farming with admirable patience. They were
rivals and still friends. To say they worshipped
Judy was expressing it mildly. To them she was
the embodiment of all the womanly virtues ; some-
thing to live and work for sincerely. The
search for the Holy Grail was nothing in
poetic intensity with their desire for Judy.
Judy utterly failed to understand them. She
knew why they talked farm to her father, and
listened so patiently to his droning ; but she was
always on the verge of laughing at them. If they
had told her she was pretty she would have
understood them, but their silent adoration was
ridiculous. Of late, Tom and Dick noticed that
she had begun to avoid them. When she did
speak it was abstractedly. They listened more
and more silently to her father, and the old man’s
remarks on farming grew more and more dreary.
Then they discovered that a sleek-headed, imina-
culately-dressed stranger was coming to the
house; but were immensely relieved to see that
Judy just tolerated him, apparently through awe
of his clothes. He was a clerk in a store, and
on £2 a week dressed in the latest English
fashion, or what he believed to be such. He never
deigned to speak to Tom and Dick, though he
condescended to nod if he saw them in the street.
But J udy grew more distant towards them, and
when they missed one Saturday afternoon she did
not seem to mind. The following Saturday night
they rode home in silent melancholy. Judy had
left them early, and they believed she was becom-
ing indifferent. They were passing a thick belt
of scrub in a creek flat, when they were roused
from their depressing thoughts by hearing a
woman sobbing. They pulled up and listened,
ihe sobs grew louder. Dismounting, they
hitched their horses to the fence and crept
quietly into the scrub. They had recognised
Judy’s voice.
* * * *
Judy had met Harry Groat by appointment.
She was weepy. He was anxious and angry too,
with himself and her, and inwardly swearing at
himself for a fool.
“This nonsense will have to stop,” he began.
“What nonsense?” she asked, gazing at him
tearfully, and holding up her face. He kissed it
mechanically. SHe felt the coldness, and clung to
him warmly.
“ This nonsense of our love making.”
“ But yer said yer loved me.” She was getting
a little angry. “ I didn’t a§k yer. Nobuddy ast
yer. She released him and flopped on her knees.
“I could kill j'er, and meself too.” He shivered
with disgust, thinking of his sisters, their English
accent and falsetto voices; and comparing their
vocabulary with Judy’s lack of grammar.
“We’re not playing at romance from a penny
novelette,” he said, contemptuously. And it will
have to stop, that’s all about it.”
But you began it,” she insisted.
“It takes two for the business.”
“ Yer saved me life.”
“I’d do it again, and do it again for any other
woman on an unbroken horse. Confound the
brute ! I wish it had broken y —my neck.”
“It can’t stop. I’ll tell yer father.”
“What do you mean, Judy?” he asked
quickly, his heart contracting. She bent her
head on her knees, and sobbed brokenly. “ Don’t
cry, Judy,” he said, more gently. “I’m really
verv sorry. I didn’t quite mean all I said. But,
really, it must go no further.” She seized and
clung to his hand.
“ Oh, I can’t let yer go. You won’t ask me,
will yer, ’Arry ? I’m on’y a girl, an’ trusted yer
with all I ’ave. Oh, Harry, you can’t never give
me back all I gave yer.” He stooped and raised
her to her feet.. She hung to him passionately.
He submitted in rigid unresponsiveness.
“ I—l—have to go away.” She looked up
quickly. “I’m to leave for Queensland to-
morrow.”
“ Can’t yer take me with yer ? ”
“ It’s impossible.”
“ Won’t yer see me agen ? ”
“ I’ll try. Now, don’t make a fuss, Judy.” He
put his arm round her. She flung it away and
threw herself face downwards on the ground,
sobbing loudly. Before he could stoop again,
Tom and Dick broke through the bushes. The
night was brilliant with stars and a low moon.
Dick rushed at Groat, who hit him between the
eyes and sent him staggering backwards ; and got
a blow on the chest from Tom, which made him
grunt. Judy sat up with a scream. She saw the
three men fighting savagely, their blood being
fully up, and saw them steadily overpower Groat.
Grabbing a heavy stick, she sprang to her
feet. She gave Torn a crack on the head
that dropped him like a log; then, aiming at
Dick, she cut a gash in his cheek with the jagged
end as he dodged back. Before she could strike
again he wrenched the stick from her hand. She
shrieked for help. Her screams carried far in the
still night air, and reached the ears of her father
as he was tumbling into bed. He tore across the
paddock, half-dressed. When he arrived Judy
was lying on the ground again, face downwards.
Tom was near her. Groat had crawled away.
Ihe situation called for a lot of explaining, and
in the midst of the explanation Waddel knocked
Dick out with a sudden blow on the point.
» * * *
It was a week before Harry Groat was able to
leave his bed ; then he slipped unostentatiously
to the train. He spent a fortnight in Svdney and
Brisbane before taking the train for Charleville.
Arriving there, he sent a telegram to the manager
of the station 150 miles ahead, and having thus
announced his coming, he started on his ride.
The day the telegram reached the manager, two
large men rode up and asked him for a job at
scrub-cutting or fencing. He told them that the
boss would arrive in a couple of days, and that
they had better ask him. The pair went away
with stolid faces.
Harry Groat rode across a great level plain, hot
and sun-scorched, following a wire fence as guide,
till the end of the third day. He was in a genial
mood, and enjoyed the vast solitude. The fence
was like a human companion, and he even con-
fided to it his trouble of 1500 miles away. He was
equally divided between pity for Judy and con-
tempt for himself. Also, on second thoughts, he
felt sorry for himself and a little contemptuous to-
wards Judy. He resolved to profit by his
experience and keep away from local beauty for
the rest of his life.
The sun began to set, the warm blue shadows
to lengthen, and a faint chill was coming into the
afternoon air. Once he thought he saw two
horsemen moving parallel to him in the distance;
but when he cooeed they disappeared behind a
patch of timber. He looked round for indica-
tions of their hut, in the hope of a shake-down and
company for the night; but not seeing them, he
resolved to camp under a tree, as before. Reach-
ing a shallow creek bed just after the sun had set,
he hobbled the horses, and building a fire, he had
some tea ; then rolled into his blanket.
He was awakened by hearing a voice speaking
in a low tone. The grey tint of coming day was
in the air, and the twitter of an early bird. He
sat up quickly, and saw two shadowy figures
seated by his fire, which was blazing brightly
under a couple of black billies. Beyond them
were six horses, including his own two.
“ Who are you fellows ? ” he demanded.
“We’ve come for you, Mr. Groat,”answered
one of them.
“ Anything wrong at Danagla ? What do you
want with me?”
“We’ve come ter take yer back ter Judy
Waddel.” One of them took a sip from the lid
of his billy, while the other poured some tea into
the lid of his.
“ Good God, men, are you mad ? ”
Not a bit of it. You’re a blackguard, and
were tryin’ ter make yer less o’ one, if possible;
an you’ve got ter marry Judy as yer promised.”
Groat laughed in astonished incredulity, but
with a touch of dread creeping into his voice.
You can t make a fellow marry against his
will,” he argued.
“ True enough; but we can take yer to ’er
father, an’ yer can settle it with ’im an’ Judy.”
“ Take me to her ? ” gasped Groat.
“ Yers. You’ve got to start now. It’s no use,
Groat. There’s two on us, an’ yer’d better go
quiet to save us damagin’ yer. We’re goin’ ter
act square as long’s yer quiet.” They had risen
and placed themselves on each side of him. One
look at their wiry bodies showed that physical
resistance was out of the question. He silently
rose, torn between a desire to laugh and be angry
that sent him to the verge of hysteria. Then he
quietly mounted his horse. After riding for some
minutes, he felt more command of himself.
“The manager is expecting me the day after
to-morrow. I sent a telegram. You’ll have the
police searching for me in a few days.”
We thought o’ that, and, usin’ yer name, we
sent ’im another, sayin’ yer’d gone ter Bourke fer
a month.”
“ That’s forgery, man.”
“An’ promisin’ Judy Waddel ver’d marry’er
was lyin’.”
Day after day they rode, avoiding all settle-
ments, camping out under trees. Tom and Dick
took it in turns to get provisions. They never
passed within 100 yards of a stranger if they
could avoid it. If someone wanted to talk, either
Tom or Dick gratified him, while the other rode
quickly on with Groat. He found them friendly
and obliging, and at last took quite a liking for
his quaint captors; marvelling at their expert
bushmanship as they found their way across coun-
try which he would never have attempted with-
out direction.
Their difficulties increased when they crossed
the Murray, which they swam at break of day.
But the people in more thickly-populated Vic-
toria were less curious, more accustomed to
travellers.
It was about nine o’clock of one fine evening
when the horses were hitched to Waddel’s fence.
A bright light guided them to the kitchen, which
they unceremoniously entered, their captive
between them. Waddel was seated at the head
of the table, and stared at them with astonish-
ment. Judy was on one side of the hearth, her head
screwed round, and amazement written large on
her face. Opposite her was an oily-headed youth,
sleek and neatly-dressed in tweed, with a very
high-starched collar, and an air of disturbed
though still smug satisfaction about him.
“We’ve brought Mr. Groat back ter you,
Judy,” announced Dick, completely ignoring the
sleek stranger. Judy blushed vividly, and the
stranger stared at their rough and travel-stained
clothes contemptuously.
“What ther blazes d’yer mean marcliin’inter
me ’ouse like that?” demanded Mr. Waddel,
angrily.
“ Yer said yer wanted ter make Mr. Groat act
fair by Judy,” answered Dick. “We went an’
brought ’im.”
“Oo ther blazes ast yer?” That was a poser.
Judy glanced apprehensively at the dapper
young man, who was staring uncomfortably into
the fire.
“I did’n’ ask yer,” she said, looking back at
Dick and Tom. Groat’s eyes began to glisten.
“It seems to me there’s some mistake,” said
the young man, apprehensively. Tom and Dick
looked foolishly puzzled.
“What are you doin’ ’ere?” demanded Tom,
stepping menacingly towards him.
“I —ah—really doan’t think lii’ve enny reason
to explain that to you.” The tremor of dread in
his tone spoilt his grammar. Mr. Waddel rose
with a jump that upset his chair. Judy screeched
“Father, 1 ain’t’avin’ them idjits interferin’in me
affairs.”
“Oo’s that feller, Judy?” asked Dick, indi-
cating the stranger.
. “ ’E-’e-’e’s me fiancy,” replied Judy, looking at
him with affectionate pride. Groat leaned help-
lessly against the door-post, while Waddel
grabbed Tom and Dick by the arms and led them
to the door. They were too dazed to resist.
VIC.
W. BRENTA.


"N.L.”: Meaty similes seem to be
popular in Melbourne nowadays. A few recently
heard in the street: “By closing time Perce
was floundering about like a leg of mutton, and
we got him down to the station he was as
helpless as a paralysed pork chop.” Of a limp
one’s salutation: “It was like shaking hands with
a pound of sausages.” A four-year-old, who was
being dragged down Collins-street hill by a
hurrying parent, wailed : “ Mother, you’re
pulling me along like a dead sausage !”
The other day a Ballarat senior-constable
was hauled up on a charge of “ misconduct.”
He had advised a young man, a gas-inspector, to
keep away from tote-shops, etc. ! It looked like
a highly desirable piece of advice; but it seems
that this gas-inspector, as well as another young
man (a miner), had for some time, unknown to
the constable, been engaged as secret police to
ferret out the doings of the totes, while still fol-
lowing their regular occupations. So, as the
fatherly senior-constable’s advice to the young
man to avoid tote-shops was in conflict with the
law’s advice to cultivate them all he knew, the
fatherly officer was punished by being transferred
to another district. Under the system that em-
ploys private citizens, regularly following private
occupations, as police spies, an officer can’t be too
careful with his advice. He never knows when
the man he warns against crime isn’t paid by his
bosses to commit it.
THE NEW EXCELSIOR
SOLAR TELESCOPE
and Microscope Combined
A 42/- Telescope for only 8/6
J TO 10 MILE
SIGHT RANGE
POWERPUL
LENSES.
With Adjustable
Solar Eye Piece.
GUARANTEED SCIENTIFI-
CALLY PERFECT BY THE
MAKERS.
Over y/i feet long, nearly
6 inches around.
Valuable Free Book on
Telescopy sent with each
instrument.
THE New Excelsior Telescope is a
A large powerful and serviceable
instrument, very well made and
accurately fitted, and marvellously
cheap. A Telescope with an ad-
justable Solar Eye Piece, with
which you can observe Eclipses of
the Sun and examine the very
interesting and mysterious Sun
Snots, has never before been obtain-
able for less than a couple of
guineas; in fact, such an eye-piece
alone usually costs more than the
price charged for this complete
Telescope. The lenses are well
ground and adjusted, and the five
sections are perfectly fitted. There
is a metallic ''ap to protect the
object gln'-s fi» > injury and to
exclude dust. The section with the
eye-piece cm be withdrawn and
used sepaf. y r.s a powerful mag-
nifier o- <■ ' roseope. The Tele-
scopo v . i 11 \ extended is over
3 feci C - u length, and when
closed i - .res about a foot. A.
very u nook of instructions
and h u the employment of
the TeUscope for systematic £olar,
Lunar and Astronomical Observa-
tions and for ordinary purposes is
given with each instrument.
Tourists, residents at the seaside
and others able to enjoy wideard
extended views should have tl 3
excellent and wonderfully cheap
Telescope.
Price, complete with book
of instructions, only 8/6,
packed in a box and
carriage paid to any ad-
SPECIAL OFFER.—With each
order reaching us within two
months of the date of this
paper we will present a mag-
nifying pocket telescope
mirror. Mention this paper.
The Union Mfg,
& Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War,Patriotic, Comic, Coon,
Nigger, Sacred, Pathetic, and Love Songs of England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, etc.
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6, posted 2/10.
If stamps only are enclosed add 3d. extra. List of Songs for stamp.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14- Hunter St., Sydney
Or\ tHe
Trail >y
Of tHe
Trusts
Powerful
Illustrations
by Hop.,
Vincent,
N. Lindsay,
and Weston.
*
Price
1/-
Post Free
from The
Bulletin
Office,
1/3
A Practical
WorK on Protection
Puts the case for National Industry
—from all points of view with
rare cogency and brightness.
9
%
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & 80HN,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents s LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sycney.
WEAR .
BucKley & N unns
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO BC
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
15(3
STAG'S
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JEI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2to Queen St., Brisbane
se£
Miss KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer ) writing of
CADBURY'S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says "I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.'
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
r etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort,
k “A Perfect Food.”— Health.
»>. Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
7
r^v
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medela..
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Works s Birmingham,
England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Two Glasses
of
Fair
Women
Some are fair because they happen so,
others attain the clear, rosy complexion,
soft skin, clear eyes, easy, graceful car-
riage to their healthful bodies because
they are careful what those bodies are
made of; in other words, they select food
that will nourish. They don’t eat “every
thing that comes along.”
Every woman should read the little
book in each pkg. of
Grape-
Nuts
for “The Road to Wellville ” is the road
to healthful beauty.
"There’s a Reason.”
Made by Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle
Creek, Mich., TT.S.A.
Gween
ADC
_UNS
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W.W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting,
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
"Greener. Birmineham."
A FORTUNE IS CERTAIN
m
p
'W?*ZA
If only the exact oppor-
tunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means
of Astrology. Send date
of birth, postal note or
stamps for //- and post-
age, for
A TEST ...
HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by
R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to
the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and
thousands of others.
Money Returned ip
HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (of London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA,
Private Address— Woolvillk, Mt. Albert.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Adyt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i}& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
The first
P CCP/l/Z/l/ for the preservation of tha
LwJJdl Licit teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Store?.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co.. Manchester. Eng.
POLICY i;or the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6dl, from The Bulletin Office.


v * er ’ * n the Contemporary
man * n c ° n tact with barbarism, however
HSlr^ Very w ® n ftnd himself compelled to act
tact with 113 18 onl y one of the ways in which con-
'nfenor peoples may demoralise the civilised
himoiif S S of th ' B demoralising’ influence, on
a " d , hlS chll dren, is often a source of resentment
prejudice d “ P ° S,tlve facfcor in the creation of race
The white man . . . may very well find himself
compelled to act barbarously ” —in self-defence,
ihat is the point to hammer in. A White Aus-
tralia at any cost, because only a White Australia
can be a humane and civilised Australia.
Philo " attends church :
Saw three sad-eyed individuals t’other day near Sydney
P; P ;°-jjhput the time when most rational beings are
busj getting on the outside of their lunch. One of them
r. 9 5 ar , rU i° USly holding forth, with extravagant zeal, on
the wickedness of the world, and explaining what a good
r!loiVhm d 0 ha mi. lf *; ake his advice and be miserable
right here. The other two stood by meekly, with rueful
countenances and psalm books open, ready for immediate
ac ,!f n - he entire audience consisted of a dog, that sat
with bent head and drooping ears, and an infant that
off a distance, and seemed greatly fascinated by
the gyrations of the speaker’s arms. People passed to
and fro, but all seemed wholly oblivious of the orator’s
presence. Yet he kept on talking, and appeared to be so
interested in what he was saying that he didn’t have |
time to notice that no one was listening to him. Sud-
denly the trio lifted their voices in a stirring psalm. It
The doff got up and walked off
husriedly, and the parent of the child came and took it
away. Then the meeting gathered itself together with
great deliberation and departed.
Alba : Have asked dozens of wharf
laborers and cargo shifters to name the particular
load they prefer dodging. One said his worst
experience was the unloading of a damaged cargo
of wet sait m hot weather. At the end of the
third day his back and shoulders looked as though
a cat-o -nine tails had cut into them. Guano
Jilting on shelterless reefs and islands is a worse
job than clearing up a Hindoo plague soot. In
October last I saw a dead black whale being hauled
t0 /Mc m, the trying-out works. Twofold
xiay (IN.o. W.) The men at thecapstan said they’d
sooner ship a cargo of dead Chows. It was a
sixty-ton whale and the gas whistled through the
harpoon holes like a Highlander’s bagpipes.
Generally speaking, the most trying load for the
male animal to carry is a restless baby. Have
met timber-getters and lorrymen who could pile
up railway stock ana beer casks for years without
turning a hair, but when it came to nursing a
380 oz. baby for anything over 1000yds., they
usually caved .in with apologies. Toughest
problem m my life was the carrying of my own
sick child, aged 18 months, to a doctor, it was
over a boulder-strewn gully road on a hot January
morning. When I arrived at the doctor’s he pro-
nounced my case to be one of complete shock and
exhaustion. The baby was well within a week,
but it was months before I pulled round.
T. O’Fipp ”: A Bulletin writer re-
marked lately that many valiant drinkers see
other things' than snakes, when one of their
periods for seeing things eventuates. The obser-
vation is borne out by the case of a suburban
draper, who has occasionally rum shrub in his
hair. This gentleman designs many of the
“creations” that are sold in his establishment,
and it is a solemn fact that dresses and hats
described as “the latest Paris models” invariably
turn up in his shop a week or two after he has
been in the horrors. They are weirdly original
productions, and are very popular among the
girls of the neighborhood. In private, the draper
alleges that they are copies of his fantods as far
as he can recollect them, with a feather stuck in
the rim of each fantod, and a big, artificial flower
in the jim-jam.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Boups, Curries, Stews, &c.,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,speciaI^
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
HI , TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure tlie Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Bpine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melaneholia, Despondency, and DespalF.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
~ Of avel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
BLOOD CURE PILLS
Weak Women
V.
DX
V\
ELECTRICITY
IS THE GUARANTEED CURE.
IN all branches of modern medical research, Electricity is playing a most
important part. No other physical force is to be compared to it.
Many years ago, before modern doctors discovered the value of
Electricity, our great scientist, Dr. McLaughlin, was not only advo-
cating its use, but was yearly curing thousands of sufferers with this subtle
force administered by the use of his own ingenious invention—an Electric
Belt. During the past ten years such improvements have been made in this
appliance that, to-day, we are able to do what no other medical institution
ever did. In every case accepted by us as curable by using
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S Electric Belt
we give a written guarantee to refund all money paid in the event of the Belt failing to cure (we reserve
the right to refuse any case that we do not care to guarantee) Do you suffer from any nerve
or blood disease that other methods have failed to cure ? Debility of the nerves or organs ? General
Weakness, Pain in the Back—Kidney or Bladder or Prostatic Complaints or Inflammation ? (Lost
Vigor is the result of inflammation of the Prostate Gland.) Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Insomnia ? If you have any of these complaints, our Belt will cure you.
Free Book. Free Advice. Written Guarantee.
•j j Y ° U take ”° ? isks 5 you are assure(i either of the cure or your money back. Electricity, poured into
jaded nerves ana tissues for hours at a time while you sleep, revives all the dormant functions and replaces
the old, worn-out tissues with new, vigorous and healthy nerve-building substance. Under our new plan
you cannot afford to delay a day longer. Send for full particulars at once.
SEND THIS COUPON FOR. OUR. BOOK,
WE PUBLISH
a highly interesting health book which
minutely describes our remedy and
the methods of application. We want you to read it. It will
be posted free upon receipt of this coupon. Call if you can
for personal investigation and consultation. Hours : 9 a.m. to
to 6 p.m. daily. Write us fully about yourself, and let us make
you a free written diagnosis if you cannot call.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 24-1-7.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
W. Gab.
•Sciatica and Lame BacK.
JONES PLAINS, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—ln reply to your enquiries ie Belt. I can strongly
recommend Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt for Sciatica and
Lame Back, for before using it I could hardly stoop down to lace
my boots, but now I am pleased to say that I have not been
troubled with my back for about eighteen months, and I have
not got to wear the Belt now.
Yours sincerely, CHARLES POTTER.
General Debility*.
MINGINEW, W. A.
Dear Sirs,—l am glad to tell you that your Belt has turned out
to be all you claimed it, and all 1 can wish for. lam now as
strong as ever, though I wore the Belt for only three months in
order to effect my cure. I still wear it an hour or two occasion-
ally if I don’t feel just up to the scratch.
Yours truly, FRANCIS C. BUTLER.
the dr. McLaughlin co.,
100 W MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Askyour Stationer foraSampleof
William Mitchell’sS
21 WILLIAM
■o MITCHELL’S
<DI« CLASS SHOULDER
I N°. 9. Fi rst Cl ass Shoulder Pen!
[the Original Quality BvThe ORIGINAL MAKEF
When buying
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made frcm cultivated limes.
“MOWT'ZRRAT” is always
fresh a ;l pleasant to the
taste, a; j : .;:ed with water,
soda wat or other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
“ Montserrat ” is sold by all Chemists, Grocers, etc
THE LIQUOR CURSE.
WHY NOT SAVE YOUR FRIENDS?
EUCRASY
is a safe and guaranteed cure for
DRUNKENNESS. We will post you
a free sample of this valuable remedy during the next
30 days with full instructions, on receipt of Sd. to
defray postage.
THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
FREE the WEAK
NERVOUS and DEBILITATED.
Dr. Langston’s Medical Work, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano,” written after an experience
of 50 years as an Expert Specialist in
DISEASES OF MEN. You can have the
benefit of all this vast experience for the
asking. Write for the Book to-day, it is Free.
Posted, 2 Stamps,
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
Established 1887.
129 Collins St., Melbourne.
Mention this Paper. Consultation Free.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars tree. ’ Address —
J AS. CR A I G & C 0.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novell iff
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and tho ABED.
BENOER’B FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &0., EYERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


The Bulletin
POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS
NEW SERIES, IV., V. VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “ Splash.”
Fonoarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street, Sydney.
IF YOU DON’T
LIKE THE HEAT
. . . WEAR . . .
Aertex Cellular
. . . AND KEEP COOL.
“ AERTEX ” ventilateB the body—lets out the heat
and keeps the skin dry and cool.
It prevents that uncomfortable warm feeling caused
by too closely woven underwear. It is beautifully
soft and will not irritate the most sensitive skin.
Doctors recommend it as the most healthy fabric
ever invented.
SHIRTS from 4s. ; SINGLETS from 2s. 6d.
Full Illustrated Price Lists and Samples Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
DAVID BRAHAI& CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
BITTERS
THE BEST
Blood Purifier
IN THE WORLD.
WHY SUFFER with that chronic
disease? Do you want to die ? Sul-
phur Bitters will cur*! you as it has
thousands.
Why do yon suffer with that
FOUL, OFFENSIVE BREATH?
Ton need not if you use Sulphur
Bitters. They never fail to cure.
Operatives who are closely confined
in the mills and workshops; clerks
who do not have sufficient exercise,
and all who are confined indoors,
should use Sulphur Bitters. They
will not then be
WEAK AND SICKLY.
Is your Breath impure. Your
Stomach is out of order. Sulphur
Bitters is the best medicine to take.
Sulphur Bitters will build you up
and make you
STRONG AND HEALTHY.
At the dawn of womanhood, Sul-
phur Bitters should be used.
£££ Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
A/T POST FREE, £1 per year,
r A IV-'W vru« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.G.
Two Doors from Southampton Row
and Kingsway.
Managing Director - - - J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Bert Levy, the well-known artist, formerly
of Sydney, is making a splash of no small dimen-
sions in the U.S. In fact, he is making three
distinct splashes—as a stage artist and enter-
tainer ; as the inventor of an apparatus which,
while he makes his lightning sketches, reflects
them in gigantic proportions on the wall; and as
a preacher to Hebrew congregations. One
Hebrew congregation stood Levy for an hour and
three-quarters, so he seems to be a decidedly
eloquent preacher.
“ Mac ” writes :
There is some reason for the yell from Melbourne
municipal councils against Bent’s intention (either this
session or next) of putting the Metropolitan Board of
Works, along with the moth-eaten Harbor Trust and
Marine Board, under the control of Commissioners. The
Board of Works is a taxing body, and might become a
very magnificent and disastrous taxing body under the
control of an autocratic Commissioner. But the coun-
cils, and the electors behind them, have themselves to
blame. The Board of Works, composed of councils’
nominees, has been a shocking clique of Bumbles, which
wasted a great amount of money and a still more
deplorable amount of time. It didn’t waste intelligence,
for there was practically none. A smaller Board elected
directly by the ratepayers, and paid to do its work
efficiently and economically, might have managed things
better.
“F.H.” : I was in a country court, the
other day, when a man was sentenced for per-
jury. He pleaded that he had only been in court
twice in his life, that he was ignorant of the
gravity of the offence, and that when he was
sworn he did not understand what the constable
said. And I don’t wonder at it. For instance,
John Hodge is called. He hurries in, nervous
and frightened, is hustled into the witness-box, a
book is jammed into his hand, and he hears —
“ Th’ ev’dence y’ sh’ll giv’ ’n th’s cas’now’fore
co’rt sh’ll be trut’ th’ ’ole trut’ ’n’ nothin’ but th’
trut’ s’welp y’ Gawd kiss a buk.” The constable
does his best to make it appear one long word.
And before the bewildered yokel collects his wits
the magistrate sternly tells him that if he does
not kiss the Book at once, after being repeatedly
told to do so, he will commit him for contempt.
By this time John Hodge is confused enough to
swear anything. I would respectfully suggest
that in future tne following be said slowly to each
witness: “You shall speak the whole truth in
this case, and nothing but the truth, or you are
liable to a term of imprisonment, the length of
which will be governed by the state of the Judge’s
liver ; and may the Lord have mercy on your
soul.” Then a witness would know what he had
to expect.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT »
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
.wC 0 . «
m
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T!»n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES. 1/- A. 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
iTOtTaK
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
EHflUi
SIA
THE POCKET ROTOSCOPE.
An evening’s entertainment in your vest pocket. Folds
up like a small book, and is one of the most compact and
interesting novelties to be found in our varied stock.
“ Photography has the charm of ‘ fidelity’
in the minutest detail, but the stereoscope
adds its astounding illusion of ‘ solidity,’ and
thus completes the effect which so entrances
the imagination.”— Oliver Wendell Holmes.
The Look and Laugh Glass,
See the Passing- Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus onj
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
The Laughing Camera
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Novelties.
Write for Price List B.
The Demon Rattle BoxTrkk.
Price complete, with one dozen stereograms,
real photographs, 1/6, post free anywhere. Views
can be supplied in the following subjects Views
of London, Views of the River Thames, Comic
Views, Children Subjects, Lovely Faces, and
Famous Actresses. Extra views, 9d. per dozen,
post free anywhere.
PUZZLE PURSES.— Superior quality leather and
strong nickel frames. Price, post free anywhere,
1/9 and 2/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
H. V. HUTCHINSON,
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Bings,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side'of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xvtci .
SYDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and. MARSUFIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. - Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
j their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
(fYouWantTfießest
AsK for a
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15et. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SSS
*3?
u»*
ASK FOR
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SIDNEY.
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
mS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
• o any port in the world. We guarantee sate
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £/ £2.110
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at halffactory price*.
EARN A CYCLE machine. r< Active Agent*
wan ’ ed in each district. Large profits easily ir ade. Write at once tor
free catalogues and our special offer ,using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, See*, half price*.
MEAD GYGLE GO. Dep*. B3d
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
L
DEAFNESS
** The Electrlcon.”
A miniature Device
. for the EAR—invis-
, ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited, write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE L. R. VERNON CQ. a
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
RUPTURE
EASILY, QUICKLY,
AND PERMANENTLY
CURED
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease,comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial- letters from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write to-day.
DR. LANGSTON’S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED 1887,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.


“F.H.R.” : A very unusual thing hap-
pened at a mine where I was working once—it
was an inspector. Not that inspectors never
came round, but this one actually inspected. He
condemned the wire-rope in use, and caused
much embarrassment by asking to see a tamping-
rod. After feverish search, the shift boss had to
admit there wasn’t one in the mine. The con-
demnation of the wire-rope gave the whip horses
a well-deserved spell, but put the additional
burden on us of climbing 400ft. of perpendicular
ladders after each heavy shift. The first evening
there was a lot of grumbling. When about an
hour after knock-off, Big Joe (who weighed I6st.)
reached the surface he made remarks that would
not bear print. Next evening he rushed the
ladders, thinking to get a fair start ; but several
miners were soon at his heels cursing his slow-
ness. Suddenly he stopped altogether, caught
fast in a man-hole. Fourteen men below him
were cursing and shouting advice up to him. The
next man to Joe called loudly for “half a plug
and a primer, we’ve struck a horse.” Someone
below wanted to know if a pick would be of any
use. Joe’s crib-can was fast to his belt and
effectually stopped his progress upwards, while he
couldn’t for the world get his arms down to
release it. A young Cornishman had his shoulder
under a convenient portion of Joe’s anatomy by
this time, and was doing his best to shift man,
timber and all. Then someone saw what the
trouble was, and cut Joe’s strap. Joe forged
ahead once more, and as his white limbs (his
trousers came right off) gleamed above us in
the candle-light, the man below playfully singed
the fluff off. Joe took ill next day, and didn’t
appear again until a new rope was installed.
A once promising young man who chose
the worse part is Westby Perceval, who now
walks round London with a handle to his name
and the brand of the head station prominently
displayed. He is a Tasmanian by birth, but early
in his life drifted over to Maoriland and became
one of the democratic members for Christchurch.
He got his opportunity the day that Ballance
elimbed to the Premiership. He might have been
associated with Reeves, Ballance and M'Kenzie
in the memorable burst of legislation that arrested
the attention of the world. But he chose to go to
London to be Agent-General. Then when a title
was offered to Ballance, the great democrat
shrugged his shoulders. “Oh, give it to Per-
ceval, he rather fancies that sort of thing, I
believe! ” said the Maoriland Strong Man.
And given to Perceval it was. And Perceval’s
services to humanity stopped right there.
One has only to look at the portraits of
Victorian Governors in Melbourne Picture Gallery
to recognise what a very small circumstance the
imported State Excellency has become. The early
Governors, such as Hotliam and La Trobe, had
huge canvases devoted to them. And in addition,
Hotham had 15 street!, lanes, and alleys, and one
suburb (now disguised under another designation)
named after him, and La Trobe gave his name to 12
highways and one river. Now, mere photographs
are considered good enough for “ their Excel-
lencies.” These range from fairly large, in the
case of Loch, to very small, in the case of Tal-
bottle; and no one names even his dog after a
Governor these times. There does not appear to
be room for any more portraits of Excellencies in
the Gallery either, and the gubernatorial institu-
tion is falling off, like Brassey.
Amott’s Milk. Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS A L L T ° E r ST
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Trli. 4552.
r
CLEAR A POSY
TRY IT
ATOUR EXPENSE.
A DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. coalainmi |i> of Creme
Simon, Box of Powder, tnd Cake al Soap, tent on
receipt of 3d. m rtampa to cover postage. (9
JOUBERT • JOUBERT. Melbomu; CLAUDE DEAL* • CO.. •) Pitt SL.
Sydney; or LOUIS JOUBERT. SI9 Wollinytoo SI.. Perth. AGENTS.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jrrm
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway tiie minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this pap°r, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt St., Sydney
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1598.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
LORODYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad/with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to tile exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
PATERNOSTER’S
$ '
Hi PILLS Hi
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
■ Australia and New Zealand.
v
\
m
m
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘ BAPOI/IIV ” FIiOOR BTAIIVB stain and Tarnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors. Borders
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
AIiUMUVUM ESAMEIj gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish
In or outdoors. Simply brush it on. ’
„„KESE COhll P.UHiT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes
economical and satisfactory. * •
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Al«o makers of “OUR FAVORITE" GOLD ENAMEL, “SAFOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
iT
PRIZE
MEDALS
9
*
That 13 your Cue”
When ordering Billiard
requisites or
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Aleock"
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletio
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
melbourne.Sydney, Perth. 1
Wellington,N.Z. & London.-
with 4 months
Mtdicator, ilza
3i laches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH? *
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDIC ATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
DUCKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
%
\
3k
\
Ah
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. A
——£3.
Warranted equal to any JSIO I Os.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOEFtZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BEETS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Eumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Kiver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIO.
Please mention this paper.


Badly Affected With Sores and
Crusts Extended Down Behind
the Ears Some Years Later
Painful and Itching Pustules
Broke Out on Lower Part of
Body —Son Also Affected.
A TRIPLE CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“About ten years ago my scalp be-
came badly affected with sore and
itching humours, crusts, etc., and extend-
ing down behind the ears. My hair
came out in places also. I was greatly
troubled; _ understood it was eczema.
Tried various remedies, so called, with-
out effect. Saw your Cuticura adver-
tisement, and got them at once. Ap-
plied them as to directions, etc., and
after two weeks, I think, of use, was
clear as a whistle.
“I have to state also that late last
fall, October and November, 1904, I
was suddenly afflicted with a bad erup-
tion, painful and itching pustules over
the lower part of the body. I suffered
dreadfully. In two months, under the
skilful treatment of my doctor, con-
joined with Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment, I found myself cured.
“Six years ago my son was laid up
with a severe cold, a hard cough, and
finally painful eruption all over the
body.-1 procured the Cuticura Remedies
as soon as possible, and after his faith-
ful use of same was as well as ever in
two weeks, as well as I can recall. He
has never had a return of the illness,
as far as I know.
“ I have always been pleased to com-
mend the Cuticura Remedies, and testify
as to their efficacy. lam a veteran of
the late Civil War, ’6l-65. H. M. P.
Weiss, Rosemond, Christian Co., 111.,
Aug. 31, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants’, Sydney, IN’. S. W«
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills
(Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all drug-
gists. A single set often cures the most distressing cases
when all else fails. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Solo
Props., Boston, U. S. A.
OS-Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Eczema."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
IS THE
Cold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
3t. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE DUCT >
TYPEWRITER D" 1 *
Just try it and you will see WHY it 18.
And why the Underwood Is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTB and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT for its STERLING QUALITIES.
FILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS ! Dep, U i 374 George-street,
Sydney.
4 k
Si-
%
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
Ey £s
|*BlB*s
Ob
✓
%
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee'
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
MARQUEES, TENTS and
of Various Sizes
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
DANCING FLOORS
Supplied.
100,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/.
mL
3?
m
m)
WWa
M&/■*.
Lr. •*!• iV?fr
/:•■/
w
£m0 z
V & \.<*A’» //j
\ '"iSJSSW:
m
s'- s\ V- /
I
V 9%!* "
fe/V&v
*'•'•*'**
Vss&/
fcv.'W
**--•* »• ■
California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figs,
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
&
V
Ws
§
p
&
Nr
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
3a Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HUTCHISON'S INVENTIONS FOR THE DEAF.
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the only Gold Medal awarded by the International Jury at the World’s
Fair, St. Louis (U.S.A.), to any exhibit
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
and for which the Inventor has-received a similar medal from Her Most Gracious Majesty
Queen Alexandra (a photograph of which maybe seen at the undermentioned addresses)
MAY BE INSPECTED FREE QF CHARGE,
AT THE OFFICES OF THE “ ACOUSTIC 1 PATENTS, LIMITED,”
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Catalogue No. 2, containing all particulars, will be forwarded Free by Post on application.
C. POLLOCK, Sydney Manager.
Says She Was a Total Wrecß.
Mrs. C. COOPER, of MarricKville, tells of Remarkable
Salvage of Her Wrecked System made by
Clements Tonic.
[BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.]
In an interview with our representative Mrs.
Caroline Cooper, of No. 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrick-
ville, gives some information to the afflicted which
should help them considerably. Her statement is
as follows:
“My health is altogether different now to what
it was some years ago, as there was a time when I
was nothing but a total wreck, and now people are
always telling me how well and strong I look.
Yes, I am not like the same person at all, for now
I am always contented and happy, instead of being
intensely miserable like I used to be. But Heaven
knows I had enough to make me so, for the pains
in my head were so great that many a day I hardly
knew what I was doing. In each temple there
was a nasty beating sensation, which caused me
so much agony that often I thought I would,
surely go mad.”
“You would welcome the arrival of bed-time,
so that you could sleep and forget your afflictions
for a while ? ” suggested the writer.
“One would naturally think so, but I didn’t,
for the simple reason that I could seldom get any i
sleep, and oh! how those hours of wakefulness
used to wear me out! Truly, when I got up of a
morning I felt worse than if I had not been in bed
at all, and I always had a bitter taste to make me !
feel sick for the rest of the daj\ Sometimes I got
so thoroughly exhausted that it would have been j
impossible to walk had I tried, to, but knowing i
how weak I was I used to stay indoors to be on |
the safe side. And another thing, I was aecus- ;
tomed to taking fits of giddiness, and often I went j
right off and did not know anything that was going j
on, so you see I had to be careful. And wasn’t I
nervous ? Goodness ! I only had to hear a little-
shout or a whistle and I’d actually jump again,
and it would be a long time afterwards before my
nerves would steady down a bit. And I used to
have the same shakiness of my nerves when I woke
up from whatever little sleep I chanced to get,
which, by-the-way, was always punctuated with
the most awful dreams.”
“Have you any idea what caused your head.
pains and other ailments ? ”
“ I think it was all through receiving a sOnstrolce
when a girl at my home in Goulbum, for the-
doctor said I would always suffer with nay head,
and the older I got the worse it would be. Other
doctors treated me afterwards, and they all. said
what a dreadful state my nerves were in, and also-
that my digestion was as bad as it could be ; and
the unfortunate part of the whole affair was that
their physics could not help me any. Powders,
medicines, pills galore, and no beneficial result
whatever— not, I can say with truth, up to the-
period when I purchased some Clements Tonic
through a friend’s advice, and then, fo;c the first
time during my long illness, I learned what it was
to get some substantial ease from my torments.
At first I thought the relief would be only short-
lived. It seemed too much to expect anything
else after the disappointments of the past; but
Clements Tonic soon put an end to that pessimis-
tic idea by making me feel better and stronger
every day, and when I realised that my improve-
ment was making such regular strides, my heart
was overflowing with gratitude. It is only right
you should know that besides the medicines my
doctors had ordered I had taken a large variety of
other mixtures bought from chemists, and when
Clements Tonic was the only one amongst the lot
that could do me good it is but just and proper
that the truth should be admitted. Nothing I had
ever tried before could make me eat like Clements
Tonic did, and I assure you my appetite had been
very poor for months, and the ease that came to
my head after a few bottles’ use of that remedy
was something to make me thankful for the rest
of my days. The pains in that quarter eventually
subsided altogether, and the difference in my life
then, compared to what it had been, was just the
difference existing between night and day. Con-
tinuing with Clements Topic ! lost the, burden-
some feelings that affected me after taking food,
and soon the windy spasms that had often doubled
me up were quite cured. It had been my unhappy
lot to have a feeling in the chest as if I had
swallowed something hard and immovable —some-
thing that kept the breath back' and almost
smothered me, but Clements Tonic did away with
that, too, and also gave me permanent relief from
the pains that used to locate themselves between
my shoulders, and about the small of my back.
My eyes had always felt dull and swollen, and I
used to be irritable and anxious from morning till
night, fearing that something was going to happen;
but, strange as it may seem, after using a few
bottles of Clements Tonic my mind became as
free from anxious thought as a babe’s. Jilt gave
me a sense af lightheartedness that had peen lost
to me for years, but such could only be Expected
to follow after so much good had been realised.
I am glad to say that Clements Tonic left
nothing undone, and it gave me a digestion that
has remained sound for many years past, and in
regard to nervousness—well, I hardly know how
to express myself. At all events, I can say that
my nervous weaknesses were soon overcome, and
if anybody suffers from sleeplessness there’s noth-
ing in this world they need take but Clements
Tonic to make their nights peaceful and re-
freshing. That remedy succeeded in giving me
perfect health, and I would rather have a bottle
of Clements Tonic in the house than anything
else ; so would my husband.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
, /* jNE COOPER, of No. 3 Fitzroy -street, Marrickville, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
oi Australia, do solemnly and sincerely decks re that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting of five
ioiios and consecutively numbered from one to'five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and als » contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements —
.iij - ?‘u e volur J ta i ri| y, without receiving' any .payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
Dene v mg- the same to be true, and by virtue of tljie provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) CAROLINE COOPER.
rl^ and declared at Enmore* seventeenth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and four,
hetore me, , \ F . a. DRURY, J.P.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A professional bailer-out turned up in a recent
Melbourne court case. His fee was 10s. for a £2O bail
until the sessions. As the bailee had broken the stipula-
tion to call on him personally once a day, and had also
changed her address, he asked to have' his bond can-
celled, and was accommodated. Considering' the risks
he seems to have taken the job at cut rates.
•. • • •
In a recent shipping case at Newcastle (N.S. W.)
it was given in evidence that the stuff served out as
butter to the crew was a specimen of colored tallow.
The biscuits were full of maggots,.and mouldy. The cap-
tain, evidently a man of ideas, suggested putting them in
the oven and frying the maggots to death. The rice was
more weevils than rice, and was said to have been
spread out on the hen coop in the hope that the
chickens would pick Out the live stock. It was then
bagged up and served out to the crew. Most of the
butter was given to the pigs. The beans were horse
beans, and likewise went to the pigs mostly. The pigs
had a good time. Little wonder that the names of most
of the witnesses had a foreign twang. The Bull Dog can’t
breed on that sort of fare.
9 1 * *.
The Yankees have heard that Maoriland has
got an exhibition in progress, and some of them are on
the warpath to make a few dishonest dollars. There
arrived in Christchurch not long since an American per-
son who said he’d come to start work, please, and could
they show him his particular place of employment. His
letters set out that he was being drafted to look after a few
acres of exhibits at a monthly salary of one hundred dollars.
He would draw his return fare to the States, get free board,
and otherwise have a gorgeous time. Inquiry elicited
the fact that an alleged agent in New York had been lift-
ing many dollars from persons aching for billets in Christ-
church, and that the man with the promise of the
hundred-dollar billet was the forerunner of a crowd on the
water. He reckons by the time he gets back to New York
to have just enough cash to buy a box of cartridges.
“Philo”: Said the boot merchant: “Protec-
tion has done wonders for the boot trade. Within the
last five years Australian-made boots have improved re-
markably. Why, they now make boots in Victoria that
will beat most of the English and Canadian stuff out of
sight. But the Australians will have to pay more atten-
tion to the tanning of the leather. That’s the only fault
with the iocal stuff, the tanning. Once they get that
right, Australia will produce boots equal to anything in
the world. Still, under present circumstances, the
local boots are superior to most of the imported
stuff. It’s not the shopkeeper who’s against the
locally-made article. It’s a certain foolish, unpatriotic,
easily-gulled portion of the public. They seem to
have an idea that because a boot is Australian-
made it can’t; possibly be good, and if it’s stamped
‘Made in America’ it’s impossible for it to be bad
whereas, in reality, some of the shoddiest stuff manu-
factured comes from America. And you can’t even hint
to this kind of fool that he’s mistaken. They make me
tired. The funny part of it is that they can’t tell the
imported boot from the Australian when they see it,
unless it’s stamped. Often I’ve shown an Australian and
an American boot together, and have misrepresented the
Australian boot as an American, and vice versa. They
are always quite satisfied to buy the Australian boot
because I tell them it was made in America, in prefer-
ence to the American boot because they think it is made
in Australia, and they pay a higher price for it, too. There
is a certain Victorian firm that makes a very good boot
and conspicuously labels its boxes with the letters
‘ U.S.A.’ A while ago I was trying to persuade a
cantankerous anti-Australian customer to buy an Aus-
tralian boot in preference to an American one, assuring
him that in style, finish and durability the former was
quite as good as the imported article, while it had the
additional advantage of being cheaper. There were a
number of boxes strewn about the floor each containing
one boot; the other had been taken out for the
customer’s inspection. They were partly American and
partly Australian boots. The importing crank listened
impatiently while I held up the cause of Australia.
Suddenly he snatched the Australian boot from me with
one hand and dived into the Victorian firm’s box (with
the U.S.A. label) with the other, and holding both boots
by the heels in front of me, so that I could get a good
look at them, said vehemently. ‘Do you want to make
me believe that that boot can be compared in style and
quality with this one ? ’ And he shook one Australian
boot in my face with derision and held the other Aus-
tralian boot proudly at arm’s length. The boot he held in
the air was the fellow to the one he was shaking in my
face but he didn’t know it. He didn’t know anything. I
was ahead of him there; I knew he was a fool.”
AN ERA OF PROSPERITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An era of prosperity is now about to dawn ”
Shall be Australia’s watchword whilst she’s got a thing to
pawn;
“ Our Natural Resources have increased beyond a doubt ’■
Shall be quoted when we’re shoving those resources up
the spout;
And though the Rate of Interest must always be
deplored,
It’s wise to make a reference to the Confidence Re-
stored.
We must wax enthusiastic re the gold mines that we own
When approaching. Uncle Cohen for another little loan ;
And we’ll focus his attention on the fact that “ we possess
A rich and fertile continent,” though mostly in distress ;
And then we must remind him that the cash he lent
before
Was “ judiciously expended ” —but we need a little more-
Then the Backbone of the Country should be trotted
into view—
As a feature of the landscape he is not exactly new ;
But now we’ll introduce him with a waving of the hand
As a Primary Producer who is settled on the land.
We can praise his “ thrift ” and “ courage,” and the love
of “ honest toil,”
And the “ sturdy independence ” of the tiller of the soil.
Then statistics may be quoted (we can get them ready
made
From the Hbraud or the Argus) re the Volume of Our
Trade;
And perhaps we ought to whisper when he’s totting up
the score
That, although the cupboard's empty, we have- still the
Open Door ;
And if we do not own .a fleet, yet surely we can boast
Of the Home and Foreign Shipping to r be seen upon
our coast.
Should Uncle not reciprocate but answer with a frown,
Do not in well-doing; do not haul the standard
down.
Remember we are struggling for the land that gave us
birth—
For Australia, Great and Golden and the Greatest
Debt on Earth !
Shall this proud country weep because the callous Uncle
shirks
When asked to lend the money for her Reproductive
Works?
Nay, comrades, statesmen, patriots all, in humble prayer
combine
To requisition Cohen for the wherewithal to dine ;
For he’s an ever-present help—a never-failing friend,
And willing on our helpless kids his precious quids to
lend.
Ye patriotic parents, place your infants on the scale—
And cultivate another crop in time to catch the sale.
And loving mothers, think upon the happy times ahead
The hypothecated babies will enjoy when you are dead 1
For an Era of Prosperity shall dissipate the gloom
When Uncle Cohen sends along an Everlasting Boom.
Yea! the Period of Depression shall be permanently sunk
In a howling, raging sea of beer—Until the Beer is Drunk !
W.A.
TOM BEASLEY.


RSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, February 6, 1907. •••
LAUNCESTON CUP (Special, Drawn Morning of Race), Launceston, Tas., February 13,1907,
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 2, 1907.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 5, 1907.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
£>S. Ticket, and 4-d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELI V ERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY. |
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE. '
98 King William St., ADELAIDE. |
3d.
„ per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
titn
t
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON. * Bridge #Loftus Sts., Sydney
PITA 1
JaDismfectittgj
HHFhudjH
1/'
COLORLESS,
NOrj-POISONOUS. Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Suflerers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption,to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is-generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial efvects that
HEAHNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i+
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc Ily.
NOTICE. Hearnc's Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. Et is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person. ,
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Meriue
England, 9d. How to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
mNe’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
Ifdyv to Dance, Is, post. llow to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Plunders, a rare booit D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
line i ter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Cd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
\V in’ now Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyrook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
(Jure, Isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Gwroette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
lsild. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
ani) Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Seprets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
IQs Od. Aust. Miners’ U hide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd.. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Bower (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy's Priest, Woman
a|td the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9* and Is Gd. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, ls'2d. How
to Train for*all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New -
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.'
■
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 13 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
'BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
■Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
; Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR " PLAIN HOME TALK.*'
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngiand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerningvmar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the: action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. Ko man or woman Who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life'in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHiLLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Mas His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. . French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptaaieron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of TdK First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying l more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pr- Established SO Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS A DVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s w-
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog. Dancing Mare East, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage m.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgans
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
Edition, Is posted. ’Vest Pocket Dictionary, M
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire s Eomancm,
2S. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HBAD9
(Jas. Coates), is 3d posted. Chevasse’sAdvice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. • ■
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each postea.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes Hand >
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bf.t and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 w
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousne
Tts Cure Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus -- 1 f t d he
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
Guineas) Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. D®
Sos Ind Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univer R
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
Ennnd 10s6d posted. THE SECRETS OF CLAIRVOYANCE,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music cora-
iiitpN is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted ls M WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
(only).


m
[jigftSSJj
ISHsTSSI
[]
- 'l|||
Mffiffßpjl
i -
iiiiilil
'MI!
IK*®
UST
YOU
FORGET
jJiMShSe
Relieve instantly and permanently cure
all forms of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Catarrh of the Stomach, Heartburn,
Acid Fermentation, and Malassimila-
tion of Food. When taken into the
stomach, they thoroughly digest the
albuminous foods, meats, eggs, oatmeal,
etc., and cure the indigestion by
resting and assisting the stomach
until normal digestion is re-
stored. They create a
healthy appetite and may be
taken without injury to the
most delicate stomach.
Obtainable everywhere at 2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules, or 6 tins for 13/6. If not obtainable
locally will be posted upon receipt of price by Sheldon Drug Co., 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
.9
Nine-tenths of the ills which humanity endures, with more or less patience, are unnecessary i 4
For instance: —
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright's Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
are readily curable. One and all arise from the failure of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
t o efficiently perform their functions. These important organs, when acting healthily, deal with and
Remove from the system the poisonous matter which causes the disorders.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid, to-
gether with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
this solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost iti
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s' Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful ill-
ness will result.
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, con-
verts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood, gradually,
as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is
completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived_ their life and are
useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected, and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases, of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that is was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and, after many disappointments, the medicine
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these
vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary
poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick
Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troublesand General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these
disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by
Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures. [1
Adieu to Nature.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the annual sessions of the Women’s Christian Tem-
perance Union a report was read from the Purity Depart-
ment, in which was condemned, amongst other things,
high art pictures, so called, from models of fallen sisters,
as possessing a bad influence over the minds of young
people.— Melbourne Argus.
aO, Rose, and dress thyself ! Alas ! No more
Shall artists gaze upon thy splendid curves;
The dreary raven croaks without the door;
The searching gimlet bores the wall —nor swerves.
Thy pink-tipped breast—a rosebud on the snow—
Doth envious make these breastless ones and lean;
Cover thy nakedness, dear Rose, and go
Unto a laundry, and be no more seen !
The frigid Virgins of the Earth make moan
That artists gaze upon thy loveliness ;
Go. get thee, Florence, to thy corset zone
And blush all over as you hook your dress.
Cano van Venus, or of Milo, hide
Thy legs in stockings and mysterious frills ;
Let wicked man but himself sit beside,
And to the desert take his amorous thrills.
The beauty of thy white columnar neck
Alone shall tell, dear Grace, of what I’ve seen;
That wondrous bosom, guiltless of a speck ;
That skin of marble, white and silken sheen ;
The swelling hips that do distinguish thee,
Make hatred of thee, dear, in hearts of snow.
No more clean nudity for Art can be ;
So blush, dear Grace, and dress thee quick, and go !
Oft have T seen in Europe’s galleries,
Where all the nasty prurient tourists roam.
And spend their venom and their salaries,
And teach the French the morals made “at
Home” —
The pictures draped, to ease their agitations ;
The statues clothed, and doing as they’re bid,
And all the Venuses in combinations ;
And bright tin fig-leaves that no salience hid.
Go, Phyllis ! put thy shapeless bloomers on,
And with their hideous foldings hide thy shape;
For line of beauty—substitute chiffon !
For wine and roses take cold tea and crape !
No more shalt thou in nature’s nudeness pose,
For form and flesh tints —to a Bougereau —
Encase thy wondrous legs in cotton hose—
Go, get thee to a laundry, Phyllis, go !
And when Art’s beauties leave our saddened lives,
Sweet love shall go with them, and not return ;
We’ll buy our staid and unromantic wives,
They’ll never be a passion that shall burn ;
Romance of literature shall perish so —
(He’s sinful who the tender passion feels)
And marriages be made the earth below—
Hot as the wedding of two conger-eels.
The lyrics of the Holy Book must die.
Forgotten be the Solomonic song—
He sings of necks like towers of ivory.
Of breasts like young twin roes; and such are
wrong—
Of jewel-jointed limbs —of eyes like pools
In Heshbon ; honeyed lips, and skins of silk.
Oh ! listen to the words of these dull fools,
And spill your wine, and drench yourself with
milk.
Helen ! I dreamed of thine historic charms !
The hues and tints that now I may not see !
The curve of jutting breasts and outstretched
arms
That now must always hidden be from me.
Forget the starlit river ’neath the hill,
Where thine hair did my face and heart enmesh —
The night and thee I do remember still,
The wine-like air about thy golden flesh !
But, they decree ! And now the last is said !
What artists may not paint I may not dream !
Beauty and'life and laughter all are dead,
The starlit river is a Stygian stream.
Florence, and Rose, and Grace, and Phyllis—all!
Helen, whose flesh-tints are of Bougereau—
Dead must ye be, so let us drop the pall!
Go get ye to a laundry—dress and go !
VIC.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A Traveller’s Tale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ "V » 7 HAT’S yours?” lasked my friends.
\ \ The Commercial Traveller, who had
been looking at my cards over my
shoulder, availed himself of this heaven-sent
opportunity. “ Mine’s a whisky and soda,” he
informed the barmaid. She nodded and waited
for the legitimate orders.
“You ought to get on in your business,” said I
to the Commercial Traveller.
“I intend to,” he replied. “I think I’ve found
my vocation this shot.”
“Why, I should have thought you’d been bred
up to it from infancy,” broke in Reach, as the
girl disappeared. “You’ve such an abnormal
hi—er —readiness. You know what you want,
and ask for it. If you will permit me to say it,
sir—you beat the band.”
“You bet !” answered the Commercial Travel-
ler, smiling. “But I was not brought up to this
game. Look at me. What d’ye think I was
doing a year ago ? Me! ” His superb gesture in-
cluded his American boots, his gold-filled watch-
chain, and his brazen face.
“ Breaking stones,” hazarded Reach.
The Commercial Traveller laughed. “You have
a pretty wit, old chappie,” he declared. “But
seriously. No ! you’d never guess. I was a
showman, my dear fellow. I —was —a—show-
man. Think of that. And a showman of what,
you will ask.”
“ We won’t,” snapped Reach. “ It’s your deal,
Jones.”
The Commercial Traveller leaned over and
whispered loudly in my ear. “Fleas,” he said.
“Performing fleas! Mel . . .” He deserted
melodrama and spoke aloud. “I’ve taken a
liking to you, dear boy, and——no, no, trump it;
the unpleasant-tempered person to your right has
none—remember he played his king three tricks
back. Ha ! you wouldn't take my tip
“ But about those fleas —funny beggars, fleas—
you wouldn’t believe their intelligence. I read in
the paper, the other day, about the brain of an
ant. I tell you, the brain of an ant is a second-
class, brummy affair against a flea’s. Can you
catch a flea in the dark ? I guess not. Can you
catch an ant ? Every time. Well then ! ”
Reach threw down his cards with threefold
words. “Is it whist, or is it entomology?” he
inquired.
“It appears I have no choice,” I answered
meekly. „
“Your friend has a shocking bad temper, said
the Commercial Traveller as Reach banged the
door. We sat fascinated by his colossal impu-
dence. He smiled affably, and began on the flea
subject again.
“Fleas,” he remarked, “are like fire, or
whisky, or women, or horses —good servants, but
bad masters. They’re good shut up in a glass-
topped pill-box, but loose on the country-side
they’re just infernal nuisances. I saw this directly
I studied the subject. When I was a boy I used
to train the young fleas in the way they should go.
I found that after they’d been under a glass roof
for a few days they gave up jumping. When they
discovered that jumping brought ’em sore heads
they’d quit. I know men with less sense than
that. I got those fleas so they reckoned the
universe had a glass lid, and you could pick ’em
up without them trying to jump. ‘ This is the
beginning of wisdom,’ thought I. ‘l’ll see if I
can’t continue their education.’ I did, and so you
must behold me in the first flush of youth—the
shave-twice-a-week stage—touring with a small
but select company of a dozen or so fleas—shining
fat chaps, as big as linseed. I had little
hansoms and mill-wheels and cannons made of
fine cardboard, and the biz. paid pretty well.
I took ’em round the Agricultural Shows, and the
rustic youth would gaze upon them at a penny a
time. Often I’ve thought, when I saw the gaping
mouths of said youth, what a fortunate thing my
company hud forgotten the art of jumping. Some
people would take a bob’s-wortli at a time.
“ My star performance was the drill of a gun-
crew of seven fleas. The captain was a clever
little beggar. He had a little wooden sword, and
used to wave it to give the others the office what
they were to do. When they’d gone through the
loading drill, he’d drop his sword and pull the
lanyard. He got so smart at last that I used to
let him run the show when I was called away,
and, as soon as he heard a brown fall into the
money-box above the ring, he’d start the per-
formance on his own. He used to know the
different sounds of buttons and card-counters too,
and the hayseeds couldn’t even beat him by drop-
ping a halfpenny in the box.
“ I got real fond of him. He got to answer to
his name, Willie, and to cock his eye up at me
like a poll-parrot when I spoke to him. When I
got other fleas he’d train ’em for me. The ones
that showed promise he’d draft off to their different
quarters; the ones that didn’t he’d whack with
his sword for two or three days and then, looking
up from his recruit drill, shake his head. He
trained a dozen of ’em to hunt whales in a little
cardboard boat—the whales were caterpillars, and
it was a lively performance. He taught some to
do the toreador act in the bull-ring. The bulls
were ants, and they always got the worst of it.
He got up a cricket team—he was a regular
Trumper himself ; and he used to play full-back
in Rugby as well as ever I’ve seen the Maori-
landers do it. Gentlemen, he was a pearl. I tell
vou I loved that flea. Yes, you may laugh, but
I did. .
“ I had some queer experiences with my show.
Once 20 of the new recruits mutinied, and it took
all Willie’s firmness to keep ’em from deserting.
And once we were stopped by a fool Customs
officer in Maoriland, and the fleas spent a night
in quarantine while he looked up authorities.
Wasn’t sure whether they were reptiles or tools-
of-trade, he said. I told him they were tools-of-
trade since I made my living by them; but he
held that, even though they were tools of trade,
they didn’t cease to be reptiles, and as such were
liable to a 200 per cent, duty ad valorem. Then,
when I explained the difference between reptiles
and insects, he fell back on the contract-labor
clause. I had a deal of trouble convincing him
that, as my company were paid higher wages than
the native Union rates, they couldn’t possibly
compete with it. But when he proposed to apply
the education test, I gave him half a thick-un,
and we got through. Willie felt the humiliation
of being classed as a reptile very keenly.
“ And once when an epidemic struck the show,
Willie dosed it with homopterous medicine
and”
“ Homoeopathic ? ” interjected Jones.
‘ ‘ Ah, yes—slip o’ the tongue. Little pills and
things, you know. Well, anyway, h 9 cured the
company. For three years I toured Maoriland,
until at last I lost Willie, a martyr to duty.
“ I was showing before a Maori chief, Pakeha
te Wakatipu—you’ve probably heard of him. He
was the chief, or pah, who, when asked by the
British Commander during the war whether he
had a mouth on him, cried out, * Ake, ake, ke
ake / ’ It’s a sort of catch-word now, and the All
Blacks yell it when they take the field. But I
suppose these Maori legends don’t interest you—
you want to have lived amongst ’em like I have,
and then they appeal to you.
“Well, old Te Wakatipu’s chief whare, or wife,
' who was so important she had a carved wahine—
a hut, you know—to herself, came with the other
whores to see the show. She was a fine lump of
a woman, weighing about 25 stone, and the old
chief was real proud of her.
“ Now, while Hinemoa —her name, you know—
was leaning over the little ring, one of the young
fleas, a dreadful chap for the fair sex, spotted a
young Maori she-flea hopping about on her
tohimga, or necklet of moa plumes. Fleas fall in
love very quick, like Dagos, and in one bound he
was beside the object of his affections. Willie
saw him, and jumped to secure him. They all
disappeared under the tohunga, and Hinemoa
started scratching her back like fury. I was in
agony, gentlemen—agony. I told Hinemoa to
quit scratching, and she replied, ‘To Helle te
stop, te prea too much tiggle.’ Then I told old
Wakatipu that I’d have to search Hinemoa,
that the flea was worth pounds to me; but he got
shirty, and waved his greenstone kea, and yelled
‘ Tutanekai te akinehi, wairarapa ke sercha te
plurry fat ol’ kau.’ Which means, gentlemen,
‘ He who dareth to search my queen had better
mind his eye.’ I saw it was all up, and left the
presence of Te Wakatipu with what dignity I
could command; but, once outside, I am not
ashamed to admit that' I wept. Yes, dear boys,
I am not an emotional man, but I wept.
“ That is not all. That night I was awakened
by a tickling on my left eyelid. I caught the
marauder, and, expecting to see one of my
company, turned up the gas. It was Willie, but,
alas, dying. He had hung on to the deserter,
and brought him back two miles. Hinemoa had
scratched off three of his legs and broken his
spine.”
Jones interjected.
“Insects haven’t any spine? Well, anyway,
she’d broken the place where his spine would
have been if he’d had one. He died at two
o’clock, and I handed the body over to the grief-
stricken company to bury with military honors.
They gave him a gorgeous funeral, and sentenced
the deserter to death by court-martial. It takes
a long while to hang a flea —this one lived for
three weeks, but at last died, defiant to the end.
“The show, without Willie’s guiding hand,
went to ruin. The cricket team made blobs and
muffed catch’es; the gun-drill got slack; the
caterpillars capsized the whale-boat; and the
ants killed the toreadors in the bull-ring. And so
now you see me travelling. I’m travelling, by
the way, for a new Automatic Cradle Company
What? None of you married. Well, take my
advice and get married, and buy one of our
cradles. They’re the thing. Eh? Yes don t
mind if I do.” .
He brooded sadly over his drink ; then, with a
deep sigh, rose and made sail for the bar.
Jones spoke. “What a frightful liar! he
said. , ,
“ Yes,” agreed Craig. “ But he seems to know
the Maori lingo pretty well.”
HOWARD ASHTON


gestion.
ndlgesnoiu
Indigestion is one of the most frequent, painful and disease-
producing complaints which afflict mankind to-day. It consists
of an inability of the stomach to digest the food given to it.
The symptoms are very numerous, the most noticeable being a
feeling of heaviness in the chest, a disagreeable taste in the
mouth, a dull pain in the head, loss of appetite, and a pale and
sallow complexion. Bile Beans cure all forms of Indigestion.
They aid the stomach to properly digest the food, and expel all
waste matter from the system.
12 YEARS’ SUFFERING ENDED .
“ About nineteen years ago,” says Mr. Henry
Speer, a blacksmith, of Lynch-street, Young,
N.S.W., “ I first felt the symptoms of Indi-
The pains I experienced were terrible,
and would completely double me up.
I consulted doctors. They all agreed
it was an aggravated form of Indi-
gestion, and one told me that I would
not live four hours unless I got ease
from the pain. Another doctor ad-
vised operating. All the doctors
could do for me was to administer
morphia and opium to deaden the pain. I was under the
doctors’ hands for many years, attending them regularly
until my patience was exhausted. About seven years ago,
hearing that Bile Beans had cured many cases of Indi-
gestion, I decided to give them a fair trial. After having
taken them regularly for a month or six weeks, I noticed a
great improvement in my condition. Thus en-
couraged, I persevered with the Beans, and was
effectively and thoroughly cured. It is now five
years since I had an attack of Indigestion, which I
think can be taken as a guarantee that the cure is
permanent. Where life was once a burden, it is now
a pleasure, and altogether I feel a different man. I
have now been a resident of Young for seven years,
and am consequently well known.”
£
%
*
36
“ The Pains
1 experienced
were
terrible.”
BILE BEANS POSITIVELY CURE
Biliousness, Headache, Piles, Debility, Liver Trouble, Female Weaknesses, Indigestion,
Nervousness, Bad Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Anaemia, Dizziness, Feelings of
Uncomfortable Fullness after Eating, Wind Pains, Sleeplessness, Summer Fag, &c. Bile
Beans improve the general circulation, and are a boon to pale-faced girls and weak women.
Obtainable from all Stores and Chemists at Is. l|d., or 2s. 9d. Large Family Box (con-
taining three times Is. size).
BILE BEANS
9
Mxm*67'
QS& -it d dd-fad
and-/ad) dm&d d
■d d# dim/zad.
Johnson’s Wonder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’D been right round by overlands to see the
world and life,
And on the boat at Plymouth I met Johnson
and his wife;
He was a man who knew the world and wore the
know-all smile—
Hio wife a silky pussy cat—the soft, obedient style.
His constant source of comfort was his life was
all serene,
His ceaseless source of wonder was that “men
could be so green.”
There were two women of the world whom John-
son knew by sight,
The one as fair as Southern dawn ; the other dark
as night—
They played each other off, you see, as many
sisters do—
They travelled with their “ uncle dear ” (their
“manager ” —a Jew);
To us the make-up and the game were plainly to
be seen,
And Johnson wondered how on earth most men
could be so green.
At Naples, as at Genoa, they left no room for
doubt;
They took down the chief officer and cleaned the
captain out.
We saw it as outsiders do—those seamen looked
so mad—,
’Twas managed so that neither knew the other
had been had.
Such games are known to all who sail for gain or
change of scene,
And Johnson wondered how in air such men
could be so green.
You know Port Said, by Suez Lane, and no doubt
you’re aware
What sort of carnivals are held ashore on Sunday
there.
And “Uncle,” being far from well, and voting
ports a bore,
The doctor and a Johnnie took the lovely pair
ashore.
They had a glorious, gay old time (you know which
pair I mean),
And Johnson wondered how the deuce an ass
could be so green.
There was a third-class passenger who acted like
an earl,
Spent something over thirty pounds upon a
Southern girl.
They’d met aboard, and soon the news went round
from mouth to mouth,
They were engaged to marry when they reached
the Sunny South.
She chucked him at Fremantle, and she didn’t
think it mean,
And J ohnson wondered how in life a boy could be
so green.
There was another married pair whom Johnson
did despise ;
She carried on most scand’lously before her hus-
band’s eyes.
He fetched and carried all day long as to the
manner born,
And plain to all on board but him, was her
conceited “scorn.”
And Johnson bossed his wife to show the difference
between
Some husbands—wondering how the smoke a man
could be so green.
Now, Mrs. Johnson, through it all, was anything
but slack;
I'd seen her sleepy-meaning smile behind her hus-
bands back,
I’d heard the whispered covered sneer, the stress
on “ him ” and “ he.”
She spread her charms for all men, from the
captain down to me.
She used her drooping eyes pn all while Johnson
smoked serene, ,
And chuckled secretly because the world was very
green.
He got a wire from Adelaide—on business, under-
stand—
And left his wife to follow round, and journeyed
overland.
That very night, while musing in a quiet spot on
deck,
I caught her with her arms about a first-class
Johnnie’s neck.
The Johnsons live at Manly now, their lives are
all serene,
And J ohnson still is wondering how the world can
be so green.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Bye-Product of the Cow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE trouble started on the Monday
morning. Hendry’s boy had managed,
after a desperate race, to get in before
Matthew’s boy. They were the last comers at
the creamery that morning, and, being so, of
course came in for a very large supply of froth
and water, and a correspondingly small supply of
legitimate skim milk. The final comer of all was
the unfortunate who always scored freely with
those undesirable commodities, and there was
naturally great rivalry for second last place. To
return home with a load of dirty water, in which
floated several lumps of refuse from the separator
bowl, brought down on the unfortunate a tirade
of abuse, if nothing worse.
Matthew’s boy, with commendable good nature,
offered' to pump Hendry’s boy’s milk for him,’
while he (Hendry’s boy) backed up his cart!
Hendry’s boy, far from being grateful for the
proffered assistance, inquired if Matthew’s boy
“sore enny green in me heye.” Matthew’s boy,
his face suffused with blushes at the other’s
ingratitude, and his red hair bristling aggres-
sively under his tattered cap, replied that there’d
be black in them before long if a certain party
didn’t be a bit more civil. Hendry’s boy shrilly
accepted the implied challenge, and advised Mat-
thew’s boy to say his prayers and make his will. But
he continued pumping, and Matthew’s boy noted
with dismay, that the skim milk in the reservoir
was gradually getting lower. In a voice full of
emotion he requested Hendry’s boy to knock off
and leave him a drop. But Hendry’s boy had
become absorbed in the beauty of the landscape
and pumped away, apparently unaware of the
other’s request.
He suddenly came back from his dreamy con-
templation of Bandbury’s haystacks. Matthew’s
boy, with a wild cry, had grabbed the pump-
handle and clung tenaciously to it. Hendry’s
boy, with herculean efforts, endeavored to move
it up and down. The pump, for the greater con-
venience of suppliers, was fixed on a stage, some
four feet from the ground, and with Matthew’s
boy and Hendry’s boy the staging was somewhat
crowded.
A gurgling noise inside announced that the last
of the milk had gone through the separator, and
would immediately be followed by two or three
gallons of water to cleanse the bowl. It was a
time for haste. With a determination worthy of
a greater cause, Matthew’s boy struggled for the
possession of the pump. With one hand he held
the handle, and, with the other clenched tight,
rubbed his knuckles over Hendry’s boy’s fingers
where they grasped the tail of the implement.
Hendry’s boy grabbed Matthew’s boy’s hair and
tugged vigorously at that adornment. Then,
with one accord, they let go the pump-handle,
and, uttering shrill cries, embraced each other.
For a moment or two they swayed in each other’s
arms, and then Matthew’s boy tripped and fell up
against one of Hendry’s cans full of skim-milk,
and upset it. It rolled over the side of the stage
and landed top-foremost on the ground below,
bashing in that part so much that it looked like a
concertina. The crash brought out the creamery
manager, who first dragged the combatants apart,
and then bumped them together, and finally threw
them away. With a rueful countenance, Hendry’s
boy picked up his dead milk-can and, in a de-
jected manner, proceeded to load up his cart;
while Matthew’s boy, with a worried look, pumped
a thin stream of froth and water into his receptacle.
Next morning, two angry and wild-looking
fathers arrived at the creamery in com-
pany with their boys. They were some-
what earlier than usual. The unenviable
position of absolute last was held by Dad Smith.
It was clear to everybody that there was battle in
the air. Matthew and Hendry burst through the
gate almost side by side, and, in the rush to get
their milk off and weighed first, they nearly came
to blows. Matthew’s horse, jerking to one side,
knocked the end of the shaft into Hendry’s horse’s
ribs. Hendry swore Matthew did it on purpose,
and, but for the timely arrival of Dad on the
scene, they would very likely have got into
“holts.’’ Dad’s presence had a deterrent effect,
and they made haste to get their milk delivered
before the patriarch backed in. Nobody took
any chances when Dad was about
Dad looked disappointed when he found he was
the last. Also he looked thoughtful. But he sat
on the edge of the stage, and talked to Denis
O’Grady about the potato crop. Matthew’s boy
and Hendry’s boy came along. Old Hendry sat
in his cart, and glared savagely from his battered
milk-can to Matthew and back again to the can.
Matthew returned the look with interest. It just
required a match to start an explosion. Dad
gazed benignly at the two youngsters.
“Which of those lads do you think’s the
strongest, O’Grady?” he remarked, in a loud
voice. The boys cocked up their ears.
“Faith, I dunno,” answered O’Grady.
“Well, I’m not sure myself,” said Dad, “but I
rather fancy young Hendry is. There’s the
makings of a fine lad in young Hendry.”
Hendry’s boy swelled out his chest and gazed
proudly at Matthew’s boy.
“Here, you young shaver,” cried Dad, patron-
isingly to Hendry’s boy, “ which of you youngsters
is the strongest?”
“Me,” answered Hendry’s boy, with a look of
superiority.
“You ain’t,” retorted Matthew’s boy.
“I ham,” replied Hendry’s boy, grandly, “I
ken fight yer one hand kneelin’.”
Dad glanced admiringly at Hendry’s boy.
“ Well,” he remarked loudly to O’Grady, “he’s
got plenty of grit in him, anyhow. I like a boy
like that.”
Hendry’s boy drank in these honeyed words.
“I’ll fight yer now, I will,” he said to Matthew’s
boy, with a side glance at Dad, as the fount of
admiration.
“Game lad, that,” said Dad in a loud aside to
O’Grady.
Matthew’s boy did not at first accept the chal-
lenge, and the head of Hendry’s boy swelled
visibly. He was drunk with old Dad’s apprecia-
tion, and rushed in where angels fear to tread.
He said “Yah,” and shook his head, and told
Matthew’s boy that he was red-headed. Then,
seeing the light of appreciation brighten in Dad’s
eye, he smote Matthew’s boy on the nose, and
said “Coward’s blow.” And again he said
“Yah.”
Next moment Hendry’s boy was down, and
Matthew’s boy was sitting on him and pounding
him ferociously. Hendry’s boy had gone under
without striking a blow. He was calling out
wildly, “ Lemme go.” Matthew’s boy only jogged
up and down on Hendry’s boy, and smote him
again. Hendry’s boy shouted, “Fa-ther, he’s
killin’ me.”
Hendry lea,ped from his cart, seized Matthew’s
boy, cuffed his ears, and propelled him into space.
The flying form of his offspring struck Matthew
just as he was dismounting from his cart. Mat-
thew threw his offspring aside, and lashed out
furiously at Hendry.
If there is one good thing recorded to Dad’s
credit, it is that, at this crisis in his life, he strove
to act the part of peacemaker. True, he hastened
to the skim-milk pump with his cans, but at the
same time he lifted up his voice (not very high),
and urged Hendry and Matthew to cease
their disturbance and come and get their
milk. He lifted up his voice again (not very
high) after each can was filled. Finally he
backed up old Blossom, and loaded his six cans
full of pure skim milk, and remarked to Pat
Horan, in a sorrowful voice, as he drove out of
the creamery yard, that it was a pity men like
Hendry and Matthew couldn’t get on without
quarrelling.
Then the fire died out of the disturbance, and
the crowd dwindled and drove away, and two
surprised men proceeded to share the froth and
water and the lump of foreign matter that always
fall to the last comer.
HARRY R. M'DUFFIE.


Had no appetite, and could not sleep. Read what
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla did for Mr. Marsden, whose
portrait and letter we publish below:
“ I was in a very weak condition, had
no appetite, and could not sleep. After
trying several so-called cures, I began
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and it did me
so much good that I took, in all, ten
bottles. It was the cheapest in the end,
as it cured me entirely. I now make it
a practise to take three or four bottles
during the year, and it keeps me in good
working order. I can honestly recom-
mend it to other like sufferers, as I feel
sure it will cure them as it did me.”—
Horace Marsden, Adelaide, S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been
tried and tested in every way;
and there is nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment.
It is too dangerous. Unknown and untried medicines
often work more serious results than the disease. When
you need a Sarsaparilla, get “AYER’S,” for it is the old-
est, strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy. Hold
fast to the kind that has been tested for 60 years# For
purifying the blood, strengthening the digestion, and brac-
ing up the whole nervous system, use
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Builds up the System.
Prepared by DR. JVC. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness.
m
COLORE]
And Artistic
POST
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our Bs. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent.’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
with any other firm,
could not make you
seen.
*
R
E
E
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
A CARVED
EMU EGG.
Something typically Australian—that
you can send to a friend and feel abso-
lutely certain that it is different to
anything he has got.
Wfflm
»»
m
AStC
It ia the sort
of present that
ia really appre-
ciated, and is a
constant re-
minder of the
giver.
This design,
mounted in sil-
ver place, and
standing on
polished ebon-
ised wood base
—not shown in
ill us t ration —
Price, 215., post
free. Or we
will carve your
o wn photograph
on the egg and
mount it in the
same way, com-
plete for 515.,
post free.
SOUVENIR
SPOONS
are also excel-
lent for presen-
tation purposes,
and you will
find full details
of these and hundreds of other articles in
Jewellery and British Silver Plate in our
big Catalogue. Write for a copy now.
ANGUS & COOTE
“ The Store where Quality counts,”
George St. Sydney
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
Letter from a Little Qirl—
FATHER
COMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Bemedy that Mrs. S had. I hare no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is new cured, and the child is happy.
A. Home Cure which Never Fails. May be
Crivea Secretly. Write for Treatise No. 8.
DR. LAH6BTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOUBNE.
Health* Strength and Vigor Restored »*»
Four Weeks by the use of
in
RI CORO's
tS set* ct °?u f E \
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame. •
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
8t Melbourne; F. H. Paulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. '
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERYE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we oharge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney .
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME OUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferera how they may CURE
THEMSELVEB OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
s"srx)3srEir.
99
dot it dowi\
m
m
m
teas
am
,
m
,■
m
-
A good Clip will
not necessarily
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Superior to
COPAIBA i
CUBEBS and ,
INJECTIONS. ,
Cures the same /
diseases in 48
hours without
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name ®ar
.D
'■ h-l
151 Elizab
i
*
.
The old-established, Reliable Phy-
sician and Surgeon may be consulted on
AH Diseases of
Men and Women
[BI [ITI
FREE.’^y
Age and Experience
Confidently—No Ex
Health, Strength an
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OP MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CERE.”
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 73. 6d., or if
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo., over 600 Prescriptions, 60 Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate.
The most interesting, up-to-date and reliable medical
work published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free to the public. It
is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity, afflicted with long-standing chronlo,
nervous, exhausting or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
a 60-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
CONSULT THE AUTHOR. *» Correspondence Confidential. CONSULT THE AUTHOR.


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sena for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
6HIMAUITS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
a-gs-i? 1 .^atsas
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal, ai,d Power Pumps, Condensers, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MAMMATT’S
• 9 Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and
\ Celebrated
{PLATE and
> CUTLERY
©OOOO
At the Showrooms—
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
CHS*
Abb
WOLF
or
AX
L'zZ
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS—
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
Wool, Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Sold to Best Advantage by . . . &c.,
A. M. L. & F. Go., Ltd.
Capital, £4,000,000
Subscribed, £3,000,000
Paid-Up, £520,000
Reserve, £275,000
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
Sil
SBSB
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART-Btrlotiy ONE MAN Rook Drills.
80UE_<CEHT 8 , W & J LEMPRIERE, “ e
LITTLE COLLINS ST..
And at 64. PITT ST., S
MELBOURNE
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SSErs
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex ; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/*
MARSHALL’S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK—
SOLE AGENTS-
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, <fcc.,' Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c, Iron-Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
equirements Correspondence Invited.
Motor Car
Tyres^
66
99
Ma *° by THE
Silvertouin Rubber go.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRIES.
THE “ABBOTT” FILTER
Is Australian, and has
withstood the Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AH Sizes, Fountain or
Pressure, from 2Qs.
If you want to drink ABSOLUTELY PURE WATER, buyan “ ABBOTT."
A Post Card will get you
full particulars.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD,
THE RAPLIN
Hand Ice Machine
Will Freeze Water In 3 Minutes.
Invaluable in the Country
where Ice cannot be got.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDMEY
406 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
