

gd
ď
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN COMPOUND
STEAM TRACTION ENGINE.
gď
3EE O
-jute's
*
PIONEER
| LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, M.S.W.,
TRACTION ENGINES
f McLaren Com
pound
Send for
ILLUSTRATEI
DESCRIPTEV2
LISTS.
For General HAULAGE, CLEARING LAND, DRIVING PUMPS, SEPARATORS, CHAFF CUTTERS, SHEEP
SHEA RING MACHINES, PLOUGHING BY DIRECT TRACTION, &c., Ac.
ĝsd
back
it
have
must
s
Pinc-Applc Brand
sgd
f
3:,»' Vi;
EDI
p.
1
f IIHHk
g
AL
I
WAH-W
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
Mi i m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
u
ABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
IONSICBBHHHHHBII
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent .
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS .
Manager.
A RATE
ď
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED,
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARA
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and POR
•aiavuna
•3iavnaa
ivoiwoNoaa
•aiawis
OH AS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
■
...
đs
śĝ
sďgs
As supplied to the * P. <& o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers.
Brewed & Bottled by KAiSER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS”
OLD
SCOTCH
g
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Mms Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Oastlereajrh Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions'. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Tklki-honk 2135.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOOR.
0
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c., &c
(Wholesale and Retail).
1
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HFLIDQN SPA.
AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW
THAT SPAPIO CQ IM THF . II V fMIP
GOLLIN & CO.,
The Bulletin
Vol 28.—N0. 1430.]
[Thursday, Juiy ii, 19 1 >7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


JEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop.
71 CASTLEREACH ST. P
SYDNEY.
Donovan, Papes from stn Adventurous Life, 7s (id, post Bd.
Fountain, Rambles of an Australian Naturalist, 12s (id,
post Bd. Strickland, Petrol Motors, 21s, post Is.
Riemer’s Shaft Sinking in Difficult Cases, 12sfid, post Bd.
Munro and Jamieson, Pocket Book of Electrical Rules and
Formula, new edition, revised, 8s (id, post (id.
KulleM F. T. Advance Australasia, 3s (id, post (id.
Mark Tuam Kih(f Leopold’s Soliloquy, Is 3d, post 3d
wnr ’ Ked , , Rl ,' ' b< T' editio 'L Is 3d, post 3d.
Williams, Dickens Concordance, 4s, post (id.
r h uT’ ‘i"„ C,,rre c n, ' s , and Ventilation, 3s Cd, post (id.
lvalthoff, Rise of Christianity, R.P.A. Series, 3s, post 6d.
THE SOCIALIST LIBRARY. Paper Covers Is 3d, or Cloth Bound, Is 9d, postage 4d each extra
Socialism and Positive Science, by Enrico Ferri ; Studies in Socialism, bv Jean Janres • , a ‘
by Ramsay MacDonald ; White Capital and Colored Labor, by Svdn “oihier'C MG Soc,et >'»
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
mm
G.WUDSO/V
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic .
Suitable for old and young.
The Lancet : “ Proved to be as effective, bactericidall.v,
as is Creosote.” \
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
, Post Free on receipt'of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London* [S»
THE RED PAGE
THE NOVELS OF SNAITH
\T HAT of the future of the English
j y novel ? Meredith and Hardy, the
masters, are silent ; Conrad and
Henry Jan 3s and George Moore
have lost themselves in the arid deserts of
futile subtlety ; but what of the younger
generations at their heels ? To whom may
we with confidence look- for the handing on
of the torch ? '
Of the eight or nine names that occur
to the mind, there are four whose work
enables us to look somewhat hopefully at
the future—Maurice Hewlett, Wm. J. Locke,
author of The florals of Marcus Ordojne and
The Beloved Vagabond, May Sinclair, who
produced that remarkable novel of pro-
mise, The Divine Fire, and J. C. Snaitli,
author of Broke of Covenden and Henry
Northcote (Constable, per Sydney Book Club).
Hewlett has secured for himself a unique
niche in English literature ; the claims of
Sydney Royce Lysaght, author of Her
Majesty's Rebels, of M. P. Willcocks, author
of The Wingless Victory, and of John Gals-
worthy, author of The Man of Property and
The Country House, will be investigated
later; and of the others the works of
Snaith require from us the greatest atten-
tion. For Snaith may be regarded as the
legitimate heir of George Meredith. This
is not to say that he is a mere filcher of the
master’s style, nor yet that he is Meredith’s
equal. But there are in Broke of Covenden
as genuine comedy, as careful a painting of
character, as artistic a reticence, and as in-
timate an acquaintance with what may be
regarded as the Meredithian archetype—the
unadulterated insular English landed proprie-
tor—described by Snaith in the formula :
sense of humor, nil: pride, the algebraic
figure x —as in the novels of our living classic.
Snaith lacks Meredith’s psychological insight
into woman, his uncanny knowledge of the
secret springs of our actions, and his ability
to track egotism to its most hidden lair—he
lacks, too, Meredith’s craggy style; but
in his appreciation of the true tragi-comedy,
Snaith reaches close to his master. Broke
of Covenden is a study of the English
gentleman with a feudal soul, strangely sur-
viving in a hostile, modern world. Beaten
upon by all the agencies of this swiftly
changing world, the man, unmalleable, un-
teachable, becomes a mere dull log, in his
stubborn isolation almost impervious to mis-
fortune.
J*
Broke had six daughters and one son,
and all were decorated with the aristo-
cratic Broke nose. To the girls this was
really their life tragedy—“ their looks had
all foregathered in their ridiculous noses.”
Upon the face of Delia, the youngest, it
looked “a little unexpected.”
Hers was a pathetically plain little face,
which . . . had an air of candor, of unfearing
innocence that was appealing. But there was a
memorable nose stuck in the middle. It fasci-
nated the young man ; never had he seen an organ
so remarkable on the face of a woman. It might
have made him laugh if somehow, out of propor-
tion as it was, it did not seem, after all, in an
absurd, whimsical manner, to be appropriate to
her quaintness, and to hold, quite rightly and
properly, its niche in nature. . . . Insensibly it
lured his picturesque fancy to revert to the
crusaders and the days of chivalry, so that when
he looked dt it again, the glamor of a poetic age
was shining on it. i
Ihe future of the Broke family depends
upon a moneyed marriage which Mrs. Broke,
the suave, managing mother, is arranging
for her son Billy. But Billy, having
his share of the Broke masterfulness, breaks
his chains. The scene where Billy explains
to his mother what he has done is delightful
comedy.
• r < *° y?U mean, my darling, by that
1 luiculous assertion that you were married yes-
terday morning ?”
Ridiculous ! ’ said Billy. “ Why ridiculous,
mummy?
“ Then it is true, my dear one ? ”
tl Of course. I wouldn’t rag you, you know.”
And who, pray, is the favored person ? ”
1 here-was ii naif-smile still lurking in her cool
blue eyes. There was the same suggestion of a
shgntly amused suavity with which she had begun
tne conversation.
‘‘She’s a peach,” said Billy.
“ Who, my love?”
“ A. peach ! ”
I don t think I.know the family. I believe
there are some people called Mowbray Peach in
Warwickshire. ...”
“I don’t mean people at all, you dear old silly.
A peach—a regular picture, y’ know. Something
sweet and tempting and good to look at.”
And who is this person, my love ? Who is
sweet and tempting and good to look at ? ” -
ilywife, said Billy, taking his hat off one
knee and placing it on the other.
Of course, my love. But who was she before
she w<is your wife?”
Our young gentleman paused. He carefully
‘n C - C IIS upon his other knee. .. .
P t>, • ’ lf y°u must know, she is a little girl out
of Perkin and Warheek’s shop in Bond-street, the
right-hand side; you know, going out of Picca-
“ Thank you, my darling, that is all I wished
to know .. I suppose, my angel,” she said in a
iow, matter-of-fact voice, “you know that you
have mined us all ? ”
J*
In Broke, Snaith has painted a great
gallery of portraits, some of them a little
fivntastic—rather caricatures than likenesses,
lhe novelist’s worst fault, just as evident in
his second novel, is his tendency to make his
characters talk in too literary and artificial
a style, while occasionally he allows his
sense of humor to lead him unwittingly into
the grotesquely ridiculous. Occasionally he
demands too much from his reader’s o-ood-
nature. Properly belonging to the regions
,°P era *‘ s le scene where the Duke
of Wimbledon, given carte blanche to select
Ta l6 n tlio Broko § ir^s ( w dh nose) as his
-lineboss, pathetically anxious “to do the
ught thing,’’conceives it his duty to select the
winning name from a hat. The last scenes,
too, as the remorseless tragedy is logically
-worked out, are keyed toohigh. Snaith aspires
to levels where, as yet, his ability cannot
sustain him. But the book is strikingly
original, ably constructed, and carried tofts
-y'-th a sublime disdain of the suscepti-
bilities of the average novel-reader.
Jt
M e turnto Henry Northcote, expecting to
find the Meredithian manner more empha-
sised—and there is scarcely a trace of the
hand that penned Broke. Like W. J. Locke,
Snaith has here been caught by the glamor of
the fantastic. There is however no indication
ot a failing of the stream of his originality ;
he has conceived and carried successfully
out one of the most remarkable scenes in
literature. The story may be briefly indi-
cated. To Henry Northcote, advocate,
starving in his chambers in Shepherd’s Inn
comes a prosperous solicitor with a brief for
the defence of a woman in a murder trial. But
the advent of the solicitor has been heralded
by a more mysterious visitor—the identity
or even existence of whom will set the reader
away on the wings of speculation. The only
possible defence of the woman—a common
woman of the streets who has poisoned a
man with whom she was living—is insanity •
but “Cad” Northcote, as he was called at
school has such a preposterous belief in
himself that he proposes to sweep aside by
his undoubted gift of eloquence the damning
circumstantial evidence that must bring her
neck to the noose. Snaith’s craftsmanship is
herein cunningiy displayed by his reticence
about the character of the woman whose life
is to hang—or not to hang—upon the slender
thread of this egotistic and loquacious advo-
cate. We -have not a hint of her real
character till past the middle of the
book Then follows the great scene of
tiie trial. Northcote contents himself with
cross-examining one witness; but the effect
of her admissions, which are put into her
mouth by Northcote, are electrical. Then
he proceeds to address the jury Most
novelists cautiously content themselves by
telling us that their heroes are brilliant
talkers, or brilliant writers ; but, if they are
wise, they do not attempt to give us actual
transcripts of the speeches or the writings of
their puppets. Else the illusion would belost.
Even Meiedith fails when, instead of merely
insisting that Diana was a brilliant wit, he
retails to us some of the specimens of her
mt—and. the reader, prepared to take
Meiedith s assertion on trust, confronted
with the evidence gratuitously submitted
confesses that their brilliance is not what
Meredith had cunningly led him to suspect.
But Snaith Ims the daring not only to assert
that JNprthcote was a brilliant pleader, but
to place before us almost the whole of North-
cote’s speech, and allow us to judge for our-
selves.
And the speech, reported for us almost
verbatim, is as remarkable as Snaith
had insisted it was, though whether it would
have oeen possible in a court of law is a
matter for legal opinion. He begins by re-
counting a vision lie had, in which he saw the
phice of the jurors taken by another jury,
wlfose faces he recognises.
“ The first face I had recognised was that of an
old man, urbane and ironical, a citizen of the
world ; it was the face of Plato. . . . Thinkers,
warriors, saints and innovators began to teem
before my gaze. ... I thought I discerned the
faces of at least two women among the assembly ;
one was that of Joan of Arc, the other that of
Mary the Magdalene.”
And the foreman ?
“ It was with an indescribable curiosity that I
observed a slight, strangely-garbed figure emerge
from their midst. And when he came to assume
his place at the head of his immortal companions,
which you, sir, are occupying now, I was devoured
by an overpowering eagerness to look upon his
face.... And when at last he lifted his head and
the emanation of his pale and luminous features
shone out of the gloom and overspread this
assembly, a kind of half-stifled sob of surprise, a
sort of shudder of recognition passed over the'
crowded court. The. face was that of the mart
called Jesus of Nazareth. ...”
So, having elected his own remarkable j ury,
the advocate proceeds to bring it to his point
of view—the supreme danger of keeping
“ a tree standing in England upon which we
nail women. ’ But his climax is still mox-e
cruel. After detailing a case of a miscarriage
of justice involving the hanging of a man
only twelve months before, Nortlicote
points out that “ the present counsel for the
Crown is the same counsel who prosecuted
that man, and the judge who sent that man
to his doom is seated above you in all the
panoply of - his office. I leave him now (he
concludes) to deal if he is able in a like
manner with this poor Magdalene, who may
or may not have fallen by the way.”
J*
It need not be said what the verdict is.
Every reader will concur iu it. But this
is not the climax ; it is the real beginning of
the book ; for suddenly the woman, kept so
long in the background, emerges .upon the
scene, and the book culminates in a sternly
logical series of unexpected incidents that
are as remorselessly depicted, and with as
little regal’d/for the gentle reader’s feelings,
as the slow tragedy of Broke of Govenden .
With two such books, each in the class FI,
already to his credit, Snaith should go far.
Professor Gregory, entrusted With the prepara-
tion of the second edition of Dr, A. Russell
Wallace’s geography of Australasia (E. Stanford,
London, 155.), found it necessary, owing to the
rapid growth of geographical knowledge of the
subject, to rewrite the volume ; and a work of over
(100 pages, interspersed with illustrations and
excellent maps, is the result. Gregory has, for
the general reader, an appreciative introduction
dealing with such subjects as the isolation of
Australia, defence, the White Australia policy,
the ideals of the Labor Party, and the hopefulness
of the Australian. He points out that the
“remarkable unity of life, of interests, and of
manners is a great source of- strength to Aus-
tralia, and a security for its future welfare ; for
the stronger, abler section of society are not
handicapped by such a burden of the weak, the
ignorant, and the discontented as in the caste-
ridden countries of Europe. The character of the
Australasian people is the most gratifying feature
in the political development of this quarter of the
globe.” He rightly emphasises “the drift of
failures and ‘ wasters,’ shipped out to the Anti-
podes by shamed British relatives,” as a more
serious danger to the. Australian population than
the earlier leaven of convicts. “But even these
unpromising immigrants are absorbed without
much permanent injury to the race.” Gregory
puts down to the homogenity of the population
“ the exceptional high standard of honesty,”
which, in its turn, “is one of the factors in the
high efficiency of Australian work.” As to de-
fence, he points out that a hostile battleship
could do but comparatively- little damage to a
scattered town like Melbourne, which is spread
over 254 square miles, while the number of shots
a battleship could afford to fire at that city would
be comparatively small. “So if Melbourne de-
clined to be bluffed, and remembered that
the battleship could do less damage than a
hurricane, and that its visit would be much less
costly than a drought, the raider could, do nothing
to justify his risks.” Upon the White Australia
policy he remarks that the Anglo-Indian is as
determined as the Australian that his son shall
inherit the traditions of his race, and removes him
from contact with an Oriental race, for much the
same reasons that the Australian refuses to domi-
cile an Oriental race around his home. Though
in several details the geographical portion of the
work is not accurate, the book is a useful and
timely contribution to the knowledge of ourselves.
Compilations such as, Phrases and Navies:
their Origins and Meanings, by Trench H. John-
son (T. W. Laurie, 65.), are frequently useful,
but necessarily never complete. The present
volume devotes much attention to the explanation
of the origin of London place-names, and of
American phrases. The compiler has apparently
never heard of alone hand, nor has he anything to
say about a bosker.
AT DAWN.
The night-lone/ clamor of winds grew still,
The forest rested—its foes withdrawn:
On sounding ocean and silent hill
There crept a sense of the coming dawn.
A bird awoke on a- leaning limb
And fluttered its plumes a moment’s space ;
Dark purple lay on the sea’s far rim ;
The sky grew pale as a dying face.
Then all the trees and the rocks and heights
With wondering faces watched the East:
It seemed an altar hung with lights
And waiting for a vestured priest.
And in that intimate first hour
When land and sea rejoiced as one,
And Nature , like an opening flower ,
Gave incense, came the burning sun.
Yet, while the hour of gold went by,
I saw through all its pageantry
The vast indifference- of the sky,
The heartless beauty of the sea.
For wet and wan, and cold and sped
Beyond the breakers’ reach of pearl,
There lay a strong man drowned and dead,
And in his arms a drowned white girl.
N.S.WY
RODERIC QUINN.
IS LITER.I TUUK DEAD?
Herbert Paul is much concerned, in the Con-
temporary, over the death of literature. It is
being glam by science. “The scientific future isfull
of exciting possibilities, for which mere literature
can offer no equivalent.” Paul proceeds to hurl
at moribund literature heavy and inconvenient
bricks like these : —-“Literature maybe an elegant
amusement, but, after all, it is only permutations
and combinations of words. Have we not had
enough of it ? What is the need of it, except to
make the conclusions of science intelligible to the
masses ? ' Is it possible to carry 'tliefiart of expres-
sion further than Plato carried it more than two
thousand years ago ? There is no progress in
literature. There is nothing else in science, for
there is no limit to discovery.” Having-thus
battered the poor thing into a comatose condition,
Paul proceeds to argue with her. His contention
is that though there will always be books to be
written, the highest intellects will not continue
to be attracted to literature as in the past.
“ Will the highest intellects concern themselves
with insoluble problems, with windows that ex-
clude the light, and passages that lead to nothing ?
Or will they be drawn, are they being drawn
even now, into the more fruitful methods of
experiment add exactitude? ... Is science ac-
quiring an absolute dominion over the minds of
men?... That is the supreme attraction of
science. Its possibilities are infinite. In litera-
ture, in metaphysics, the best that can be has
been done. . . . The highest minds have the
loftiest aspirations,, which poetry and other forms
of literature have satisfied hitherto. If science
can be proved to hold the key of the universe,
complete ’ satisfaction cannot be sought else-
where.” And literature did not say a word. She
was busy writing a little poem that would live a
thousand years after Herbert Paul had proved to
her that she was extremely dead.
The Problem Solved, the author, J. Watson,
Carlton, te'ls usis “the outcome of years of study,
hours of sacrifice, and the burning of the midnight
oil, whilst some of my fellow citizens were enjoy-
ing themselves, sleeping the sleep of peace, or
torn asunder upon the rack of poverty.” Frankly
we admit we haven’t read it. Still it contains
odes to the Creator, and one to a certain politi-
cian, beginning breezily like this :—
“ Hail, Joseph, Premier of the premier State,
Thine hour-glass empties, leave it not too late ;
Hell’s mouth still opens for its daily prey,
In error, sir, you may just stray its way.”
There is also a stimulating poem entitled, “The
Christian’s Farewell to Unrestricted Individual-
ism.” Most of the-book, however, is just prose.
Poetry to order. Australia To-day (190 Flin-
ders-street, Melb.) is offering a £25 prize for the
best poem, and another £25 for the best prose
essay, upon the subject of “Australia’s Destiny
in the Empire.” The poem must not exceed one
thousand words —not lines —and the essay seven
thousand words. Poets and essayists should
write for details to the address above given ; but
as the competition closes on August 1st, they
should set- a match to their inspiration without
loss of time.
A somewhat conventional novel is Constance
Smedley’s Conflict (Constable) noteworthy only
for the careful studies of modern women. The
heroine is a girl clerk who is left with the
management of a big “tube ” works, and the story
now she controls the immense business is interest-
ing ; but the love interest is built upon the model
that enables the expert novel-reader to pick the
winner as soon as the weights are declared. Con-
stance Smedley, however, has succeeded in de-
picting with insight certain types of the un-
satisfied advanced woman of ’ the day. Her
solution of their troubles is one which has worked
very well in the past—marriage and motherhood.
—F3.
Out of the West comes tw periodical called
Australia Junior, a healthy, patriotic “ bar-
raeker” for a healthy and patriotic Australian
rabe. It is published at Perth, price nothing, and
edited by J. J. Simons, whose youth does not yet
entitle him to a vote. The magazine is addressed
to Australian schoolboys, its motto is “ a white,
self-contained, self-reliant nation,” and the editor
is ah enthusiastic believer in the Australian game
of football. The publication deserves to be in the
hands of every Australian boy.
“Ambitious” writes asking for “a reliable
literary guide—one that tells you what publica-
tions. English, American and Australasian, pay
for copy.” Such a guide would sell, but there
seems no chance of its ever being written. For, in
print, editors betray a discreet reticence as to their
rate of pay. The Literary Year Book (Routledge,
London) affords particulars of English periodical
publications; but the information is usually con-
fined to addresses and generalities. Herewith some
samples : — Harper's : Authoritative articles deal-
ing with travel, science, art, and literature ; also,
high-class short stories. Remuneration is given.
Helping Words : Articles on religious and family
subjects, 1500 words. Serials, 20,000 words.
Domestic tales, 3000 words. Payment by arrange-
ment. Cash on acceptance. Home Circle:
Domestic stories with happy tone (5000 words).
Remuneration about one guinea a page. Economic
Review: Occasional contributors required ; econo-
mic and social ‘subjects; length, ten to fifteen
pages ; no remuneration. Methodist Recorder :
Articles relating to Methodism, usually illus-
trated, of from 2000 to 2500 words. Short stories
with a Methodist flavor, 1500 to 2000 words, or a
Methodist serial. Remuneration by agreement.
Smart Set: Bright, short articles are considered,
100 to 1000 words. Also, modern short tales, no
mud or blood (500 to 5000, or 30,000 to 4Q.OOO
words). Poems also. Payment is made at from
£2 to £10 a thousand words.
Echoes from Arernus, by Willoughby-Andrew,
Sydney, are rhymes interesting chiefly from the
fact that they were composed during the author’s
fourteen years’ confinement in N.S. Wales pri-
sons, serving a death-commuted sentence. The
book is dedicated to the chaplains who visited
him in prison. There is more yerbal ingenuity


LASSETTER’S TEAS R SUPERIOR.
-
,
-
-L
\ M % \ iSt?
m I
b:
IfS?
m
Stst
mm
u
- B
, • ;
si*
:V \
;• * ' :-,B ■
"
B .. i
• •
■
i
*•
RIGHT
\)i THE
GUP
EVERY
1 EA PRICE LIST will be found in Our
posted free on application.
I
General Catalogue—The Buyer’s Encyclopedia —1000 Illustrated Page
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD., The Universal Providers,
GREATER CHEAPSIDE—IN THE HEART OF SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1907.


ONEY
MAKE
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
ANSI
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The SuccessfuS Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
s YDNE "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application „
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER-
C-B- TA »£I DE CB-
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In 50
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
WORA/
%
£
&
ft*
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
Mi C.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports*
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 1 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here Is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to .
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY,
York Street SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle. Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLS.NE MOTOR, BUGSY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. D*“Send fob Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others#
E E) WAR D S’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
*'l have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly."
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
m
WM
I
SBS
Edwards' "Harlene” Co.
95 6? 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write -for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St.
Box 1202 G.1’.0.
, Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
rp 0 33EFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
f
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism MadbEasy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Roccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love. Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 Darts. 2s each. Zinoara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards.’Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, Ss. 6d. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren. Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
%ST"AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
ƒg
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
fĝd
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying' Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which lie give away
Free Send us vour name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them ab 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward vou, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
&ioo
a WeeH
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENG’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT/
The effect of Eno’s * Fruit Salt' on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact. Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-SM Capsule marked ENO 8 'FRUIT •ALT;’ Without it you bare d
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
FftpKtaoßlybj J. O. UNO. Ltd.. * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNG.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
ARTBR*
gfimiia’S n°nwla E IPfIILIL^.
BILLS
Fob TORPID LIVER.
Fob CONSTIPATION.
11l ?„ E e AD C® E X>ON.
Every man and
injure the complexion, lnduce rimp KITTLE LIVER
Remove the cause by using GAMERS rf
PILES, .and above all thffigs, S . W
Complaints S have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned
Carter’s Litt’e Liver Pills
to observe that genuine
Must Signature oi
J


Don’t neglect your cougli. Stop it
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Bogin as early as pos-j
Bible —the sooner the better— to take
Mger’s
'Cherrif 9eetcral
the most effective remedy for coughs
and colds of every kind and in every
stage.
One of the most annoying coughs
is a throat cough, where you have
that constant tick-
ling in your throat.
It conies on worse
at night, keeps you
awake, and makes
you have that
smothered feeling (
in the chest. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
quiets the cough,
makes breathing
easy, and heals the
i
lungs. There is no other remedy so
surely to be relied on.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.’’
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Pr.-pn’-ed by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
g
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
MODE: is £3oW to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyreß, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Elm brakes, variable gears
andalliates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the ■world. We guarantee safe delivery.
■ PTIIIC Apr WTO wanted in each district.
HU lIVC MU Ell I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our medal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO Dept. 280 Liverpool.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES— iy., V., VL
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
E COMPLETE I
CURE-*
THE EVIDENCE
from 338, Victoria Street, Darlingliurst,
Sydney, N.S.W., Sept. 21, 1905:
“ For seven months I suffered from
a severe cold which was completely
cured after using one large bottle of
SCOTT’S Emulsion.”
C. V. MOLONY.
THE REASON WHY
The Cold was cured
Mr Molony’s evidence is brief,
but it is wonderfully to the point!
Reams of writing could not have
told more. The plain fact is
that Scott’s cu ; - ed a grown man
of that most difficult of all things
to throw off—a heavy cold. It
simply shows what a mistake it
is to fancy (as some do) that
Scott’s is only a remedy for the
youngsters. The truth is that
Always see “the
Ashman with the
Ash ” on the pack-
age. This guaran-
tees the genuine
SCOTT’sS.
the same bottle will
serve both parent
and child. Never
forget that! There
is one difference, and
one only—the elder
ones take the bigger
dose ! But mind the
emulsion, is Scott’s,
for no other is really
forceful enough for
adults.
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
IRISH *IOSS
FOR
-The best remedy
INFLUENZA, "
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn mg ton's
and seethatyou get it.
MAKES tiie SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
tie
m
&
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents-Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
Beautiful Home Decorations
m
easily and economically obtained by the. most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOBIN” FIiOOU STAI\S stain and varnish-with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOBIIV»» AUIJimiM KVA Mill, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate lor over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New Yorlc, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
By
Royal Ware an
Purveyors to
d
His Majesty the
Kino and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOI R’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
Hypnotism
Header, "why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
I Through Hypnotism you can cure d isease
[conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
(gratify your ambitions, and pioduce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
[illustrated LESSON or Key to
1 Hypnotism, which fully explains
{the mysteries and secrets
Jof the Art. It contains
! hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
&
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
\ It is nice to do the
J necessary cleaning with !
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder !
That is obvious at once from its (
pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
freshness left in the mouth, and of <
course you will soon see how :
splendidly, how easily, and how <
thoroughly it cleans. <
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. :
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
r PLASMON
cocoa c
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment .
than ordinary Cocoa. '
)
PLASMON OATSJ
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of Husk and Fibre.
Furnish '
perfect nourishment
with easy cooking.
PLASMON
SPECIALITIES i
ARE CONDUCIVE >
TO 4
GOOD HEALTH.
Ask tor them. >
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORES.
VAIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BLLETIN.]
Ballade of Life.
With clang of bells and calling horn,
Along the world our wheels incline,
The caravans that crimson morn
Drove faring forth in deep design.
The Orient Spring sun. stirs like wine ;
The lark above the mountain wall
God-speeds us with a voice divine —
Where shall we rest at evenfall ?
Across far leagues there is a bourne
Whose banks are rest for thee and thine ;
Where, sorrow-spent and travel-worn.
Our hands the flowers of peace may twine.
Yet o’er us now the midday shine,
As to the distances we crawl;
The white dust lifts along the line—
Where shall we rest at evenfall ?
Birds sing no more in hedge and thorn,
Their morning raptures rich and fine ;
No more the hail of bending corn
’Neath the dawn skies incarnadine.
Behind, the hot air-circles whine,
The vultures droop above us all.
Where is the halting-place benign ?
Where shall we rest at evenfall ?
l’envoi.
Life, as fain pilgrims to a shrine,
And so beset by many a thrall,
Since the deep distance lends no sign,
Where shall we rest at evenfall ?
MAOKILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
Unforgotten.
What, do you say I forget ?
Nay, you are wrong,
Dear girl, whom I courted and met
A sweet summer long.
The years you have been out of sight
Many memories fill,
But you know from the verses I write
I’m in love with you still.
Child, I remember you well—
Short, were you, or tali ?
Be not angry that I cannot tell
Such a trifle withal.
Were you only a maiden petite,
Or queenly, divine ?
Yet I know how your heart used to beat
When it pressed upon mine.
Still I remember your eyes—
They were blue, or else gray ?
I know not, nor will I surmise,
But I see them, to-day,
Upturned to my own (while your lips
Were all ripe to be kissed),
Ashine through a rainy eclipse,
Like stars in a mist.
Sweet, I remember your hair—
It was gold—perchance brown ?
But I know that my lips wandered there
When your head was bent down.
Though I know not your voice should you speak,
Would you hold me to blame?
I remember your breath on my cheek
As you murmured my name.
See, I remember you quite.
Forgotten ?—ah, no !
For I’m sitting and dreaming to-night
Of that year long ago. s
Face—voice—in oblivion’s grave
Long perished they lie ;
But the glory of love that they gave
Shall never go by.
VIC.
PRIAM.
The Law.
Last night I had a fearful dream, and this is what
I saw : v
A fiendish monster grey, uncouth, that called itself
the Law.
Through rays of truth and innocence I saw it
fiercely grope,
The while it grasped a prison-key, a gallows and
a rope.
It shambled past my office door, with ghostly gait
and grim ;
It searched through Hunger’s lone abode, and
peered in corners dim.
(Adown the street I heard a cry that told of driven
fear,
And yet the Monster heeded not —it scarcely
seemed to hear !)
I saw it sneaking silently where faint the gas-
light shone
On mortals hungry, homeless, and it roughly
moved them on.
It gnashed its teeth and tore its hair, and then,
with hate intense,
It plundered thro’ the realms of Love, and Hope,
and Innocence.
It saw thepeople’s heritage filched by the hand of
Fat,
And heeded not—for it had more important work
than that!
It saw the Pharisee despoil the widow and her
child
(The Monster dined with Fat that night and
hideously smiled).
Last night I had a frightful dream—and this is
what 1 saw :
An uncouth , hate-inspiring Thing that catted itself
the Law.
The while it gazed into my face, cold shudders shook
me thro'.
I woke and looked around the world — and found
MY DRKAM WAS TRUK !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


R
i
4
£
N
Stand s For
IWITNDBRMCH
f 'TSie* £/H
METAL
LINGS
°o?t
fd
Your Home and Your Business Premises'should be ceiled with
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings.
They are handsome, hygienic, and fire-resisting, May be had in
hundreds of designs to suit all tastes and buildings.
Send for Catalogue
The Wunderlich Patent Ceiling & Roofing Co*, Ltd*,
Sydney Showrooms: 56 PITT STREET. N.S.W. Postal Address:
Victorian Branch : 123 Queen Street, Melbourne. BOX 474, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Agents in every State and New Zealand.
sosds and conditions oJT
because, being Absolutely Pure, therefore the best Cocoa obtainable,
it is the ideal food-beverage for every age, every occupation and
for all climates. It contains all the nutritive components of the
cocoa-bean with the fatty elements eliminated, so that the whole
of the Cocoa is available for building up bone, muscle and strength.
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. BY HAND LABOR.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF c
©OLD' Bond* is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trust or Combine.
Manufacturers-^
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
THE “LOUIS’ VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costinga Guineas yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such iustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
Ramped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JohnQecgs.
S?ECIM LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
m
&
m
£
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
rs
r M
By Royal
Warrant to
jg
His Majesty
the King:.
BOVRIL
' , ; ' ■'n
is a true food and contains. Albumen and Fibrine which go to
form Blood, Bone, Brain and Muscle. Beef-teas and Meat-Extracts
are stimulants only.
BOVRIL is liquid life
araw
■■DDLEJL9
m
HaiDlDßil
HOTEL
HETROPOLE
•^.SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
£/iti*o/)ce to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. pex* day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to' The Managek.
'SMS
$
S OLD
BY
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
Vft a9 l\ <8a B
w —— // v <*\ \\ <
\&* V V\ »Ss2 /i/' d 6^
cstab'
1750.
s
ROTME«HAfIS
S
A P
One of the prettiest sights in a country is the RED RUBEROID ROOF, standing in the green setting of the rich
Australian foliage. In the distance RED RUBEROID suggests a red tile roof, and at close quarters it has the
appearance of one vast sheet of rich color.
RUBEROID RED ROOFING
has demonstrated its economy, utility, and attractiveness on many of our best Australian country homes.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH (El CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
mmim
I
V
m m
> <
l
ff
rF


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1430.
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1907.
Pkice 6d.
COLLAPSED.
The Anti-Federal party’s latest grievance has burst. The Deakin Government has arranged things so that there will be no interruption to
the ocean mail service, as there was when the blundering Reid was in office. Consequently, the people who have been saying that N.S.W.
should secede from the Commonwealth because an English letter might be delayed a little next year are very angry.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia Jar the A astral ia ns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Sir,
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent , themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed Ifttt no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly render-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
7V» A mute nr* in. Hi nek tin ft White*
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufilcien}
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
iviil be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be reeeived are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Aiding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Breiver and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6'| in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77ie^^xxHeiz//i.
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1907.
REDUCING THE N.S.W. DEBT.
A proud man these days—and to some extent a
deservedly proud man—is Joseph Carruthers,
State Premier of New South Wales. The financial
year closed on 30th June, 1907, and during that year
—provided the audit bears out the representations
made —the fixed debt of the State decreased by
£33,902. There is also a considerable addition to
the cash on hand, and if Carruthers applied
that to the reduction of the public debt, the
decrease would be no less than £722,868-
providing the figures can bear auditing. He
prefers, however, to apply it in reducing taxation,
in endowments to local government bodies and
other concessions, and in cutting down railway
charges. Still, the fact remains that the funded
debt has been reduced by £33,902. The figures
mean that, in a year of almost unprecedented pros-
perity, the State has paid off nearly half-a-farth-
fng in the £ of its liabilities —say two-fifths of
a farthing, to be fairly accurate. It isn’t a large
percentage, yet the event is so rare and incredible
that Joseph Carruthers does well to be proud of
it. The amount, certainly, wasn’t repaid out of
legitimate revenue, for the Government realised
about £1,000,000 through the sale of State assets
in the form of land, and the reduction of the
public debt only represented about Bd. in the £ of
the money thus obtained. But it is so very, very
rarely that, after selling assets to the extent of
£1,000,000, there is even a diminution of £33,902
in the debt to show for it, that State Premier
Carruthers is still entitled to put on airs to a
certain extent. And, apart from the question of
the sale of assets, there is the fact that the Com-
monwealth, by adopting a tariff policy which
Joseph Carruthers has always described as ruin-
ous, disastrous, foolish and unscientific, has added
about £2,000,000 to the State’s revenue. It has done
this without bringing down on the State any of the
disasters which Joseph Hector Carruthers fore-
told; instead, its policy has smoothed the path of
Joseph Hector O’Neill Carruthers by making
N.S.W. more prosperous than it had been for a
whole generation past. And, through the intense
economy of the Australian Government, it has
been able to give J. H. O. Carruthers the full
benefit of the increased revenue. In return
it has received nothing but abuse from J. H.
Carruthers, and has been called extravagant and
other adjectives. And Joey Carruthers, out of
this £2,000,000 of extra revenue—which lie was
able to annex while absolutely repudiating the
methods by which it was gained, and while calling
those who supplied it “ robbers ’ lias created the
surplus which his friends quote as evidence that
he is a Heaven-born financier. Also out of it and
the £1,000,000 he received by selling the State’s
assets he has reduced the N.S.W. public debt by
£33,902.
* * * *
And if there is one thing of which State
Premier Carruthers is more proud than the fact
that he managed to knock £33,902 off the State
debt last year, it is the other fact that he is going
to abolish so many taxes that it is practically
certain he won’t be able to knock anything off the
debt next year —rather that he will add a whole
lot to the debt. He claims about as much credit
for one thing as for the other, and he asks votes on
both grounds. Apparently he knows that it is a
good, honest, noble thing to reduce the State’sawful
mass of liabilities ; otherwise, instead of boasting
about the mere scrap or fragment he has done in
that direction, he should hide himself behind
the ash-barrel in the yard till his £33,902 blew
over. Yet he is going to take every care not
to repeat the performance. He says it is a grand
performance, and that he won’t do it again. This
sort of thing is calculated to set the public
wondering whether N.S.W. has any fixed policy
or any fixed ideas about its debt. If Mr.
Carruthers will say distinctly whether he regards
it as a better thing to get into debt or to get out
of debt, and under which set of circumstances he
proposes to stick out his chest furthest, he will
do something to clear matters up. A State
with 1,500,000 people, which has piled up
about £85,000,000 of debt in half-a-century, a
great deal of it without any payable assets to show
on the other side of the account; and which has,
at the same time, spent some £50,000,000 or more
of land sale revenue with no payable assets at all
to show on the other side of the account ; and
which has had no wars and hardly any defence
expenditure to plead as an excuse for its pro-
digality, should at least define its policy. To re-
duce the liability by £33,902 once in 50 years or
so, and to be absolutely bloated with hauteur over
the fact, and then to abolish about £1,000,000 of
revenue, isn’t having a public debt policy, any
more than the possession of a crumbling fortifica-
tion, an antiquated cast-iron gun, a black tracker,
a brass band, and a copy of CLesar’s Commentaries
is having a military policy.
* * * ~
The question that the State has a right to ask
its Government is just this : Is it a fair thing to
reduce the public debt, or is it not ? If it is not
a fair thing, why does Joseph behave like a wild
rooster because the debt has diminished by
£33,902—0r two-fifths of a farthing in the £? If
it is a fair thing, why hasn’t his Government the
courage to do it as a steady and regular policy,
instead of an accidental bit of a farthing once in
half-a-century ? The British policy of reducing
the public debt in time of peace is simply not to
borrow, to pay for works out of revenue, and to
set aside, as a fixed charge on the revenue, a cer-
tain sum in reduction of the debt. Britain doesn’t
begin to have a surplus until these things are paid.
The N.S.W. method is to treat about £2,000,000 of
land receipts—half of theamountbeingtheproceeds
of land sales —as ordinary revenue (a very small
part of this is now put into a public works fund,
but as the fund is simply used to pay charges that
used to be met out of revenue, it really makes
no difference); to borrow about £l,3OO,O0O; to
repay £300,000 (this is called a sinking fund, but
as it doesn’t accumulate at compound interest, it
is no sinking fund at all); and then to call any
balance on hand at the end of the year a surplus.
Bor the year just closed there was a nominal
surplus of £1,337,583, but the results panned out
this way: The public debt decreased by £33,902, and
the cash on hand increased by £688,966, and the rest
of the money isn’t accounted for so far. For this
year Joseph Carruthers reckons on reducing
taxation and making miscellaneous concessions to
the extent of about £1,161,000. It things pan out
as he expects, and tins year is as good as the Jftst
(last year was about the most prosperous
one in N.S.W. history), and the ordinary expendi-
ture doesn’t increase, and the public works expendi-
ture is no larger than it was last year, this means
that the cash balance created last year will all be
gone, and N.S.W. will add another £400,000 or
£500,000 to its net debt. If the public works ex-
penditure is much heavier than it was last year
(and considering the railways that have been
promised it seems likely to be a great deal heavier)
the addition to the net debt may be £2,400,000 or
£2,500,000.
-» « * *
In other words, the old process of going financi-
ally to the dogs and the devil will have started
afresh. N.S.W. has had an unprecedented “ sur-
plus ” of £1,337,583 (1) by reason of the Federal
tariff which its politicians denounce so virulently ;
(2) because the Australian Government, by intense
economy, handed it back much more than its pro-
mised share of theproceedsof thattariff; (3) through
treating over £1,000,000 of land sale money and
£l,OOO, 000ofrentsasrevenue;(4)through borrowing
about£l,3oo,ooo. Amid a welterof figures, wearrive
at this patch of firm ground—that in a year of
most unusual good fortune, when the State was
carrying out no large or costly public works, it
reduced its debt by £33,902. And so vast has
been the crowing over this result, and so great the
exhibition of the bogus “surplus,” that a large
proportion of the people of the State really believe
the finances have been put straight, the drift
checked, public affairs placed on a sound footing,
and so on ; and they gladly hear that about
thirty times the amount of the miserable £33,902
is to be sacrificed. This sort of accidental pro-
cess will never make any permanent improve-
ment in the finances. Premier Carruthers first
of all deducts his “ surplus ” from the State’s net
liability, and shows how magnificently he has
duced the debt. Thenhespends his “surplus.” Fur-
ther he almost persuades people that w hen he has
reduced the debt with the “surplus,” and reduced
taxation with the same “ surplus,” he still has the
identical “ surplus ” on hand—and all the while
there was no real “surplus” to begin with, save
the money gained by borrowing and by the sale of
the public assets. Thishard-drinkingprocess which
makes the public see three surpluses where, in all
honesty, there wasn’t even one, is too demoralising.
If N.S.W. is ever going to steadily reduce
its public debt, the sane process is to stop
borrowing; to set aside, say, £1,500,000 a year
of land revenue for new public works, all
patches and repairs being charged to ordinary
revenue; and then to set aside a certain
fixed annual sum for the reduction of old liabili-
ties. When these charges and the ordinary
expenses of government are paid, the balance will
be real surplus. It will be the amount that the
Premier will have to whoopabOutand to reduce tax-
ation with. But all this is a sober, serious pro-
cess, quite different from the dizzy method whereby
the community is so glad that there is a certain
sum available for the reduction of the debt that
it at once spends it twice over and floats a fresh
loan.
* * * *
In any case this paper asks State Premier Car-
ruthers for a clear-cut declaration as to his policy
in the matter of the public debt. If he believes
that it shouldn’t be paid off, why is he posing as
something between a Heaven-sent financier and a
brass band because he has reduced the fixed debt
by £33,902 and has money on hand ? If he
believes it should be paid off, why does he not, by
Act of Parliament, absolutely prohibit borrowing
except for renewal purposes, and provide for
public works out of revenue? And if he doesn’t
know what he believes, why doesn’t he say so ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Programme.
The Australian Parliament lias resumed business
at the old address. It now consists of four parties
—the Deakin Government and its followers ; the
Labor party ; the handful of allegedly Free-
trade Anti-Socialists who follow Reid when
he is there, which is seldom, and who admire the
back view of Joseph Cook at other times; and
the Protectionist Anti-Socialists who refuse to
recognise either Reid or Cook, but who have, so
far, elected no leader of their own. No party
has a majority, and no party has any present hope
of one. The smallest party, consisting of the
allegedly Freetrade Anti-Socialists who want
office, lias a good deal to say about the fact that
the second largest party—the Democratic Pro-
tectionists who are in office —hasn’t a majority ;
but no party can get a majority except by selling
some of its principles for the sake of office, as
Joseph Cook did, so the gibe of the smallest
party may pass unnoticed. As Federal politics
stand, the obvious remedy is to abandon the
old unworkable British theory that a Gov-
ernment must have a majority which will
stand to it whether it is right or wrong, and to
adopt the simple process of electing a Ministry to
hold office for the duration of Parliament. When
a Ministry is thus situated, it doesn’t require a
majority. It is merely expected to administer
the departments capably, to submit its measures
to Parliament, and to go on administering the
departments capably, whether its measures are
accepted or rejected. Under such conditions it
doesn’t really matter whether the House nominally
contains one party or 25 parties. There are, in
practice, two parties and only two —the crowd
which is in favor of the Bill, motion or amend-
ment then before the House, and the one which is
against it. Under the system of elective Minis-
tries, all the ingenuity of the devil and his entire
herd of satellites cannot, for practical purposes,
make more than two parties. In the absenceof this
simple and logical device, the Deakin Government
faces Parliament with a fairly good programme
and the prospect of leading a rather scrambling
existence—with the reservation that any other
Government that could be built under present
conditions would have to scramble for its living a
good deal harder. The Deakin programme in-
cludes —(1) High Protection, (2) bounties to aid
Australian industries, (3) transfer of State debts
to the Commonwealth, (4) Federal old-age pen-
sions, (s)anewdefencesystem, (6) the appointment
of a High Commissioner, (7) the promotion of
desirable immigration, (8) the fixing of the
Australian capital, (9) the taking over of the
Northern Territory, (10) the establishment of a
uniform postal system, uniform banking and in-
solvency laws, and other matters. These are all
matters which urgently call for attention. The
pity is that some of the statements are rather
vague, but the vagueness will be cleared up as
soon as the measures get before Parliament, and
they will begin to get before Parliament
as soon as the useless rag-tag and bob-
tail section of Parliament ceases to block
the way by making vague but lengthy speeches
about the vagueness of the Address, under pretence
of debating the reply to the Address. The one
absolutely and definitely regrettable circumstance
is the absence of any suggestion about a Federal
graduated land-tax, to provide money for the
building of the transcontinental railway, and to
break up the great useless estates, and so supply
land for the desirable immigrants which the
Deakin Government is anxious to secure. Prime
Minister Deakin seems to be shedding his lament-
able garment of affability by degrees, but in his
consideration for small State prejudices and big
landlords he is still a great deal too affable.
A Disgruntled Opposition.
There was something very pitiful in the deba-te
on the Address-in-Reply in the Australian Parlia-
ment last week. The subject uppermost in all
minds was the return of the Australian delegates
from England, and none of the Opposition
speakers could avoid a reference to it; and none
was able to express any broad-minded view. The
snarling Mr. Cook set the key with some slight
disparaging praise, flavored with sarcasm and set
around with sneers, and his followers obediently
piped to the same tune. Yet never was there
a clearer call for an Opposition to forget
that it was its business “to oppose.” Two
delegations had just returned from London, after
attending the Navigation and Imperial Confer-
ences. In each case the delegation set out in an
atmosphere of doubt and anxiety. The Naviga-
tion Conference delegates, it was freely asserted
by the Opposition, were ignorant land-lubbers
(excluding Mr. Dugald Thomson, who was ex-
pected by them to be a brilliant relief to the
“stupidity ” of Mr. Lyne, and, as a matter of fact,
was his very faithful and intelligent follower in
the Conference), and even non-partisan critics
felt some doubts as to their success when matched
against British experts. But, as a matter of cold
truth, the Australian delegation to that Con-
ference took the lead from the first, and
Mr. Lyne and Mr. Hughes came back having
secured all they asked for. All that the Oppo-
sition has to say is some petty sneer—with the
brand “ W.K.” clearly on its quarter—about motor
cars and ’buses. As to Mr. Deakin and the
Imperial Conference, the Opposition forecasts
were even more dismal. London would put this
Prime Minister of a minority party, this servant
of Socialism, in his proper place. It was a pity,
they affected to think, that Australia’s interests
should so suffer, but it was a proper punish-
ment for Australia’s folly in not having Mr.
G. Reid in power. As the facts resolved them-
selves, Mr. Deakin’s success in London, both in
the Conference and in the wider field ruled by pub-
lic opinion, was so astonishing as to be one of the
romances of modern politics. Shedding for the
occasion all those limitations which so often make
him in local politics “a beautiful, ineffectual
angel,” he stood out as the leading statesman in
all that great gathering of public men. It was
\ustralia first, the rest nowhere. Canada took a
back, and sulky, seat. Representatives of the
other dominions sank their individualities cheer-
fully to become Deakinites. Judging from the
London press, there was practically no one but
Deakin and Australia at the Conference. In the
streets, in the theatres, in the banqueting
halls, the success was repeated. In those
circles where politics did not enter, Mrs.
Deakin took up the representation of Australia,
and, if that were possible, kept it still more
emphatically to the front. As an ad vertisement
for a continent which wants British immigrants,
*he success of Australia at the Conference was
worth much. As steps towards more complete
national entity, the concessions gained at the Con-
ference were of great significance. As a tribute
to national self-esteem, the Df.akin boom in
London atones even for the defeat of Bill Squires.
And the Australian Opposition—as usual anti-
national—has no tribute to pay except a sneer !
—♦
Lost, a Grievance.
The opening of the new session of the Australian
Parliament found the anti-Federal push in a state
of some gloom. It transpired, in the first place,
that the Government had cancelled the new ocean
mail contract by reason of the unsatisfactory con-
duct of the contractors. The Government accepted
the contract, in the first place, on plain business
principles because it promised to be the best and
cheapest one offering; it cancelled it, in the
second place, on plain business principles because
the wealthy English contractors didn’t keep their
promises, and because George Pile’s countrymen
were, in this matter, a crowd of dodgers and
liars. It was all a plain business matter ; old
J. N. Brunker, M.L.C., never sold a cow on
simpler business lines. Then it was announced,
on plain business principles, that arrangements
are being made to extend the present contract till
January, 1909, to give time for the calling of new
tenders. There is apparently not the least
chance of any such collapse as there was in
1905, when George Reid was Premier and
the Reid-Cook-Pumpkin Smith party found
itself up against a dead wall of trouble over its
mails. These announcements left the anti-
Eederal party with a burst grievance on its hands.
It had been going on in the Sydney papers in a
very large way over that contract. At a time
when every mail was leaving and arriving as regu-
larly as clockwork, when the faked invoice and
the bill for the gold-washed jewellery were never
a day behind time, when all the mail services were
working well, and the nearest approach to trouble
was the fact that one of them (only one) was due
to expire next year, and the syndicate which
had promised to take up the running looked a
trifle doubtful—at this peaceful time the small
anti-Federal push in Sydney raved as if the end
of the world was in sight. It went on in a
way that would hardly be justifiable if
100,000 invaders were in sight of the city. It
professed to think that all was lost. It wanted to
know what would become of us. It put up the
most amazing display of mock terror and sham
distress and bogus heroism. Some crazy human
arabesque wrote to the Sydney Telegraph, pro-
posing the dissolution of the Commonwealth. An
especial and monumental case of hysteria wrote,
saying that the Commonwealth was already in
effect dissolved by reason of this maker. A mad-
dened and terrified solicitor, one A. Consett
Stephen, wrote to the same congenial Telegraph
to say that it was evident we would soon have no
mail service at all—all because one contract was
due to expire a good many months ahead ; and
he urged the State Government of N.S.W. to
illegally make its own mail contract, the only
possible inference being that it was to take
possession of the Federal mails by violence, insur-
rection, and bloodshed, and put them on board its
ships. The Australian Government took no notice
of these silly school boy heroics, but the perpetrators
of them stuck to their grievance, and about three
papers, half-a-dozen letter-writers, and three or
four politicians made as much noise as if a little
possible delay in the arrival of a letter from Eng-
land next year was equivalent to the fall of
Babylon. The hypocrisy of the ill-conditioned
little mob was evidenced by the fact that a real
break-down of a mail service three years ago,
when Reid, of N.S.W., was Federal Prime
Minister, was taken rather good-naturedly in
Sydney ; while now' a mere faint prospect of a
hitch next year, but with Deakin, of Victoria, in
the Prime Minister’s place, caused the six or
eight anti-Federalists of Sydney to perform as if
the Bulgarian massacres had broken out on the
premises. And now there is a dreadful prospect
that there will be no hitch, no break in the
continuity of the mail service, no delay in the
delivery of the faked invoice, no loss of money,
no break up of the, Commonwealth, no excuse for
Mr. A. Consett Stephen to behave like a Cen-
tral American revolutionary general, and perish
on the steps of the Sydney G.P.O. while trying
to capture the mails. And what is life to an anti-
Federalist if he has lost his grievance? Better
the cold and silent tomb.
- «
The Imported Spaniard.
“ Squidge ” (after looking at the sample)
Consider the methods employed by the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co., or its agents, in the importation of those
hundred unfortunate devils of Spaniards who were slung
into Queensland the other day to toil on the sugar plan-
tations ! The original agreement made with the Com-
monwealth Government provided that the C.S.R., in
obtaining contract immigrants, should, if possible, secure
Britons, For this batch they wanted about 120 men, and
I believe they could have got 600 in Lincolnshire alone, but
somebody or other put every man on to a physical exami-
nation of such severity that only eight came through.
Those eight were allowed to contract for Australia.
The C.S.R. was then in the position of having found it
impossible to obtain Britons, so it sent to Spain for the
balance of the men. One Ferrer obtained the job of
recruiting in Spain. It was done just the same way as it
has been done in the islands for the last ever-so-
many years. It is said that Ferrer did not
bother going out of Madrid. He just raked up
100 unemployed by deputy ; there are always droves
of them in Spain—in fact, ’most all Spain is unemployed.
He told them a few glib remarks —the Spaniards call
them lies—about Queensland, and the sort of work they
would be expected to perform, and even, the Spaniards
allege, lied to them over the pay they would receive. The
actual wages to be paid in Australia are 225. lid. a week in
the slack season, and 255. in harvest —with rations, of
course. Ferrer, so the Dons say, worked this 225. fid.
and 255. out in Spanish money pirn l the rate of exchange,
and thereby made it considerably more than it really
represents. Of course, Don Asturias now declares that
he would never have signed the contract had he known.
Caramba !
Then the O.S.R. intends to dock from the first year’s
wages the cost of the pas-age out. This fact is said to
have slipped Ferrer’s memory, as did the rather
inhuman clause that any loss of work occasioned through
sickness or injury should be debited to the laborer —
which, being interpreted, means that if the climate
doesn’t happen to suit the hidalgos, that is
not going to affect the pocket of the O.S.R.
Spain had all this explained to it by the sellers
of wine at Fremantle and Melbourne, and it
became mighty wrath and rolled out huge oaths at the
C.S.R. and at Ferrer. These Spaniards are soft-handed,
soft-bodied, unacclimatised fellows, who cannot hold up
their heads beside the Australian laborer. Probably a
quarter of the physical test which was imposed on the
Ensrlish applicants would have knocked them out.
When the Bulow reached Fremantle some of the Dons
saw men dieging holes in the streets for electric trams,
and repairing railway lines. They said, “Ha! here is
the work we know. We will not go to the canefields.
We will stay here.” Most of them were restrained, but
seven or eisrht deserted the ship, fractured their contracts
with the C.S.R. Co., and obtained work in Fremantle.
This is what will become of all of them. They
will be unable to carry out their contracts, and
will be shot out on to the outside labor market.
They are not prohibited immigrants. They can stay here,
and they will do navvies’ work for a few shillings a week
unless they drift to the pea-nut or the oyster. Anyhow,
this little sample lot of contract immigrants has shown


Australia what to expect. There are, if report speaks
truly, 1050 of them to come. The Government should look
into this matter, and tell the O.S.R. Co. that it will
have to play the game fairly, and that its methods of
proving to itself that British labor can’t be got are most
unsatisfactory.
Beelzebub and Carruthers and the Bloke.
The weepful complaints of a few disordered Anti-
Australians about being under the “Federal
yoke ” are calculated to make the thoughtful
person realise that there is a good deal of “ yoke ”
in the nature of things. For instance, this world
is supposed, with the rest of the universe, to be
under the Divine yoke (it is expressly defined as
a yoke in the New Testament). Australia is under
the British yoke. N.S.W. is under the Australian
or Federal yoke. Sydney is under the State yoke
of N.S.W. The dirty and bankrupt municipality
of Camperdown refuses to be under the yoke of
Sydney, lest it should have to pay for having
itself cleaned. And the Bloke in the back street
of Camperdown hits the sanitary inspector in the
eye when he is summoned for having a foul and
infectious back yard, because his soul revolts at
the idea of being under the municipal yoke.
And from Lucifer, who warred against God,
down to the Bloke in the insanitary
back lane of Camperdown, they are all plain
anarchists, revolting against order. Carruthers
is, after all, only the middle anarchist of the row.
He comes about midway between Beelzebub and
the Bloke. And ever since man got a toothbrush
and a gallows, and began to be civilised, Beelze-
bub and Carruthers and the Bloke have, in one
form or another, been disturbing elements.
The Slanderers of N.S.W., especially one
M'Dougall.
New South Wales gets a mighty poor advertise-
ment out of the members of its anti-Federal
push. Their yap about the crushed and ruined
condition of the State tends to make outsiders
fancy that N.S.W. will soon have to repudiate
its public debt, and to make immigrants think it
is hardly worth while coming to a place which is
in such a fearsome condition. And in other ways
the yapping section throws mud in the eye of Ma
State and casts discredit on the tail of Ma’s
garment. Consider, for instance, this letter
(which is only a sample of many dozen letters)
written to Sydney Evening News by a poor,
hysterical creature described as “ Alderman J. C.
M‘Dougall ” :
ROBBING THE PEOPLE.
Alderman J. 0. M’Dougall writes “The millions of
money, swelling as the surplus of the State, is being
wrung out of the pockets of the people. Have the wages
of the workers since Federation increased ? Have they
had more home comforts at less cost ? Have their rents
been reduced ? These are questions that call for serious
consideration, and yet we hear of more taxation about to
be put on by the Federal Gov rnment before the end of
the present month. Fifty per cent, is spoken of on cer-
tain lines. All to be wrung out of the people’s hard earn-
ings to bolster up some few Melbourne manufacturers.
The Labor party in the English Parliament have soon
found out the policy of Mr. Deakin’s ingenuous prefer-
ential dodge. Yet the Labor party in the States here
want to support him, so as to obtain Socialism. Local
government during 19U8 will also tax the ratepayers of
New South Wales to an extent they do not yet know. All
this is to crush the small and struggling worker ; and yet
he slumbers on, and submits to the extra load. The last
straw will even break a donkey’s back. All this imposi-
tion, upon the people is to help to support the various
Houses of Parliament, High Court Judges; yet Federal
servants, etc., are not to pay income taxes.
Of course, this dreadful person is just the same
unscrupulous inventor of evidence as the rest of
his tribe. Federal servants are to pay State income-
tax where there is one (a Bill to make sure of that
fact is promised this session), but as the N.S.W.
State Government has promised to abolish the tax
on all incomes except those arising from property,
and neither Federal nor State servants will have
to pay anything. Heaven only knows what the
awful alderman is braying about. And there is a
promise that, instead of the burden being in-
creased, a whole lot of other taxes will come off.
Also, local government taxation in N.S.W. will
consist mainly in calling the land-tax a local
instead of a State impost. But these are side
issues. It is the constant wail of people like the
M‘Doug all Creature, that the only possible pur-
pose of a national Australian tariff is to bolster up
“a few Melbourne manufacturers,” or “a few Vic-
torian manufacturers,” that is the curse of N.S.W.
Everyone knows that the tariff applies equally
to all Australia, so the only possible inference to
be drawn from this shabby, mean, grudging little
lie is that the benefit of the tariff is confined to
Victoria because Victoria is the only State
that has manufactures. People who don’t
understand the vastness, and at the same
time the worm-like meanness, of Sydney’s
little knot of anti-Federal perverters, are
driven to suppose something like that. The con-
stant yell about the benefit which “ Melbourne
manufacturers ” derive from the tariff is gradually
creating an impression throughout the empire
that Melbourne is not only the great manufactur-
ing centre of Australia, but also the only one.
It is the biggest advertisement Melbourne ever
got. Wherever the Sydney Telegraph and the
Evening News go, or are quoted from, people
have it dinned into their ears by leading
articles, long and short paragraphs, columns
of Parliamentary comment, and the letters
of people like the M'Dougall Creature, that
Melbourne is a manufacturing city and Victoria a
manufacturing State. They hear so much of it
that they begin to imagine that Victoria is equal
to England for manufactures, and that Melbourne
is something greater than Manchester. And
they conclude that Sydney is a quiet bucolic
settlement, deriving no benefit from a tariff that
fosters manufactures because it has none, and full
of a grudging envy of busy, affluent Melbourne.
They learn only three things about N.S.W. from
the wails of people like J. L. Adams and the
M‘Dougall Creature: (1) That it has been
“robbed”—and people have a contempt for one
who is robbed ; (2) that it is so unimportant that
its delegation in the Federal Parliament really
amounts to nothing, consequently it lias no voice
in Australian affairs and is “under the heel of
the Commonwealth”; (3) that it is so far behind
in the matter of industry that “the manufac-
turers of Melbourne” look great, amazing
and incredible to its eyes,, and it can’t stop
talking about them. Never for a moment
is it likely to dawn on them that N.S.W. has nearly
75,000 employees in its factories; that they have
increased by 25 per cent, since the foundation of
the Commonwealth ; that N.S.W. is now close up
to Victoria in manufactures; that it has about
£8,000;000 invested in machinery and plant; that
the tariff helps N.S.W. industries as much as
those of any other State ; that in 1904 (the last
year covered by the “Official Year Book of
N.S.W.”), while the whole value of all the State’s
agricultural produce was a miserable £5,414,000,
the profits of its manufactures were £9,900,000;
mid that while agriculture, dairying and poultry-
farming, all put together, only yielded that year
j£6 2s. for each inhabitant, manufactures yielded
kfi 16s. lid. How can they imagine any such
(things with the Telegraph and the Evening
News, and people like the M‘Dougall Creature,
telling them all the time about “ Victorian manu-
factures ” as if they were the only ones in the
Commonwealth, and assuring them, by the
constant statement that only Victoria profits by
the tariff, that there are no N.S.W. manufactures
to be profited ? This constant dragging of the
good name of N.S.W. in the mud by a few parish-
minded scandal-mongers has risen to the dimen-
sions of a public disgrace.
The Disheartened Victorian Pedagogue.
This letter, from a Victorian teacher (the Depart-
ment may make unsuccessful application for his
name, if it likes), is one of half-a-dozen or more,
all to the same effect. It is impossible to find
space for the other five :
The evil that Governments do lives after them. In 1894
the Victorian Parliament passed a Regrading Act, which,
by seriously reducing the salaries paid to teachers during
their first 10 years of service and rendering it hard to get
promotion to the princely wage of £3 a week, struck a blow
at the efficiency of the teaching staff. At the same time
heavy percentage reductions were put on all grades of
salaries from £lOO and upwards. And this was done in a
supremely mutton-headed way ; in fact, it was having
sheep’s head for dinner to-day that reminded me of the
whole wretched business and set me writing to you. In
one case—typical of others—a young teacher, drawing £99
and some odd shillings annually, by hard work increased
the percentage of his school at examination, and thereby
raised his salary to £l.OO 18s., whereupon he qualified to
share in the reduction, and his pay, as a reward for
efficiency, went down to under £96. And, later on, the
Irvine Government came along with another dose of
retrenchment.
In the meantime the Peacock Government had created
the directorate, giving over the whole control of Primary
Education to Tate. This gentleman is of undoubted
brain power and of commendable enthusiasm, but
apparently lacks tact, as evidenced by the fact that he
signalised his advent to power by describing the average
teacher as a “ decent duffer” —an injudicious proceeding 1 ,
which hardened the heart of the whole Service. Tate
immediately pinned his faith to young men —particularly
those who were students during his last years as principal
of the Training College. These were sent forth as apostles,
and preached to the country teacher whose heart
was broken by poor pay and deferred promotion,
and whose dander had been “riz” by the “decent
duffer ” episode.
Concurrently with these events, Messrs. Carew-
Smythe and Byatt were imported from England, to
organise drawing and manual training respectively. This
was another blow to the Service, which grew alarmed, then
morbid, at finding preferment given to “Tate’s students”
and foreigners. And the inevitable has happened, which
inevitable is that promising men are leaving and young-
sters won’t enter the State teaching profession. In
answer to a call for 80 junior teachers only 50 have
applied, whereas in 1893, for less than 30 vacancies, there
were 1000 applicants ! Nobody wants to get in, but the
right sort of men are getting out. During the last 10
years two men succeeded in gaining the M.A. degree by
dint of burning the midnight oil after the day’s teaching.
What has the Department done for these men? One of
them is filling a subordinate position at the Continuation
School at poor pay ; the other was snapped up by a
leading private school a few months after taking his
degree. Then there are others : One man (3rd year Arts)
has turned in disgust to a news agency business ; another
(also a 3rd year Arts) is turning, at the age of 36, to Law ;
another has become a hotel licensee.
Meanwhile many mysterious things are happening.
Senior applicants are not getting positions. Teachers
are getting schools and assistantships in ways no fellah
can understand. Perhaps Tate is within his province in
these things, but one fact is peculiar—four of the men
appointed to the Continuation School ivere in the Train-
ing College in one year under Tate. For these and other
reasons, 99 out of 100 teachers are eloquent advocates for
the Bar, the bottle-oh profession, the Church, anything
rather than the Education Department as a career for
their own, and other people’s, sons. And it is the rising
generation of Victorians that is going to suffer the most.
Also another man writes :
The blight of the boom breakage has wrecked the
lives of a generation of Victorian teachers. They had about
13 years of practically wasted time to begin with. Their
promotion was stopped ; their pay was cut down ; their
work was increased through the desire to economise by
not filling vacancies ; and, owing to the ghastly saving
in repairs, they had all manner of small discomforts added
to poverty, hopelessness and overwork. And now that
good times have returned, the Department which, by its
policy, made them what they are, apparently reckons
that they look too old and shabby to be worth promot-
ing. Many of them are really only beginning now, 14
years after the event, to feel the real consequences of
the breakage of Matthew Davies’ land hanks. They
thought, till Tate came, that the disaster meant poverty
and stagnation till the good times returned. Now,
when they find that the benefits of the good times are
mostly for Tate’s fresh young friends, they realise that
that bygone crash means for them stagnation and poverty
for life.
: ♦—
The Sydney Railway Problem.
“ The time has come,” says Minister Lee, “ when
the Sydney city trams must be superseded by rail-
ways.” That is obviously true, but Lee s pro-
posals, so far, are only patchwork. He hasn’t yet
gathered up the courage to say that Owe’Sulli-
van’s white stone elephant of a railway station in
an awkward suburb is already obsolete, that the
main city station should be built somewhere about
Wyriyard-square, and that it is almost certain the
elephant will have to go almost before it has fairly
begun to arrive. By way of avoiding the issue and
postponing the responsibility, there is vague talk
of branch railways into the city, and such- like de-
vices, as if Sydney were a village like Brewarrina,
and only required a branch from the important
city of Redfern to meet its demands. Any such
idea is quite hopeless. The trouble is that the
great bulk of the passengers from the swarming
suburban trains are emptied out a mile short
of where they want to go. The rush for the
tram-cars is like an insurrection in Sheol
with the smallest devil being trodden on in the
scrum, and at busy times, though there are about
as many trams as the narrow streets can possibly
hold, they look like ant-heaps on wheels as they
scurry along. And things are about as bad with
the tram-service of the suburbs that lie off the
railway line. Of course, branches might be built
from the great Owe’Sullivan jest to Waverley,
Bondi, etc., but then people, as a rule, don’t want
to go from Waverley, Bondi, etc., to Redfern ;
they want to go from those places to the city.
And a branch might be built from Owe’Sulli-
van’s Folly into the city, but then there would be
the absurd spectacle of Sydney with a cheap little
congested station, and Redfern with an almost
deserted palace. And if a branch or extension
were built into Sydney the people of the eastern
suburbs would demand that their lines, when they
are built, should connect, not with the palace at
Redfern where they don’t want to go, but with
the city station where they do want to go. Then
the city station, even if it were a mere apology to
begin with, would have to grow to the size of the
present Redfern terminus, whether it professed to
be the main station or not. The situation goes
into these four propositions
(1) There must be a railway extension into the city.
(2) If there is a railway extension into the city, every-
body will demand that the train he travels by shall go
into the city, and the present Central Station will be
almost deserted. With all its glass and marble, it will
sink to the level of Newtown or Burvvood:
(3) If railways are built to the eastern suburbs, the
people, there will demand that they be connected with
the city, and any attempt to take them to White
Elephant terminus will be met with rage and contumely.
So the present Central Station will stay deserted.
(4) In short, when once the railway is carried into the
city, nothing can keep the present Sydney Central
Station busy enough to justify even half its bricks and
mortar. And to try to devise circuitous fancy schemes
for taking the railway into the city, and yet retaining
enough business at the present remote station to justify
its present size and pomp, is attempting the impossible,
and merely laying the foundation for another railway
problem half-a-dozen years hence.
It is a wise man and a wise Government that can
recognise a bad debt when they see it. The Owe’-
Sullivan station is one of N.S.W.’s bad debts,
and the one thing to do now is to write it off.
With a main station at Wynyard Square, the
North Shore bridge would follow as a matter of
course. Then the suburban train that came in
from Parramatta could drop its load, take in a
new one, and go on as the outward train to
Wahroonga, or somewhere else on the North Shore
line. Most of the shunting could be done far
away from the city, at a great saving of time,
space and risk. There Would no longer be the
present absurd spectacle of the engine which has
brought in a suburban train having to loaf use-
lessly in the corner between the train and the
dead end of the line till it is time for another
engine to take the train out again so that the
engine which brought it in can escape. In
fact, there would be a possibility of a whole lot'
of improvements and economies when Owe’Sulli-
van’s bad debt was written off. And it wouldn’t
be all loss. A station about the size of the old
Eveleigh premises would still be required some-
where near the present site, and the present
establishment would make a good quarry.
♦
An Old Mob with a New Brand.
The death of a weary old man near Melbourne
the other day was the end of, perhaps, the last
link of a chain between the present and a remark-
ably interesting period of Australian history.
Transportation ceased in 1840. Those who had
fought for its abolition found it hard during the
next year or two to justify their agitation. AH
they could urge upon the people was that
they should wait, and the benefits which
had been foretold would show themselves.
But the people were impatient—as a great
many people always are. While few, if any, of
the promised benefits were in view, the immediate
ill effects were patent and painful enough. The
money that the British Government sent out for
the maintenance of the convicts and the gaolers
flowed in such a diminished stream that
the colony began to feel a tight pinch. Property
values began to shrink. Just assume of the men
in Queensland predicted that sugar land would
have no value when the Kanaka went, so men
croaked in the late ’thirties and early ’forties that
land in N.S. Wales would have no value when
the convict went. Confidence was therefore
shaken; and what the stoppage of the gaolers’
pay failed to do to complete the crisis, an un-
timely fall in the market value of Australian pro-
ducts accomplished. Sheep sold down to Is.
per head. The Bank of Australia had been
established in 1826. It began badly, for it
made a heavy loss by a robbery two years
afterwards. In 1843—three years after trans-
portation ceased —the crisis arrived, and the
bank had to shut its doors. The situation was
desperate, for ordinary realisation was out of the
question. Even the Bank of New South Wales,
formed in 1817 under more favorable auspices,
had, in this same year 1843, to get relief from the
Treasury, a run having set in on account of a
rumor that the Governor had gone through the
securities and declared the whole lot ‘ ‘ not worth
three straws.” Liquidation in the case of the
Bank of Australia being impossible in the
ordinary way, Wentworth introduced a Bill to
allow the assets to be distributed by lottery. The
Governor would not, however, give his assent,
and the Bill had to go to England. The English
authorities also refused assent. But the situation
was far too serious to be governed by a small thing
like that, and the lottery took place in the City
Theatre, Sydney, in 1845, when 11,248 lots were
disposed of. It was in connection with that
matter that the weary old man who died in Mel-
bourne last week figured. He was Edward
Sandford, who had studied law and was variously
solicitor, secretary, and cashier of the unfortunate
bank. But the crisis did not end with what
Sandford and his colleagues were able to do.
There was a strong party which, connecting the
crisis, not only in the bank but in the whole
colony, with the stoppage of transportation,
buzzed continually and energetically to have the
System started again. Wentworth got a com-
mittee appointed to inquire whether, after all, the
abolition of transportation hadn't been all wrong.
The committee whitewashed the odious System,
and Dangar, MacArthur, and others approved
jubilantly. Happily, the great body of the
people had more sense. They listened to
the counsel of the more far-seeing men who
counselled patience—who urged the colony
to keep its hands off till the paint was dry.
And it did, with the result that there are
perhaps not three reputedly sane men in Aus-
tralia who now want the System back again.
Almost the whole population winces, indeed, at a
reminder that Australia ever had a System and a
birth-stain. Nevertheless, to-day the political
and social party which, a little over 60 years ago,
schemed against the anti-transportation move-
ment, and when only disaster was apparent,
screeched its inevitable “I told you so”—that
unpatriotic party of selfishness and little-minded-
ness repeats the same cry and the same tactics
with regard to Australian Federation. And with
far less justification. For happily no such
adversity, no such avalanche of trouble as followed
upon the stoppage of the System, has come witli
Federation. On the contrary, many actual bene-
fits are evident enough. Aet because the gain
that was foretold has not all been immediately
realised, we have our Salomons and our Car-
ruthers and our jealous little State insects
buzzing and harassing and impeding yet, less
courageous than the Dangars and MacArthurs
and the pro-convicts of 60 years ago, afraid to
strike openly.
There art) indications that, in one respect, Aus-
tralia will not much longer lag behind China. In
various parts of the interior of the Celestial
Empire there are arsenals turning out arms and
ammunition for the equipment of the new army
that the Brother of the Sun is raising to back up
any arguments he may place before t.he Diplomatic
Corps at Pekin. The Bulletin has for years tried
to hammer the necessity for such a factory into
the public mind, and there are indications that
something is going to be done. General Gordon
states that he has a definite proposal to lay before
his chief, and will recommend a site where tHe
raw material for use in an arms and ammunition
factory is available on the spot, and to which more
material can be brought from the interior of the
country, without depending on the seaboard in
any way. This is very gratifying. In war time,
the centre from which thearms and ammunition are
distributed becomes the very heart of the country.
But, till the population increases vastly, it will be
absolute folly to have theheartof the country placed
within striking distance from the sea. Nature
did not place theheartof any animal immediately
under the skin. The General says his proposals
will appeal to the Minister from a business point
of view. This is also gratifying, but even if Aus-
tralia has to pay for its locally-made arms and
ammunition twice or three times as much as the
price at which they could be imported, it is neces-
sary that the money should be paid. An invasion of
Australia in force argues at least temporary com-
mand of the sea by the invader, and, under such con-
ditions, the price of war material would soar up
to a figure that in one campaign would more than
obliterate the savings of half a century of impor-
tation. During the South African struggle the
Boers had to abandon more than one almost
impregnable position, because the defending force
had not sufficient ammunition (theßoers ifnported
their material) with which to stand a regular
siege, and had to get out before they could be
surrounded, as investment meant certain capture.
Australia doesn’t want to see any of its armies in
that position, just to put the profit of making its
war material in foreign pockets. The matter of
defence is one in which old Gorgon Graham's
advice to mind your own business, own your own
business, and run your own business, is worth
pasting in the national hat.
The wild talk of taking a referendum of N.S.W.
electors as to whether the State shall remain in
the Commonwealth or not has produced one good
result. There is now being circulated for signa-
ture a petition to the House of Representatives
praying that the Commonwealth Parliament
“ will cause a referendum to be taken in order
that the following issues may be submitted to the
people of Australia : Are you in favor of the
amendment of the Constitution to provide (1) for
the abolition of the State Governments and
Parliaments, as at present existing, and the trans-
fer of their property and powers to the Govern-
ment and Parliament of the Commonwealth, and
(2) for the establishment of new State Govern-
ments by the Parliament of the Commonwealth,
with such powers and functions as that Parlia-
ment may deem fit to confer upon them?”
The petition points out that when the
Commonwealth was established it was the
popular belief that it would lead to large re-
ductions in the cost of State government; that so
far little or no reduction has been made, and the
State Governments still maintain themselves on
an altogether unnecessary scale; that the exist-
ence of the State Governments with their present
powers prevents national development, and per-
petuates the provincial jealousies which the
Commonwealth was intended to destroy : and that
the only satisfactory remedy is the Unification of
Australia, the State Governments being retained
only for the purpose of local government under
Commonwealth control. People who wish to sign
this petition can obtain copies from Mr. John Lh
Steel, 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Mr. Steel
will gladly forward copies to anyone who writes
for them.
The Lamentations of a Pedagogue
Joseph Carruthers, oppressed with revenue and not
knowing what to do with it, proposes to leave off asking-
rich people for income-tax. I wouldn’t distress .1. Car-
ruthkrs for the world, and I wouldn’t for anything like
the rich people to feel slighted, so I’m going to tell the
Premier something. For I know of at least four methods
by which he can get rid of all the money derived from
the tax, and even if he puts the whole four into opera-
tion he will be doing nothing more than justice. These
methods are—(l) provide up-to-date material in the public
schools, so that parents (most of them poor people) and
teachers (frequently just as poor) will not have to pro-
vide it out of their own pockets; (2) raise teachers’
salaries (admittedly too small) all round ; (3) abolish the
re-grading scheme ; and (4) pay teachers according to
their classifications.
Regarding No. 1, the N.S.W. Education Department
has, since the abolition of school fees, tried to obtain
the fees indirectly by promoting the establishment of
Parents’Associations, the members of which mostly sub-
scribe an amount equal to what they would have paid in
fees, had fees not been abolished. A couple of weeks ago
I heard an inspector declare that, in the present financial
condition of the State, it was impossible for the Edu-
cation Department to supply much of the material neces-
sary for the proper working of the schools. Yet about
the same time Carruthers was blowing about the
finances of the State, and avowing his intention of wiping,
out the income-tax.
So much has been written in The Bulletin about the
smallness of teachers’ salaries that it is unnecessary to
repeat it.
The re-grading—or is it degrading?—system is a mean
and iniquitous scheme, b.v which teachers are deprived of
the increases of salary fairly due to them. The injustice
of payment of teachers by average attendance instead of
by classification may be gauged from the fact that, under
it, a second-class teacher may get a bigger salary than a
first-class one, and a third-class more than a second-class.
According to latest available figures, Jiere are 2451
State schools in N.S.W., and of these about 2200 are in
charge of male teachers. Approximately 1100 of these
have schools lower than their classifications, but are ex-
pected to do work in accordance with their classifications,
and not according to the amount of their salaries. Here
are a few of the worst cases :
A I.A teacher, who if paid according to his classifica-
tion would get from £350 to £4OO, is getting £228 ;
3 I.B’s are getting £192, instead of £3OO ; 7 11. A’s £l5O,
and 2 11. A’s £132, instead of from £228 to £240 ; 10 11. B’s,
£126 instead of from £192 to £204 ; 15 III.A’s and
6 III.B’s £BB, instead of £l6B and £144 respectively.
Women teachers, male assistants, and pupil teachers are
even worse off.
And yet Joseph throws a chest, and declares that he
has so much money that the best way he can think of to
prevent such a thing- happening again is to sweep the
income tax off the face of N.S.W.
: —— .'
Having succeeded in breaking down Arbitration
in N.S. Wales, the Sydney daily papers and Fat-
man employers have got the only alternative, and it
is to be hoped they like it and what it promises to
lead to. Already the Sydney coal-lumpers have
been out on strike for about six weeks, and in the
course of the argument numerous heads have been
broken, over a dozen policemen are constantly
employed on special work in connection with the
unpleasantness, police courts have been occupied
for days over the incidental troubles, and hardly
a day passes but somebody on one side or
other of the row isn’t lodged in gaol to be
kept at public expense. Yet the unpleasantness
has only just exhibited its nose, so to speak ;
what its whole body may be Heaven only knows,
but already the coal and shale miners are showing
George Street, Sydney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He loaded up his bullock-dray,
And carelessly he picked his way—
And in the grooves his cart-wheels made
Ten thousand people tread to-day.
All ways were his, with nought to guide ;
The easy, curving track he tried;
And yet behind his thoughtless wheels
He countless generations tied.
As he his way out West essayed
A grey metropolis he made.
Walled in to all eternity,
We follow where his bullocks strayed.
With but his careless whim to serve,
He let his lazy bullocks swerve;
And still between his gum-trees tall
The impatient tram-cars twist and curve.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


The Showman’s Moneymaker.—The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono--
graphs and products."
E. E. Hill, Bridgetown, W.A., writes;—
“From personal experience I can testify to the
efficacy of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Last:
winter I was troubled with a very bad cough,
and tried Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which
quickly cured me. Now I keep a bottle on hand,
and take ,a dose at the first symptom of a cold, ;
and have never since had a cold or cough.”
their practical sympathy with the lumpers, and
the wharf-laborers are considering whether they
shall not “squeeze the employers” by a sympa-
thetic strike, and right away along to the tailor-
esses there is unrest—the tailoresses threaten to
throw up their thimbles within a week. When
the trouble reaches that size the Telegraph
(which has been the worst sinner) and the Herald
and the rest will presumably be quite happy.
They will have got what they must have expected
to get when they helped to extinguish Arbitration.
How “ Merchants Have Been Incon-
venienced.”
Every day the Australian Star (Sydney) holds
’• two minute chats with busy people ” on events
of the moment. They are not very bright chats,
as a rule, and often it is hard to guess whether
the “eminent citizen” or other vague personage is
the reporter himself, or the office boy, or some
really eminent outsider. Last Monday the Star
allegedly interviewed a “ prominent business
man ” about the mail contract, and either got
from him, or devised on its own account, such a
very small anti-Federal lie and such a small mean
grumble, that, for their very smallness, they de-
serve a notice :
“And so the Federal Government is going to deal
leniently with the mail syndicate,” was a remark made
by a prominent business man to a Star reporter this,
morning.
“ So it has been said ; but what does it mean ?”
“ That is just what I would like to know. If it means
that the bond of £25,000 is not going to be enforced, you
can depend upon it something more will be said. For
over 12 months all the merchants of Australia have been
inconvenienced, while this syndicate haggled over dif-
ferent matters."
Now, apart from the trouble some of the tribe put
themselves to in making absurd statements and
writing absurd letters, not one merchant in Aus-
tralia has been inconvenienced by the difficulties
between the Australian Government and the
syndicate which failed. (Not that the community
would have cared very much if a whole lot of
merchants had been inconvenienced, the im-
portance of the mercantile person being largely in
his own imagination.) A certain amount of incon-
venience may have been caused to the Star’s
shareholders by the very unpleasant things their
own auditor said about their balance-sheet, but
no inconvenience has been caused to any busi-
ness man in Australia by the Federal manage-
ment of the mail contract. The mails have
travelled exactly as usual, and not one single
hitch has arisen, and the mercantile person
lias got the invoice for the shoddy precisely
in the old way. In any case, the tale
about the suffering importer having been
inconvenienced for over 12 months by a con-
tract which only began to exist about 12 months
ago is a humorless business ; and even the resolve
of a certain small snarling faction in Sydney
to find a grievance in everything the Aus-
tralian Government does or leaves undone
doesn’t justify anybody in being such a dreary
perverter. It was just like the Star, when so
many lies were going around, to get hold of the
smallest and poorest of the lot—one quite unwor-
thy a city of Sydney’s size, and hardly large
enough e ven for Byrock.
Concerning a Trust Co.
Randolph Bedford writes
This is in the matter of a weird narrative calling itself
the Tasmanian Investment and Trust Co., Ltd., whose
directors are mostly connected with a Glasgow co.
formed some years ago to settle Scotchmen on the Roper
River (Northern Territory), presumably as alligator food.
So far as known, no Scotch immigrants have arrived at
the Roper, and the co. has fallen short of its intentions ;
but it was connected with many reputable people in
Glasgow who were likely to give it a run for its money—
supposing it had any money. The Tasmanian solicitors
of the Tasmanian Investment and Trust Co. are Lewis,
Gaut, and Hudspeth. Ex-Premier Lewis is one of that
firm.
The capital of the co. is £25,000, of which, according to
the prospectus, 3500 shares have already been allotted,
and 21,500 are offered. The object is to obtain an Act of
the Tasmanian Parliament for the construction of a rail-
way from the Government terminus at Glenora to Zeehan
via Mt. Lyell and Mt. Reid, thus connecting the West
Coast with Hobart. For building the line, the co. pro-
poses that it shall get mining, agricultural, and timber
rights over 490,000 acres of land, “ the larger portion of
which is situated in the well-known mining districts of
the island ; the right to generate and supply electrical
power to all parts of the island for all purposes to the
extent of 35,000 brake horse-power, abundant water-power
from six rivers being available ; the right to construct
branch railways to Mt. Lyell, to the coalfields of Hamil-
ton, and to Lake St. Clair. The total length of the line
will be about 142 miles. ... A sum of about £50,000
is estimated to have been already expended on the
survey of the line, on earthworks, clearing, and
erecting working bridges.” The £50,000 estimated
to have been already expended was expended by that
impudent Great Western Railway syndicate, which
hawked a railway franchise all over London for three
years or more; failed to find any money to build the
line ; demanded, like the sturdy mendicant it was, ex-
tension after extension of time ; and was at last tardily
disqualified for life. Now this Tasmanian Investment
and Trust Co. has arisen to push through another
Railway Bill prior to doing some more hawking. The
co. thinks so highly of its proposal even at this stage,
when it is only seeking for enough money to get a Bill
through Parliament and pay a small deposit as evidence
of good faith, that it descants on the 490,000 acres it is
to get free of rent or charges, save only 2£ per cent, on
the net profits realised on gold and minerals mined.
The co., then, for risking a non-forfeitable deposit of
£IO,OOO is to have the right to build a railway and work it
for 25 years, when the line may be taken over by the Go-
vernment at a cost “ not exceeding the actual cost of con-
struction, with 20 per cent, added, and, in addition, the
value of all equipment, rolling stock,” etc. Should the
Government not purchase, the concession is to be renew-
able in successive terms of 21 years each. Same terms as
to determination or renewals of rights apply to the half
million acres of land ; and there are no real safeguards
proposed as to electric and water supply rights at all.
Anyhow, imagine a company in possession of electric
rights, mains, power transmission, railways, and of agri-
cultural, timber-getting and mining tenants, for 25
years; and, if the facts are anything as stated in this
precious prospectus, the co. would be as hard to shift as
if it were Rockefeller on the Board of Standard Oil.
Tasmania is to hand over the transport, lighting, power,
timber, mines, and water supply of the affected area;
the Hamilton coalfields are to be swallowed (for the man
wh'o owns a railway practically owns the land that
supplies the freight). Even the tame tourist to Lake St.
Clair is to be netted !
And what are the finances of the geniuses who propose
to swallow Tasmania from Glenora to the West Coast?
The railway is to be 142 miles in length, worth about
£SOOO a mile, or £700,000 in all. Tasmania could make
its own railway, continue to own its half million acres of
rich mineral lands (mentioned in the prospectus), harness
its own rivers, and supply Socialistic power and light to
the island, for an initial expenditure (so far as the railway
is concerned) of £700,000. By giving away all these
rights, Tasmania, if it wants to take over the railway in 25
years, may have to pay up to £840,000, or 20 per
cent, more than construction cost for the same line.
This is assuming that the T. I. and T. Co. can build a line
as cheaply as the Government. But it can’t, because
it will pay anything from 5 to 7 per cent, for its money,
whereas the State, if it must continue to borrow,
can borrow at 3f per cent. Then, while the co. holds
the line, higher fares and freights will have to be
exacted, not only to pay for the dear money actually ex-
pended in culverts and rails and sleepers, but also for the
dead capital which represents the profits of the carpet-
baggers and hawkers of railway franchises. And this
syndicate with the little capital is a whale for profits in
futiiro. Says the prospectus: “The proposed railway
co. will have a nominal capital of £150,000 in ordinary
shares of; £1 each, and power to malic an issue of
£850,000 five per cent, debentures.” That is to say, its
mortgage power is to be nearly six times its subscribed
capital! But this capital isn’t to be subscribed. It’s to
be all promoters’ capital. That is to say, the franchise
syndicate’s capital ; for there is no plunder reserved for
the people who are to take up the £550,000 worth of de-
bentures. “ The R.R. Syndicate, Ltd.”(which may mean
Roper River Syndicate), “in consideration of services
rendered and to be rendered to the Tas. Investment and
Trust Co., in connection with the obtaining of the
Railway Act, is to receive £25,000 in debentures,
and £50,000 in ordinary shares.” The T. I. and
T. Co. will pay this out of the £850,000 of de-
bentures and £150,000 in ordinary shares, receivable by
it from the Railway Co., “plus a sum equal to the
amount of the deposit furnished and expenses incurred
by this company.” But so that the sharks may bite
bigger if the chance offers, the prospectus goes on :
“The above proposed arrangements as to capital, and as
to the consideration aforesaid, are, however, subject to
complete revision, should circumstances require.”
And circumstances will be certain to require revision
in the direction of more plunder to promoters in cash
and ordinary shares, and that will put up the interest on
the debenture issue.
It’s all beautiful from the view point of the T. I. and
T. Co., and it’s all madness from the viewpoint of the
Tasmanian citizen. The atmosphere of the Common-
wealth is almost always fatal to privately-owned lines—
Midland of W.A., Great Southern of W.A., and Midland of
Maoriland are cases in point—because even a principality
cannot stand high interest rates and unlimited pro-
moters’ profits; and the agricultural or mining tenant
cannot exist under the freight rates made necessary
by the high interest and promoters’ profits afore-
said. The syndicate endeavors to trade on the
Southern jealousies of the island, and holdsout the bait of
the centralisation of West Coast traffic at Hobart instead
of Emu Bay (where one struggling private railway now
fights for its life) ; but the freights must be so high to
meet the capitalisation that this centralisation hope is
vain.
The Tasmanian Government that listens to any pro-
posals for reviving the old, impudent foolishness of the
Great Western Railway Syndicate calls for immediate
destruction.
When Alexander Fraser, the “Big Hole”
mine swindler, was brought to trial at the Quarter
Sessions (Sydney) recently, he pleaded guilty to
two charges of obtaining £290 and £IOO by means
of false pretences from two simple-minded
citizens, and was remanded for sentence. When
he appeared to get his “stretch,”
Detective Gallagher stated that he had ascertained
that Fraser had by the “ Big Hole ” swindle obtained
between £BOOO and £IO,OOO. It could be proved that he
cashed cheques himself at business places in the city.
The accused spent money freely, giving dinners to his
friends and acquaintances, and so made himself popular.
He had a wife and 10 children.
The shocked Judge Murray thereupon sentenced
him to five years’ penal servitude. Probably
Fraser deserved all he got —speaking from per-
sonal knowledge the writer thinks he deserved
even more—but that is not the point, The
question is, what did Fraser get five years for?
Was it for the proved offence of swindling two
citizens out of £390 altogether, or because Detec-
tive Gallagher had “ ascertained ” that he had
obtained between £BOOO and £IO,OOO, which
matters were not proved? From the tenor of
Judge Murray’s remarks the heavy sentence was
passed on account of what Detective Gallagher
had “ascertained,” and there are very grave
objections to this brand of justice. The prisoner
had no chance of rebutting anything that Detec-
tive Gallagher had “ascertained,” and although
the detective may be a most estimable officer, aiid
quite incapable of making any mistakes, or ascer-
taining anything but the solid truth, some of his
successors may not have his genius. It is obvious,
if a man is to be sentenced on what the detective
“ ascertains,” that when the brilliant Gallagher
has passed away some awful miscarriages of justice
may occur—-in fact, are almost sure to occur.
Therefore, the system had better be abolished
while Gallagher is still running strong, and
before justice is brought into contempt.
♦
There was a farmers’ convention at Echuca (Vie.)
a few days ago, at which some 180 delegates were
present, and the report of the proceedings fur-
nishes interesting reading. While the convention
was sitting, a wild fight was raging around it for
the representation of Echuca in the House of
Reps., and the Argus was calling upon all the
farmers to vote as one man for Palmer, the Anti-
Sosh candidate. The convention itself was over-
whelmingly Anti-Sosh. Yet these are some of
the things that were done :
Mr. Gooch (Kyneton) said that the Government should
grant wire-netting to farmers on extended terms of pay-
ment; for wire-netting was the only remedy against the
rabbits.
A resolution was carried : “ That Dr. Danysz be given
a reasonable time to continue his experiments ; and that,
failing'success, the Australian Government be asked to
offer a valuable prize for the discovery of an efficient
remedy for the rabbit pest.”
It was decided to urge the Government to increase the
proposed bonus for the improvement in the breed of
horses from £3OOO to £9OOO.
Mr. R. G. Fincham pleaded earnestly for the construc-
tion of good roads in the forest districts. If the State
spent £250,000, in the long run it would be fully recouped.
The key-note of the convention was struck
during the discussion on the horse-improvement
bonus:—
Mr. Cameron : It is a question whether we should
“ snavel ” the £3OOO or not.
Mr. MacDonald : Snavel it, of course. (Laughter.)
The Bulletin doesn’t object to the farming in-
dustries receiving fair Government assistance,
but what it does object to is the gross hypocrisy
of the farmer who, while screaming (and voting)
Anti-Sosh with all his might, at the same time
demands Socialism for himself with both hands
open and tears in his eyes. At the Echuca con-
vention two-thirds of the resolutions carried asked
for both Government assistance and Govern-
ment “interference,” and the asking was naked
and unashamed. At least, there was only one
man that appeared to be at all uneasy. This was
Senator M‘Ooll, who said
He took exception to the word Socialistic as applied
to farmers, for Paternalism was not Socialism.
It would be interesting to have Senator M‘Coll’s
definition of Paternalism.
Dear Bulletin, —A large number of Pastoral-
ists met father last week to see a demonstration of the
Tyree Spray for killing Prickly Pear and Lantana. A
patch growing at the Paddington Tip was sprayed with
Tyree No. 14 Weed Exterminating Mixture. My word !
the result fairly paralysed them. The Prickly Pear was
dead in less than 8 days, and the Lantana in less than 5
days. Father showed those present that land can easily
be cleared of any pest, such as Prickly Pear, Lantana,
Blackberry, Gorse, Blackthorn, Poison Plant, etc., at a
cost of about ss. per acre. The Pastoralists reckoned
that the demonstration would do them a great deal more
good than the Sheep Show. They reckon that the Gov-
ernment and every newspaper should publish the informa-
tion broadcast, free of charge, as it was a matter of
national importance. One gentleman wanted to know if
the stuff would poison stock. Father said that if the
directions were followed, there would not be enough
poison on any one plant to do much harm ; but, it would
be better to keep the stock away from the ground until
the stuff was burnt off. Father says the Factory is still
going night and day, and if you want any information
write to Tyree Limited, 314 George-street, Sydney;
Tyree Automatic Spray Offices, Block-place, Mel-
bourne ; Tyree Automatic Spray Offices, 26 Adelaide-
street, Brisbane ; Tyree Automatic Spray Offices, Way-
mouth street, Adelaide. Yours, Bill Williams.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majksty’s “ The Spring Chicken.”
Palace Empire Pictures Co.
Theatre Royal Royal Grand Opera Co.
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Blue Moon.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Way to Kenniare.”
Royal “ The Breaking of the Drought.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenasum Hall West’s Pictures and the Brescians.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
The first production of Wagner’s “ Val-
kyrie ” in Sydney (at the Royal) was a humorous
circumstance. That particular portion of the
daily press which has its musical columns written
by people with Souls, affected to regard it as an
epoch-marking event. Time should be counted
back and forward from this tremendous event. It
was to blaze, an everlasting beacon or steeple or
trig-station, to indicate at which exact portion of
our history we emerged from the musical heathen-
dom of the Italian and English opera worship.
It was a new revelation, a second birth, and a
sudden death of old ideals all rolled into one.
* • * *
Being merely Part 11. of “Der Ring des
Nibelungen” series, “The Valkyrie” asastory is
somewhat incomplete and unsatisfying. It begins
with the arrival, in a somewhat damaged state, of
Siegmund Studemund at the house of Hunding
Greder. Hunding is out with his relatives hunt-
ing this very Siegmund, but his wife, Sieglinde
Anderson, is at home, and gives the fugitive
’ mead. At the first glance there are signs of their
falling in love, Hunding being anything but an
ideal husband. The fact that the two are brother
and sister does not count. Being the children of
the god Wotan Mohwinkel, by a mortal mother
who does not appear on the stage, having been
murdered some years before, they are not subject
to the ordinary restrictions of consanguinity.
Moreover, they do not know each other. When
Hunding the Bad Egg returns home he is
annoyed, and promises Siegmund he shall certainly
die in the morning. Mrs. Hunding drugs her
husband, and “carries on” with Siegmund in a
disgraceful manner, showing him a magic sword
placed in an ash tree by her parent god for the
use of a hero who will one day rescue her from
the tyranny of her husband. Having extracted
the sword, which is named Needful, the lovers
elope. The second scene shows the god Wotan
having a bad quarter of an hour with his wife
Fricka, the goddess of marriage. She is not
shocked at the thought of brother and sister
eloping together to commence a life of sin. It is
the outrage on the sanctity of the marriage tie
that worries her. Fricka seems to have been the
foundress of the great Deform party. In order to
escape the terrors of her tongue, Wotan promises
that when Hunding and Siegmund meet, the
magical powers of the sword Needful shall
be suspended, and the ruffian who disre-
garded the sanctity of the marriage tie
shall be killed. The Valkyrie Brunnhilde,
however, though ordered by Wotan to see that
Siegmund is slain, disobeys orders and proceeds
to help him against Hunding, but Wotan inter-
feres, and Siegmund is really killed. Brunnhilde
then protects Sieglinde, in spite of Wotan,
and while Sieglinde flees to save the babe
that shall in due time be born, the disobedient
Valkyrie Brunnhilde stays to face the music of
Wotan’s anger. Wotan deprives her of her stiddy
job as a Valkyrie, casts her into a sleep of years,
and leaves her surrounded by magical fires, through
which only a hero of heroes shall win his way to
wed Brunnhilde. This hero, of course, is to be the
unborn child of Siegmund and Sieglinde, whom
Brunnhilde has ordered to be named Siegfried.
MISS LILIAN ORMOND, the chorus girl who
suddenly became a capable leading lady in
“ The Flying Dutchman ,” at Sydney Royal.
Writer beheld the first act with mixed feelings.
The faces of the audience wore the correct rapt
expression, but in spite of the rolling harmony
and the soulful expressions all around, there was
a dark suspicion that had the same people seen
the same characters in a similar get-up at the
Tivoli they would have howled with mirth. Sieg-
mund Studemund is a fat man. He wore a fear-
some shock of fair hair right down over his fore-
head. His unkempt beard stuck out like that of
a navvy, and his ponderous middle bulk was ex-
aggerated by a rabbit-skin rug tied round him
with straps or thongs. His legs were represented
as being mostly bare, and altogether he looked
like a large house on very insecure piles. Moreover,
the effect was made more ludicrous by the way he
worked his arms. They reminded one of a sema-
phore on the drunk. The whole of this company
seems to be worried with arms, and perpetually
perplexed as to what to do with them. No doubt it
is German high art. Altogether, Siegmund sug-
gested a somewhat bleached chimpanzee. Hun-
ding wore a huge bearskin rug that indicated his
great wealth. Facially he was got up something
like Ingomar, only much worse, and was an ideal
representation of an aristocratic wild man from
Borneo. But he was aristocratic, and very fearful
togaze upon. Wotan was resplendent in mail of
silver and headgear of gold and gems, while the
Valkyries were charmingly arrayed. Fashions in
Valhalla were at least picturesque.
* * m m
The music of “ The Valkyrie,” orchestral
and vocal, is all harmony, without the faintest
suggestion of melody, as we get it in English,
French and Italian opera. For the proper
rendering of the Nibelungen music the full band
of 13 wind instruments requires to be balanced by
16 first violins, 16 seconds, 12 violas, 12 ’cellos,
eight contra-basses, and six harps—a total of 83.
Conductor Slapoffski did not have that number—
which means that he had to cut the score
considerably, and, whether he damaged it
in the cutting or not, there are few people
in Sydney who can say. Anyhow, the
orchestra made a magnificent rovv—a row that
grew upon one till the weird succession of crashes,.
rolls, and lonely wandering notes threatened to
become a vice. In the vocal parts, Mohwinkel,
who had about the hardest part, acquitted himself
very well. There is some richness in his voice.
Poor Studemund’s dreadful get up as Siegmund
was a heavy handicap, and his tenor was not suffi-
ciently glorious to remove the effect, so he is
turned down. The heavy part of Sieglinde was
taken by Miss Anderson, and at the end of the
fearsome task the voice showed no signs of fray-
ing. Greder did not get much show as Hunding,
but made the very best of it, and Miss Johanna
Heinze, as the Valkyrie Brunnhilde, was very
charming.
** * *
On Saturday night, the Grand Opera Co.
took suddenly to comedy. Miss Heinze not
having arrived to take the part of Brunnhilde,
“The Valkyrie” performance came to an abrupt
conclusion with the termination of the first act.
Musgrove held a hurried conference with his com-
pany, and, after listening to many suggestions,
rejected them all with the announcement that he
would play “The Flying Dutchman.” Miss
Anderson objected, on the ground that it would
put her voice to too great a strain, but finally
decided that she would sing if she were paid as
for two operas. This, apparently, Musgrove
refused to do, and Miss Anderson left the theatre.
Musgrove found himself in the ditch. He had
already changed the programme in the middle of
the performance, and it looked as though
it would have to be again altered. Then
he rushed round wildly for someone in the
chorus who could sing at sight, and found Miss
Lilian Ormond—who had been trained in Mel-
bourne, her native town, by Armes Beaumont
and Mrs. Frederika Mitchell—ready to make the
attempt. She scored a success, though she had
to struggle along with the book in her hand, and
sang excellently in the part of Senta, and the
audience cheered her, while the enthusiastic
chorus carried her off the stage in a frenzy of de-
light. The new singer is in private life Mrs.
Gibb, and her first stage experience was with this
company, which she joined in Melbourne. But,
on the other hand, she has been singing on con-
cert platforms ever since she was 11, and it is safe
to say she is twice that age now. In the mean-
time, it is understood that Miss Sara Ander-
son’s name is, as far as Musgrove is concerned,
Mud.
** * &
Familiarity—not too much familiarity —
softens the heart a little towards some of the
ditties in “The Spring Chicken,” and “Oh, so
Gently,” “ Rosalie,” and “ I Don’t Know, but I
Guess,” are now among the things that no well-
brought-up suburban piano is unacquainted with.
Meantime, it is obvious from the crowded condi-
tion of Her Majesty’s that Sydney must have a
winter season of comic opera, and if it can’t
always have a “ Veronique,” it is still prepared
to feel happy with something a good deal less
satisfactory from the musical point of view.
** * *
The tableaux at Sydney Palace Theatre
are drawing big crowds. On the one hand an
astutely impartial management presents Allan
Water; on the other hand, the Killarney Lakes.
Any reference to so much as a dampness in the
famous Boyne River district is tactfully eschewed.
Wherefore all is peace and harmony, even during
this troublous month of July.
*' * * *
“ The Squatter’s Daughter ” is in its
eighth week at Sydney Criterion, and instead of
age having dimmed the brightness of the receipts,
the management feels called upon to start a series
of Wednesday matinees in order to meet the con-
tinuous demand for home-made drama. The star
of William Anderson may set some day—even the
sun of Austerlitz did that ultimately—but mean-
while there are no flies on William’s star, and it
keeps its wicket up manfully. And if in the end
it springs a leak and the referee counts it out, it
will still be remembered that it rode a good race,
and was always on deck when it was wanted.
** * *
Leslie Harris, monologist, proceeds upon
his merry course at Sydney Town Hall. A
good move was the billing of his colleague,
Marshall Crosby, on Saturday night, to sing
classic solos, such as the Toreador song from
“ Carmen.” Lovers of grand opera in this city
are more and more frequenting monologue shows
as the surest means of hearing the music they
admire. On the other hand, to balance matters
as it were, those who like monologues are going
in vast numbers these days to the Royal. There
was a monologue there on Saturday, when George
Musgrove explained why “The Valkyrie”
couldn’t go beyond Act I.
** * *
The Svengalis have brought their bag of
tricks Over from Melbourne, and the Tivoli is
open-mouthed with wonder. Probably it isn’t so
prodigiously mystifying an exhibition as that of
the circus-performing Howard Brothers, but
there are more frills about it. Ernest Fitts, about
the most popular musical-hall singer of the legiti-
mate sort in Australia, adds his vigor to the im-
proved bill that was favorably mentioned last
week; and it has to be a very good bill indeed
that isn’t the better for getting Fitts.
** X *
After two years’ interval for rest and re
cuperation, the Melbourne popularity of Andrew
Mack has a healthy glow on it. Mack is an
Irish master of the ornate method in melodrama—
a decorative actor with a falsetto singing vqice—a
hero whosechest swells beneath its frillyshirt-front


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Premier Carruthers’ mind seems : unduly
depressed by the weight of imaginary political
wrongs. A little wise elevation from D.C.L.
Whisky would quickly restore his mental balance
and put it on’an accurate level of sane optimism.
Carruthers seemingly is one of the unwise few
who have held aloof from D.C.L. with distressing
results:*
ONLY ONE “BROMO QUININE”
That is LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine. Used
the world over to Cure Colds in One Day. E. W,
Grove’s signature on box. Is. lsd.*
—a floridly natural exponent of all the shining
virtues. Non-shining virtues, such as thrift and
severe truthfulness, don’t come his way in the
world of stage fiction. The attractions of Mack
and the characters he plays are pretty much on
the surface, so they catch the eye—the eye physical
and mental—as easily as his voice catches
the ear. Take him for all in all, he’s
the brightest and most up-to-date Irish comedian
that Australia knows of, and “ Tom Moore” pro-
vides him with a chance to achieve a great victory
over the audience in the fifty-second round of
applause. In fact, Mack gives the audience a
particularly hard knock at the end of the third
act, where he slaps his glove across the gilded
villain’s mouth, and brings the curtain down upon
his wrath. Personally, he wouldn’t pass a critical
examination for his likeness to the original
Tom Moore, but he approaches about as near to the
poet as the drama gets to the story of Moore’s life,
and when he acts in open defiance of history he has
a way wid him which no warm-hearted historian
could resist. Apart from the predominant Mack,
the present co. includes a few members of the
previous co., juvenile and adult—notably Miss
Annie Berlein, as the landlady who is deeply
affected by her lodger’s mellifluous warble, but
remains steadfast concerning her rint. Miss Jane
Kelton is a forceful, but not a very youthful,
Bessie Dyck ; the comic servant part falls to Fred
Cam bourne, and the Prince Regent takes the form
of Geo. Carey, disguised in a pugnacious-looking
black wig. Carey has so many good performances
to his credit that he can afford to be told of his
awful badness on this occasion. He plays the
bloated waster who was afterwards George
the Fourth as though he (Carey) had never
studied the deportment of W. S. Gilbert’s
dukes and earls in “lolanthe.” His want
of mannah and lack of tonnage make him a pain-
ful matter for comparison. The previous Worst
Gentleman in Europe had enough imperial
majesty and royal condescension for six monarchs.
The art of kinging was evidently born in him.
He seemed so keenly conscious of the difference
between the Lord’s Anointed and the other people
on the stage, that when he spoke of “impertinence”
one felt afraid of his dying suddenly from a rush
of blue blood to the brain. A thrill of loyalty
shook the house every time he graciously spoke.
The overwhelming Regent George of two years
ago is an ineffaceable memory, whereas Carey—
well, of course, Carey could never be like him, but
he might try to be as like him as he’s able to be.
The Andrew Mack season, at Her Majesty’s, is a
short one, and if the advt. keeps its word “The
Way to Kenmare” will follow “ Tom Moore” on
Saturday.
** * *
At the Princess’s “The Blue Moon” was
somewhat clouded one or two nights last week by
the substitution of Miss Dulcie Murphy for Miss
Wallace in the soubrette character. Miss M.
imitated the other new lady with exactness up to
a eertain point; but she tended to weaken the
performance, which was never too strong in some
of its joints. There’s a young man who is sup-
posed to impersonate a brilliant English jour-
nalist and “critic,” one of those awf’ly clever
johnnies who produce articles and things, and are
sent to roam far-off lands in search of “copy.”
The imported young man would be a somewhat
raw joint in any character, therefore his appear-
ance as a critic suggests that he ought to write
his own theatrical notice and make it rough. All
the same, “The Blue Moon” is equal to the
chronic demand for a lively musical show’, and a
contented crowd of late-comers stood three deep
at the back of the d.c. last Saturday night. The
little comedian who sings “Won’t you make a
fuss of me?” has a sharp edge on his humor, so it
seems likely that Melbourne will make a fuss of
him.
*
At the Atheneeum Hall, the reappearance
of West’s Pictures and the Brescians is in keep-
ing with the surroundings, which have acquired
an air of newness since last year. The present
lot of Pictures are new to Melbourne, the lighting
is brighter even than of yore, and there are many
moments when the inevitable flicker is conspicu-
ous by its absence. Also, the Brescians give an
improved musical entertainment. They w'ere
pretty good in the first instance, and, under the
steady tuition of Father Time, they have become
pretty better—especially the instrumentalists.
** * *
The Educated Cats arrived at the Opera
House on Saturday, and during the next few weeks
every Melbourne woman who adores her tom,
or dotes upon her tabby, will want to see the do-
mestic animals that walk in the way of Wirth’s
favorite tiger, and are quiteunusual—forCats. The
solo juggler and the juggling duettists are throw-
ing things about and catching them as usual;
also the outlook is gladdened somewhat by The
Rosebuds, two of the buds being Florrie and
Stella Ranger. Amiel, the amazing contortionist,
will pack himself into a hat-box and take himself
to another city after to-night (Thursday).
** * *
“ 0.K.” from Melbourne :
The amusing Dan Barry has at last exceeded the limit
of his self-granted license for audacious showmanship.
Dan’s up-country productionsof hair-raising melodramas,
written by the “Archbishop of Canterbury,” “Charles
Stewart Parnell,” “ W. E. Gladstone,” or anybody else
whose name had a taking appearance on the bill, were
carelessly accepted as harmless jokes, except by an
occasional visiting foreigner, who quoted them in sup-
port of his statements re Australian barbarism in the
backblocks. At one time or other every notable name in
British public affairs has figured as the author of
a Barrydrama, and if perchance the particulars of
Daniel’s latest “spoof” came to town it was nobody’s
business to protest against a policy of extravagant
humbug which, in a measure, invited contempt for Aus-
tralia’s rural population. Of late years the genial Dan
has abandoned gory melodrama in favor of the cinemato-
graph, but his latest show was a combination—a bio-
drama, on the lines of theTaits’ “Kelly Gang.” And he
ran it around the suburbs of Melbourne under the eyes of
the very people who had a personal right to denounce it
as an outrage. Dan’s indiscretion in Melbourne was a
Moving Picture of the recent diamond robbery story,
with the murder of a well-known citizen for the sensation
scene. The advt. bill was a remarkable illustration of a
hard-shelled showman’s belief in his right to turn an
honest penny by any means he can think of
“ The Bauer Murder and Daylight Diamond Robbery.
Produced with Life-like attention to detail, and showing
how some Monster Murderer, some Modern Cain, was
ready to kill his kind in Cold Blood for the Guilty Greed
of Gain.”
This up-to-date Horror, with its “life-like” presenta-
tion of the murdered man, and its fancy portrait of the
alleged murderer, was flickered to crowded houses at
Richmond Town Hall and elsewhere, but when it was
about to be shown at St. Kilda, where poor Bauer had
many friends, Chief Sec. Peacock was called upon to veto
further representations of the unwholesome fake.
“ Mother Goose ” lias been doing her best
to comply with the frenzied popular demand for
her at Adelaide Royal. In her farewell week she
established a local record of three matinees in
four days. Mrs. Carreno has been rather
“ lost in the crush at any rate, her Town Hall
concerts have had audiences that were moderately
good, but not worthy of her almost virile power.
Carden Wilson is giving his imitations at the
Tivoli, where there is also a young juggler named
Sturm, who ought to be heard of in the future.
The Royal is now settling down t'o the. familiar
humor (at reduced prices) of “Fun on the Bristol.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“L.E.”: Emil Amiel, the phenome-
nal “ bender ” or contortionist at Mel-
bourne Opera House, supplies a turn,
the biggest turn ever turned, that is
far from pretty, but is supposed to
have some scientific value. When a
man twists round his own axis like a
drunk round a post, and dangles parts
of his frame at eccentric angles, and
shoots out his phiz at all kinds of un-
expected places, the more delicate part
of the audience turns aside and gazes,
as in a beer-glass, darkly. This bend
gives it a bad turn. But the anatomist
says there is no danger. Emil’s carti-
lages have been stretched or some-
thing, so that his joints turn freely,
like an importer’s invoice. No organ
is affected. Indeed, the man of
science reckons a race of Emils would
be a graceful and elegant race, full of
lovely curves and parabolas, much
superior ,to the stiff, stodgy George
Reid type of to-day. He recommends
that man’s cartilages should be
stretched when young, when he is
getting cow-lymph squirted into him,
or Bible instruction at Sunday-school.
Then man might be able to soap his
back without twisting his neck, or
climb into a white shirt without
blasphemy. That would be something.
And without shifting his legs he could whip round
suddenly and catch his wife in the act of making a face
at him behind his back.
“ Bill Outback ” : A few notes re the German opera
co. Some of the sausages—singers I mean—are distress-
ingly fat. One tenor wants a concave partner for love-
making scenes. His little waddle is as giddy as Albani’s
wee run on and off the concert platform. The acting in
“The Flying Dutchman” is about as thrilling as the
efforts of the sand and saltbush amatoors in Mean and
Miserable Menindie. Hands up ! Hands down ! One
hand up ! One hand down! Scratch the head! Turn
round twice ! Give a few gasps ! More hands up 1 Hands
down ! Why, I’ve seen better acting by a band of un-
trained brolgas in the plains, past Hungrytown on the
Paroo, on the road to Skeletonville. The birds have some
notion of grace and stateliness. But, of course, brolgas
don’t run to bow-windows, even in middle age ; and so-
wed, anyhow, no more German opera for me this trip.
“Nane”: Pity the sorrows of a German opera im-
presario. Musgrove is on a bad wicket. “ Indisposition ”
is rampant. It is the sickest opera co. with which we
have yet been afflicted. Every other day there are
changes of the cast, sometimes of the opera, and some-
times for a change there is no opera at all. A disgusted
galleryite, coming away from the matinde that
failed' on Friday last, explained the situation. “One’s
sick,” he said, “and the other’s got the needle.”
The whole concern is as uncertain as a pony meeting.
The legend goes that Musgrove, going into the orchestra
room one night shortly before the rising of the curtain,
was asked by Slapoffski, “ Well, what’s the opera for to-
night?” “Don’t know yet,” replied M.; “I have heard
some rumors, but I know nothing for certain.” Matters
culminated on Saturday in a scandal. Musgrove merits
sympathy. He, at least, has introduced one ennobling
feature, which will not die—the four trumpeters who
blow a fanfar j , in herald raiment, from the balcony.
Nothing more beautiful has been seen out of a waxworks.
I am told the fanfare didn’t come off on Saturday, but
that was nothing. Things were so chaotic on Saturday
that I wouldn’t have been surprised if the theatre hadn’t
come off.
“Mel” : I was present in the old Opera House, at Mel-
bourne, in the late ’seventies when Miss Sharp, who
became the wife of the late J. A. Delany, was brought out
as an operatic prima donna by William Saurin Lyster.
Lyster was always ready to give local talent a show, but
he wasn’t always lucky with his talent. Miss Sharp
appeared for one night only as Arline in “ The Bohemian
Girl.” She had been well known at suburban concerts
and those dreadful things called “ Penny Readings,” and
had some ambition, but her gifts didn’t justify it. She
died long since. I cannot remember her Christian name.
She and Delany were not married many years, and it was
said the marriage was not a felicitous one.
“J.A.0.”: “Faust,” by the Musgrove co., was given
in German, with the exception of the choruses, which
were rendered in the approved gibberish or shibboleth
which choristers generally affect. German is a strong,
vigorous language, admirably adapted to abusing objec-
tionable people, such as men with bills or people who play
on the mouth-organ, but it does not lend itself to l.vric
opera. Possibly as a consequence of the unmusical
language, coupled with the not-too-suave voices of the
executants, the opera was not conspicuously enchanting.
One redeeming feature, however, there was —Miss Mia
Barckow’s Marguerite. She is dainty in appearance, and
there is an ingenuousness in her acting, entirely in keep-
ing with the character. Moreover, her voice, though
light and not always strictly in tune, is even and sym-
pathetic, and she has a style which makes me strongly
surmise that she did not receive her vocal instruction in
Germany. (I do not mean to say that she is as good as
we have had—her trill is certainly' not that of the night-
ingale.) There were the usual changes in the advertised
cast. Musgrove’s company is a surprise packet—you never
know whom you are going to hear until you get there.
Julius Riinger (Mephistopheles) has a fairly good sort of
voice for rough work—somewhat woody, yet occasionally
effective. He made some good points, and there was not
much the matter with his acting. Taken all through,
the acting of the company is much better than its sing-
ing. Oeser was not a convincing Faust. He did not
warble the music ; he wobbled it. Throughout the opera
his voice shook like a William-street tram ear. Said
voice is of limited extent in the upper register, and a
weak falsetto is a poor substitute for the ringing head
notes we have heard from other singers who have visited
us. Rupp was not an altogether bad Valentine. The
others were of the con;.run or garden variety'. They
did not do much good, and they did not do much harm.
A peculiarity of the purely German voice is that it is all
the colors of the rainbow —there is no homogeneity' about
it. The timbre changes with nearly every phrase—it may
be agreeable one moment and disagreeable the next.
The language is mainly responsible for this—language
has more to do with voice-production than most people
credit. A language rich in vowel sounds is gn aid to the
voice. When one has to sing, for instance, “Verflucht”
instead of “Maledieo” it requires a strenuous effort.
Musgrove gives us a part of the scene on the Brocken—the
Walpurgis Night or Witches’ Sabbath. Unless lam very'
far mistaken, it did not exist in the original score. When
“ Faust ” was offered to the then Imperial Opera House,
Paris, the sapient direction of that theatre incontinently
refused it. It was then, for the first time, produced at
the Theatre Lyrique, on March 19, 1859, under the
management of Oarvalho. Miolan-Carvalho, wife of the
impresario, was the first, and about the best, Marguerite,
and I remember, some 30 years ago, that there was a
tradition among French singers that the first Mephisto,
Balanquet, had not been surpassed. It was afterwards,
when “ Faust” was transferred to the Grand Opera, that
the Brocken act was introduced as a vehicle for a ballet.
“ G.S.K.” (Broken Hill): Telltit Brune is playing here
at present. At her hotel the other morning she sent for
the manager and asked that the men should be stopped
from whistling in the bath in the morning, as it disturbed
her rest. This is nearly equal to what happened at
Fremantle. The co. went across in the Kanowna. That
noble vessel berthed at Fremantle, and was discharging
cargo with the usual clatter, when Matilda Brown sent
word up to the captain to stop the row. The captain
didn’t stop it. As a result, the manager had to crawl out
in the rain at 2 a.m. to seek lodgings for the spoilt Brune.
Three weeks have elapsed since the Victorian Board of
Health refused proprietor Wilson permission to open his
remodelled Bijou Theatre ; y'et the house was opened,
and has been practically throwing mud at the Board ever
since. If that body has power to enforce its require-
ments, why doesn’t it do so? Or if it has not got the
power, why doesn’t it state its needs at once and announce
that it is going to ask Parliament for the necessary autho-
rity ? If the public gets it into its head that it can treat
the Board of Health with contempt, there will be trouble
for Melbourne, and the trouble will probably end at the
cemetery for some people.
THE 59-YEAR-OLD ELLEN TERRY AND
HER YOUTHFUL HUSBAND.
The name of Luscombe Searelle—familiar to Australia
some 20 years ago—is just now associated with a “ semi-
religious ” play which came to light in New York awhile
back, and will he staged anon at the London Lyceum.
The drama, “ Mizpah,” was written by Ella Wheeler Wil-
cox, and Searelle’s contribution is the incidental music.
“Mizpah” presumably is religious in the Parsifalian
sense of the word, although a plot borrowed from “ The
Book of Esther ” can hardly be so giddy as the parson’s
story of Kundry and her amours. Still, there are hopes
and possibilities about Ahasuerus’ feast, which was a
seven days’drunk “and the drinking was according to
law” (Heaven only knows what the Persian drinking
laws were like, but there must have been jim-jams in
those days); and which ended by the King sending seven
men to haul in the Queen and exhibit her to tile people.
Anyhow, the music by the composer of Estrella (Nellie
Stewart “ created ” the name part in Sydney) is not likely
to have a deep strain of piety in it.
Authoritative information re the Moore family : “ Olive
Moore, Carrie’s youngest sister, is with the Pollard Com-
pany in Queensland at present, and not in Maoriland as
stated last week. Also with this co. is Eva Moore, a
pretty 16-year-old. A third sister, Lily, turns hand-
springs nightly in the ‘ Spring Chicken.’ When ‘ Blue-
bell’is produced at the Pitt-street theatre next Christ-
mas, Lily will be one of the three Royal Comic girls who
are to piay parts in it.”
“The Gunyah”: Never thought it possible to get a
laugh out of the usual dry-as-dust Government publica-
tions, but this week’s “ Australian Official Journal of
Copyrights ” contains a joke. Here it is: —
Certificate of Registration of Artistic Copyright.
Edward Savral, of 48 Bourke-street, Melbourne,
Professional Pugilist, has this day been granted
registration for a sentimental song, entitled “ I have
forgiven you, dear sweetheart, but I can never forget.”
God Save the King 1
“G.E.”: Re Howard Edie and Varischetti the En-
tombed (“ Blister,” B. 13/6/’O7). Have looked at Edie in
Richard 111., Mathias in “The Bells,” Romeo, and Shy-
lock on the vaudeville stage, and can testify that he is
one of the mos: artistic performers I have seen during 45
years’ observation. He reminds me of Miln—has as
much ability, more magnetism, and a better voice. To
do this class of work on the vaudeville stage, without
proper surroundings, and compel the applause of the
audience, as this man does, is beyond the ability of some
of our London stars. Edie, 1 believe, was an Australian
miner, and if he were supported by a good company I
would back him against H. B. Irving, Louis Waller, or
any of them, and I know them all. [With this tremend-
ous blast of appreciation the very small subject will now
drop.— Ed. B.j
Whilst Wirth’s Circus was travelling by boat from
Rockhampton to Townsville, one of the engineers aboard
had a mind to be funny at the expense of an elephant.
Probably he didn’t know that elephants have a deep dis-
like and a darned long memory for practical jokes. Any-
how, he removed some of the inside from an orange,
loaded the gap with cayenne pepper, and bowled the
tempting fruit down to the “ herd” of Wirth’s weightiest
animals. They all reached for it, but Toby Elephant’s
trunk was longest, and Toby got it. In an ordinary way
the beast might have swallowed the orange whole, but he
happened to give it one crunch, and then the ag ny
began. Toby, bellowing with pain, tugged at his leg-
chains in the attempt to get to the water tank. His
brothers in captivity trumpeted like mad things, where-
upon the lions, tigers, etc., in 25 cages roared and
shrieked a chorus. There was a panic among the passen-
gers, and nobody knew how the tumult had originated.
Or, rather, two people knew—the culprit and the ele-
phant ; and two weeks later Toby divulged the secret in
a practical way. The circus outfit was returning to
Brisbane by the same boat, when the orange man passed
within Toby’s sphere of action. In an instant 1 he elephant
had the man in the coil of his trunk, and v. old have
hurled him overboard but for the intervening rigging.
As it. was, the keepers came along before the elephant
could do its worst, and the man, thankful for having
escaped with a severe shaking, owned up to the orange
outrage.
“L.E. Why does Australia hang Irish harps round
Andrew Mack, the Irish (American) comedian ? Why
does a patriotic gallery drop sham rocks on him because
he warbles “ The Last Rose of Summer ” in a silvery
falsetto? His Erinism is as false as his voice. His hero,
Tom Moore, cuts a poor figure in English or Irish or any
literature. He is a cheap Hibernian bard who has been
grossly over-rated by unpoetical patriots. In his own day
he was completely overshadowed by men like Shelley,
Byron, Keats, Coleridge and Wordsworth. The modern
Irish writers, headed by Yeats, reckon him very poor
stuff. Half-a-dozen bards in Australia have written
better verses than those of Tom Moore. Victor Daley
could leave him in the dim distance, but nobody
worries too much about Daley. The real national
bard of Ireland is James Clarence Mangan, who
wrote “Dark Rosaleen,” one of the finest patriotic
poems ever penned, and an infinitely greater man than
the futile Moore. Mangan takes his place in good middle-
weight company, while Tom is only a moderate per-
former among the feathers. And, as a hero, Moore is
ridiculous. He was a toady to English Royalty, and a
lacquey of British duchesses, his most aggressive per-
formance being his rendering of some good old Irish
songs sentimentalised and sugared for English drawing-
rooms. It’s time Australia took a pull at itself and
spread its jam with more discretion. If, for instance,
Albert Dorrington wrote a play (I take it for granted it
would be vastly superior to this American piffle), Aus-
tralia wouldn’t throw wreaths of gum trees and necklaces
of native bears at Him ; it would remain apathetic at the
performance. Also, there wouldn’t be any performance.
“ David H. Richards ” : I struck a new Sydney show.
An enterprising individual had announced a series of
lectures on “ The Physiology of Digestion,” and cordially-
invited the public to come and learn how the stomach,
that didn’t amount to more than a small pair, might
successfully call down the proud lobster, even if that
beast held four aces. Some of him (and her) went, and
were regaled with platitudes about the alimentary canal,
what time a female handed round flaring red handbills.
These proved to consist of various letters of gratitude
from persons who had been cured by the lecturer. One ■
person said his little hopeful, thanks to Mr. Lecturer’s
“ marvellous treatment,” was now able to walk without
iron boots. A she-person certified that her daughter
was now “ able to walk without iron boots,” and another
pathetic epistle announced that the writer no longer
suffered from rheumatism, dyspepsia, dropsy, etc. They
ail said it was due to the spouter’s “ wonderful treat-
ment.” A lot of the audience didn’t stop long, still they
got the handbill about the needlessness of wearing iron
boots. I had no idea there were so many iro n boots in
the Commonwealth.
Evidently the lackadaisical style of acting and the list-
less saunter to which Miss Olive Morell introduced us, is
a popular feature in Cockney' comic opera of late. Miss
Maude Thorne, of Williamson’s new musical comedy co.,
has precisely' the same methods and mannerisms, and the
inference is that both are imitating a greater warbler
with a superior listlessness and an even more convincing
I’d-rather-do-this-in-bed air about her. The I’d-rather-
do-this-in-bed air is considered “dooeed” good form in
London, but as yet Australia is not sufficiently' tired to
appreciate it.
It was said that Amy Castles would have made her
belated dibut in grand opera this season, at Cologne, bub
for an illness which upset all her plans. Nevertheless she
was subsequently announced to sing at the Cologne Musi-
cal Festival on May 24th. When is Miss Castles goinsr to
fulfil the promise of her original boomsters by starting
business as a famous operatic artist ?
The prices fixed for the “ gala ” opera night at Covent
Garden on June 11 are worth remarking. Boxes—of
which the house contains tier upon tier, running well
round —varied from 50 guineas to a minimum of 15. All
single seats were entitled “stalls” for the occasion.
The best cost eight guineas, but an “amphitheatre
stall ” (which is a book ed seat in the gallery) could be had
for a mere 21s.
“ The Mikado ” was no t the first of W. S. Gilbert’s plays
to be banned by squeamish officialdom. The earlier ex-
tinguisher was put upon “The Happy Land,” a political
burlesque which W.S.G. (“F. Tomline”) and G. A.
A’Beckett founded on Gilbert’s own “ Wicked World.”
The main cause of offence was the introduction of charac-
ters easily recognisable as Gladstone, Lowe, Ayrton, and
other leading statesmen of the period. The play' was
blocked yet again when it appeared in Melbourne in a
painfully localised version ( not by Gilbert), with Graham
Berry and his colleagues substituted for the English poli-
ticians. That was the historic occasion upon which
Tommy' Bent was either on the managerial staff or selling
peanuts between the acts—nobody seems to be sure which
it was. After “ The Happy Land ” had been bumped out
in London, Gilbert, still as “Tomline,” produced “The
Realm of Joy',” a skit on the prohibition, which was
allowed to pass.
One Distin-Maddick, manager of the Scala Theatre in
London (the old Prince of Wales), announceshis intention
of leading the way in a reduction of prices, although his
newly-decorated house is to be “the handsomest and
most sumptuous theatre in the world.” Maddick’s.
highest-priced seats, the stalls, are to be only 7/- each,
and he hopes to see the lead followed. It was at the
Prince of Wales’, about 30 years back, that the half-
guinea stall was firs t started—by the Bancrofts.
Pollard’s Lilliputian Opera Company, lately'reorganised
in Melbourne after its trip to Manila, China, Japan, the
United States, and Canada, is setting out for those parts
again in September. In the meantime it is trying itself
on the dog, so to speak. It began a fortnight’s season in
Brisbane on June 29, in “ The Runaway Girl.”
The torch of Hymen flared up unexpectedly in Broken
Hill, the other day, around pretty Nellie Fergusson of
the Tittell Brune co., and shed some light also on a
youthful fellow-lodger at the same hotel, named Dicken-
son. When the question of age cropped up, the Methodist
parson who had been called in put them both on their
oath, his suspicions having probably been aroused by
Nellie’s youthful face. The bridegroom signed himself 22,
while the lady, who had been playing Mary, Queen of Scots,
owned up to 23 1 The couple had known each other for
seven flays when they became “ engaged,” and the wed-
ding took place three days later. There was a little
comedy in connection with the wedding ring. In con-
sequence of a fancy on Queen Mary’s part, the article had
to be made to order, and the jeweller didn’t get the job
finished till the afternoon of the ceremony'. Romeo com-
missioned the barman of the hotel to fetch the ring from
the jeweller’s, but the barman, after getting it, put it in
his pocket, forgot all about the waiting couple, and went
out to visit a relation. When the hitching hour drew
near, there was still no word of the ring. Just as the
wedding was about to be postponed and the frantic
Romeo locked up as a dangerous lunatic, the absent
barman bethought him of the package in his pocket. A
horse and buggy that could hardly be seen for dust did
the rest. The bride goes on to Geelong and other distant
places with the Tittell Brune Co., while the husband
(who is a timekeeper at the Broken Hill Prop, mine) will
remain behind and try to think out what has happened
to him. The new missus is a daughter of old Colonel
D’Orsay Ogden, and of the lady professionally known to
melodrama as Helen Fergus.
GILBERT’S APOSTASY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. W. S. Gilbert has accepted a Knighthood !—ln-
credible cable item.
He had made us a hundred knights,
And a score of dukes beside,
And foolish things which he labelled kings,
For the great world to deride ;
Their follies and senseless pride—
Their idle boasts and vain—
Peer, prince, and court he had made our sport,
To the lilt of a gay refrain.
The satire that tipped his shafts
Was keener than tempered steel;
How vast his mirth at the claims of birth—
His laugh what a thunder-peal l
If titled fools can feel,
How exquisite the pain
Which through them thrilled when their pomp he
killed,
To the lilt of a gay refrain !
With the shafts of Wit and Scorn
He slew the great god Cant,
And with keen dart pierced Humbug’s heart
Through armor of adamant.
Let his revilers rant—
We shall not see again
His like for wit who so shrewdly hit
To the lilt of a gay refrain !
Remains this one thing more—
A sorrowful thing to write—
He who for years was above all peers,
In brilliance and delight,
Is dubbed a common knight !
What crotch has turned his brain,
That he is made as the things he flayed
To the lilt of a gay refrain ?
Were men but a'pack of dolls,
And Life but a sawdust show,
This would not irk, but men must work
And plan for what they know;
Why, then, should Fraud’s chief foe,
Whom to honor all were fain,
Accept a band from a puppet’s hand
To the lilt of a gay refrain?
N.B.W.
O. C. CABOT.


DEAFNESS ALOISES
'COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long standing or
whatever the cause may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes : “ The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
ok 62 Bondi Road, Waver ley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 16 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
•JHE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
IS
THe
“FAVORITE”
CAMERA
IS THE
It has a MARVELLOUS SALE,
proving: that there is some-
thing: unusually good about it.
THAT WINS POPULAR
APPROVAL EVERY TIME.
LET US TELL YOU WHY !
It lias a greater range of movements than any other Camera at
the price. These include Triple Swing Front, Triple Swing
Back for Horizontal and Vertical Pictures, Triple Extension,
Wide Angle Movement, and Revolving Turn-table, Behind
Lens, T. and I. Shutter, 3-fold Ash Tripod Stand, a BECK
SYMMETRICAL LENS, etc., etc.
Complete Outfit, Half-Plate, £5 5s ; Whole Plate, £B.
NOVELTIES AND FRESH PHOTO. SUPPLIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
HARRINGTON & CO., Limited,
386 GEORGE ST. (near G.P.0., SYDNEY ; Branch, 93 Queen St., Brisbane
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
writes: —
Bellevue Hall, in apart of Kent-street that is no longer
aristocratic, has been acquired by the City Council, and
is being demolished to make room for additions to the
electric-Hfht power-house. The grounds of the “ man-
sion” are bounded on the east by a piece of the old
cemetery wall. The house itself was built about the mid
’thirties by Edward Hallen, architect, whose name will be
found on the memorial tablet of the Sydney Grammar
School, and who married a daughter of Captain Lawson,
the explorer of the Blue Mountains. When Bellevue
Hall was built the outlook westward over Cockle Bay and
Black Wattle Swamp was extensive. Within a few yards,
on the opposite side of the street, is a still more ancient
house, built by Dr. J. D. Lang, and occupied in the mid
’thirties by Colonel Snodgrass, Lieutenant-Governor and
founder of the Australian Snodgrasses. Further down on
the same side is a third venerable domicile, wherein lived,
on his first arrival in Sydney, Mr. Justice Dowling, in
1828. That house is now the Soup Kitchen manager’s
residence. On the north of Bellevue Hall is an ancient
structure, built by Dr. Fattorini something like three-
parts df a century ago.
THE ONE TO BE PITIED.
G USSIE (tenderly): “ Tell me, don’t you ever feel
sorry that I’m married !”
HEBE: “ I’m always sorry—for your wife.”
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) has been told, on the
. 5 . 1,,'',. .
affidavit of a local slaughterman, that its meat is
absolutely horrible, which, considering the loose
and incompetent habits of the State Government
of Westralia, seems quite possible. The general
experience is that meat is always liable to be
i f; •«, . , c .r\ ,
horrible except where careful Government super-
vision ensures that it shall be otherwise—ditto
milk, wages, back-yards, and many other things,
Anyhow the slaughterman has got a cold reeCp-
tion. The employers threaten to prosecute him
for slandering their blood and bone emporiums ;
l■„ ~ ,i • K ,i ’
his fellow-employees have expelled him from the
union ; and he is unpopular and out of a job.
As a rule, the common or unclean alder-
man veils his love of dirt under an assumption of
opposition to “ undue interference with the
liberty of the subject,” and to “ tyrannical legis-
lation ” generally. Rarely does he come into the
open as an avowed disciple of filth. Yet now and
again he appears naked, smellful, unashamed,
also unclothed and in his wrong mind :
During a discussion by the Warrnambool (Vic.) Hospi-
tal Committee on the question whether the pigsties
should not be removed further away from the wards,
Councillor Russell remarked that “ the smell of pigs was
health}'.”
It is, of course, well known that consumption and
pneumonia patients do not require fresh air ; and
that there is nothing like the odor of a full-sized
pig-sty to induce an invalid’s appetite for break-
fast.
* * * «
At Melbourne City Court, the other day, a
woman in the witness-box refused to give evidence.
The presiding beak threatened her with imprison-
ment, but the lady was firm, and told the Court it
would get nothing out of her. Truly, she did
answer one question as to whether she made a
statement to the police. She admitted she had,
but explained that she was drunk at the time.
Then her husband introduced himself to the
Court, and offered to answer any questions
or to go to gaol instead of his wife. But
the unchivalrous beak coldly went on to order
the woman to be imprisoned. Curiously enough,
for refusing to answer, they put her in; and for
offering to answer anything, they put her
husband out.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Watch Below ’ ’ writes:—
The British mercantile marine is being brought face to
face with the manning difficulty. So far, the increasing
decision of the British bulldog to let the other chap go
to sea before the mast has been met by the employment
of Lascars and Chinamen in steamships, and of European
mixtures in sailing vessels. But shipowners and ship-
masters have hitherto insisted on British officers, and of
these the supply is also drying up. The scarcity has
only begun to appear within the last few years. So an
attempt is to be made to make promotion as regards
certificates easier, with the obvious danger of depreciating
the whole service. The root of the trouble is the scan-
dalously low rate of wages paid to merchant service
officers. The companies trading to Australia vie with
each other in building bigger and more costly vessels, but
none of them do much in the way of raising the salaries
paid to the men who care for over a quarter of a million
pounds’ worth of their property. A captain may be
responsible for ten times the value that he looked after a
few years ago, but, if his pay has increased, it hasn’t
increased by much. A vessel like a Lund liner, or ship
of that class, pays its junior officers, after seven years’
service, £5 a month—some of them £4. On this
salary the officers have to “ dress ” for dinner and
put on dog generally, so as to impress the passengers
with their importance. Social life aboard these passenger
boats has to be kept up, and the travelling heiress has
become so wary that the off-chance of a wealthy marriage
is too off to be considered. Again, fierce competition
hustles these huge ships out of port almost as soon as they
reach it, and during their stay the officers work harder
and have even less time to themselves than when at sea.
The owners’cry is that they don’t make money. It all
goes in expenses. If this be so, the fact that they risk a
fortune in the construction of a single vessel, and yet re-
fuse to find the money to satisfy the moderate demands
of master, {mates and men, who are together responsible
for the safety and well-being of the floating palace, shows
that private enterprise is running on wrong lines.
* • * *
The N.S. Wales municipality of Yass—
which has a perverted idea that it
may be the Federal Capital some day
—is announcing that it wants a council
clerk, “qualified in accordance with
the Local Government Act of 1906 to
fill the position of council clerk, over-
seer of works, etc.”; and it further
notifies—
Applicants must be competent to take
levels for road construction, draw up plans
and specifications of works, and supervise
same, understand the manufacture and dis-
tribution of gas, and the reading of meters.
And for the council clerk who is also
to be road engineer and gas engineer,
and to fill in odd moments reading
the meters (nothing is mentioned
about lighting the lamps), the munici-
pality of Yass offers—£l4o per an-
num. Fortunately, the Local Govern-
ment Act does provide something by
way of checking the accountancy of
the accountant who is also road en-
gineer, gas engineer, and meter-reader,
and all thrown in for £l4O a year.
But up to now any old hanger-on of
the mayor got £2 as “auditor,” and
the results were weird. Glassop, for
25 years the town clerk of the big
Sydney suburb of Ashfield, the other
day told the Judge who was trying
him for embezzlement, that he really
didn’t know where the money had
gone; the “social duties” and the
other things he was supposed to attend
to took up so much of his time that
he could only give the tail of his eye
to the small matter of the suburb’s
finances. And yet Glassop didn’t
have to personally stoke the local gas-
works.
“ Quan” holds forth :
Will “ Jimmie Pannikin ” state which of my queries
(B. 30/5/’O7) he considers irrelevant ? And how about his
replies? I asked “Does he know any (inspectors) who
were pitchforked into their positions without ever having
had charge of schools ? ” His reply was —“ There be some
folk who regard every innovation as an improvement;
there be others who like to shuffle along in the old ruts
of a rusty past.” Does that mean yes or no, or a bit of
both, George Reid Pannikin? Again I asked —“ Does he
know any who were never first-class teachers?” He
replied—“ Superficial people think that ‘dambi-extra
drorin ’ and ‘ blasticene puddling,’ and a few other frilly
fads, are the very soul of the New Syllabus. I have
defined the New S. several times for Bulletin borrowers
and readers.” Does that mean yea or nay, Mr. Jimmie
Relevancy? “Jimmie’s” answers to some of my other
queries indicate that, although he is an inspector, he
doesn’t know a good many things that are matters of
common knowledge among teachers, or perhaps he has
found it convenient to forget them since becoming
an inspector. He doesn’t know an inspector with an
extra-violent temper. Well, my informant 'was a
teacher who was a pupil-teacher under him in a big
city school when he was appointed. Perhaps if I
say that he is eccentric, “ Jimmie ” will know who I
mean. And so the two present heads of the Department
believed in schools being “palaces of dear delight,” etc.,
even before the New Syllabus was introduced. Well, in
that case, it seems peculiar that one of them was regarded
as a machine, more than a man, when an inspector. As
for the sheaves of grateful letters, splendid presents,
valuable gifts, and the bathetic reference to historic old
Parramatta, what have they to do with my questions
regarding some of the ways in which inspectors have
been appointed ? By all means let us have the New Sylla-
bus, but also let us have up-to-date inspectors whose
appointments are above suspicion.
• * * *.
He tossed on the bed at midnight
As the clock was striking the hour ;
And he hoped that he get rid might
Of the cough that made him so dour.
Hot gruel and slops they gave him,
But such treatment he did abjure,
There was only one thing that could save him,
’Twas Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
QUITE A DIFFERENT THING.
AGGRESSIVE PARTY (who has been insulted in the presence of his girl): “ Fellow , did yon
intend that for a joke ?”
THE FELLOW: “ Nar. I meant it.”
AGGRESSIVE PARTY: “ Oh, that’s all right! But I realty can’t stand jokes like that.”
P.T. writes :
Premier Ward, of Maoriland, is going to get his Parlia-
ment to change the official- designation of his country
’ rif 1
tiiis, u 6 might write his ndme on the scroll ot histoi v £is
the statesman who gave to his country its own sadly-
sweet name of “ Maoriland.” The motion that changes
“ Colony ” into “ Dominion ” can also change the batheti-
eally-Duteh “ New Zealand ” into the historically-appro-
priate “Maoriland ” “The Dominion of Maoriland.”
The words have strength, courage, and music in them.
And then the country would, for the first time, have a
name of its own. It would become its own painting’,
instead of a darned bad copy of somebody else’s smudge,
To be Zealand isn’t much—it is 690 square miles of low-
lying island and sandbank on the outer edge of the
Netherlands. To be New Zealand-the inferior copy or
imitation or small brother of Zealand—is even less. Let
us be ourselves—not the small brother of a Dutch sand-
h an k.
* * * *
The scandal of the Melbourne Mint rob-
bery seems to have ended in a conspiracy
of silence among the local police, the
press, and the Bent Government. Here was a
case of £l7OO worth of bar gold disappear-
ing from the custody of a policeman at the
Mint lodge. Said bobby was acting irre-
sponsibly on behalf of the Government when
he received the metal. Of all the recent
robberies which have brought Melbourne’s
police force into contempt, the Mint case
should have been the easiest mystery to
solve; so the fact that nobody, up to time
of writing, is charged with this remarkable
theft is not more surprising than the sudden
cessation of newspaper comment on the
scandal. Will the Government offer no
reward for the discovery of the person who
stole £l7OO in gold, almost as soon as it was
committed to the care of a Government
servant on Government premises, and put
in the Government safe, and locked with the
Government key ? Do the police know
everything about the robbery, or nothing
about it ? —and why this silence as to their
knowledge or their ignorance? And is the
public content to regard a very dirty-looking
incident as a good joke?
* te * «
A recent Bendigo (Vic.) wedding was
something of a record in the way of adver-
tising the liquor interest. The bride was the
daughter of a brewer, the wedding took
place at a hotel, and the parson’s name was Beer.
* » » •
An extract from the rules of the Pansy
Quadrille Club, Broken Hill: —
Gents, are requested to wear gloves or use a handker-
chief.
Any lady who refuses to stand up with any gent, in a
dance must not stand up at all in that dance.
All couples must embrace when swinging in the squares.
There is not room for the toffs’ way of swinging.
The Pansy Quadrille exists right through the
year, even though the thermometer may register
110° on top of the iceberg.
Judkins the reformer has got down to
opium and the Chows now. HeresemblesMel-
bourne’s sad girls in the successive steps of his
descent. He started high up as a terror to aristo-
, • ■ mi i i i, ■. i . . i i
cratic vice. Then he dealt with gambling and
liquor—two things that drag people down always.
His penultimate step was to Lonsdale-street; and
now, unable to do anything more there, he has
drifted to Lilly Buek-stleet and the Chows. His
t 0 ui that thore the nriee of nninm fallen
H,,”® lb t “ at tPe P rlc ° ot °P lum has tallen
6d. a tin. lhe drug has been as dear as
diamonds and pearls since the passing of the pro-
hibition law, and such a fall indicates, of course,
that a big smuggle has been brought off. Juddy
went to p eaC oek about it, and the man with the
■„„ i„„„u • ,
galvanised iron laugh promised to investigate.
Juddy also gave him the addresses of 40 opium
dens, which is probably more than even the police
know of.
UNANIMOUS.
The only world-wide worship in which is NO
Sectarianism: Woman, lovely Woman.
“ The people already have too many in-
ducements to stay away from church,” says a
worthy member of the Presbytery of North
Melbourne.
’Xis true to church we do not go,
According to the statist.
Of those inducements we possess
To stay away we all confess
The parson is the g'reatest.
BACCHANALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Tis morn. Your crumpled pillow doth exhale
Odors of midnight revelry and stale
Cigars and stout. Two damaged lobster claws
Adorn the spot where once Her photo was.
The dying tuberose in your evening suit
Suggests a mourning coach. A patent boot
Hangs sadly pendant from the gasolier ;
Last night’s events are but a mental smear.
How got you home ? Where left your trusty pal ?
What of the unconnected interval ?
Oh 1 dimly groping brain, where spectres pass
Of Flossies, p’leeeemen, cabs, and broken glass 1
Is this your head that on the pillow lies,
Or Santos-Dumont’s latest enterprise?
The time ? Eleven o’clock ! Ye Gods ! Alack,
The Boss, the office ledgers, and—the Sack.
To this burnt-umber palate who will bring
Strawberries, lemons, ices, anything ?
The stone that rolled last night and gained no moss
Yearns rabid at the dawn for Worcester Sauce.
What distant cry is that ? What pealing chimes ?
What raucous kid calls out the Sunday Slimes?
Oh ! tell-tale looking-glass. Oh ! face forlorn !
Smile once again, for it is Sunday morn.
N.S.W.
H.H.


fg
From the Tannery to Yoar Foot.
■pfiOM the Tannery to your foot we know the
* life history of this boot at 10/6.
We know the material of which it is made—from
the leather to the eyelets. We know the class of
workmanship that goes into it, and we know it has
no equal in Australia at the price.
We know all this because we insist on our
manufacturers following our instructions.
Made of real Box Calf, beautifully soft and absolutely
High-dass from beginning to end*
Price - 16/6 a pair.
Postage
9t). extra.
PEAPES & CO. LTD ♦ t Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Douglas Story tells in his “To-morrow in
the East ” (which is the North as far as Australia
is concerned) that British passengers arriving by
Japanese boats in Korea have to stand aside till
the first-class Japanese passengers have landed.
The first-class Japs go off in a nice clean tender.
The first-class white trash have to wait for a dirty
tug, and go ashore along with the second-class
Jap passengers and the steerage coolies. Now,
supposing President Kruger, in his palmy days,
had decreed that a British person travelling first-
class by train must not move till the first-class
Boer passenger had left the carriage, and must
have his meal at refreshment stations with second
and third-class Boer passengers, and the inhabi-
tants of the cattle truck !! ! That is the sort of
thing that Britain puts up with from its brown
ally.
TRUE TO THE END.
THE HOSTESS : "Did you know Mr. Broke? ”
VISITOR : “ Yes, I was one of his best friends. I
was the last to throw him over when he lost
his money.”
When a Dago opens a fish-and-chips shop
in the Maligned State, he touts for custom under
the auspices of the A.N.A. Around Melbourne
there are stacks of A.N.A. fish and oyster saloons,
cooked meat shops, ice-cream warehouses, and
rabbit-oh dens ; and the wine-shops, with Totties
in the hinderparts, are largely A.N.A. on the
outside. The Association is now fetching its feet
down on the whole illegitimate brood, and A.N.A.
is to be registered as a trade-mark.
•* * * «
The way to know a good thing is to try it.
Any doctor will tell you that Angier’s Emulsion
is the best remedy on the market for coughs and
lung troubles. It not only soothes and heals the
lungs, but it promotes appetite, aids digestion,
and builds up strength. In three sizes, of all
■chemists.*
GAME TO INQUIRE.
MR CASHMORE : “ Want to marry my daughter, eh? What are your prospects? ”
GEORGE: "Well, that’s what I came to find out.”
NEW DAY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Now is the hour when all the dark turns gray
And with a swift, chill shudder pales and dies,
And soft, sweet dreams smile over sleepless eyes,
Sped from the fresh breath of the new-born day.
Now wakes the first bird at the light’s first ray,
The old man stirs and turns and sleeping, sighs ;
The cock crows loud without and the child cries,
And weary lovers kiss and turn away.
Now on the sea the shipmen’s lights are out
And the cold waves take fire, and all t he earth
Stirs after sleep, new-born with keener mood ;
When Night’s black hour-glass freshly swings about
God send me also rest and a new birth,
New light, a riddle solved and strength renewed.
n.s.w. Harry Sullivan.
* * * *
Adelaide is in trouble. It lately whipped
itself up to the point of deciding to substitute for
its gradual horse-trams the whirling electric-car ;
and, when it looks back calmly on its decision, it
wonders whether it really didn’t
do something rash, and
whether it will ever be
able to keep out of the
road of the deadly
machines, supposing
it starts them. It
knows, however, that
there is no drawing
back now ; it will
have to take the
awful risk, having
gone so far. But it
wants to save itself
from being run over
more than possible,
so a majority of the
mostly-municipal
Tramway Trust
favors laying the
rails along the broad-
est and least-fre-
quented streets (the
broadest streets hap-
pen to be the least
frequented), and keep-
ing quite clear of the
narrow and busy
streets —so far as any
Adelaide streets are
busy and narrow. The
narrowest streets are
broader than Georg"-
street, Sydney, is in
various places ; yet George-
street, Sydney, has a double
line of trams that carry more
traffic in a day than any Adelaide
line would have a chance to carry
in a week. But the majority won’t
risk it; it is so deadly afraid of being
run over that even in the remote places,
which look like a cemetery, traffic is forbidden
to go over street-crossings at more than a
funeral-walking pace. And in case the Trust’s
engineer might scoff at these fears and tell
the Trust to take the trams where the traffic is,
the Trust has decided by a majority not to ask
the engineer for any report at all on the question
of routes.
* * * *
The Bulk Shire Council (Vic.) having an-
nounced its intention of giving the young men of
Sun bury permission to play football on a local
reserve on Sunday, Presbyteries and other church
bodies are up in arms against a-loathly attempt to
fracture the Sabbath, and Judkins bids the
Council beware. Also, the Presbytery of Mel-
bourne North declares that Sunday football is
calculated to encourage unseemly conduct. So is
Saturday football for that matter. Maiming
an umpire is unseemly on almost any day of the
week. An even graver charge follows : “Sunday
football is inimical to religious education.” But
Sunday football doesn’t keep young men from
church. It only keeps them from the pub. There
are many side issues about this business. It
seems to raise the question : “ Can a footballer be
a Christian ?”
* * * *
Do not take a substitute for Chamberlain’s
Cough 'Remedy. It lias no equal.*
Probably the most fervent prayers ever
uttered by Pastor Baglin, of FoOtscray (Vie.),
were put up by him one recent Sabbath evening,
while he was travelling from North Melbourne
to South Kensington. After seeing the collec-
tion safely taken up in a friend’s church at North
Melbourne, he made for the station, and arrived
just as his train was leaving. Rushing down the
ramp he got so much way on that he bumped
violently against the corner of a moving carriage
and tumbled between it and the next. Luckily,
he grabbed the drawbar and hung on. As no one
had noticed the whirling Gospeller, the train pro-
ceeded, and the sky-quartermaster had either
to drop to sudden death or hang on to the
drawbar and to this vale of tears for all he
was worth. So he hung on, coiling his legs
round the bar for greater security and think-
ing hard. His handbag and hat went the
way of all things that drop from a moving train ;
his long coat flapped against the wheels, while the
sleepers and metals tore it to ribbons; blood
streamed down his face from a wound on his fore-
head—-but he still clung, and avoided Heaven.
When the train stopped at South Kensington he
still had strength to clamber on the platform, but
he was a collapsed and washed-out man for many
days after. Even the department’s promise to
summon him for rushing at one of Tait’s trains
while in motion failed to rouse him to any sense
of the humor of the situation.
* * * *
Melbourne’s citizens are beginning to wear
a permanent expression of “weird expectancy.”
Among burglars, pickpockets, garrotters, and the
tricks of the food adulterator and the importer,
they have quite enough to do to keep on the alert.
And somebody sells them a wild cat in between
times, and they have Judkins, Wren, Worrall,
Woodful, Bent, and the landlord on their minds.
But the other day a new terror appeared in the
shape of an alleged “ trance medium ” who, under
the control of his wife and a “lecturer on the
occult,” drove a carriage and pair, while blind-
folded, through the city in an attempt to find a
secreted penknife, or a brick or something. By
the grace of the gods he didn’t kill anybody, but
he wrecked a buggy and drove sundry money-
making schemes out of the heads of several
respectable citizens. Also, when a traffic-regu-
lating constable seized the horses’ heads in an
effort to stop the career of this blindfolded driver,
h:v whipped up the animals and pressed on regard-
less, while the Law pluckily hung on and quoted
bylaw XVIQ. Bystanders yelled to the other
occupants of the carriage-to “throw him out,”
but they didn’t. Yet it would have been interest-
ing to note whether a man full of disembodied
spirits hits the pavement with a similar thud to the
man with bulk rum in him.
* * * *
The wisdom of “ Lewin Crade ” :
A man has but to make an insulting remark about
Woman, and, lo ! he is proclaimed a wit.
Even the most stupid may excel at silent contempt.
Consider the postage stamp. Its chief merit consists
in sticking to a thing until it gets there.
Victorian Chief Justice Madden has had
before him the amazing handiwork of twoKyabram
magistrates. The trouble arose about an itinerant
book-vend or whom the police, for some inscru-
table reason, aroused from his bed at a local hotel
and arrested on a question of vagrancy He strenu-
ously denied the vagrancy, blit admitted that he
had been, in ignorance, hawking without a license.
He was nevertheless charged next day, not with
the offence which he acknowledged, but with the
original one of vagrancy, notwithstanding that
the police had searched his belongings and dis-
covered that he had 31s. 6d. and a stock of books.
Being very deaf, he was in complete ignorance of
the nature of the case and of the evidence given
in court, and kuew nothing until a constable
roared into his ear that he had got “ two months’
hard labor.” He wished to appeal, but was not
allowed access to a lawyer ; in fact, he had been
one month in gaol before the visiting police magis-
trate and the Penal Inspector-General came
across him. Hearing his statements, they passed
the matter on to the Attorney-General, who re-
leased him. At considerable expense this alleged
vagrant then sought to have his character cleared
by getting the conviction quashed. This his Honor
promptly did, at the same time telling the police
that in the circumstances they had no right to
search him, nor to arrest him, nor to charge him
with vagrancy. Also, his Honor said that the
two amazing Kyabram beaks “apparently did
not trouble to inquire what the law was. They
were told the man had no lawful means of sup-
port, although he had 31s. 6d. on him, yet they
convicted him apparently unheard, and ordered
two months’ imprisonment.... He had thought
at first it was an outrage, a deliberate attempt to
deprive a man of his liberty, but he was now of
opinion that it was a case in which both police
and magistrates had grossly blundered.” Yet up
to now there is no sign that the Government has
relieved the two Solomons of their commissions ;
so that apparently they are to go on “ adminis-
tering the law ” without troubling to find out
what it is, and exhibiting an incapacity so
enormous, that at first Mr. Madden could hardly
persuade himself that the matter was ignorance,
and not malice and conspiracy.
* * * *
That well-meaning democrat, but over-
excited philanthropist, Dr. Maloney, M.H.R..
has this remarkable notice on the paper of the
House of Reps.:—
That, in any scheme of pensions, provision should be
made so that any person risking his or her life to save
that of another human being shall become entitled to a
full old-age pension, and, should the rescuer lose his or
her life in the attempt, his or her next of kin shall become
entitled to a double pension.
For a scheme w'hich opens up unlimited possibili-
ties, that about holds the record. If it were
adopted, a person would hardly get faiily wet in
the waters of Circular Quay, Sydney, before the
feet of about two dozen rescuers would land on
him and give him brain concussion. Then when
they got him out, he would be nearly dislocated
on the wharf in the struggle of his many helpers
to get possession of the wet, insensible bit of evi-
dence, and rush it in a cab to the Old Age Pension
Office. And probably it would prove that the
saved one could swim perfectly, and had only
gone in to recover his hat, and that there was
nothing wrong with him except that he was dead
through his numerous preservers falling on his
head.
» * * *
Again the public washing of the Barrier
shirt: —
XTOTICE.—If it is possible for Mrs.TOM CHAND-
TN LER, of Argent-street, to act wisely, she will!
accept this warning, and cease talking about me.
Mrs. O. CHANDLER,
West Broken Hill.
They insert notices of this sort every day at
Broken Hill. Nothing ever comes of them, but
they keep on inserting them. Every country has
its own customs. The woman of some parts of
Western Asia is reputed to go up on the flat roof
of the house when she feels she, can stand it no
longer, and on that roof she holds forth. She has
hysterics. She denounces her enemy. She ex-
poses the said enemy. She flings her hair to the
eight winds of heaven, and holds out her arms like
semaphores. She curses the enemy’s ancestry right
back, and his or her posterity right forward. She
foams and performs, and raises Cain and the devil.
And down in the street below no one heeds her.
Men, hags, children, camels, dogs, priests, beggars,
lepers, dervishes, and pea-nut vendors drift by in
a steady stream. They take no interest in the
squalling cataract of language on the roof. Ib®y
don’t care a clod for her, or her enemy, or her
grievance, and she doesn t expect them to. vf 1 ®
is just relieving her feelings, and when she has
emptied the last curse out of herself, and has
shouted herself speechless, she refixes her hair,
and goes down to boil the food for dinner. It is
just a way she has—the same as the woman at
Broken Hill. The Asiatic custom might prevail
at the Hill, but the house-tops aren’t flat there,
and a lady on all fours on the slippery galvanised
iron roof of a one-storey building couldn t hold
forth to advantage—she could barely hold on.
* * * •
The returned N.S.W, Boer-slayers who
have made good their claims to extra pay are
requested to apply at once to Mr. G. E. Brodie,
“Director of charities,” for the money. Acci-
dent or premeditated nastiness?
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE HIGH C.S. AND GREAT T.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Town Clerk (Mr. Nesbitt) and the City Surveyor
(Mr. Gordon) are at loggerheads over labor appointments,
the latter claiming the right to engage or dismiss work-
men. Mr. Nesbitt thinks he should be referred to in such
eases, and is supported by the Lord Mayor.— Sydney
0.T.,5/71'07.
“At loggerheads ! ” Good gracious me,
What disrespectful language!
I never thought to live to see
Such TELEGRAPH-ic slanguage !
The High C.S. and Great T.C.
“At loggerheads ! ” My goodness !
My goodcious grayness ! Mercy me !
What unexampled rudeness !
They both should well-respected be,
The High C.S. and Great T.C.
Of course, you’ll guess my deep distress
On learning of this matter !
The. Great T.C. and High C.S.
I have no wish to flatter ;
But gentlemen of courteousness,
Befitting lofty stations,
Should have (at least before the Press)
Harmonious relations!
They should preserve “la politesse”—
The Great T.C. and High C.S.
There is a phrase which 9eems to me,
And always has in one sense,
The height of rank absurditee
And addle-pated nonsense :
“ Better two heads than one ! ” But we
Who don’t let phrases fool us,
In spite of this philosophee,
Prefer one head to rule us
1 won’t say if that head should be
The High CIS. or Great T.C.
Not long ago there was a mess
(Don’t mention names, good Heavens !)
That put the railway bus-i-ness
At sixes and at sevens !
Two men may each achieve success
In any trade or calling,
But someone must be Boss ; unless
That’s so, the friction’s galling 1
And then, of course, we must suppress
The Great T.C. or High C.S. !
The little birds in harmonee
A lesson oft unfold us ;
They in their little nests agree,
As Wattsisname has told us 1
But why do they agree, sirree,
And bickerings forsake ’em?
The mother-bird is on the tree
To boss the nest and make ’em !:
One head should rule, if he or she l ,
Or High C.S. or Great T. 0.. t
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEYS
English Machinery, vix.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
S. Australia foresees one of those mishaps that
are liable to occur in the worst regulated families. There
was a paragraph in the papers lately to the effect that
the Transvaal, which it was thought would want a trifle
from Cohen this year, had decided to put off the visit to
the pawnshop until next year, when something large in
the, way of a loan will be floated under Imperial Govern-
ment guarantee. Thereupon S. Australia turned up its
bodks and found that it would also have to call upon
Cohen for a large amount next year—either that or it
would have to tell the old Cohen that his bill was renewed
whether he liked it or not —and it also remembered that
it wouldn’t have the ghost of an Imperial guarantee to
offer. When the tight corner into which S. Australia
might be driven was realised, its Government rushed off
the following wire to the other State Governments :
“ Rumored that Imperial Government delaying issue of
£5,000,000 Transvaal loan until next year. Strongly urge
you cable your Agent-General join other Agents-General
to represent in strongest terms that such delay and the
placing of a large loan under Imperial Government guar-
antee in 1908 on London market may seriously and detri-
mentally affect the financial operations of the whole of
the Australian States, owing to Australian loans not being
so guaranteed, and the possibility of having recourse to
the London money market for the purpose of raising
funds towards the redemption of over £10,00,000 of Aus-
tralian loans maturing between January, 1908, and
January, 1909.”
Queensland and Westralia didn’t get this flustered message
because they don’t happen to have loans falling due in
1908 ; but N.S. Wales has £2,865,500 of funded and
£350,000 of unfunded debt to wrestle with (figures are
from the last statement of the N.S.W. Bureau of
Statistics), Victoria has £2,023,869 of funded trouble, and
Tasmania about £788,000 altogether. South Australia’s
own little lot is £1,951,100 funded and £278,200 unfunded.
The fact that the curse would come home to
roost has been known all along ; but every shiftless
Government has continued to add to the number of curses
on the wing, and has cheerfully taken it for granted that
no curse would ever come home to roost at an awkward
time. Yet, if not another loan were issued, there is
hardly a year between now and 1935 when one or more
Australian State Goverments won’t have to pay up, renew
or repudiate; and it is past all probability that there
won’t be some awkward times between now and 1935.
Here, on the very threshold—for the big loans have only
now started to fall due —one State spies trouble ahead ;
and stilly all that there is to make the trouble on this
occasion is one comparatively insignificant foreign loan—
s.iy about one-tenth the size of the loans Britain would
have to call for within 12 months supposing serious un-
pleasantness arose with any of its neighbors.
Barring Westralia, there isn’t a single State
with a sinking fund that you couldn’t lose in a thimble,
and Westralia is wriggling all it knows to escape from the
“ burden ” of adding to its trifle. N.S. Wales, whose fund
was nominally created by J. Carruthers, naturally hasn’t,
therefore, any real sinking fund at all, because as soon as
there is any money in hand it is used to purchase and
cancel bonds, which thereafter don’t bear interest; so
that the sinking fund doesn’t benefit by interest and
compound interest. At June 30, 1906, the aggregate of
the sinking funds and the aggregate of the net debts were
as follows :
Sinking Actual
Funds. Liability.
N.S. Wales .. .. £566,484 £83,306,105
Victoria .. .. 408,561 54,256,919
Queensland .. .. Nil 39,933,935
S. Australia .. .. 251,349 29,413,623
Westralia .. .. 1,320,603 16,202,057
Tasmania .. .. 236,297 9,446,938
Total, all States .. £2,783,294 £232,559,577
No State is therefore in a position to tell Cohen that if he
doesn’t care to renew a large bill he can do the other
thing, and that the State will pay him off out of its own
accumulated resources. In any case, of course, it
wouldn’t be likely to have the cash in hand, but it would
have the securities, and the rest would be easy financing.
And, anyhow, Cohen wouldn’t be likely to be disagree-
able if he knew that he couldn’t make something by being
disagreeable : when a State has to renew or default it is
just the same easy game as a crowd of workmen are who
have to accept the boss’s terms or starve. They equally
have “ freedom of contract.” Yet, if one State struck
the trouble which S. Australia at present sees ahead,
and if it were a trouble of larger size and meant absolute
default, the State that next turned up in the market to
argue with Cohen about a note that was falling
due, would be almost certain to have a cold time.
Cohen’s incapacity to realise that N.S. Wales is the Ma
State, with the added blessing of being bossed by
Carruthers, while S. Australia is merely a poor relation
sitting on the other side of a line that you pass over
without feeling any bump whatever—Cohen’s incapacity
to see the vast difference between the two would be
pretty certain to give Sydney the cold shivers.
Under these circumstances, the sooner the
Commonwealth starts taking over the State debts by
providing a sinking fund to buy them up, the better.
It really doesn’t matter whether all the buzzing State
politicians agree or not. Some of them are for ever say-
ing what it was “ understood ” the Commonwealth would
do, and they call on the Commonwealth to do it; but
nothing was more clearly understood than that the State
debts would be taken over. Yet the same crowd stands
in the way of that. Fora start, it is indispensable that
some body should have means at its disposal to make a
State, or all the States, more or less independent of
Cohen when a loan comes to be renewed. And the only
body to get the means is the Commonwealth. It is
appalling that a State with over £30,000,000 of debt out-
standing should shake at the knees over the renewal of
less than two millions.
* » * *
Here is the past 10 years’ Customs record of
Maoriland’s ineffective Protection in a few leading lines
of imports:—
Apparel. Boots. Woollens. Iron.
1897 £362,389 £132,203 £293,449 £1,406,111
1898 354,940 130,912 286,911 1,502,794
1899 393,689 151,593 297,387 1,578,855
1900 451,879 194,811 330,713 2,113,219
1901 463,194 211,215 348,666 2,461,696
1902 511,397 202,931 393,033 2,130,243
1903 582,997 245,639 436,161 2,271,923
1904 603,894 256,165 452,271 2,557,869
1905 614,859 282,211 438,480 2,253,574
1906 685,195 300,134 479,986 2,813,096
Iron includes manufactured iron and steel goods.
The record is appalling—in the matter of boots and
woollens especially ; for Maoriland has all the materials
for those particular industries ready to its hand.
It prefers, however, to export its raw products,
and buy back the finished goods made up by labor
which can be sweated without any Arbitration
Court to protect it. Maoriland, in short, is prepared to
sweat everybody and anybody but itself ; it says that its
own people shall not work except at certain compara-
tively high rates of pay, and for certain comparatively
few hours a day ; and then, having put that prohibition
upon its own people, it opens its ports with very little
restriction to whatever the employers of the poorest-paid
and hardest-worked people in the world like to send in.
The further Arbitration and other labor laws push
reform in the matter of wages and hours of work, ob-
viously the higher the Customs will have to push duties
in order to restrain the competition of the people who
are outside the Arbitration and other labor laws ; and
because Maoriland hasn’t done that, naturally' more and
more work goes to tl. foreigner, and less and less is left
for the Maorilander, until the Customs returns show
appalling import figures like the foregoing.
• • • •
There seems to be a ghastly waste about the
Queensland sugar-growing business as far as it has gone.
Last season, of 8,373,581 gallons of molasses reported as
produced, no less than 4,529,836 gallons were “run to
waste ” ; and it is known that a great quantity which
“ ran to waste ” was never included in the returns at all.
The Moreton district returns, for instance, only show 32
gallons per ton of sugar, whereas the returns from the
Edgecumbe division (Ayr, Bowen and Mackay) show 75
gallons per ton ; and the real figures were probably about
the same in each case. Therefore it is likely that last
year over 7,500,000 gallons of molasses were wasted. Yet,
apart from the fact that good food for man can be made
out of molasses, the stuff has a high value as fodder for
live stock ; and it is a fodder that will keep against the
time when drought strips the country of every' other
sort of edible thing. So long as the sugar busi-
ness had cheap colored labor it didn’t trouble about
by'-products—just as the goldfield doesn’t trouble about
its tailings dumps while it can root out ounce-and-a-half
ore. But the Commonwealth which rebates duty to an
industry in order to keep it in white hands and leave a
profit for the growers, will shortly' begin to see that it has
a very keen practical interest in having the waste and
the scraps used up and turned into money, so that it can
be relieved of part of the rebate, anyhow. Further, the
Australian home consumption having now been passed,
the Australian producer will have to battle for a foreign
market. That market is largely supplied by sugar grown
with the help of about the cheapest labor on earth ; and
the Australian white sugar-grower will have to set his
brains against the colored person’s mule-like toil in order
to wipe out the difference in cost of production.
• • • «
The A.M.P. bonus certificates have been scat-
tered over the six States and Maoriland during this last
week ; and, as about 210,000 of them were sent out, they
have, allowing for duplicates, drifted into probably every
seventh or eighth dwelling, which is a mighty fine record
for any office’s bonuses to put up. And the bonuses are
worth having. The A.M.P., for instance, this year adds
about £1,200,000 to the face-value of its policies ; that is
to say, the society’s profits for the year have bought and
paid for £1,200,000 more insurance than the insurers
bargained for. These are such striking figures that the
insurance drummer finds that he can land a “ case ” with
bonus results oftener than with any other kind of bait.
For once that he is asked" whether this office or the other
one charges the stiffer premiums, he is asked twice
whether this "office or the other one pays the bigger
bonuses. The average insurer, in fact, appears to have
an idea that all insurance offices start off scratch, so to
speak, charging the same premium, and that anything
they pay in bonus is so much clear profit to the man who
insures. There are, therefore, one or two things about
bonuses which seem to be worth saying.
All offices do not charge the same premiums.
Each office charges what it individually thinks will be
necessary to cover the risk it is taking. The premiums
certainly don’t vary much, because most offices use much
the same expectation of life tables; but one may reckon
to earn a little more interest on accumulated funds than
another, or to work at lower cost. Therefore premium
rates do vary. In Australia, for instance, where the
average life is longer than it is in Great Britain, and
where higher interest can be earned, offices generally
feel themselves safe in charging somewhat lower pre-
miums. That is one reason why the English office keeps
clear of Australia ; it would have to reduce its English
tables of rates in order to compete with Australian offices.
That is also why the Australian office, working on its
Australian rates, may expect to come out badly if it does
much ordinary English business. It probably won’t be
charging enough for its risks. Still the A.M.P. is going
to try the experiment. It didn’t know when it was well
off.
Bonuses come from three main sources: (1) More
interest is earned than is calculated ; (2) less is spent in
expenses than was allowed for when the premium was
fixed; (3) people don’t die as soon as had been
reckoned on, and so go on paying premiums, and
the money their widows would draw if they died when
they were expected to die goes on earning interest for
the office. It will readily be seen how important a factor
No. 3 is. Yet it may not show itself for years. Take
two offices : one selects its “ lives ” carefully, and spends
a good deal of money in the process ; the other lashes
out, takes risks almost as they come, and piles up its
figures at a low cost. The claims in both cases are few —
they haven’t begun to come in yet. The policies are
mostly young ; so neither of the offices is making any, or
much, profit out of favorable mortality experience. ' But
one, because its selection is thorough, shows larger
expenses ; therefore it shows smaller profits ; and there-
fore it can only pay smaller bonuses. But, later on, on
account of its better mortality experience, it will most
likely leave the other far behind in the matter of profits
and bonuses. So the bonuses of to-day, after all, may be
no test of what the bonuses of to-morrow will be.
The profit from excess interest earned is of little
consequence for a year or two ; but later on it becomes a
mighty factor. In the first year an insurer has paid in, say,
£lO. If the office has calculated on earning 3 per cent, and
actually earns 4 per cent., clearly the excess earnings on
that year’s premium amount to 1 per cent, on £lO, or 2s.
But after 10 years the accumulation of the annual £lO at
3percent. compound interest will amount to £114125. 4d. ;
and excess interest earnings of 1 per cent, on that
total will amount to just upon £1 3s. After 30 years the
excess earnings from this source—that is, this contribu-
tion to profit available for bonus—will amount to
£4 15s. 2d., or 47'6 per cent, of the year’s premium, as
against 1 per cent, on the first year’s premium. From
this we can see how a young office is handicapped in a
comparison with, say, a middle-aged one. They may be
equally good, equally sound, equally profitable in reality.
Yet in’one all the policies will be young, and the accu-
mulations (or, technically, reserves) will be small, and the
excess interest earnings will therefore be also small in
proportion to premiums received ; while in the other
a large proportion of the policies will be old or
middle-aged, the accumulations (or reserves) will
therefore be large, and the excess interest earnings
in proportion to annual premium will be large. Now,
bonuses are generally reported as so much per cent, of
the year’s premiums ; yet necessarily the young office,
though it may be just as sound as the old one, and
though, in the long run, it may give an insurer as good
results, will, for some years, be able to distribute by way
of bonus a smaller proportion of the premium.
Actual earnings are, of course, not affected a
jot by the rate of assumed earnings. But bonuses are.
The actuary each year—or every three or five years, as
the office’s rule may be—values the office’s policy liabili-
ties. That is to say, he takes a policy which has been in
force 10 years, and whjch, according to past experience,
ought to continue in force for 15 years more—in other
words, an average healthy person of the age of that insurer
is found to live 15 years more. The amount accumulated
is already, say, £llO. To pay the policy in 15 years,
assuming the £llO and the subsequent 15 premiums go
on earning 3 per cent., there need, however, be only
£lOB in hand. The difference—£2—is the amount avail-
able for bonus. Obviously, if the office assumes that
4 per cent, will be earned, there need not be as much in
hand to pay (along with subsequent premiums) the policy
in 15 years'. Ten pounds put into a fund every year, and
improved at 3 per cent, compound interest, reaches £lB5
19s. and some odd pence in 15 years ; at 4 per cent, it
would reach £2OO 4s. and some odd pence. The lower
thqassumed rate of interest, therefore, the higher the
reserve (or undivided accumulation) must be, and, there-
fore, for the time being the smaller the bonuses. Con-
sequently, the assumed rate of interest has to be taken
into account when comparing bonuses; for an office,
by assuming a high rate of interest, could pay large
bonus in its earlier career, but it could only do so at the
expense of bonuses later on.
* * # *
“ Itan ” : When Premier Kidston said Queens-
land was “ on her own ” concerning the mail-service con-
tract (B. 4/7/’O7), he was not hinting at a State Frights
crisis. The solution is probably this : Queensland for
years enjoyed a Torres Straits service, and Queensland
political parties have for some time agreed that some
such arrangement should be reorganised. It will be more
of a cargo than a mail service, since the steamers serving
the southern States would deliver English bags more
quickly at Brisbane than they could be delivered by the
North Australian route. The far northern centres would,
however, probably get the benefit of a quicker service, if
there was any great advantage in that. But the idea
is not to gain any benefit in that direction so much
as to secure a line of steamers which would pick up and
drop cargo at Gladstone, Townsville and Cairns. At
present the coastal ring can impose its own rates on cargo
for transhipment at Sydney and Brisbane, to say nothing
of the cost of the double handling. North Queensland must
yet become a great butter-producing centre, but if the
butter has to be sent down the coast in the coastal ring’s
steamers, much of the cow-man’s profits will trickle into
the fatman’s pockets before the butter gets aboard the
deep-sea ship. Then there is the rapidly-increasing
export of minerals, which is in the same position now as
the other produce is. Kidston’s idea is in no way
parochial. He is too far-seeing to meddle in a petty
way. It will be found When he plays his card that he
has in view a double string to Bananaland’s bow, and the
new string will be really the chief string for the rich
districts of the Far North.
* » * *
The Bank of North Queensland
Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1901 £2536 2J p.c. = £1313 £1223 £13,083
June, 1902 2038 2J- „ „ 1313 725 13,808
Dec., 1902 2687 2£ „ „ 1313 1374 15,182
June, 1903 2153 2£ „ „ 1313 840 16,022
Dec., 1903 2408 2£ „ „ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904 2251 2| „ „ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904 2421 2j „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905 2262 2| „ „ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905 2310 2£ „ „ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906 2461 2f „ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906 2644 2£ „ „ 1335 1309 23,624
June, 1907 3018 4 „ „ 2113 905 24,429
After the comparatively small trouble which arrived at
this bank’s doors at the time when most Australian
banks were being visited, the North Queensland let
several years pass by without paying any dividend at
all; and when it did begin again in 1900 —after writing
off £3 out of every £5 of capital paid up —it was content
to pay a modest little 2J per cent. Meantime, on account
of the poor times Queensland was having, it apparently
still found plenty to do in the way of writing down values
out o€ undisclosed profits—setting, in other words, profits
made in one direction against losses made in other direc-
tions. With a mostly-Labor Government and the aboli-
tion of the Kanaka, t here should, according to the pro-
phets, have been further heavy losses. Fortunately,
however, the reverse has happened : and partly on that
account, and partly by extending its business southward,
the bank is at length in a position to raise its dividend to
4 per cent. This comparison shows the progress in some
detail in the past 12 months :
June, 1906. June, 1907.
Deposits .. ..£366,885 £475,374 Inc., £108,489
Bills in circulation, etc. 53,289 43,367 Dec., 9,922
Liquid assets.. .. 151,425 169,662 Inc., 18,237
Advances .. .. 363,797 446,553 Inc., 82,756
Premises .. .. 28,497 29,068 Inc., 571
These, in proportion to total figures, are very fine move
ments ; and they explain most of the increased profit
shown. Indeed, the improvement in the Queensland
position is so great, that it is quite likely that the banks
doing business there at present find theifiselves able to
put aside some undisclosed profits to contingency account,
as provision against the droughty times that are certain
to arrive sooner or later. The profit as disclosed is at the
rate of £4 17s. 9d. per cent, on capital and reserves. This
compares with recent results in this way :
Dec., 1903 .. £4 3 0 p.c. Dec., 1905 .. £3 16 11 p.c.
June, 1904 .. 316 11 ~ June, 1906 .. 4 1 4 ~
Dec., 1904 .. 4 2.0 „ Dec., 1906 .. 4 6 7 „
June, 1905.. 316 0 „ June, 1907.. 417 9 „
The advances show a large increase ; yet even so the
liquid assets repr sent 33 per cent, of the debts to the
public. Probably beyond this it would not be safe to go ;
that is to say, to make further advances on any large
scale, it would probably be necessary to get in further
deposits. And, as in proportion to shareholders’ funds
the deposits are still small, there is plenty of room for a
safe expansion of business in the direction of new deposits.
* * * *
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), has a goodwill item of £198,000 ; and as that is a
paper asset, it is disregarded in the following -
Dividends.
' ,
Pref. Written De-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. off. ficit.
Mar., 1904 £3750 8 p.c. =£sooo £164,131
Sept., 1904 £13,873 3750 8 „ „ 6000 £720 159,728
Mar., 1905 14,887 3750 10 „ „ 6250 701 155,542
Sept., 1905 15,306 3750 10 „ „ 6250 706 150,942
Mar., 1906 13,846 3750 10 „ „ 6250 722 147,818
Sept., 1906 16,012 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,530
Mar., 1907 15,600 3750 12 „,, 7500 962 139,142
Though nothing is being written off the large goodwill
item, there is a steady accumulation of liquid assets :
of the formal reserve fund of £55,000, the co. has £43,910
in fixed deposits and Melbourne Board of Works deben-
tures, and the balance in freehold. (In the foregoing this
reserve fund and the undivided balance are deducted
from the deficit represented by the goodwill item.) But
in order to increase the ordinary dividend to 12 per
cent, a good deal less than the average is this half-
year added to the liquid fund. Meantime, however,
apparently relying upon the maintenance of the increased
dividend, ordinary shares (which are about the only
newspaper shares regularly quoted on ’Change) have been
pushed up from about 355. to 40s. Yet the formal divi-
dend is kept at 8 per cent. ; the extra 4 per cent, is dis-
tributed by way of bonus —which may mean that the
directors don’t want to give the impression that they are
satisfied they can continue the larger payment. The
market value of the concern is now about £400,000
(125,000 preference shares at 245. 6d. and 125,000 ordinary
shares at 395. 6d.). The substantial net assets are as
follows
Freehold property and fittings .. .. £31,360
Machinery 29,309
Stock 9,091
Board of Works debentures .. .. 4,909
Deposits, book debts, etc. (net) .. .. 36,190
Total £110,859
So that the market values the goodwill at £400,000 less
£110,859, or at £289,141, which is a pretty large price to
pay for such a doubtful and insecure and impalpable
substance.
* * * *
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co. (Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898.. £477 Nil £477 £40,611
1899.. 1401 1J per cent. =£lo9o 311 40,922
1900.. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41,065
1901 .. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902 .. 2922 3 „ „ 2308 614 41,777
1903 .. 2590 3 „ „ 2477 113 41,890
1904 .. 3044 3 „ „ 2584 469 42,350
1905.. 3017 3 „ ~ 2595 422 42,772
1906 .. 3349 3| „ ~ 3061 288 43,060
Mav,
1907 .. 1954 4 „ „ 1767 187 43,247
This co. deals in city, suburban, and country lands—buys
wholesale and sells retail on time payment. Its paid
capital is now £88,369, and its reserves are as shown
above ; but in order to carry on its extensive financing
operations, it has borrowed £37,619 from depositors, and
it owes £56,475 to its bankers and others, or a total of
£94,094. These amounts are represented on the other
side mainly by sundry estates (£123,969), city properties
(£38,373), and advances (£62,080). The last item, which
consists chiefly' of unpaid balances on property sold, has
increased latterly, while the value of estates in hand is
shrinking ; which apparently means that this co. thinks
the present is a very good time to sell land. Possibly it
also reckons that the present is a very good time to buy
land for subdivision ; but its hands are fairly full—after
providing for the current dividend there were only' £1037
of liquid assets left. It is a business involving a good
deal of risk; apart from the fact that nobody can tell
what the £123,909 of estates will sell for, the ultimate
value of even the unpaid balances is in some doubt.
Presumably the co. has some undisclosed reserves against
these possibilities ; if it hasn’t, too much of the profit is
being absorbed by dividends.
* * * *
The Raymond Terrace Co-operative Dairy
and Produce Go. (Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.) :
Suppliers’ Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Bonus. off. serves.
Apr., 1905 £714
Oct., 1905 £406 £204 91(i
Apr., 1906 409 10 p.c. = £l2l 238 966
Oct., 1906 402 236 1132
Apr., 1907 1274 10 p.c. = 122 £472 258 1554
The 10 per cent, dividend, being only paid every other
year, works out at the butter cos.’ usual 5 per cent, per
annum. In addition, however, an unusually profitable
half-year just completed allows of a distribution to sup-
pliers who are also shareholders at the rate of jd. per lb.
of butter supplied. As in the case of most of these cos.
the capital (£2437) is small considering the size of the
turnover ; but the cash position is at present very good,
and since this co. doesn’t undertake export business its
risks are less than those of some others. Also the depre-
ciation allowance (10 per cent, per annum) is substantial.
* * * *
The Fingall (W.A.) reef is still looking well in
the north end of the 13th level; the shoot has now been
exposed for a length of over 100 ft., and looks like con-
tinuing. The management thinks well of the discovery,
but is afraid to say too much about it for fear the values
will peter out in the next cut. Development is well worth
watching, as, if the shoot proves to be a permanent body,
it will quite alter the mine’s future, which had of late
days been desperately gloomy.
• • •
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is still looking
very sick in the bottom. The management does not say so,
but progress reports tells their own tale. Prices are being
kept up, and may go higher, on the strength of present
profits and yarns spun by optimists who have had a peep
below on visiting days. Nearly every other day in the
week the man in the street at Kalgoorlie is heard talking
about the richness of this or that face in the bottom
workings of this mine ; but as the assay plan is the only
guide to the value of Kalgoorlie ore, and as this precious
document is not shown to visitors at the Perseverance
office, the street-corner information can only be taken
for what it is worth—which is very little indeed.
* • * n
Much of the talk about low working costs in-
dulged in by Westralian mining cos. is mere flam. Thus
a certain Kalgoorlie co., which plumes itself on
economical working, charges ore obtained from driving,
rising, and winzing, to development, which is a capital
account. Having done so, it lumps the ore obtained
from this source with the stone drawn from stopes, and
figures out the costs on the total tonnage. Working ex-
penditure is thus made to look small for the time being ;
but the secret is betrayed at the end of each financial
year, when the accounts come to be made up, and the
heavy charge for development is shown. Yet the audi-
tors, knowing that the cost of development footage is
nearly double what it ought to be, gravely wink at the
whole farce.
* * * *
Free gold and telluride are showing in the ore
coming from 1350 ft. (or bottom) workings of the Kalgurli
(W.A.). The lode is 10ft. wide at this point, and published
assays are much below actual figures. Attention recently
directed to the development of new ground in some of
the higher levels of this mine has in each case led to the
discovery of fresh bodies of payable ore.
* * * *
Flotation of the balance of Kaufman’s Phillips
River (W.A.) specs still hangs fire. People at ’Ome are
afraid of the price of copper coming down with a run,
and there are so many better-looking plums ripe for
picking, that Kaufman may have to wait a long time
before a favorable.opportunity presents itself to get his
ventures off.
* * ■* *
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), is not worked
out yet. Two years ago it was acquired from the liqui-
dator for a few hundred pounds, and at that time it was
looked upon as worthless. The new owners, however,
have since taken out 3000 or 4000 ounces of gold, and
reckon on getting a lot more. But Menzies’ reefs have a
weakness for going wrong at shallow depths, and those
now being worked in the Lady Shenton will probably do
the same.
* * * *
Gwalia South, Leonora (W. A.), will reach the pro-
ducing stage in August. The co. has spent about £26,000
since acquiring the property, and will be about £2OOO in
debt by the time its new 10-head mill starts. Its main
shoot passes into the adjoining Sons of Gwalia mine, at a
vertical depth of 600 ft. or so from the surface. This
means that, unless a fresh find is made in the interim,
Gwalia South will be worked out in a few years from now.
Scientific and economical mining demanded the absorp-
tion of this lease by the Sons of Gwalia Co., but it is
stated that the Gwalia South people asked too high a
figure. With its fine surface equipment and financial
strength, Sons of Gwalia Co. could treat the ore much
more cheaply than the Gwalia South management can
ever hope to do, and if an amalgamation had been effected
there would have been much more profit to cut up.
* * * *
W. L. Baillieu has now gone off the Zinc Cor-
poration Board —possibly because practically all the
shares have been passed on to J. Bull. Quotations
(middle) are down to about 6s. 6d. ; they were last year
boomed up to 40s. R. Sticht, of Mt. Lyell, has been
visiting Broken Hill with Loring (of 8., M. and Co., the
managers) and the secretary of the co., so presumably he '
has been called in to see if he can give any hints that
may help the co. out of the hole into which it rushed
with so much enthusiasm.
* * * *
The “Sink” Corporation, Broken Hill, is at
present in the position of the man who, being blind-
folded, is told to turn round three times and grab. If he
catches anything, well and good. But he generally
doesn’t grab what he would like to. The jumbled-up
experimental plant on the British lease has been stopped
for the greater part of the past fortnight, and while it
was running, only 160 tons of tailings per day were being
put through. The Ullrich magnetic machine, which for a
long time tried desperately to justify its existence in
the building specially erected to accommodate it and
five more like it, has gone. It was intended for separating
the lead from the zinc concentrates produced by the
flotation process, and so it did ; but the Corporation
didn’t want to be in the position of the mountain labor-
ing to bring forth a mouse. It is also stated that the
Corporation purchased the six machines before it knew
much about them. In spite of all, however, the Corpora-
tion is pushing on with the main plant on the South
Blocks hill.
* * * *
The feeding-bottle stage of the big new mill
which the Sulphide Corporation has put up at the Cen %
tral mine, Broken Hill, seems to be passed, and all*
four sections are now doing good work. The new
slime-treatment plant, in which the Cattermole
granulation process is to be used, is about ready
for service ; and what with this and the other two
granulation plants, the magnetic plant, and the big lead
mill, the output from the Central should soon reach tall
figures. It certainly is time ordinary shareholders in the
Sulphide Corporation had a look in.
* * *
Development work at the north end of the
Junction, Broken Hill, where the ore body coming in
from the Junction North was tackled at the 900 ft. level,
has gone a long way towards proving that the latter mine
did not follow the true course of the ore body at the
937 ft. The lode seems to have taken a more v csterly
course, and co be making fairly big on the Junction side
of the boundary. If that turns out to be the oase, the
Junction is assured of a fine wide body from the 690 ft.
level down, and a good chance of a continuation south-
westerly towards Browne shaft. All the Junction ore
bodies run nearly east and west.
* * * *
The Junction North is the only co. along the
line of the Broken Hill lode which professes not to care
whether Broken Hill has a supplementary water scheme
or not. Having, as a regular thing, 50,000 gallons of
water from underground per day, and the means of
raising 70,000 gallons if need be, the Junction North pro-
fesses to view the situation with sublime indifference. It
is foolish, for everybody knows that it wouldn’t affect
this silly attitude if it had the money to help the supple-
mentary scheme.
* * * *
The mil] at the South Blocks, Broken Hill, is
now fairly at work, and for June the product was valued
on the mine at £12,661, from which £7463 working


expenses has to be deducted, leaving a profit of £5198.
The output was 6910 tons crude ore, so profit was 15s.
per ton. The concentrates (1297 tons) were worth 64J
per cent, for lead, or a total of 836 J tons, so on that basis
the profit was at the rate of £6 4s. 6d. per ton of lead.
As lead averaged something over £2l for the month, this
means that, so long as silver keeps its present price, the
co. can work without showing a loss on a lead market
running down to £l4 16s. per ton. There is nothing very
cheerful about that ; the margin is still much too small.
There are 200,000 shares in the co. ; and, as the past
month’s profit was at the rate of £62,376 a year, this
means 6s. 4d. per share. The present quotation is 355.
Evidently the market either miscalculates the present
position or expects the mine to do a good deal better in
the future.
* * * »
The Broken Hill mines have now over 9900
men on their local pay rolls ; these are exclusive of the
men at the Port Pirie and other smelting works. The
number easily constitutes a record for the silver-lead
industry in N.S. Wales.
* * * *
The earliest ex ploration of Lobb’s Hole (N. S. W. )
by the new co. hasn’t given very cheerful results. The
main level (120 ft.) was in 460 ft. west and 323 ft. east when
the co. took possession. West the vein, always narrow,
had pinched to a film, but east there was good ore in the
face. At 331 ft., however, the r, ef cut out, and though
14ft. further has been driven there is no sign of it making
again. Work laterally has therefore been stopped, and
preparations made to sink the shaft a further 100 ft. ; and
this entails a new' hauling and pumping plant. Presum-
ably the failure to get ore in the old level to help keep
the pot boiling will mean calls at an earlier date than had
been expected.
* * * *
Superintendent Patterson, of the New Hillgrove
Prop. (N.S. W.), values 25,000 tons of Eleanora stone at
£3 a ton ; costs he estimates at 305., so if the new mill
can keep step with the co.’s large share register, dividends
should eventuate. A small milling capacity with low grade
ore is obviously no use to such a big co. ; even the rich ore
from the New Hillgrove didn’t produce dividends quickly
enough w'ith a 10-head mill. For the time the New Hill-
grove seems to have become second fiddle to the Eleanora.
There is one thing to be said in favor of the New Hill-
grove—its rich patches can hardly be measured by an en-
gineer’s foot rule ; there probably is a lot of the yellow’
metal down below'—the metal that shareholders have
been dreaming about. Patterson’s opinion of the
Eleanora certainly sustains the idea that some of the
other reefs are w’orth another trial. Electric power and
modern machinery alter the conditions for the working
of mines, and it cannot be fairly said that Hillgrove deep
levels have proved disappointing, although the patchy
nature of the reef should curb any enthusiasm.
»*’*•»
The much-threatened Broken Hill Water Supply
Co. —a Melbourne co.—feels a bit better again. Some
time ago a Bill was passed to constitute a Trust, formed
of the municipality and the mining cos. The Broken
Hill Prop, and Block 10 would not, however, come in ;
and when trouble fell on the Zinc Corporation, and the
Junction North didn’t burst out into the expected
affluence and dividends, the Trust found that the neces-
sary capital w'asn’t forthcoming to carry through the
Umberumberka scheme. Block 10, it was supposed,
wouldn’t join in because its Board is very friendly with
the Water Co.’s Board; the B.H. Prop.’s attitude was,
however, less explainable. But now it is pretty plain that
the big co. stood.out because it reckoned, that the rest
would get into ditficulties without its help, w'hereupon it
would be able to command its ow'n terms. Its own terms
turn out to be separate representation on the Trust ; and
the chances are that it will be granted. That sort of thing
is very' characteristic of B.H. Prop, management. It is a
giant, and uses its strength like a giant.
♦ * * *
Queensland dividends for the first half of this
year amounted to £215,713, or £31,045 less than for the
first half of 1906. In the first half of 1903 the dividends
reached £463,109, and in the corresponding part of 1904
they were £429,680 ; so that the past half-year’s divi-
dends are barely half of those paid in January-June,
1904, and a good deal less than half of those for January-
June, 1903. There are people, though, who think that
Kidston has had all the luck. He certainly has benefited
by pretty good seasons in the pastoral country, but the
mining fields have gone back on him very badly.
• * * *
Stannary Hills Co. (Q.), having got rid of most
of its floating liability during the past eighteen months,
is now turning its attention to its short-dated first-mort-
gage debentures. At the end of March, 1906, the former
liabilities (mostly loans issued on the security of deben-
ture stock) ran to £43,264 ; at March 31, 1907, they were
down to £14,913, and that lot has since been wiped out.
There still remains, however, £17,375 of the first mortgage
stock ; and as it carries 10 per cent., it is a burden well
worth getting rid of. Fortunately, the co. can get rid of
it any time, and profits are being saved up now for that
purpose. By the end of the year it will be wiped out; it
will nominally disappear before then, but the co. will
have to borrow for the purpose. After that, however,
there will still remain £63,850 net of 6 per cent, first
mortgage debentures ; and they do not fall due till 1921.
In addition to interest, they early a sinking fund
which will call for something like £4OOO a year. The
recent profit has been about £23,500 a half-year, after
paying interest, but without allowing anything for
depreciation. And now the sinking fund before men-
tioned will have to come out of profits. The capital,
apart from debentures, is £458,150, which is a frightful
burden. Even 8 per cent, on that calls for £36,652 a
year, and, especially during a tin boom, 8 per cent, is a
ridiculously low rate for a mine which can’t see further
ahead thaii Stannary Hills. Of course shares are not
at par nowadays : £1 paids are worth about ss. Bd. But
there is a large risk even in that.
* * * *
The camel is a much scarcer nightmare on
North Queensland tracks than he was a while ago.
Though he had the advantage of being managed by
Abdul YVade, who ought to be the most experienced
camel-man in Australia, the pathetic-looking beast was a
failure up there ; and the O.K. Co., which first used him
on a large scale, has discarded him altogether. Even
Abdul Wade, before he left, had put on eight traction
engines to perform his carrying contract; and when
Wade left in anger and bitterness, the co. bought his en-
gine team, and has since put five more on the awful
track, which is a foot deep in dust when it isn’t two feet
deep in mud.
* * * *
The war of the rival routes for the Etheridge
(Q.) line isn’t over yet ; though so far there seems very
little doubt that the Almaden to Charleston route, which
will serve the Einasleigh mines, will be adopted. The
difference in distance between the Charleston and
Brodie’s Gap routes is something like 40 miles in favor of
the latter, and in estimated cost about £80,000; but
reports as to probable traffic favor the longer and more
expensive line, and anyhow there is much more influence
that way. So, according to Chief Engineer Pagan, of the
Queensland railways, the Chillagoe Co., which has to
find the money in the first place, will probably adhere to
the Charleston and Einasleigh route.
* * * *
The Mitchell River Co. was formed over six
months ago to work a long-known-of big gold-antimony
body in the remote baekblocks of North Queensland—at
a place so remote that places like O.K. seem, in compari-
son, to be near the centre of things. Over half the time
since the co. was formed the wet season has made
Mitchell River more remote than ever ; so, between the
long delay and the slump in antimony that has happened
meantime, the 10s. shares, which were about three times
over-applied for when the co. was formed, have shrivelled
down to 6s. 6d., or thereabouts. The whole thing rests
upon the success of a process for separating the antimony
and the gold, which the McArthurs, the Glasgow metal-
lurgical people, have evolved, and for which this co. has
the Queensland rights; and the McArthurs are heavily
interested in the co. So far only preparatory'
work has been done on the claim (the plant
is to be erected there) ; tracks have been cut, lime and
bricks made, and a main shaft started. There is prac-
tically no doubt about the ore being there in quantity ;
but there has been some doubt abput the high gold
assays reported. Yet a sample (taken from the place
The mining investment* agency company
—Capital £20,000 ; Offices : 9 and 10 S cond Floor,
Albany Chambers, 2SO Collins Street, Melbourne.—
Act as Agents for Mining Investors in every capacity.
Shares bought and sold on commission. Calls paid and
dividends collected. Promising investments recom-
mended. Confidential reports supplied on Mines by staff
of highly qualified and intelligent experts. Sums from £5
upwards received for discretionary investment. Several
sound investments now offering at low rates.
W. BRUCE FOX, General Manager,
where the bulk test showed a reported 2oz. 3dwt.), and
assayed under what ought to be trustworthy conditions,
lateiy gave something over 6oz. Probably it was a freak
sample ; but at least there looks to be much gold there.
Whether it can begot out so as to give ji profit has still
to be proved. * *
Reports are current at Cloncurry that Mt.
Elliott, at 185 ft. level, is on top of a fresh make of ore of
fair quality and quantity. The sinking of the main shaft
from the 185 ft. level has just been commenced.
* * * *
“Quartpot ’’ : At the Queensland Exploration
Co.’s Ct. Australian Mine, Cloncurry, operations are of
the antediluvian type. There are about 10 bosses to
some 40 men. The two winding compartments of the
shaft appear to be of different dimensions, and the haul-
ing is done in a very primitive way. Also there are pro-
bably safer ways. At present there are no signs of
modern methods; so that between this mine and the
exploded Lady leases expenditure must run high, and
a big hole must already have been dug in the £65,000
working capital originally provided. The diamond drill
is now at work on the Great Australian, and is down over
100 ft. Should this prove the existence of copper under
Mount Pisa, it will give a much-needed lift
to the field. Great secrecy is being preserved
with regard to results. A 7ft. galvanised iron
fence has been erected round the drill. It re-
minds one of the early Coolgardie boomster methods.
This is in marked contrast to the way things are run in
connection with the Freeholds Co. Small prospecting
shafts to prove the Argylla and Just-in-Time lodes are
being sunk, and others are to be put down on the Cru-
sader and Dobbin. Manager Nicolson (brother of “ Bob,”
of Westralia’s Ivanhoe) also does his own secretarial
work.
* * * *
Last Vulcan (Q.) tin crushing returned 17 tons
of concentrates, valued at £1570, from 556 tons of ore ;
and there is nothing overpowering in a return of less
than £3 a ton, with costs on rather a high scale, and with
264,000 shares to divide profits amongst. The mine has
had its labor troubles, and that may account for the small
output ; but labor troubles don’t reduce the tin value of
the stone. Last year some cr'ushings were worth £6 per.
ton. The output, under normal circumstances, is about
800 tons a month, which is small for a co. in which it
takes £3300 to pay threepence per share. The 1050 ft.
level (the deepest) is turning out some fair ore for the
work of 11 men with a machine drill; but ore from the
deep levels has to be roasted, as it contains pyrites.
Some exceptionally good specimens of tin ore from the
950 ft. level are in J. Moffat’s collection. There has been
some enthusiasm, backed up by N. Queensland, about
the Vulcan, founded, of course, on its past history ; but
there is no easier way of falling-in in mining than to
back past records.
* * * *
Great Fitzroy copper mine (the old Mt.
Chalmers, which Doolette lately got big money into) is
about two miles from the railway line that runs down
from Rockhampton (Q.) to the mouth of the Fitzroy.
The show is big so far as quantity goes ; the cone of ore
seems to widen out as it gets deeper, and estimates are
based on measurements 260 ft. by 120 ft. Costs have been
reckoned as £1 17s. 6d. and £2 by different experts ; but
if the pyritic and silicious ore is as rich and as easily treated
as alleged, why costs should be so high is a puzzle. The
average value of the ore has been estimated at £3 2s. per
ton, with copper at £BO ; it would seem likely that the
estimates of value are as optimistic as the mining con-
science will permit. Working assays from the mine’s
pyritic ore run about 4 per cent, copper and 4dwt. of
gold, but the width of ore from which the assays are
taken is limited. Ore valued at about £3, and costs esti-
mated at £2, is riot too attractive a proposition, even
when value is based on copper at £BO a ton.
* » * **
Wolfram has again climbed to a big price ; sales
have been made “ori the ground” in North Queensland
at £l7O a ton. The Pascoe, in the Far North —Cape York
way —is producing some wolfram, and as there is talk
that the field is good, the Mines Department is sending up
Warden Cherry to have a look.
* » * *
Mount Morgan (Q.) is one of the few mines
whose reports go on improving. On the misleading
statements that were published about the exaggerated
deal in the shares six months ago, the quotations touched
925. ; but that was mere froth, and in a survey of the
movements of the stock may be disregarded. In Novem-
ber, when most Australian mining stocks were at their
top, the best price for Morgans was 775. 6d. —a fine
steady improvement of 10s. or 12s. during the year.
Since November, while nearly all other shares have
weakened, Morgans have firmed, and a sale was made at
88s. at the beginning of this week. This was partly on
the strength of the annual report, partly on an increase
of 55 tons copper and 4980 z. gold in the last monthly
out-turn from the copper smelters compared with the
previous month’s record. The year’s revenue (the co.’s
year closes at the end of May) was £934,432; compare
that with the value of the output for the past six years
1901 .. £693,273 1904 .. £467,428
1902 .. 570,337 1905 .. 518,115
1903 .. 566,401 1906 .. 482,801
The expenditure amounted to £571,619, leaving £362,813
profit, less depreciation. During the year, £162,500 was
paid in dividends, and £62,500 (Is. 3d. per share) is now
to be paid, making £225,000 for the year ; and £50,000
goes to a formal reserve fund, and £30,000 to create an
insurance reserve.
• * * *
From tbe S.M. Herald, summarising the Mt.
Morgan (Q.) report:—“ The creation of an insurance fund
will enable the co. to carry its own risks in the future,
and save large sums, paid hitherto annually in premiums.”
Yet when the Government of N.S. Wales, which engages
in a vastly bigger business than the Mt. Morgan Co., de-
cided to “ carry its own risks in the future, and save large
sums,” the S.M. Herald said it was absurd; and when
Carruthers collared the accumulated fund, and knocked
the State’s self-insurance scheme on the head, the S.M.
Herald had no brick to throw at him, but instead made
the usual remarks about Socialism and its dangers.
* X- * *
Three years’ results from the Briseis (Tas.),
whose accounts.to Dec. 31st last are only just available
in Australia
1904. 1905. 1906.
Overburden sluiced, cub. yds. 755,421 455,500 410,640
Drift sluiced, cub. yds. .. 173,446 281,950 401,800
Output metallic tin, tons .. 311'26 546’4 746’725
Metallic tin sold, tons .. 312 - 5 643 - 07 911'7
Net price per ton .. .. £126'5 £149'6 £184'5
Net proceeds £36,520 £96,326 £168,123
Looking at this table with a cold eye, it can only be said
that the co. has more to thank the price of metal for in
the matter of profits earned than it has to bless
the mine. In the short space of about two years
tin has gone up £5B per ton. It can therefore be
truly said that Providence has tempered the wind
to the lambs of Bowes Kelly’s flock, which rushed
into tin after that shrewd, shock-headed Irishman had
shown the way by buying about 30,000 shares on his own
account. The co.’s figures are a little complicated,
because Briseis takes 52 per cent, of the gross earnings
from the Brothers No. 1 as a return for working that
claim. The 1906 results from all sources, however, were
£168,123 net. Mine costs panned out at £2B 2s.
per ton of metal —this includes cost of removing over-
burden —or about £3 per ton less than in 1905.
Many Briseis’ supporters had fondly imagined that, now
that the big lump of overburden on their own mine is
pretty well off, the overburden costs would fall with a
pleasant thud. Nothing of the kind ! The co. is now
going to pour water on to the newly-bought Ringa-
rooma bank of basalt and clay—as big a job as
ever Lewis, Hawley and Clark had to tackle
when they faced the overburden on the Briseis
and Brothers Home claims. Consequently, the re-
duced costs on the Briseis’ side will be more than
counterbalanced by the outlay on the new block.
Figures given show that there is 1,700,000 cubic
yards of drift left in the Briseis. Taking 410,000
cubic yards as the average year’s work, this is
four years’ life for the mine. Dividends are 9d.
a quarter with tin at £lB4, so that on the
basis of what is in sight the present price of shares
(12s. Bd.) is full value. This is throwing in rich
drift to bring up past average returns. Then there is the
fact that the forward market for tin is so much lower
than the spot price, which marks an uneasy state of
affairs in the metal market. The Board disbursed
£112,500 in divs. (and a ninepenny bonus) last year, and
also wisely put £20,000 to reserve, and carried forward
£42,000. Financially the show is sound enough, but it is
the high price of tin that makes the prudent buyer
hesitate.
A wail of woe has, been heard from J. P.
Madden because Mt. Lyell Extended (Tas.) had its lease
forfeited. The Extended has been shepherded for the
best part of this century—at all events, since Lonergan
ceased to make the market hum. If it had been
in almost any other State save Tasmania, the claim
would have been on the scrap heap long since. \\ hat the
co. has been doing it would be hard to say ; of mining
there certainly hasn’t been anything worth mentioning.
It has been a case of “ wait on my neighbor the Consols,”
and the Consols hasn’t got enough ore proved to be worth
mentioning either. So far as demonstrated worth goes,
the Extended is in a worse plight. So why should any
hardened old miner drop a tear over the loss of pro-
prietorship ? t
The Colebrook, a Tasmanian co., formed to
work a copper show near the Emu Bay railway, has got
tram connection nearly made with that line ; and, vvhile
development work is proceeding at the mine, excavations,
etc., for smelter are being made. But it looks as though,
except at the top of the market, work will have to be
done on a larger scale than is contemplated in order to
show a profit on the comparatively poor ore so far ex-
posed. And the co. hasn’t yet satisfied everybody that
it is in a position to bustle on with the smelters.
* * * »
“G.L.M.”: Be Magnet (Tas.). The capital of
the co. is £4OOO, of which nothing has been called up;
the £15,000 which Bulletin mentions was raised by sell-
ing 15,000 shares at a premium of £1 to raise funds to
build a tramline to connect with the Emu Bay railway.
When that line was completed the co. had an overdraft
of £7200 ; it wiped that off in 12 months, with silver at
Is. 11 Jd., and lead at £ll 9s. 2d. With respect to pro-
spective profits, as the co. has made considerable profits
with silver and lead at these low values, on ore won from
the comparatively small ore bodies of the upper levels,
and without the assistance of the concentrat-
ing mill, it is feasible to deduce that, with
a lode 40ft. wide in the present lowest levels,
and containing proportionately richer ore, there should
be no difficulty in keeping up profits, especially as work-
ing expenses have been reduced some £l3OO per annum
bv the installation of a high-level water scheme, de-
veloping 200-horse power. The upper levels are still pro-
ducing ore, and have been stoped for a distance of 1300 ft.,
with ore still in the faces going north and south. The
Magnet has produced and sold over £200,000 worth of
ore, and is in the unique position of havingpaid for its
own outfit (except the tramline) out of the profits, which
record is second to none among the silver mines in this
State. Moreover, with a capital of £4OOO, of which no-
thing has been called up, the shareholders have received
£lO,OOO in d vidends, with another £2OOO payable this
month. . In addition, the mine never had so much ore
actually in sight as at present. The gross value of last
week’s output was £lB4O. The pay sheet equals £26,000
a year, and the conveyance of ore another £12,600 ; and
there is the usual large outlay on general requisites. In
short, it is a pity Tasmania has not a few more little
Magnets. Therefore, although the Magnet has never been
what may be called a brokers’ mine, there appears to be
no reason why shares should not be good value at 30s.
* * * *
“Coot”: Tasmanian Copper Co., Rosebery
(Tas.), may develop into something big. The diamond
drill indicates that the ore-bodies at 400 ft. maintain their
width and improve in quality. Contracts with the Tas-
manian Smelting Co. have been met mainly out of
development work. Three levels are opened up, and very
little stoping has yet been done. Another adit is being
driven conjointly by this and the Primrose Co., which
will give another 140 ft. of backs. Deeper levels cannot
be got without sinking, and it is proposed to go down on
the underlie from this level. At present metal values,
ore is worth about £4 to £6 for gold, silver and lead ; the
zinc (£5) and copper (10s.) are not allowed for.
•** , *
Like the dove that was sent out from the
ark, Barrambie Ranges (W.A.)is looking for a refuge, and
there is none in sight. To date the co. has not put up a
record that says much for the vaunted system of sampling.
Had it done ‘so, there is no telling where the bears
would have been. As it is, they are licking their chops
in sweet content at the marrow they have extracted
from the bones of the co. ; for shares which they sold at
£1 they can pick up at 7s. Four stages marked Barram-
hie Ranges : (1) The flotation, slow and doubtful; (2)
the report of Lynch and Thompson ; (3) the retirement
of manager Aldridge ; (4) his reinstatement, and re-
iteration that this was a mine of 3oz. stone. Lynch and
Thompson visited the mine twice, and on the second
occasion in no way modified their first eulogistic report.
To their credit, though, they said more development was
wanted. The market evidently thinks that it is still
wanted. Shareholders, meantime, are brandishing the
axe for the man who estimated that £90,000 worth of
gold was in sight. His only chance to stay execution
would be to prove that the difference between the gold
already won and that which he said was blocked out is still
underground, or has been taken by thosegold-thieves whom
so much has been talked about. Melbourne broker Hamil-
ton, who was attacked for casting doubt on the mine, has
his clients out, no doubt, and so he can, after all, smile
the smile of the man who has hit the bull’s-eye. The
Board’s duty is, as Aldridge repeats his belief in the
mine, to have his estimate checked by some competent
outsider—Oowper, of the Black Range, for instance.
* * » *
New Dempsey, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.), has hit
the reef in the old shaft, but has not hit the gold. It
may be got by driving, but there isn’t the same confidence
in the staff as there was when it got flooded out of the
winze. Thus another slap has been given to a sturdy lot
of investors who planked down their coin bravely.
* •» * •
On the Walhalla-road there is a blood-curdling
drop, which travellers know well, and near it is the copper
mine on Thompson River. Here are the remains of a
show worked 25 years back, from a tunnel driven from
the bank of the Thompson, as it cuts its way through a
vast gorge to the sea. The side of the hill is copper-
stained, and there are stories that 5000 tons of 10 per
cent, ore came out of the claim. Walhalla people have
taken hold of the old mine, reopened the tunnel, and
got “Geology” Dunn to come along and in-
spect. He tells them they have a chance not
only with copper, but with platinum in situ.
The gods at Walhalla have followed up Dunn’s report
by getting Bendigo and Melbourne capitalists to fork out
£3OOO to revive the old show. The cash is little enough ;
still, water and fuel are cheap. So if the ore is there,
Victoria will not be long before it can add another metal
to its rather scanty list.
* * * *
South German, Maldon (Vic.), is heaping up a
lot of disappointment. The reckoning is, nevertheless,
slow, because Maldon backs its views against the market,
and, as the bears cannot get scrip, values hold. Looked at
from east, west, north, or south, there isn’t a reason why
the co. should stand as it does. Nelson’s, or the w'est
reef, pans out about 4dwt. dirt without counting pyrites
and gold in sand. With these thrown in, there,
have not been divs. enough to provide a dead-beat with
a week’s shelter at a lodging-house. If good stone had
been hit in the 2000 ft. crosscut, at least one good
word could have been said. But it is as hard a
job to get the reef there as it is to find consist-
ency in G. Reid’s politics. The crosscut went West
about 300 ft. and hit nothing. Then they came
back, followed a leader south, and again got nothing.
Now it is proposed to dog’s-hind-leg from this level so as
to get under the winze from the 1900 ft., on thechancethat
a lode track which was passed through in the crosscut at
277 ft. is the missing reef. This grop ng recalls the former
search after the main German reef, when it was cut off on
the German Deep boundary at about 1700 ft. There may
be more than a coincidence in the difficulty of hitting the
two parallel formations at about the same depth.
* * * *
J.R.M.: It isn’t yet very firmly on its feet;
but it looks solvent, and its management is honest
Spec. : Seems less risk in tha course proposed.. . .Vulcan :
Don’t know any silver-lead stock that can be recom-
mended as an investment. Lead is worth nearly £22
now ; for 25 years past it hasn’t averaged £l4. That
alone ought to discourage present buying for investment
purposes.
. •* .* .* •*
Agricultural Minister O’Lougblin (S.A.) threat-
ens to take action if the alleged wheat ring, which is
keeping down the price to farmers, continues to pay less
than the bucolic person can get in other States. There
is talk of the State acting as wheat buyer, and shipping
the grain to England, to be disposed of by the Govern-
ment produce agent there. The Westralian Government
feels the same way, and is fixing up a scheme for making
advances against shipments—which is a mighty risky
business, by the way, as Win. McMillan and his Farmers'
Co-operative Society (N.S.W.) could tell, if they felt like
recalling unpleasant memories.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * ■ * »
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet X inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adanls and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Felton Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc,, will be sent, post
free, on request* to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
* * * *
Two sets of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the Victorian
Deep Leads G.M. Company (Messrs Bewick, Moreing and
Co.). Each set will consist of two lifts 250 ft., the total
lift being 500 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in diameter, and
each set of two delivers into one rising main, the dis-
charge per day 7 being 5,000,000 gallons. The valve boxes
are made in separate pieces, and the valves are of the
double flap type. The total weight is 150 tons. There is
no balance weight in the bob, but the one set of pumps
balances the other. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany have this work in hand. This Company has con-
structed and erected most of the big volume, deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
* * • *
The Searchlight (London) referring to the
report for the y 7 ear 1905 of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited, writes in its September, 1906
issue as follows “ The report itself, however, is one of
the pleasantest and most thoroughly satisfactory that
the Society has ever issued, sound and solid progress
being everywhere evident.”*
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 68 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Analytical Chemists, Mining
Companies, etc. Taylor and Colledge, Limited, Brisbane,
Laboratory Suppliers, carry full stocks of Balances,
Crucibles, Chemical Glassware, Merck’s Reagents, Purest
Chemicals and all Laboratory requisites at lowest rates.
Catalogue on application.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
COBAR. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X * * *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
*** * '
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of ,all
description H. B. Silbkrbero and Co., 448 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle.* Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company bad done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras.”*
* * *
Golden Bendigo.—Tbe safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock arid Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street:,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
N.S. W. Commissioners of Taxation (here-
after called “The Tax”) v. Mooney is'the latest
example of the lust for litigation which fills the
N.S.W. State Departments. Mooney sold a mine
fur £9OOO. He seems to have been an impecunious
beggar with asuddeu stroke of luck, for not having
had an income when he sold the mine he didn’t
send in a return,to The Tax. The Tax, however,
claimed income-tax on the whole £9OOO. Mooney
had an idea that something was wrong. He had
sold his only asset, and he thought the money was
capital—riot income. He reckoned that if a tax
commissioner sold his house and garden he
wouldn’t regard the entire proceeds as income.
Anyhow, Justice Simpson rejected the demand
for tax on £9OOO. So did the Full Court. So did
the High Court.. Against this unanimous Aus-
tralian verdict The Tax appealed to the Privy
Council on the other side of the globe. The P.
Council has now given an extraordinary decision
—a nominal verdict for a nominal amount, leav-
ing The Tax to pay all the costs. The verdict is
for a ha’penny or so, and costs are said to be'
something awe-inspiring.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
tight. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell’s Llm'.ted, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Hamer ” : Somebody mentioned recently
a down-trodden eat whose outcry led to the cap-
ture of a burglar, and suggested that cats should
be attached to every window as burglar traps. I
know a watch-cat, which is equal to any dog on
earth in this line. The owner, exhibiting the
creature’s powers, told it in a casual way to “ turn
me out,” and that cat was an agitated mass of
extended fur, rolled round an excited seething of
swear-language, in about a second. Also, it made
a dash to annihilate me, and its owner saved me
by a short head. Have a wholesome respect for
dogs; but I fancy a cat in a fury, and sustained
by a noble sense of duty, would be a more uncom-
fortable circumstance than any mere canine.
SO WOMANLY.
SAINT PETER : “Step right in, madam, I think
you’ll like the place.'”
THE WOMAN : “ Yes, but — er—is my halo on
straight?”
Item from the Richmond River Express :
Out at Dandaloo some years since they had an aboriginal
tracker who wore the orthodox policeman’s cap. One
day in the bar of the local pub a compatriot was playing-
a concertina when the tracker came along and said,
“Here, stop that playin’.” At the instigation of the land-
lord, the instrument was laid aside, the darkies had a
drink and the tracker started to go —but before he left
the bar he said, “ You can go on with the music now-
just wanted to show my audority.”
In which respect he was just like .Toe Carruthers
over the Australian capital, hut Joe hasn’t the
honest frankness of his black brother.
“ Janor” : “G.S.K.” presents “Back-
blox” with a hunk of truth (B. 13/6/’O7) re tariff
of wayside hotels at the back of Broken Hill.
“Backblox” should get more in touch with his
pen-name, and then he’ll learn to bite the half-
crown meal. He will meet it in the far N.-West,
and, once seen, it is easily recognised, for there is
a strong family likeness discernible in the half-
crown lay-out of the back wilderness. Its chief
features are damper, black tea, and tinned mis-
sionary. I struck the limit in hotels in that
region. Its tariff was: Meals and beds, 3s. ;
drinks, Is. ; bottle of beer, ss. The house con-
tained three rooms. Sleeping accommodation con-
sisted of bag-stretchers lined up in a bough shed.
This hostelry and a store and post-office constituted
the township. During our prospecting operations
in the vicinity it was our postal town, and once a
month a delegation from the camp rode in to get
the mail. Also it got beer and the three bob tin
menu. First trip, asked Bung why he didn’t get
beef. There was no one to send the 40 miles that
intervened between beef and beer, he explained.
We had plenty of meat in camp, for we were
buying it alive from a station in the neighbor-
hood. We knocked a “fat” over with the rifle
as required, and broke it down, and salted it in
the hide, and at times made biltong. So the
mail messengers regularly bore to the township a
huge round of beef, and handed it over to the cook,
who was also the barman, and the licensee, and
the boots, and during our stay we feasted on it,
and the ptomaine and its cousins left not the fast-
nesses of their soldered tins. That was our only
gain, for in spite of the cheap beef we supplied,
Bung’s charge to us altered not. When Bung’s
attention was drawn to this anomaly in the
tariff, he snorted, “Garni ain’t I got ter cook
the blooming stuff ? ”
* * * *
“ Gidgee ” : “G.S.K.” (B. 13/6/’O7) re
hotels met with in Outback coach travelling, must
have Wandered from Broken Hill to Wompah in
the pre-Adamite age. I back up “ Backblox” and
say there are half-crown hotels along that route.
I frequently travel the road. At most of the
hotels coach passengers are charged 2s. 6d. I’ve
paid it at Euriowie, Fowler’s Gap, and Bancannia,
and 2s. at Iduna Park, Cobham Lake, Milpa-
rinka, and Tibooburra. There is only one hotel
on the road where Is. is charged—Yanco Glen.
Private dining-rooms don’t exist at Yanco Glen,
Tarrawingee, Euriowie, Fowler’s Gap, Bancannia,
Iduna Park, Gobham Lake, or Yalpunga. Ask
for a private room at some of them, and they’d
send for the police to have your bumps read.
“ G.S.K.” is wrong again re gates. Between
Wompah and Tibooburra there are four gates,
Tibooburra and Milparinka/owr gates, Milparinka
and Cobham Lake five gates, and this number is
the average between stages. The coach passenger
every time opens the gate. The camel teams have
not their own “ pads.” Ask Phil Tuck, Paddy
Holmes, or Billy Cranston, the three coach-drivers
on the route from the Hill to Tibooburra.
“ G.S.K.” wants to get up and contradict before
he knows his subject. Some of the hotelkeepers
do not study the wants of the travelling public as
regards liquor. At Milparinka did a “ perish ”
several times at one pub—no whisky, no nothing,
except flies and goat. Wanted other things than
goat; was offered tinned dog or kangaroo rat. At
Cobham the only liquor they had was Row’s
bitters, and the driver and I each had two for
novelty's sake. They had had nothing else on
sale for a fortnight. Now, “G.S.K.”, contradict
this, or take a back seat with your pal Judkins !
*•* * *
“Judex” : The greatest curse out-back
(and inside, as well) is the blighted and dissolute
lunatic who, in reply to a stranger’s query, says :
“ Foller the track yer on, an’ take the fust turnin’
ter the left. Yer carn’t miss it; there ain’t no
other road.” The pilgrim does as directed, and
finds that the first turning takes him three miles
to a dead end ; it is simply a wood-carter s track.
He returns, and takes the second turning, going
for two miles to the stump of a very large tree,
and lots of chips and boughs. Comes back, and
takes third turning, with same result. Camps
there, as it is now too late to get back to the
main road, and his evening prayer is an earnest
supplication for the blood of the director.
At daylight, a hungry and angry man and a
starving horse regain the main road and take four
more left turnings, three of them leading to large
stumps, and the fourth bringing him to the wood-
carters themselves. The latter give the informa-
tion that “these ’ere tracks of ourn ain’t con-
sidered turnin’s; the right branchin’ spot is two
mile furder on, an’ is plain enough ’cos there’s the
skelletin uv a bullick’s ’ead stuck in a gidgee
there.” It is to be sincerely hoped that the wraith
of the man who tells you to turn to the left will
be specially cared for in Hades, and that he will
for all eternity be misdirected as to the road to
the tank.
m * * *
“ Scipio ” : I have a nomination that
knocks everything else in the bush pest competi-
tion into a cooked belltopper. It is the Dago
who hawks his cheap poison—called “ pinky ” in
these parts—among the men on big construction
works in the north-east of Victoria. I have been
working on a big job in the north-east, where we
had 200 men employed, and their camps were
dotted at intervals along 20 miles of line. My
particular pest had a vineyard, and he used to
make stuff that would promptly turn the quietest
man into a dangerous lunatic. He knew better
than to come on to the works when the bosses
were about, but he used to drive along to the
men’s camps, and leave the stuff in their tents,
whether they had ordered it or not. The men,
coming in tired from their work at 5 o’clock, were
almost sure to drink it. It was not at all un-
pleasant to take, but the after effects were deadly.
I have seen some of the poor devils violently ill
for three days after a night out on it. The Dago’s
own countrymen knew too much to tackle his
“ pinky,” and it was generally the Australian
bushie that was his victim. And to see two or
three of these Dago wine-merchants following the
pay cart on the first Saturday in every month
used to remind me of half-a-dozen crows following
a sick sheep.
***■»»
“ Kati Kati” : Be voracious animals com-
petition. Knew a youth who first lived on his
father; then upon his widowed mother. When
I lost sight of him, 12 years ago, he was living on
his wife. Now I find him on a dairy farm,
devouring his children. He still has a rich uncle
left.
# * * *
An eminent lung specialist stated in a
lecture before the British Conference on Con-
sumption that “nothing goes right while the
stomach is wrong.” All authorities agree that
there is no lung remedy equal to Angier’s
Emulsion for keeping the digestive organs
healthy. Pleasant to take, it promotes appetite,
aids digestion, and improves nutrition. It is
unequalled for all long affections. Tn three sizes,
of all chemists.*
A JUST ANGER.
LADY OF THE HOUSE (who has been roused by a terrific hammering at the door): “ Wot
d’yer want?"
WANDERING DRUNK : “Could yer (hie) kin’ly tell me the time?"
LADY OF THE HOUSE : “ Wot! Ye’ve ’ad the check to mist me hout o’ me bed at twenty
mit dies past five ter tell yer the time! I wont.”
Ramsay Smith, head of the Health Depart-
ment of S. Australia, is finding out things about
the mosquito for the special benefit of the insect
in the Northern Teiritory. The particular little
beast that transmits malaria is the anopheles;
he has a fragile body, spotted wings, and a long
and thick dart, and on a flat surface stands nearly
on his head. He usually works by night. He is
susceptible to colors —prefers navy blue, dark red,
brown, scarlet, black, slate-grey, dark green,
violet, leaf green and blue in that order, and hates
white, orange, and yellow. That is why theTJ.S.
army has abandoned the regulation shirt of navy
blue” in favor of white for service in malarial
districts. Also the little brute knows at least
one note of music ; Hiram Maxim used to sum-
mon a congregation of male mosquitoes (but never
a female) by sounding a note similar to that
shrilled by the female mosquito. The female
mosquito is the vocalist. In fact, the male (except
for being a male) is a harmless sort of beast. He is
almost exclusively a vegetarian. It is the female
who, besides disturbing his rest, sucks the blood
of man. And experiments show that she often
carries on business for a year at least.
* * * *
“ Cross Mbs ” : Two lads met, t other
Sabbath eve, at the street corner, and the
atmosphere was stained with weird sounds:
“ How goes it, Toucher ? ”
“ Umpty 'blankv doo, ole son.” ,
“ See y’r wuz amber-stained larse night, ’n ziggin th
toe-path, leanin”eavy.” _
“ That’s oirite, Oock. ’Ad a shine time till Bobbo th
hop set me. Then I ducked ’ome t’ th’ rubby.”
“ Smacker told me y’r wuz droppin’ y’r brow-sap at ole
Solly’s now.”
“ S’truth, I chucked that bleedin’ sweater two munce
a<ro. A bloke ’ad ’is ’ead down to it from coat-off t’
stago'er-’ome. X ’ad t’ keep a bottle 0 clawridine in me
graftin’ rags. ’E docked cher f’r wastin’ time, th’ dawg.
B “ Strike me drunk, that wuz murder, Toucher.”
“ Yes Cock, ’n’ th’ tart gigged me about circ 1 r
station’ry. Said me dial wuz like smoked fish, puffin
fags. Swore she’d leave me solitary if I burnt enny more
in me face.” _ ~ , , , ,
“ I seen ’er sparrin’ upter Tommy th barber larse
“Gor’blime, wuz she? I’ll fit Mister blanky Tommy
dead willin’ next time we bumps. There’ll be ’n altera-
tion in ’es crimson ’air partin’ when I git goin’, you take
it fr’m me.” , .... _ , ~, ,
“ Well, Toucher, I’ll ’ave t’ be gittin. See yrupat th
Alley t’-morrer night ? ”
“Righto, Cock ; be bad.”
And Toucher swaggered past the shop-fronts in a
cloud of cigarette smoke that rose and swirled
round his small green hat, and then was dissi-
pated about the verandah iron.
m » * *
“A.G.,” from the south isle of Maori-
land :
Cocky wanted bridge over small creek near his shanty.
Arranged with two “ bushwhackers ” (who were felling
his timber) to erect same, in spare time, for 30s. Bridge
being half-finished, he spake:
“Thirty bob’s too stiff for that bit av a bridge, b ys.
I’ll give ve a quid.” Agreed, after demur.
Bridge completed. Cocky interviews builders thusly :
“ Begad, b’ys, that quid’s no use to you chaps. I’ll act
the square thing by you. You can have the run of that
turnip-field—till ye go.” As the bushwhackers couldn’t
afford law, this was eventually agreed upon, with a great
deal of demur.
Bridge erected, at practically no cost to cocky, turnips
being a drug in the market.
County Council’s accounts for that half-year show :
“ Contribution towards bridge over Cocky Creek, £5.”
* * * *
A certain effect of bad drinking-water is
bowel trouble—Wolfe’s Schnapps will keep the
bowels in perfect order. Caution.—There is no
genuine Aromatic Schnapps but “Wolfe’s.”
Call it by its full name.*
“ Ses ” : The spread of modern fashions.
An aborigine entered a lawyer’s office in Grafton
(N.S.W.), theotherday. “Well, Jacky, what’s your
troubles?” Jacky spat sideways on to the floor,
put his hands on the table, and crossed his feet.
“You know my gin?’’ he asked. “How the
devil would I know her ? ” Gent One demanded.
“Baal yo’ been meet her longa” “No,
I haven’t met her.” Jacky laughed good-
humoredly. “ That one named Biddy.” “Well,
what about her ” “ Yo’ see, when I been marry
it Biddy, we make um ’greement.” “What
agreement ? ” “We ’gree Biddy hab it only one
pfeller piccaninny. Dis country too much
plurry no good keep it big family. Yo
understand?” “Well?” Jacky spat impres-
sively on the other side of him. “Now,
Biddy cubbon sick yesterday, an’ she catch um
two pfeller piccaninny.” Jacky held up two
fingers. “ Two pfeller in a heap. I yabberlonga
Biddy: ‘What for yo’do it like it this? Who
gib it yo’ p’mission hab um two pfeller?’ She
laugh, an’ say dat pfeller dwin.” “Yes?”
“ D_— dwin!” J; cky went on. “Baal mine
want it dwin.” “ Well, what do you want?”
“ Mine want it d’vorce—all same white pfeller.
She been ruin it me.” Jacky straightened, and
hitched up his bifurcated garment. “By golly, I
tshake it her up. Yo’ take um steps now, Boss,
quick’n lively. I bin teach her to plurry well
disobey me. My word ! ”
* * * *
“ Pluto ” : It is not necessary to rush off
to our limestone caves to study stalactitic forma-
tions, for we have on view at our own doors
stalactites up to 2iin. in length. Under the
arches of the stone bridge of the new Sydney
railway station numerous hanging pendants or
stalactites may be observed. They have been
formed by water carrying in solution the lime in
the mortar through the interstices of the masonry.
When the drop of water reaches the surface
it pauses, prior to falling on the floor, and
the pause is sufficient to precipitate a
small portion of the carbonate of lime, and
in course of time a small hanging stalactite
is formed. Cave-guides are very fond of im-
pressing on a visitor the appalling length of time
necessary to form these stalactitic growths, some
of their estimates running into millions of years ;
but, with these examples before us, they will
have to considerably curtail some of their esti-
mates, more especially as at the Bondi sewer we
have stalactites hanging from the roof a foot or
more in length, formed since the opening of the
sewer 14 years ago.
* * * *
“G.S.K.”: The Afghan may be insani-
tary, but, according to his lights, he is truly
religious. Was staying at Mount Poole station,
on Sturt’s Pocky Glen, not long ago. There was
a camel team loading at the woolshed. The cook
of the camp had made his “ batch ” in the camp
oven usually carried by the team, and had left the
whole to cool ; but the homestead pigs happened
on the.cooling stuff, and soon after the Afghans
discovered the unclean animal with its collective
nose deep in their camp oven. The Afghans de-
stroyed the remainder of the bread, and came
straight to the homestead in search of a new oven,
for which they paid liberally. Yet I didn’t even
hear them swear. They took it as the inscrutable
decree of Allah.
“ Sore Feet ” : We recommend you to use
Handy Corn Cure as the surest and safest method
of removing your corns. Very cleanly and easy
to use, costs 9di per box. Send stamps to Sunset
Drug Co., 612 Harris Street, Sydney.*
“WHAT’S IN A NAME?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some folks is alius full o’ fads and fancies
In this funny ol’ world to-day,
Erbout the names they’ve got ter worry on with,
The pickin’ of ’em turns ’em gray.
It don’t do nowadays ter be pertic’ler,
I’m sure that you will say the same,
But I’m satisfied that Mrs. Benno Wiggins
Is a terrabul pretty ol’ name.
There’s a fambly with three ol’ maids already,
Livin’ in a back street in town,
The whole crowd jolly nearly took hysterics
At the cheek of a chap named Brown.
He had the hide ter come an’ arst fer Hilda,
She threw a seven on the spot,
But if he’d had a name like Montmorency,
He could ha’ scooped the bloomin’ lot.
There’s girls in town is losin’ heaps o’ chances,
No matter what their mas may say.
Because a chap ain’t got the name they fancies,
They tells him he can slide away.
Blokes haven’t all got names like Aide Deakin,
Georgie Reid is toffier’n some,
But when a girl is risin' nine-an’-twenty,
She’d better take ’em as they come.
A feller’s got ter take the name they gives him,
They never lets him take his pick,
So what’s the use o’ havin’ fads an’ fancies,
Jes’ now, when fellers ain’t too thick.
It don’t do nowadays to be pertic’ler,
I think that you will say the same,
But I’m sat’sfied that Mrs. Benno Wiggins,
Is a terrabul pretty ol’ name.
N.S.W.
PLAIN BILL.


David iStorer sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
In Three Colors*
BLACK, RED,
<KL BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
(Sb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OB
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
THE- PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
SHEEP BUYERS.
Diamonds are a Good Investment.
They must rise higher and higher.
The world’s supply does not equal the demand.
They have risen gradually during the last 10 years.
Investment apart—they afford immense pleasure to
the recipient.
We are showing Australian Diamonds that are
phenomenal value.
Marquise Ring, Dia-
monds and Sapphires,
£l6 16S.
Finest Quality
Diamonds,
£45.
We bought them in the rough and cut them, hence their lowness of price.
SEE OUR LARGE STOCK.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
“ Hexapoda ” :
The following in support of David H. Richards’ ant
campaign yarn (B. 13/6/’O7) :—Spent Christmas holidays
(’O2) at Sutton Forest. Used to g o i n daily to post-office by
a bush track skirting- a succession of beefeater ant-beds.
Noticed one morning that numbers of the beefeaters were
engaged in a death strife with myriads of the tiny black
ants so often met with in our jam-dish and sugar-basin
I passed on, feeling sorry for the little ants’ chance, and
mentally paid a tribute of admiration to their insan°
pluck. That afternoon, passing- the same way, I found
the track thickly strewn with the corpses of the beef-
ants, whilst the small species were evidently in possession
of the neighboring nest.
A regular war was in progress, which lasted for many
days, and hours of my time were spent observing it. The
little ants invariably commenced the attack. The
instructions issued to them by their commander were
simple : “ Get hold of the end of a beef-ant’s leg, and hang
on.” The procedure always caused the beef-ant the
utmost amusement —at first. Leaning well back on his
other five legs, he smiled good-humoredly at the audacity
of the little cuss, and after gratifying the youngster’s
curiosity as to the formation of his toes, advised him to
go away and play. Suddenly he realised that the young
’un meant to be Vicious, and as the matter had advanced
beyond a joke he sat down and proceeded to give the
cheeky attacker some much-needed chastisement. His
mandibles did splendid execution, but still the little
wretch hung on. Presently there was nothing but a
chewed-up mass f sugar-ant, and this the Other tried in
vain to detach from the end of his leg. Finally he re-
signed himself to the new condition of things, and pro-
ceeded about his original business, cursing volubly, and
dragging his loaded limb clumsily along. Scarcely had
he managed to recollect the errand on which he was bent
when to his horror he found his remaining legs furiously
seized. The struggle then assumed magnificent propor-
tions, and beads of perspiration stood on the beef-ant’s head
as he finally found all his legs thrown out of action, and
swarms of fresh assailants crawling up them. A presenti-
ment of the end seemed to come over him. But no
Roman gladiator could have died more gamely. To the
small ants, death was not even a subject for considera-
tion. As fast as the leading assailants were reduced to a
state of glue, fresh ones took their places. Finally the
executioners were called up, and, amidst wild cheers,
climbed on the heroic old beef ant’s back, and adminis-
tered the coup de grdee. Every such contest finished
alike, th - beef-ants being always conquered by the weight
of numbers and their inability to free themselves from
the sticky remains of their deceased enemies. What the
quarrel was about I did not learn. There were no par-
ticulars published in the Daily Ant-Heap.
ON THE STYX.
THE QUACK MEDICINE CANVASSERR : “ Here!
Can't I persuade you to buy another bottle?”
“Pick”: Be. places with a plurality of
names (B. 13/6/’O7). Between Cooma and Bega,
on the Brown Mountain, is a village which, in
the Lands and Postal Departments, is called
Bemboka. The stage-coach men call it Colombo,
and the oldest inhabitant refers to it as Lyttelton.
Travellers name it Windy Hollow; and when
the bush fire of January, 1904, went through
there, residents called it Hell.
KISSING IN PUBLIC.
G IRL: “ Indeed y' don't, then, right in front of the horse!”
“ Janor ” : Re strange deaths of animals.
In the deep, straight-walled ravines that abound
on the slopes of Mount Kosciusko it is not unusual
to see the complete skeleton of a bullock suspended
in the branches of a snow-gum. The beast had
been grazing along the edge of a gully, and, stray-
ing on to the deep, soft snow overlying the chasm,
it sank until caught in the branches of a sub-
merged tree. Subsequent thaw and sunshine did
the rest. It’s an uncanny appearance the whitened
bones present gleaming high up amid the green
foliage.
» * * *
“Hector Wiregrass ” : Why should “G.
Morton ” pour ink into the well of Truth with his
yarns about the industrious Maori? Let him
look at the streets of Gisborne any day of any
week, and out of every three loafers and leaners
two are Maoris, and their loafing is
wonderful to witness. Yes, the Maori
works hard—three times a day.
The industry of his jaw is mar-
vellous. And “G. Mor-
ton ” says the Maoris
have cleared
50,000 acres
of land in 15
years. Well,
thatis rather
over 3000
acres a year,
and if you
get enough
Maoris on
the job, and
there isn’t
much to
clear, they
may do even
that without
tiring them-
selves. I once
saw a Maori
clear an acre of
land in a week.
There was one dead tree
on the acre, and, after thinking the matter over
during Sunday and Monday, Jack Maori put a
lighted match under that tree on Tuesday. It
was pretty well combusted by Saturday, but the
Maori was nearly worn out with sitting down
watching it burn.
* • * *
“ Town Gurr ” : In my opinion, one of the
most useful pets to have—if you are not a chicken-
raiser—is a tame sparrow-hawk. The one that I
once possessed, was annexed from his parents in
the downy stage, and reared on raw meat. As
soon as he began to find his “ sea legs ” and sa.il
about, the sparrows, who were busily engaged in
building operations up the household spout, and
under the verandah, began to leave without draw-
ing their wages. Very soon a sparrow about the
premises was a rarity, and I was exceedingly
sorry when the pet took on the responsibility of
supporting a Mrs. Hawk, and left my employ.
I offered him a rise of salary and quarters for self
and family if he would stay.
“ Col. Squirt ” writes from Fiji, and
makes certain statements on his own responsi-
bility :
I noticed in a recent Bulletin some reasons given by
an Indian officer for the preponderance of Indian increase
over Fijian in Fiji.
He is wrong. It is not the luxuries of the “ papalangi ”
that are responsible.
In the old days, when a man and woman married (more
or less) and a child was born, they separated for three
years. The man went to another village in the same
Buliship, and again entered into the “ holy bond ” with
like results, eventually returning to the original lady.
She had in the meantime remained quietly with father,
who supported the grand-kid. The latter, having had
full maternal nourishment, became a fine, vigorous young-
ster. But the missionary said such things were an
abom. so He dwells at home with Her, and when an It
has arrived, she has recourse to a friendly root, which
produces a particularly violent form of abortion, after
which Rebecca was an emblem of maternity, by way of
comparison with her. So one of the physically finest
colored races in the world dies out.
* * * *
In the Fitzroy Gardens, right in the heart
of Melbourne, there are many ’possums, both the
ring-tails and the brush-tails, and it is surprising
how very tame they are. Familiarity with the
proximity of the two-legged animals, who haunt
the darkest spots at night-time, has made these
little furry Australians bold and adventuresome.
They play hopscotch and honeypots in the glare
of the gas-lamps, and chuck acorns at one another
with the freedom of beings who live in a world
of peace and harmony.
* * * *
“A. ” : The other day, in a South Coast
(NIS.W.) town, two sewer rats wandered into the
lobby at the public school and ate a hole in a
youngster’s lunch bag, leaving much hair around
the aperture. The news spread far and wide. An
alderman took the matter up, and wrote to the
chairman of the School Board, asking what he
was going to do about the rats, and what steps he
proposed taking to keep the vermin in their
proper places. The chairman is a busy man, and
notified the alderman that he hadn’t time to go
chasing rats. Next the teacher received a com-
munication from the Municipal Council asking if
it were a fact, that about eighty-five rats invaded
his school, ate up all the children’s dinners, and
seriously interfered with his discipline, and
upended his New Syllabus for the day. Also,
he was asked to say if the rats were much
swollen and diseased looking, and if they had left a
lot of whisker behind in the raided bags. The
teacher replied that two rats —not much swollen or
diseased-looking—from the Council’s filthy sewer,
opposite and adjacent to the school, had visited
the place and had partaken of light refreshments
in the lobby, but had taken their departure with-
out causing any disturbance, and without damag-
ing either the discipline or the New Syllabus to
any noticeable extent. Further, the ped. in-
formed the civic fathers that no rats had been
seen on the premises before or since ; and that, in
his opinion, the only rats he knew of, worth men-
tioning, existed in the minds of the said aider-
men. The teacher has been informed by the
Council that it is quite satisfied with his ex-
planation.
“ON THIS OCCASION.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With some regret I beg to state
The she-oaks do not sigh,
The Southern Gross (en passant)
Is absent from the sky
(On this occasion).
The river doesn’t seem inclined
To murmur on its way ;
To be precise, that noble stre am
Is mostly yellow clay
(On this occasion).
The sun had not sunk redly,
As it always does in verse ;
For wear and tear, I think that i
Looks very much the worse
(On this occasion).
The willows are not weeping ;
But with some relief I see
A look of wild hilarity
Upon this maudlin tree
(On this occasion).
The curlew isn’t mournful,
He’s at present on the jag;
Tiie gloaming isn’t gloaming,
And the hours do not lag
(On this occasion).
n.s.w.
THE BANDICOOT.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A.N.0.: Possibilities of the jibbing discussion
are about exhausted Ellenby: Letter rather beside
the point. Australia must get its navy before it wades
in to inaugurate an ideal feeding and disciplinary system.
J.G. and R.H. : You would be simply amazed at the
distaste with which the staff of this paper view indecent
yarns. Your indecencies are stale ones anyhow. Com-
mercial travellers have been telling them to each other
this half-century past..'. .F.F.F. (Perth) : Your Deakin
yarn a bit too belated... .Oof Bird : Ingenious but weari-
some White Australian: Well, your Chow seems
rather a decent sort of Chow as Chows go....Lillipilli :
Your screed too dilfuse for subject. The bob-a-head
league-packing practice is of general notoriety J.C.G. :
First Offenders’ Act may break down in spots (notably it
did in the case you mention) ; but, taken by and large,
it is more satisfactory than most human institutions
W. Lang : The resolve is praiseworthy—but not the verse.
. .Cornelius P. : Good in its way, but a bit too didactic.
....R.B.T. : Verges on bosh... .Graham Mar : Third-class
0n1y... .F.B. : Too fragmentary Vedette: Bullock-
rabbit lie is ancient V.H.O. : An old theme without a
new manner Russell Bond : They don’t get above
mediocrity Poneke : Bulletin is not likely “to manu-
facture answers” while hard put to it to find room for the
genuine replies Nulla: “ Israel” is the better of the
two, but doesn’t quite caicb-on Quartpot: Thanks;
noted. But the most direct line will have to come first.
The others will probably come later ... .R. A.R. :No space
for Asiatic matter unless it b ars directly on Australia.
Yours too diffuse Ron: Try A. Forsyth and Co.,
Waterloo (N.S.W.), and Donaghy ar.d Sons, West Geelong
(Vic.) P.K.C. : An old yarn watered up from a
par. to a column Vagrant : Nearly all medicines are
poisonous— i.e., they are poisonous if taken in too-
big doses Jans * (Tas.): Not a bad yarn, but
spun out too much in the telling Ivor G. :
Rather crude and unskilful Herb R. : Barred by
the fact that it has already appeared in print
C.J.D.: Interesting, but not well enough told.
C. Stewart: Hasn’t enough in it Smig: Third-class
work only Dummy : Has a spark of originality, but is
lamentably ill-written E.D.W. : But it isn’t blank
verse, or even blariky verse. It’s merely bad prose
chopped into lengths with a bad, blunt axe Combo:
Spirited in tone, but weak in argument, and not too
strong in grammar.... Olive C.: Neat, but desperately
dull and commonplace..... Alan G. : Thanks for letter
and good wishes.... Farmer’s Boy : Bent’s “Pure Food
Bill” is along the right lines, anyhow U.S.A. :
Roosevelt’s “honesty” seems to be mainly of the adver-
tising kind. Nothing can explain away the fact that he
appealed to railway magnate Harriman for funds in 1904,
and accepted his help to the extent of £50,000 Emi-
grant : Sorry you didn’t find a job here, but don’t exactly
see what we can do in the matter A.G. :As regards
one of them, we don’t care for sweet, melancholy little
songs that died young. For the other, what’s the good
of singing in Australia about “ rose-crowned June”? It
isn’t so bad for our readers north of Sydney, but we have
to consider subscribers in Riverina, Monaro, Victoria (es-
pecially Gippsland), Tasmania, and around Adelaide. Do
you think a poem about “rose-crowned June ” would make
us popular, say at Hobart?.. Jaybell: Kookaburra is “off.”
...H. W.B. : Returned accordingly. .L.M. : With more ex-
perience, you should do good work A.H.F.: Too slack
of interest The Pinter : Far-fetched and unimpressive.
E.W.M. : There’s comedy in it, but it needed a defter
hand L.A.P. : Weak and inartistic. . ..F.M. : Not up
to the mark in style Achilles B. : Destroyed accord-
ingly r.a.C. : The few good touches don't redeem it,
.A.H.G.N. : Rather dull and prosy Simon C. : A
dreary waste of verbiage.... Dulcie : Too juvenile for
print H. 8.8. : Dull theme and unwieldy verse
Woden : “ Have something to say ; say it; stop.” Now,
you have nothing to say, you can’t say it, and you don’t
know when to stop VV. H. B. : Don’t remember article on
“ Socialism.” It doubtless came to hand with dozens of
others. If it was accepted, payment was sent to you,
provided you supplied name and address. If it was
rejected and you enclosed stamps for return, it was
posted back ; while if you didn’t enclose stamps for
return, the Basket got it. There is very little use
in sending stamps a month after the article, for by
that time it is either paid for, or in the tip
Benicia: Hawk-rabbit controversy has languished....
Bickford Sweet: If your poem means that a strange girl
allowed you to hug her in a cornfield—oh well, it is no
business of ours....'E.C.S. (Calcutta): There is no elec-
trical paper published in Australasia dealing with trac-
tion, but any information you desire will probably be
given on application to the Railway Commissioners of
N.S. Wales, Tramway Department, or to the electric
tramway companies of the other cities of the Common-
wealth.... Frank Shaw : Would have liked your letter a
great deal more if you hadn’t tried to brutally overwork
a Vic. penny stamp, whereby we had to pay 2d. over-
charge on your letter.. ..J.G. : According to Coghlan’s
“Statistical Account of Australia and Maoriland ” for
1903-4 (page 754) “the direct Cape cable from Durban to
Fremantle (W.A.) was completed oh I9th October, 1901.”
South African news comes to us from London,
because the newspaper representative who sends
the world’s information is stationed th re. Even
when there is a great Art Exhibition in Pata-
gonia we get the facts about it from London
A. James: True to circumstances, no doubt, but the
verse isn’t good enough.... D. 8.-G. : You are probably
alone in your opinion. Minns is generally acknowledged
to be a'faithful portrayer of our aborigines F.G.K. :
Very crude and inartistic Through : Rather funny, but
not well enough done... .Meanderer: The burlesque-
funeral incident has been so often dealt with that it re-
quires specially strong treatment,. . . .Minnie T. : It
promises well, if, as we suppose, you are of tender years.
Brad: There’s nothing in that R.M.P. : A very
ppor production Red: The Basket duly swallowed
them W.8.A.: Doesn’t quite reach the level of poetry.
W.A.S. (Melb.): Like the views in your Deakin poem
well enough, but its style is too grandiose Oliver G.:
One distinction you can claim : you are one of the worst
writers in the Southern Hemisphere. Not for W. Shak-
speare would The Bulletin wrestle with evil-looking,
pencilled matter such as yours, scrawled on scraps of
waste paper, and then licked, or wept over, or sponged or
something.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Lid : Firmly declined... R. Bishop : Use Bristol board,
or any other firm white paper, andlndiaink—Schneider:
Not good enough for publication, yet not bad enough to
justify any picturesque language W. Mac. :No points
about drawing of tobacco plant....Sm.W. : If that is
your first attempt it isn’t so bad. Keep on working and
send us your 7000th attempt P.S. : Sketch of barber
with hair like that of a Christian Israelite declined....
J.L. B.: Idea obscure, and if it means what it seems in a
faint sort of way to rn-an, it isn’t specially humorous....
B. : The man in your sketch looks like a hairy devil
with cactus growing on him in places Johnson : Sorry
to say pictures not quite up to mark. Glad to hear you
are no r lation to Alligator Johnson, of the Territory
and the crocodile Coolgardie: Drop your drawing
implements down a mine and try something else. Your
artistic gifts won’t keep you in bear’s grease.


THE MONKEY AND THE OTHER MONKEY.
What nice little fellows they are, so extremely polite, you know, and so quaint.- Average citizen in reference to Japanese.
YES, BUT TURN FROM WHERE THE LIMELIGHT IS DESIGNEDLY THROWN, FROM THE ACTING TO THE REALITY; VIEW THE
TRANSFORMATION, AND THEN —SEE TO THYSELF.


LANDS ACQUISITION ACT<
Notice.
On &-AfTer JuLy y
The. Commowwealth /
Acqwirt LAND i
pnvATt * ptpsor/s a* state/ *
GOVERNMENTS /
" Thm's g ,Ve
j>i<Xuatfcy to HjC
oj’’ M*raJ Session’
(A^»s)
liiss W-tffw, ofltjt
z\os t. Womens Lt^m
1 SC'/eraJ trjce+lrjps
in A s°sl7 ti ftjnier's'
inteKt^s. “
'Re'elfc^T
p^Ki* — yoM II 1 "
55y«ce yo« II
!►> A ) °l c * r l • /
M K R«id w^s
tjoT b recent, but
we be
ser,-h \hfido
A tip We^Kit~
I to A ''f' ,, 'K'
to %*- J >roCe? ‘' , ' ) JS
Joe:— f Eli, Wta't'|>rice
My S>‘| Its ?
I 's{«•
looye f
Jr is noticed l
Pl^ln7£
i$ • dec. id* d! y
'ff)lhr7€l'
He lf^ r
I sjwtyfi
you 9 > °' r, % — ■
\\r l»v< We*?
yy)** o\ SiAs+Vi<e -
-fin <,+"&, i re. i
I »* ' 1
hE ;
' r jl jfe 33053 G^wer
liyw io V$ f'e^l^7
I»7 re deUisJr'
oj- Bill 5^ u ' k c^
"It farmers could- -
only fa'S? A n SXtr* tyre* })Uiht(V/y
bur i\cre by
feitili'jino , &aa -too^ooo
to %ir
ltrj j>rbW K
Ha,nd (WI,o does ifsJl) '• ~ " S2\y boss, bow is *jevr
to oive bore feller job of it e AWiobfvs
V/or£ for It bob 2V WeeK ? * ■ 5 J
VA*-* tas"f^7ev2>| 'T'tlvv}
<^o»n^
Wo|l AS CouU £yj><?c,f£^."
ON THE SHORES OF HOBSON’S BAY.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
□OUT and
Rheumatic
HILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neualgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
681 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
There is no good ground for confusing
Joan of Arc, the saver of France, with Joe the
Nark, the raver by chance.
Paddy Slavin, ex-Australian pugilist, is
reported to be becoming one of the Fat Men of
Dawson City, Alaska, where he has a flourishing
timber business.
Recently-returned visitors from London
describe B. R. Wise as slowly recovering from a
very serious illness, out of which he was dragged
by the devoted nursing of his wife.
It isn’t often that an alderman does any-
thing remarkable, but Thomas Glissan, who has
been mayor of Ulmarra (N.S.W.) for 16 years,
deserves a notice for long continuance. He
dropped his weary, protracted job last week.
Ulmarra has 1700 people and two pubs.
LITTLE MA THOMPSON,
GRANNY “ HERALD’S ”
MUSICAL BOY.
A correspondent writes at some length to
point out that the full name of Queensland
Senator Chataway is Thomas Drinkwater Chata-
way. What.if it is! It wasn’t he who sat on
the crocodile in the Northern Territory, anyhow.
The deceased Peter Collinson Close, of the
Crick-Willis land cases, Was in worse health than
the public imagined during the proceedings in
court. There is no doubt that those proceedings
hurried the end. Though his grandfather fought
under Wellington in the Peninsula, Peter’s mili-
tant qualities were not the sort to carry him
through such a campaign of litigation as opened
before him.
Bill Keast, of the Dandenong, who, a little
while back, was known as “I and Bent,” threatens
to make a noise when the Victorian Assembly
meets. He complains that there has been no
reform to speak of, and that.the Ministry has only
acquired a reputation for economy in order to
cloak its extravagance. Keast recently boasted
that he often rides in his own motor car with his
own “shofuer” past the place where, a few years
ago, he worked with a pick and shovel.
REQUIRES NO EXPLANATION .
Colonel George W. Bell, ex-United States
Consul, died, on Sunday, at his residence,
Edward-street, North Sydney, aged 69 years.
He was something of an orator—the silver-tongued
variety, with a tendency to spread-eagleism—and
he was lecturing almost to the last.
A significant trio at an Edinburgh Uni-
versity meeting the other day were Prime Minis-
ter Deakin, Premier Jameson (“ Dr. Jim ” of the
Raid), and Premier Botha. “ After me will come
Dr. Jameson,” said Deakin in his speech, “and
after him will come General Botha—not for the
first time.” And the students roared.
One of the quieter humors of the recent
Australian invasion of England was Tom Bent’s
speech to the Oxford University undergrads. In
one of the old grey halls of that lichen covered
institution he told them that what Oxford wanted
was chairs of mining and agriculture. The
students roared at the “joke.” But perhaps the
laugh was against them.
One of the blithest members of the S.A.
Assembly, Country-party leader Burgoyne,
passed his 80th year a few days ago. His col-
leagues gave him a case of pipes in honor of the
occasion. The veteran has been a good pro-
gressive Liberal for 23 years of political life, and
he was a member of the Cockburn Government,
which introduced the first really Radical policy to
the S.A. electors in 1889.
Although heaving seas, “cockeye bobs,”
and bad whisky had no terrors for Corporal (or is
it Field Marshal or Honorary Sentry-Box ?) Neild
during his recent visit to Westralia, the nerve-
racking, rough-riding Kalgoorlie express proved
too much for him. He got out at Clndlow’s Well,
and journeyed back to Perth—4o miles distant —
by the next train. After all, there are more tests
of courage than the battlefield, and a warrior has
to balance at times on a wilder animal than the
horse.
Louis Brennan, whose mono-railway is now
being talked about, was the son of a photographer
in Brunswick-street, Fitzroy (Melb.). He served
his apprenticeship as an engineer with S. K.
Smith, who, 30 years ago, was a well-known
identity of Melbourne, and was mayor of the city
one year (three different Smiths were mayors of
Melbourne). Brennan’s torpedo lay for a long
time in the yard of Melbourne Parliament
House, when Brennan was buttonholing members
and supplicating the Assembly to help him with
his invention. Parliament, after long supplica-
tion and much talk, voted him some money, and
then Brennan disappeared to England, where he
got six figures for his implement.
The fact that the late Dr. Adam Jameson,
Transvaal Minister for Lands, was formerly
Westralia’s Minister for Lands, caused a Sydney
daily to institute a comparison with Robert Lowe,
on the assumption that Lowe held Ministerial
office both in Australia and England. But Lowe
was gone from Australia before N.S.W. pos-
sessed Responsible Government. No N.S.W.
ex-Minister attained Ministerial office in England.
Childers, who was a member of the Haines
Government in Victoria, did so, becoming, like
Lowe, Chancellor of the British Exchequer.
Childers was English, and his little spell in Aus-
tralia was only an interlude in his life.
“Diamond Jack” Woods, of Melbourne,
who displayed his blatant jewellery at the race-
courses and other haunts of the Dangerous until
three impoverished punters garrotted him in his
own garden, is just another ludicrous result of the
“mislaying” of old Jimmy Tyson’s will. Mr. John
Woods,otherwiseDiamond Jack, isaTyson legatee,
or the husband of one. Anyway, it was the famous
estate which accounted for the 200-guinea rings on
Mr. John’s fingers, and the appalling breast-pins
and watch-chains with which he invited trouble.
One would like to meet the spook of deceased
Jimmy at a seance, and ask him what he thinks of;
the results of his long years of money-grubbing.
James Mills, of the Union Steamship Com-
pany, recently knighted, started life in the offices
of John Jones and Co., Dunedin. A romantic
firm was that of Jones and Co. John Jones was
the third son of Thomas Jones, one of the early
settlers of N.S. Wales-, and was born in Sydney in
1809. Early in life he entered into commercial
speculation, and was part-owner of several whalers.
In 1839, he bought an extensive property from the
Maoris at Waikouaiti, and in the following yfear
induced thirteen families to leave N.S. Wales and
settle in Maoriland. He was thus the original
first settler of Otago. He continued to live in
Dunedin until his death in 1869. In 1830, he
was married in Sydney to Miss Sarah Sizemore.
Before the settlement at Otago by the Scotch
immigrants, John Jones was known as “King”
Jones ; he owned almost everything in what was
afterwards Dunedin, and his word was Jaw. He
founded the Harbor Steam Navigation Company-
which was the precursor of the Union Steamship
Co.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy not only
stops a cough, but removes the irritation which
causes it. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
The Mayor of Yass (N.S.W.) fulfils the
traditions of the aldermanic order. Lately he
attended the local public school and presented
the pupils with an enlarged photograph of himself
and other aldermen, to be hung on the pre-
mises as a bright example and a spur to ambition.
The mayor’s name is Grogan. Which recalls that
Yass is the place that advertised the other day for
a man who would be town clerk, road engineer,
and superintendent of the gasworks combined for
£l2O a year. And Grogan was the name at the
foot of the advt. To be able to offer such a job at
such a screw is something for the local youth to
aspire to.
Medwood, the youth who carried off the
amateur middleweight championship of New
South Wales at the recent boxing contests, is still
a sctioolboy in his native Hobart, and not yet 18.
His genius in the art of stoush was discovered by
Tasmania’s Chief Health Officer, Dr. Elkington,
himself a keen judge of expert pugilism ; and he
persuaded Medwood to test his ability with the
cracks of the mainland. The Tasmanian proved
himself a game, tricky, and hard-hitting practi-
tioner. It is to be hoped that he will look along
again for the Australasian championships, in
which the middle-weight division will probably
contain the Victorian top-notcher, Leith, a nug- 4
gety fighter of the Squires type.
The death of John Acraman, who in 1854
started football in Adelaide with a ball imported
from England, has brought out reminiscences of
those beginnings. A veteran writing to the Regis-
ter recalls that “Harrow rules” were in force,
with a round ball, and goal posts 9ft. high, the
ball having to pass under the crossbar (as in
soccer). A catch and drop-kick were allowed,
but holding the man was not. The most interest-
ing point put forward is one of etymology, the
suggestion being made that, in the frequent
matches, Garrison v. Civilians, the enthusiasm of
the soldiers’ comrades round the ground gave to
the word “ barrackers ” its present unfavorable
meaning. Anyhow, John Acraman is dead.
Some old Victorian identities went over
last week. One was John Hewitt, who had
resided at Ararat for 50 years. He was 25 years
a member of the council, and was Mayor when
“ Eddie and George” visited Ararat, yet he was
not knighted. He passed out at 84. Parson
George Horrocks, nephew of the calico man, died
at Beechworth, aged 77. Mrs. Mary Harvey
Coade, who had lived for 50 years at Beechworth,
flickered out, aged 89. At Chiltern, the soul
of James Skerry wandered off the earth, the
body being aged 81. He reached Chiltern in the
’fifties, and was shift captain of the old Sons of
Freedom mine. Also Mrs. John Senior, who for
40 years was matron of Woods’ Point Hospital,
passed in her checks, age not given. Woods’
Point had just begun to exist when the lady went
there, and she saw its rise, its greatness, and its
fall.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers gives £5OO of
public money to assist in laying oiit Belmore
Park, Sydney, conditionally on a Melbourne
man being brought to do the work. The
Melbourne man is possibly a one-time
Sydney man named Guilfoyle, who was born
at Chelsea, London, in 1843, and came to
N.S. Wales with his parents in 1853. His father,
Michael Guilfoyle, established an “exotic nur-
sery,” at Double Bay, in 1868. Young Guilfoyle
accompanied the Challenger expedition to the
South Seas, and subsequently cultivated sugar
and tobacco in Queensland. In 1873 he became
director of the Melbourne Botanic Gardens in
succession to Dr. Von Mueller. He has written
several works on botanical subjects,'and is reputed
to have onCe hammered a Victorian Governor
under circumstances which would have justified
him in treading on his Excellency when he was
down. In the ’7o’s the nursery at Double Bay
was carved into building allotments.
Mr. Thomas Allwrighfc Dibbs, general
manager of the Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney, completed his 60th year of service with
the bank on Saturday. “ Tom Dibbs ” entered
the bank when 14 years of age. On his golden
jubilee he told a congregation of his colleagues,
whom he was feasting at hisNorthShorehome, that
'when he joined he was “exchange boy,” and that
he and a porter carried as much as 8000 sovereigns
to the other banks to exchange for notes. The
risk wasn’t what it might appear, for in those
days every “crook” was known—the population
was limited, and the chance of escape about nil.
Mr. T. A. Dibbs was born in George-street,
almost opposite the present bank building. When
he joined the institute the manager was Leslie
Duguid. The bank was then within two
doors of King-street, in a structure erected in 1835
by Mr. R. Sullivan, draper, and for which a rent
of £285 a year was paid, with the option of
purchase at £1950.
YV’oods’ Great Peppeniiint Cure won’t cure
Your broken leg or hearts,
Nor will it act, as a matter of fact,
As a recipe for tarts ;
It won’t cure neuralgia, temper, squints,
For workingmen or toffs ;
But Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure will cure
Your colds and cure your coughs.*
Max Hirsch, the quaint believer in an
exploded fetish, has at last worked the oracle to
some profit—£loo a year profit, to wit—and
becomes Victorian correspondent of the British
Board of Trade. Hirsch, German by birth, Jew
by persuasion, and Australian only because he
has naturalisation papers, should make a desirable
correspondent for Britain’s foreign-trade Govern-
ment.
Solicitor William Hilson Pigott, who
quits the N.S.W. Upper House in his old age,
was born in Edinburgh, but has passed between
60 and 70 years in N.S.W. He was brought up
in the region of Miller’s Point, Sydney. Mr.
Pigott claims a lineage, and possesses a coat
of arms, on which figure some things that look
like three pickaxes and a greyhound. As Parkes’s
nominee, he went to the Council in the same
batch as C. J. Roberts, Ebby Vickery, and other
shining lights.
“4.25 ” p.m. writes :
N.S.W. public servants woke up with a start one day
last week, when Premier Joe announced that he hail
appointed Stipendiary Magistrate Wilshire to the vacancy
on the Public Service Board. Several reasons are put
forward for the selection. The most probable is that
Wilshire’s name is so much like that of Wilson, whose
place he takes, that Joe naturally thought of him
first. Another isn’t that the one Stipendiary on the
Board is a success. The training on drunks and dis-
orderlies absorbed by Pa Delohery may have been a
good training, but Pa doesn’t show it. Also, we
thought a man outside us would get the job.
Personally, I lost the price of a counter lunch
on George Pile. What with two “beaks” on the
Board, and a Controller of Prisons as a temporary help, a
chap to-day has to have a pretty clean sheet to stand a
chance of getting on in the service. They tell me that
Neitenstein bolted back to his gaol because his
locum tenens on the job was breaking up. More likely
it was that the funny stories that Saunders used to teil
him while the Board was hearing our appeals were too
much for him. Anyway, it’s after four, and I must stop
work for the day.
“Billy T.” : A recent waterspout of
adulation gushes in each Melbourne paper over
ex-P.M. Panton, who has just been retired, after
30 years’ service as a magistrate, and 50 odd as a
well-paid civil servant of one kind or another.
But the ordinary citizen remembers Panton as a
tall, bony, bustling person, making a big aristo-
cratic pretension, and upholding it by a display
of ferocity towards the “ lower orders,” and a fine
show of fellow-feeling towards those as socially
exalted as he wished to appear to be. The dailies
even enthuse over Panton as an artist, but as a
painter and draughtsman the P.M. was always
an awkward and angular amateur without a gleam
of real ability. In the time gone the Age, that now
finds him angelic, derided his art, and severely
criticised his errors of judgment, tact, and taste
as a magistrate, but evidently it is the order to
speak no ill of the superannuated. Australia will
never, while Panton lives, quite forget the Sievier
incident. It revealed the magistrate as a man whose
reverence for a very small and dilapidated scion of
the British aristocracy—a scion who didn’t even
pay his gambling debts promptly—surpassed that
of many beadles.
NOT KNOWN.
Mr. Reid has issued circulars calling a meeting of the
Opposition for to-morrow. Owing to his case in the
Arbitration Court, in Sydney, he will be unable to be
present. The conviction is being forced on to the Oppo-
sition members in both Houses that they have been
placed at a serious disadvantage through the continued
absence of their accredited leader. He is half the session
a stranger, and the other half a leader.—D.T.
Some day a stranger will be ejected for trespassing
on the floor of the House.
Captain John Thomas, a very ancient
citizen of 92, died lately at Fremantle (W.A.).
He landed at the mere tent and packing case,
which were then Fremantle, in November, 1829
the year in which the colony was proclaimed, and
very soon after the first settlement was made at
Albany. He was 14 then, and he promptly
started to lead the strenuous life. At the age of
17 he went on the land in the Kelmscott district,
with one Gaze as partner. The natives promptly
killed Gaze, but Thomas formed himself into a
hollow square, and fought a long rear-guard action
as he retreated towards civilisation. Besides the
clothes he had on, he brought away the wreck of
his fortunes, including a pocket handkerchief and
some small change. Everything else was de-
stroyed. He took to fishing after that, and with
the fish money he built a 20-ton cutter, which
traded between Fremantle, Bunbury and the
Yasse. In 1845 heopenedatrade with Singapore,
and lost his speck of a cutter on the Ahrolhos.
Then he built a vessel of 125 tons, which baby
craft became known on the coasts of Africa, India,
Eastern Asia, and round a good part of Australia.
Its captain and owner was a trader in everything
that turned up, and made money at it. In his
declining years he left the sea and again went on
the land. Finally, being fairly affluent and 61, he
settled down at Fremantle to wait till Providence
should call him, which it did after a decent
interval of 31 years.
THE BEKNIGHTED JESTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Among the “ Birthday Honors,” lately gazetted in
London, appears the following:—“Mr. W. S. Gilbert,
dramatist and author, to be a Knight Bachelor.” —Vide
cables.
Never mind the why and wherefore,
He’s a humorist, and therefore
'Tain’t surprising he should care for
What you’d think he would despise 1
’Tis beyond the Legislature
To increase our mental stature,
Or to alter Human Nature
In its inconsistencies !
Creatures human,
Man or woman,
Folk of high or low degree,
Sick or healthy,
Poor or wealthy,
Reek of inconsistencee 1
Here is evidence, my brothers,
That which I condemn in others
Will be found, though conscience smothers,
Just what others see in me !
He who scoffed and sneered and slighted
To an audience delighted
Has himself become beknighted 1
O, for inconsistencee !
After writing
Ballads blighting,
Operatic ribaldree,
Fancy pictures,
Striking strictures,
He, himself, becomes K.B. I
x.s.w.
W. T. GOODGE.


For the Mali on the Land !
PUMPS, SPRAYS AND
ACCESSORIES
At Anthony Horderns' FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
MYERS’ BULLDOZER POWER PUMP
Double Acting. Capacity, 7200 Gallons per Hour at 25 Strokes per
Minute. Back Geared Eight to One.
SPRING
4 m
DISCHARGE
VALVE SEAT
SUCTION
THIS represents the Myers’ Bulldozer Power Pump as made in its largest size. This pump is built with a 0-inch
cylinder, and 12, 16 and 20 inch adjustable stroke. The main body of the pump forms the cylinder, which is
first accurately bored and then brass lined with a heavy, seamless drawn brass tube, which is forced into
place by screw power, working' under many tons pressure, after which the ends are swaged out, which ensures
it being permanently located
The pumj> is fitted with 12 valves formed by using a brass valve seat screwed into the pump proper, and high
duty quick closing rubber valves, 3| inches in diameter. The valves are fitted with a spring which assists in closing
so as to reduce the slippage of water to the minimum when working under high pressure. These valves are all
located on top of the pump, immediately under the air chamber cap, so they can be readily gotten at for repairing
when required.
The suction and discharge are fitted with a flange union securely bolted to the pump. They are each 4 inches
in diameter. The suction is immediately under the centre of the pump, thus doing away with elbows, etc., as the
pump can be located directly over the well.
The gears are heavy and substantially made. All boxes are split and babbitted, and so arranged that the
wear can be easily taken up.
The piston rod guide is attached direct to the head of the pump, thus always insuring a correct alignment.
The shafting and wrist pins are steel.
The entire pump is mounted on one base, thus making it easy to set. The outer end of the pulley shaft is
supported by a bearing with adjustable box ; has brass-covered piston rod. The pump is equipped with tight and
loose pulleys 30 inches diameter with 6-inch face.
Its special construction, great power and wide range of WQrk recommend it for general and export trade, for
the reason that it can be packed in a smaller' space than any other pump of the same capacity known to the trade.
Bulldozer Power Pump with 6-inch brass lined cylinder, 30 x 6 inch pulleys, 4-inch suction and discharge.
Price
, £42.
Myers’ Bulldozer Power Pump.
Capacity, 2000 Gallons per Hour.
5-inch brass-lined cylinder, double acting 1 ; back geared six to one spring check valves ;
5-inch stroke ; 2-inch suction and discharge ; tight and loose pulleys ; 16-inch diameter
x3£ fa ;e. Guaranteed to elevate water 125 feet perpendicularly, or its equivalent. Price
£l2 12s
Myers’ Perfect Barrel
Spray Pump.—
THIS represents the Perfect Barrel Spray Pump, which is considered the best barrel
spray pump ever offered, it being single acting in the suction and double acting
in tb% discharge, i.e., it discharges half the water on the up stroke and half on
the down, stroke of the handle. It requires but one-half the power expended to
operate the ordinary spray pump.
It has an exceedingly large air chamber, which is very necessary (especially when
two leads of hose are used), in connection with the mechanical construction above
described, which enables the operator to work this pump under pressure with much
less exertion than is required with other large spray pumps.
The main body of the pump is all air chamber , excepting what is taken up by the
small tube upper cylinder. The cylinders are brass and brass lined, fitted with
patent expanding plunger, and it has brass valve seat and brass check valve. The
base is separate and can be removed. All parts can be removed by disconnecting the
handle and removing the lower cylinder cap.
The above pump is fitted with dasher agitator, as shown.
Tne Perfect Barrel Spray Pump is a thoroughly first-class article.
The barrel is not included in the price. Barrels, 7/6 to /O/-.
The pump is provided with two sft. lengths of rubber hose and two Vermorel
nozzles.
Prioe,
60j-
i.' < : rf;
Myers’ Graduating Vermorel
Spray Nozzle.
MYERS GRADUATING SPRAY NOZZLE
IS constructed on the general plan of
the Vermorel nozzle, with the im-
provement that the spray can be
graduated from a fine mist up to a solid
spray, carrying the stream a much
greater distance, or can be shut off
entirely. This is accomplished by ad-
justing the screw plunger shown in the
sectional view, by means of thumb nut.
The degorger is operated by the screw-
plunger instead of spring.
Nozzle for -finch pipe. Price each
Bordeaux Spray and Solid Stream Nozzle.
t'y 'i -;,r
f.
IS
The Lever Extends Forward and Does Not Form
Hook to Break Tender Vines.
This Nozzle can be used for Whitewashing*
This will throw a line fan-shaped spray, and will readily free, itself, should it
become clogged, by turning the cock handle. It will throw a solid stream, or may
be shut off altogether, as desired.
Bordeaux Spray Nozzle, fitted for -inch pipe only.
Price each
3/>
Anthony Hordern ®. Sons
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


By Special Appointment to
Ji is .Majesty The King.
FACILE PRINCEPS
Buchanan’s
Black &White” Whisky
SEMPER IDEM
By Royal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The King,
and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
.Sydney, July 9, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
The old guard lined up before their Northcote
Excellencies and saluted. The smallest guards-
man was about 18 inches high, and the tallest
reached her Ex.’s shoulder. She picked the biggest
and waltzed with him ; then she selected a brown
boy-butterfly, about the size of a loaf of brdad.
The gleaming aides and secs, took partners
reaching to about their uniformed knees—
tiny grandmothers, lovely fisher girls, and
all manner of small beauties. The little
Belisario and Rodd boys were “The Princes
in the Tower,” after Millais’ picture, in
black velvet doublets, silk hose, and jewelled
orders. Foregoing, it may be explained, refers to a
children’s fancy-dress party given by Lady North-
cote this afternoon. It was a dream of fair
children.
Nary a woman in the Royal on Saturday night
but would have given in sympathy half her box
of chocolates to Mr, George Musgrove when he
paced to the front of the stage to an-
nounce another disappointment. “ The Valky-
rie ” was programmed, and the first act
had been sung, with Studemund, Greder,
and Sara Anderson as Siegmund, Hun-
ding, and Sieglipde respectively. The inky-
bearded and black-browed, hairy Hunding
vyas sleeping his drugged sleep, and the Thor-
like, fair-haired Siegmund, the heart under his
lion-hide garment beating wildly for love of the
golden-haired, blue-eyed giantess, Mrs. Hunding,
crushed her against his wild-beast robe, and
together singing, they did a rush for the
open door and the blue, calm night. The
house was crowded' from gallery to stalls, and a
complaisant writer would describe the audience as
brilliant. Down fell the curtain on the huge
oak and the guilty lovers pausing in the back-
ground. When it went up in response to a tumult
of applause—Mr. G. H. Reid, in the manager’s
box, smote his “Yes” and his “No” to-
gether manfully to help the appreciation along—
poor Musgrove was there with a sheet of letter
paper in his hand. “Don’t congratulate me,
ladies and gentlemen," he said. And the audi-
ence guessed what was to follow.
He read a doctor’s certificate stating that
Miss Heinze was unfit to sing. Miss Heinze
is almost the whole of the second act
of “The Valkyrie.” It was she who had caused
an audience to be sent empty away after it
had taken its seat for Friday’s matinee.
This certificate had only reached the manage-
ment at 10 past six—4o minutes before the
updrawing of the curtain ! The audience,
while sorry for itself and Musgrove, and
Miss Heinze, was thinking of its scamped
dinner. “The question is, what is best to be
done?” continued the manager. “This opera
cannot proceed” From the gallery came a
loud, clear voice, “Let the opera proceed, and the,
orchestra play Brunnhilde’s part.” A burst of
applause showed the suggestion to be not un-
welcome, but another voice burst out “Get George
Reid for the part ! ”
The evening was started afresh—so to speak—
with “The Flying Dutchman.” Some of the
audience wasn’t taking any more Dutchman, so it
got its “Valkyrie” act, and its money. But the
substitute ran no more smoothly than did the
unhappy Dutchman’s love-making. Miss Ormond,
a chorus girl, came on to sing the principal soprano
r6le, reading the music from the score. Miss
Anderson, the Senta, had struck at the last
moment over a question of salary. But the audi-
ence had no more gasps left. It applauded the
scratch Senta.
The family-circle folk at the last “DieWal-
kure ” performance didn’t yawn during one, at
least, of the dreaded 25 minutes’ intervals. They
were too anxiously wondering whether the young
man, who was returning with the coffee-pot full
of boiling liquid, was about to spill it down their
backs or not. He didn’t. He arrived bravely
and safely at his destination amid guffaws of
laughter. There was something of the magician
or ex-waiter in that pale young man, for, after
landing the hot coffee pot, he dived into space and
hauled up a bag, out of which he produced
victuals, cups, saucers, spoons, serviettes, and a
tiny cardboard box full of sugar. Then he dis-
pensed hot coffee and sandwiches to his three
lady friends amid applause. “Is it ’ot enuf,
Miss?” said a voice. “Parse around the sand-
widges,” said another. But the party ate and
drank swiftly and copiously, and the deft young
man had the dishes put away just as the curtain
rose on Act 111.
Mr. Regnes (husband of Mrs. Sara Anderson,
prima donna of the Royal Germans) has come
somewhat into prominence through the fierce
light that beats upon rows between managers and
stars. He is young, and dark as a Spaniard, but,
like his wife, an American. Also he reminds
somewhat of Julius Knight as we first knew
that artist, and has the same fine, resonant
speaking voice. He is a basso, and looks
as if he’d make a great Mephisto. Regnes
is not singing with the co. He just came
out with his Vikingess. She is the fairest and
bluest-eyed of warblers, with infantile flaxen hair.
Looks a regular daughter of a sea king. The
wedded basso and soprano go out only for exer-
cise. She conserves her voice. A Fourth of July
dinner with friends has been her only dissipa-
tion. Regnes is smitten with admiration of the
Australian voices. He calls them, amongst other
things, “good-sized, soulful, sympathetic, and
well-placed.” He heard the opera chorus in Mel-
bourne thirteen weeks ago. when it was untried,
and he opinionated, “Nowhere else in the world
would one hear such voices.”
Mrs. Willie Mitchell Goodwin met her Hart,
it appears, at sea on a liner. Presently I’ll write
something about “The Husband as a Marine
Product; Should He be Canned ? ”
Good-bye violets and daffodils nearly smothered
the Waldrons (he is the actor, who takes an Aus-
tralian bride with him) and the Harold Waring
honeymooners who left by the Manuka, for
America, yesterday. This bride is in mourning,
and the bridegroom had the funereal symbol on
his light overcoat. There was a smart damsel in
a grey-green tailor-made and a red hat amongst
the crowd on deck. But Mrs. Walter Marks,
brown-haired, brown-furred, and with cherries in
her hat, took attention from brides or anyone else.
Count Morner, the moderately-new Swedish
Consul-General in Australia, drops a large lump
of sugar into this country’s cup ;
The Australians are a remarkably well-educated, well-
informed, and much-travelled people. One can discuss
with them all sorts of topics, and be sure of an intelligent
attention to the subject. In two months spent here I
have learned to know more people who. have visited
Sweden than I did during two years’ stay in England, and
It is astonishing what a wealth of information these
travelled Australians bring back with them, and what
they have time to see and learn during their travels.
The people as a whole are, in my opinion, more kindly,
more graceful, freer, and more polite and obliging than
in the mother country, England. The new type of the
race is, of course, as yet in the making, but it ought to
become one of the soundest and most harmoniously-
fashioned recorded in the nation’s history.
The translator isn’t too sure of the last remark j
he says it’s “ sundaste och mest harmoniske ” in
the original. But whatever it means, I’m sure it
must be something with syrup in it.
The English notability, who is said to be en-
gaged to an Australian pen woman, is not “ Lord
Donahue ” as stated the other day, but Sir George
Doughty, M.P., a man of some years and much
wealth, who has raised himself from the humblest
ranks. He is rich enough to keep a dozen motor
cars, and to supply his wife with a diamond
tiara for every day of the week, if he Wants to.
Miss Amy Sherwin has got almost as, many
pupils as she can take at 10 guineas a quarter.
She sings at the reception to the Maoriland foot-
ballers, next Thursday, at Sydney Town Hall.
Mrs. Ernest Watt, an absentee Sydney beauty,
sister to Mrs. Neville Dangar, cables her family
of the advent of an infant daughter. The stork
left the package last week. Some time ago,
baby’s pa “ broke out littery,” and did it well,
but since then he seems to have lapsed into the
sportsman.
The Mahaffy, who is Something High, or some-
thing Specially British in Fiji (I think they call
him Colonial Secretary, and the initials that run
behind his chariot are 1.5.0.), and who married
a Melb. girl, is in Sydney for a few days. On
Sunday he ate his bit of luncheon cereal with the
Northcotes.
The Beautiful Fiend took a pair of long-fingered,
finely-nailed, nervous hands out of her Russian
sable muff, sank them in the fur, and, turning up
a pair of large dark eyes to the lighted ceiling,
began to rave about Sydney. “ I went out in a
motor car yesterday, and every time I caught
sight of a lovely view I screamed with joy. At
last the lovely views became so numerous that my
admiration resolved itself into one long scream.
And what weather —this honey-colored, dry,
cold atmosphere! I’m so glad it will be
cold while I’m playing the Beautiful Fiend.
I don’t know how I could suffer the heavy
velvet gowns and furs I wear in that awful
piece if the temperature were up to 70.
Awful drama ? Yes, it is to me, because
I’ve played it for two years running. Imagine
having to be fiendish and work woe to all the good
characters six nights a week for two years!
Scientists say that the nature of one’s work is
written on one’s face. If I look like the charac-
ters I do best I ought to wear an iron mask
when I’m let loose amongst my fellow creatures.
‘The Great Awakening’ is as big an audience-
drawer as the Fiend. Yes, I collaborated in the
writing of it, and with both dramas I’ve made a
lot of money. After this tour—it is to be a year
long—l’m going to retire, and grow orchids, and
raise canaries, and catch eggs—anything, in fact,
that means being out of doors and in the country.
No, I didn't know any Australians till I came on
the Macedonia. Of the artistes who have played
here I saw Maud Jeffries. I shall not soon forget
her as Mariainne in Stephen Phillips’ ‘ Herod.’”
Miss Hildyard is tall, very slight, and awfully
emotional, with a long-oval, clear pale face, and
a lot of soft brown hair, padless, curl-less,
untinkered at, and coiled low on her neck. She
reminds of Mrs. Pat Campbell, and doesn’t look
as if she were out of the twenties.
Mrs. Blanche Arral is back in Sydney, and will
most likely add to her artistic triumphs of some
months ago. In Maoriland the French warbler
did splendid business, taking over £3OOO, which is
some set-off to being charged 9s. 6d. for two days’
meals for the Arral cat and dog. That befel in
one hostelry in a certain town.
Mrs. James Mills, now a Dame (commonly
called a Lady) by act of the King (some persons
think the acquisition of a knighthood equal to a
visitation of God), is still in London. The
casualty of the title which has just befallen her
husband, James Mills, managing director of the
Union S.S. Co., will certainly be resented by her
clan. She comes of an untitled Irish totem of
incredible age and haughtiness. A correspondent
tells me from London that the visiting yellow-
haired Maorilander (by adoption) is faithful to
emerald-green head-wear. The Mills are return-
ing to Maoriland shortly.
Writes a Voice, crying on paper in the Fog;
“ One doesn’t realise how enchanting distance (in
your case 14,000 miles) may be until one sees at
close range a famous beauty—some beauty who
has been famous ever since we can remember, and
over whose loveliness ‘ M. A. P. ’ still gets periodic
attacks of the ‘ O mys! ’ While the wheel of
entertainment to the Premiers was still going a
hundred revolutions to the second, I had the
privilege of gazing, at close range and at leisure,
upon the Duchess of Devonshire. When I used
to read, in my far-back station home, of
tbis wondrous survival, and gaze upon the
calm beauty and intellect in her photographed
face—it never looked more than a 28-year-
old face—l used then to glance at granny (Pa’s
mother) and wonder whether, if she had been
born an Englishwoman and destined to be the
wearer of a ducal coronet, she would have kept
the youth and beauty which, report says, gave
the young squatters heartaches. Well, now I’ve
seen her Grace of Devonshire. She can’t compare
with granny. Granny is 80, but looks 70, and is
as gay as a magpie, and dresses decently. An
old identity told me that 40 years ago the
Duchess (she is twice duchessed, first time of
Manchester) was a most beautiful creature.
Now she’s a little, round-backed, shrivelled
yellow party who looks all the burdqu of her sack
of years—Bo of them or so. If she dressed
appropriately, none but a Hoggenheimeress would
comment on her appearance. But her gowns are
cut down at the back to near her waist line, and are
appallingly meagre in front. They display folds
of parchment skin. , , Her wig isn’t grey, and
she blazes with jewels. Wasn’t it someone in
your paper that said, ‘Jewels on an old woman
suggest a lantern on a wreck ’ ? . . She put up
her long-stemmed monocle and took a survey of
Miss Botha and Miss Ward, then looked away
suddenly. Seemed to me, with a ‘O-God-put-
back - Thy - Uni verse - and - give - me-yesterday ’ ex-
pression. What anguish old age must be to the
woman who has been beautiful, and is still rich
and a duchess, and hanging on to the withered
tail of her vanished youth ! ”
The name of a man we know —know personally —
in a current novel always strikes sparks of in-
terest out of us. In that remarkable book,
“When It Was Dark,” the writer gives a
vignette of a millionaire scholar’s library. “A
few pictures here and there in spaces between the
shelves —the hectic flummery of a Whistler noc-
turne, a woman with cherries by Manet, a green
silk fan painted with f&tes galantes by Conder—
alone broke the many-colored monotony of the
books.” Helps one to realise that the one-time
Australian Conder has arrived. He might have
been a very temporary Australian, but we are in-
terested all the same.
Several references to food seem to make inti-
mate some of the characters. Another scholar
and critic —one of the greatest of the age—
addresses himself with reverence to a lady:
“You must be most careful in the preparation of
really good crayfish soup. The great secret is to
flavor with a little lobster spawn, and to mix the
crumb of a French roll with the stock —white
stock, of course—before you add the powdered
shells and anchovies.” This man, whose strong
point is the Higher Criticism, is a favorite at a
rather fluffy club because he has invented two
new omelettes and a white soup. Another
character, Father Ripon, a High Churchman,
after working pretty well all day without food,
asks for “coffee, bread and oranges.”
Talking of feeding, a new and glowingly-
artistic supper-room has been opened at the Aus-
tralia Hotel.
Waitara Foundling Home Ball will occur at
Sydney Town Hall on Wednesday, July 17. A
most worthy charity. Excellency and Miss
Rawson and the Peacock’s Tail of aides and
private secs, will grace the assemblage. So will
the Darleys, the Thomas Hugheses and the Warrior
Gordons.
Astonishing what long memories for the affairs
of their neighbors most persons have. At the
reception given at Baumann’s on Saturday by
French Consul-General Pinard to the commandant
and officers of the cruiser Catinat, Mrs. Wilson,
widow of a once well-known Victorian squatter,
appeared in subdued splendor. She attracted
notice chiefly through her daughter, who is
married to the captain of the white, shark-
prowed warship now lying in Farm Cove. But
in twenty minutes half the crowd had been in-
formed that Mrs. Wilson was Eugenie Legrand, a
French actress who starred in Melbourne, and
had there married Kyrle Bellew. Wilson, the
second consort, left his widow and children pretty
well gilded. Captain Buchard is a fair warrior,
verging on red. His wife is like her mother—of
good presence, dark, and with somewhat Asiatic
eyes. (I am aware that this statement is vague.)
It was one of the brightest of things Froggy—this
reception. Venerable Pinard said Je suis enchante
de vous voir as if he really meant it, and his vice-
consul Deschars wore a nice tie, and the smile
diplomatic. The rest of his attire was, of course,
also conventional. All the leaders of the French
colony in Sydney were present, and courteously
tolerant of the French the Australians tried on
them. Trying it on the Frog ! The Durans
(he’s of the French Bank), the Shards, the F.
Learoyds, the Moreaus and Rogets helped to
make the men-o’-war feel that they were not in a
hostile land. Mayor and Mayoress Hughes, of
Sydney, drifted amiably about amongst the
gold lace, swagger and pointed beards, and ate
the entente cordials sandwich.
That sweet Irish balladist, Marie Narelle, who
has had such a bad illness, is recovering in St.
Vincent’s Hospital. But it will be half a year or
so before she is again on the warbly path.
.Jessie Maclachlan, the Scotch balladist, drifted
through Sydney the other day. Her pretty face
and “ advanced” figure, and her wild and haggard-
looking pianist, and the rest of the co., were bound
for country centres. They go to Maoriland this
week.
The W. P. Mannings—He, She, and little
daughter Beatrix—are back after an eight months’
sojourn in foreign lands and on strange waters.
They had some causerie with the Pope, and stayed
awhile with the millionairess widow of Peter
Russell, and with Rev. Francis Galton. The
little girl was to have put up her hair and
hooked a long frock up her back, and (spon-
sored by Lady Crewe) bent her spine before
Majesty, but as Sodden Society and “M.A.P.”
and kindred papers have told us again and yet
again, the Queen had to be out of England with
her second daughter, Princess Victoria. It was
this Princess’s winter for causing “her royal
parents serious anxiety about her health.” The
evergreen Queen’s absence during the visit of the
extraneous Premiers rather saddened their wives.
No understudy, however well she may read the
part, is an adequate substitute for the principal
royal tragedienne.
Miss Marie Lohr — daughter of Miss Kate
Bishop, a one-time beloved actress in these parts,
and Louis Lohr, the popular theatrical manager,
who now runs a hotel somewhere down by Gipps-
land’s stormy lakes—is, according to her portraits,
a pretty youngster. Marie’s father was a fine-
looking man, and her mother was a beautiful
woman before Stoutness, like the villain in the
melodrama, overtook her while still quite young.
And even after Fat overtook her she was dis
tinctly handsome. Marie appears to take after
her parents save in the tragedy of circumference.
She is now at the London Haymarket, and her
gowns worn in the piece, “ My Wife,” are worth
columns, and seem to come up to the standard of
“creations” :
Her tailor-made suit of the first act is composed of
plaided biscuit and blue cloth trimmed with biscuit
soutache upon the skirt that boldly outlines the blue
motifs upon it. A most becoming little loose coat, with
postillion tabs at the back, has a blue vest touched with
soutache, and the costume is completed by means of a
bronze straw hat massed with white wings in front.
A cover-all cloak is worn over the costume when Miss
Lohr makes her entrance, built of earth-of-Egypt cloth (a
new shade of tan) lined with white satin and trimmed
with turquoise blue and a suspicion of gold. t
The second act finds the charmingly pretty Trixie in
one of her trousseau frocks, a little white cloth suit with
a pleated coatee fascinatingly trimmed with ball fringe ;
and the third reveals her in a becoming pearl grey chiffon
dress, with a band of embroidered lisse and filet lace upon
the skirt, and a Japanese bodice with the characteristic
short sleeves of that genre, from which protrude the white
lace and point d’esprit elbow sleeves that appertain to
the chemisette. The bodice is touched with tomato
velvet very sparingly, but most effectively, and the belt
is a curious Eastern-looking of three colors —old-
blue, dull red, and gold.
The phrase “built of earth-of-Egypt cloth” is
good. Simple “tan” faints before it.
From Brisbane :
Glorious sunshine and a wilderness of roses marked the
belated vice-regal garden party on Thursday. Bright
colors broke out on every side, and for once the frocking
suited the weather. It was decidedly a novelty to find
the usually energetic Governoress receiving sitting down,
and being carefully wrapped up in a smart coat of grey
cloth and fur soon after three, while a sunburnt husband,
looking as if the Northern winds had blown a new lease
of life into his shadowy frame, stood up and did the
bustling.
Languid, graceful sister Villiers (who with hubby is
examining Australia from the heights of the official resi-
dence) lounged through the ordeal in a wonderful gar-
ment of shot blue and green chiffon gauze, over pale
green glace, topped by a hat whose mouse-velvet crown
covered several moon-blue plumes. Among the smartest
froekers (excluding a pink brocade lady who looked like a
hilarious lamp shade having a day out) were Mrs. P. A.
Blundell, wearing grey crepe de chine ; Mrs. Cecil Palmer,
whose prune-tinted velvet looked as if the handsome
wearer had been moulded into it, and whose Gains-
borough velvet hat was at quite the right angle; Mrs.
Harry Cohen, in a glove-like tweed ; Mrs. Lily Moore,
wearing white crbpe, hand-painted in heliotrope roses ;
Mrs. William Collins, in gray chiffon and fox-furs; and
pen-driver Una Kidgell, in cream and black, and a pic-
ture hat. The future hopes of the Chelmsfords worked
like Trojans, handing round “real ice cream,” and at
5 p.m. her Ex.’s tired face moved the party off without
the usual broad hint of the Anthem.
On Saturday Lady Chelmsford shed a brief light upon
the Bowen benefit race meeting. The meeting was
without bookmakers, and a big crowd attended, so
that, on the tote takings, the hospital should do well. A
lively west wind made the frocking heavy and sombre,
and hot tea was at a premium.
On Thursday next Government House gives an evening
at home, and on the same afternoon Lady C. presides at
the Lamington Hospital Annual. This effort will be re-
peated pn the following Monday at the Lady Bowen
yearly gathering, and after that it will be time to rest (at
Toowoomba, I bear) until Show time, 13th August.
Mrs. James Cowlishaw departed Bullwards by the
Orontes on Saturday, and the sprightly Davenport widow'
and her rapidly-blossoming chick went by the same boat
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Melbourne and other Australian cities
may expect something particularly catchy in
cricket at the end of the year. A Fijian team
(with a royal captain) promises to pit its brown
valor against Australian players, under the pro-
tection (in all probability) of the M.C.C. They’re
great athletes, the Fijians, and the picked team
will probably be made up of goodly-looking
savages of well over six feet in height. Their
captain is a- Personage—a weighty chief —by
name Khan Davu, or Davu Khan (it’s twisty work,
spelling Fijian). He has just cabled excitedly,
and at great length, to a Victorian lieutenant of
Island-visiting tendencies, to announce his arrival
as advance agent. The men will be wildly
delighted at the prospect of the trip. It is the
ambition of every Fijian to go to “Sydney,” as
they call Australia. It is the land of enchant-
ment, of all delight.
Another of Melbourne Harbor Trust’s im-
ported dredges—the Andre Reboucas—“went
mad ” the other day. Its engines refused to go
astern, and drove the tub clean through a Wil-
liamstown wharf. The Trust thereupon held a
secret inquiry, exonerated everybody, and
proffered the quaint explanation that “the en-
gines had refused to go astern because there
wasn’t enough steam in the boilers”—though
there had been quite enough to drive them ahead
through the wharf. The party really responsible
is, of course, the Trust itself, which imported the
foreign rattletrap instead of getting a workable
dredge made here by the competent Australian
engineers who are looking for jobs. After all,
Geelong had some luck. Its two imported
dredges never arrived. The sea swallowed the
crazy things. If it hadn’t done so they might
have climbed into Geelong, and dredged up and
down the streets till they knocked the town to
pieces.
The habit that the sensational paper has
of putting a cross in the picture to show where
the body was found may have been partly re-
sponsible for the second half of this week’s double
tragedy at Katoomba (N.S.W.). On Sunday,
young William Lannen (aged 13) was scrambling
over a mass of ice at the top of the frozen falls
when he slipped and dropped 200 ft. On Monday,
Miss Henrietta M'Aviney, aged 22, wanted to
see the place (the sort of place that is marked
X on the regulation evening-paper picture)
where the tragedy occurred, and slipped on
the same piece of ice, and went down the
same 200 ft. drop. With these two events and
the midnight murder of a solitary old woman who
lived alone in a big house at Enmore, Sydney has
started out in active pursuit of the Melbourne
horror record. But there is a difference; the
Sydney police made a promising arrest and found
some of the stolen property within a few hours of
the Enmore crime. They at least caught some-
body. The Melbourne police never seem to catch
anybody but a homeless old woman these times,
or anything except a cold, acquired while standing
at a corner waiting to hear from somebody con-
nected with Wren. By the way, the Enmore
prisoner is said to have confessed to the murder,
and meanwhile the humorless law has fined him
ss. or the rising of the court for being drunk !
What use has he for the rising of a mere police
court ?
As it was in the beginning. London Art
Journal for November, 1849, was thus driven to
italics by reading the “Rambles in New South
Wales” of Joseph Phipps Townsend :
Mr. Townsend may well call it a “ startling fact,” that
in two years 10,000 persons left the colony ; but he asserts
his belief that many persons would have remained if they
could have obtained land, the last thing we should have
supposed it difficult to procure.
The land-grabber and the land hunger began very
early. Truly has it been said that ‘ ‘ there were
giants in those days.” For instance, one mon-
strous land-famished person of early N.S.W. con-
ceived the idea that all Maoriland was just about
enough for one landlord, and after a hurried
voyage to the isles he came back with a document
which purported to show that he had bought
the lot.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy banishes all
tendency towards pneumonia.*


rvicte^
nan
¥emomi°/¥ie
\r v-'Jcc. O'\ \l*
&
Warn
i
§
in i
An Income for 1908!
£1 per week for
Twelve Months FREE.
Read this carefully.
With the object of increasing the already
enormous demand in N.S.W. for
UPTON’S FAMOUS
TEAS
it has been decided to award handsome prizes
in return for empty Lipton’s Tea Packets.
Points will be computed as follows :
All 1/21b. packets .. .. count 1 point.
All 11b. packets or tins .. count 2 points.
All 51b. tins count 10 po nts.
All 101 b. tins count 20 points.
In the case of Tins—only the TOP LIDS (with
labels) need be sent.
PRIZES.
Green & Red & Ghoco-
Yellow Pink late
Pkts. Pkts. Pkts.
For 25 points prize valued at 5/- 3/6 2/6
For 50 points prize valued at 10/- 7/6 5/-
For 100 points prize valued at 20/- 15/- 10/-
For 200 points prize valued at 40/- 30/- 20/-
Larger Parcels will be exchanged for more
valuable prizes.
Besides securing the above handsome prizes,
all persons sending in parcels will be credited
in our books with the points gained, and will
be entitled to compete for the Grand Income
Prize of £1 per week for Twelve Months.
Grand Income Prize.
The Person securing the highest
number of points to December 31,
1907, will be paid by us an income of
£1 per week for the whole of 1908.
Important.— All parcels must be accom-
panied with particulars, giving sender’s full
name and address, and number and color of
labels enclosed. These particulars should in
ALL CASES BE ATTACHED to parcels.
Address— :
UPTON’S, Dept. T,
107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
No parcels on which carriage has not been fully
paid will be accepted.
Residents in Country may hand their parcels to
our nearest agent, who in turn will forward to us.
Winner’s name and address of the Grand Income
Prize will be published in the Sydney Morning Herald
and the Daily Telegraph as soon after December 31,
closing date, as possible.
Ask your Grocer for Handbill.
arnet
ORESS
Shields
KLEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any ,garinent. They
are as well known to the Modistes of' Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 8, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Flemington was no beauty show on Saturday.
Blue cheeks and pink noses were the ruling com-
bination with those who believe in letting Nature
alone. Those who assist that good lady came off
worse still, for they assumed the purple tint of
the apparently drowned. There’s a fortune
awaiting the somebody who invents a make-up to
defy south winds at Flemington. Even the
plump Madden family looked tucked up and
dejected—always excepting Mrs. Frank. Cham-
pion defier of the element was Mrs. > Ernest
Brookes, wearing a cloth gown that wasn’t straw-
berry, nor Burgundy, nor common tile red, but
a pleasing mixture of the lot. The one great
stroke on her gown was a sublime scarf in
cream lace, draped picture fashion in front, and
descending to the hem of her garments at the
back. Mrs. George Chirnside made a good
struggle to support a well-deserved reputation for
chic. Her mauve cloth gown furnished a worthy
background to fascinating grey furs lined with
ermine. Ermine linings—as opposed to fraudu-
lent imitations—hall-mark their wearer. The
sign of the Golden Fleece is stamped upon her, so
to speak. Women are wearing as many curious
feather fixings in their hats as South Sea Islanders.
Most of them stood on end in Saturday’s breeze.
One society dame suggested the Valkyrie, whilst
the large majority looked like infuriated hens.
Most of the Really Truly affected the uncom-
promising trottoir. Mrs. Edward Miller “cleared
the ground ” in mauve frieze. Mrs. J. L.
Lempriere did as much in velvet. A large
edition of Lady Northcote a good-looking
visitor from Sydney, who, with her husband,
attracted a lot of admiration at the Deakin
welcome last week —was one of the best
tailor-made dames on the terrace. The frail
beauties who courted neuralgia in their elbows,
and trailed taffeta in the tan, didn’t join in the
tea-chat under the vines.
The wives of the Federal Ministers were con-
jointly At Home at Parliament House, on Tues-
day, that they might say a public “ How d’ye do ”
to Mrs. Deakin. Bigjohn’s wife made a pleasant
and successful hostess, as is her wont. Mrs.
Deakin looked radiant, with a bright color in her
cheeks and her eyes glowing with smiles. In the
smartest of black gowns, with touches of
black and white about the “kim” sleeves,
she looked young enough to be the sister
of her tall tailor-gowned girl, Mrs. Brookes
—sister-in-law, by the way, of the new
world’s tennis champion. The Prime Minister
had a handshake for everybody, and was button-
holed and talked to very seriously at every turn,
what time a hidden orchestra made subdued
music somewhere—apparently behind the cur-
tains of the upper gallery corridors that overlook
the hall. The dressing was particularly blossomy.
Green was the keynote, though. Mrs. Senator
Keating wore a daring Paddy emerald in soft
chiffon velvet. The hats were tremendous. Mrs.
Justice Isaacs led off with a huge “natural”
feather curling from forehead to neck, and making
a fine frame for the dark beauty of her face. And
Mrs. Queensland Groom scored with rosy plumage.
A few folk wandered into the trim gardens, but
after sampling the chilliness outside, they joined
in the general trek to the library, to view a golden
casket holding Mr. Deakin’s “Freedom of the
City of London.” He has handed the bauble
over to the Commonwealth, since it came to him
as Prime Minister. The casket is a gorgeous
thing of solid gold. The Librarian does not feel a
bit happy at having the custody of it. He dreams
of the recent Mint robbery and the missing mace
of olden days.
The party was such a success that some of the
hostesses (the energetic Forrest dame in the
centre) had their heads together at the finish
planning further shivoos for the near future—
with a probable alternative of hostess and a sort-
ing out of guests “in turn,” to keep the parties
jolly and small. Even the good sprinkling of the
frock-coated did not look as if they “ wished they
hadn’t come ” in the bored way of normal man-
kind at an afternoon tea-and-talk. There were
many interesting women to talk to, and a pleasing
dearth of giggle.
Saturday saw Mrs. Bland ’Olt’s departure from
Melbourne for London, via U.S.A. With her go
friend Lucy Coppin and a large Australian-made
collection of everything nice—from lingerie to
fur-fitted overcoats. By another route a cargo
of pictures of ’Rooland origin, table-centres,
locally-woven fabrics, stuffed bunyips, Australian
gems, and platypus furs travel to the same des-
tination.
The lady’s last appearance in a Royal cast drew
an overflowing house, a speech or two, and some
hundredweights of vegetable compliments. The
gallery hurled kindly laments at her, and bawled
farewell with much regret. The Bland’oltian
employees also took the parting in serious vein.
They presented the cheerful lady with a com-
prehensive collection of ironmongery, some toilet
things, and an oppressive load of good wishes.
For all of which she said “thank you” very
nicely, with a broad and cheerful smile.
The loving souls, forced these frosty nights to
find a cosier setting for their amourettings than
the bleak sea-shore, or the gas-box, or the Fitzroy
Gardens, are apt to go to the Town Hall,
on Saturday night, and hear Dr. Price play
the organ. They get into a warm, obscure corner
of the sixpenny seats, and there He murmurs “ I
love yer, Liz,” and She coyly retorts “ Garn ! ” to
their callow hearts’ content. They never heard
good music before, and it moves them strangely.
The surging passion of a “Tannhauser” scene,
rolling down to them from the great organ, and
the exquisite idyll of the garden act from
“Faust,” as it is sung by the vox humana in
Dr. Price’s arrangement, implants unsuspected
flowers of sentiment and weird fungi of
yearning upon their unthinking flirtation.
Before the winter is half over He finds
no pleasure in the meaner delights of holding
hands and chaffing lightly with his girl, and she
has developed a novel shyness and a touch of
hysteria, and insists that they shouldn’t ever miss
“old Price” and “his horgan concert.” The
glamor of the music rushes them into an engage-
ment, and then the Town Hall loses two steady
customers, for they are saving the pair of weekly
sixpences to buy furniture with.
“ Tryphena” writes from London re Clara Butt
and husband
The large impressive warblers who shortly pack their
trunks and batch of babies for Australia, are, away
from the platform, the fondest doves in this Cold
Country. This isn’t a land that runs to many loving
linked pairs. To be linked here is mostly to be drab and
resigned or divorcey and fast. , The Rumford doves are a
beautiful and tranquilising exception. Lunching at
Compton Lodge in the leafiest, breeziest quarter
of St. John’s Wood, you settle with a sigh of
relief to the glad conditions. (I speak with feel-
ing, having been at several swagger feasts where
my smart host and hostess snapped and snarled and
sneered at each other whenever there was a wretched
gap in the tiffin talk. Horrible 1) The only break in the
glad course of a Compton Lodge meal occurs when one
of the babies upstairs crows in the wrong key, or cries
out of tune. Then one of the doves sheds the serviette and
tears upstairs to restore the atom to tunefulness, or
check it with a series of overwhelming hugs.
“Excuse me,” baritoned the large Clara once, “ I hear
Joy crying. I can’t bear her sobs.” And the feast was
virtually suspended while baby was comforted. Everyone
resumed operations with gusto when the colossal hostess
trumpeted forth contented talk from her end of the table
once more.
Clara Butt is not actively glad, or fussily cheerful, or
exuberantly gay—she’s just happy in a large, heavy, con-
tented form. The explanation is not temperament, but
intellect. There’s very little intellect behind the good,
big brow of Clara Butt. The mind is heavy. It’s built on
a scale proportionate to the rest of Clara, and is burdened
probably by its own massiveness. Consequently, the
greatest contralto in Europe doesn’t effervesce at talk.
One just rests placidly in her splendid presence,
and offers no resistance to the slow course of
table or tea chat. But Clara Butt is mighty
and maternal and good. The whole six-feet-two
of her impressive stature is an argument for wholesome,
happy motherhood. Clara Butt looks a mother, and
deep in her large bosom lurks a desire to abide always
somew'here near the nursery, instead of revolving among
the exalted of the globe.
Yet in song the large olive countenance of Clara glows,
and a slow warmth kindles the brown eyes and some-
times emotion gets them brimming. “ I used to make
myself ridiculous” she told me, “quite ridiculous by
letting my feelings overwhelm me. I would be standing
before my audience with the tears streaming down my
face. But not now. It took too much from my' art. I
couldn’t afford it.”
The contralto’s throat is the most wonderful organ
imaginable. It’s not only massive, it’s muscular and
assertive. It’s not beautiful—it’s extraordinary. Every
word uttered by the giant artiste is almost like a billed
performance. It’s a deep, slow, musical note—deep and
full.
Clara Butt is not a mistress of the art of how to dress,
but she’s the owner of some of the most gorgeous clothes
in the Big Smoke. And that’s a violently bold thing to
assert. For hereabouts the passion for clothes rages and
moves the entire sex to risk its soul for its chiffons.
Clara has put i fortune into her platform raiment, and
audiences are left staggered by the splendor of her
creations.
The way Clara stalks or rolls or strides on to a platform
is a matter of big attractiveness in the eyes of this Fog-
town, though it’s u Fogtowm that likes (openly and
frankly) few natural charms in the sex. It prefers its sex
displaying the calm and coldness of a frozen cod. Clara,
sometimes in an absent-minded moment or On the rolling
tide of song, squats on the lid of the grand piano and
completes her lilt in that free-and-easy attitude. And
London likes it. At a recent sing-song, the platform
manner of Clara as compared with that of Albani and
Ada Crossley (our own Ada) came in for vast and flatter-
ing comment. Each artiste was handed up a towering
basket of flowers. Albani was the first on whom the
trophy was served. She took it up, smiled coldly (in an
explanatory way) at its circumference, and left it on the
platform. Ada gave one of her best deportment bows
from the meridian, and summoned a male to march
the monster souvenir off with her. Then Clara was heard
in an organ wealth of melody, after which she stooped,
took a mighty grip of the basket, and slung it (navvy-
fashion) overher massive shoulder. And this brought the
crowd to a great gush of delight and laughter. The
snortful few availed nought.
If Clara leap-frogs (for a short cut) over a reception
committee, don’t be surprised. She’s the most unaffected
natural star on the whole stage or platform of Europe. ,
Kennerly-Rumford is a beauty-man, and he has manners
to match. There’s a delightful charm about Clara’s
mate. People hereabouts talk haughtily of the K.R.’s
and their good breeding. It’s understood that when
the starring vocalists elected to duet it domestically for
ever and aye, with a ring and a church blessing thrown
in (duets in the Smoke thrive without either, and quite
in a swaggah atmosphere too), the Cold Country gasped
“Impossible!' The Kennerly-Rumfords are so particu-
lar. They’ll want birth.” Clara was alleged to have
none. No family-tree—not even a small twig. But the
duet came off, and the two are the happiest in England.
The Willie A’Becketts, who began their
married life with a Maoriland tour, are tired of
their honeymoon finale at Menzies’. They are
now entering quite as gaily into housekeeping,
and have taken the Ricardo house on Toorak-
road for a year. Hubby, in his days of irrespon-
sibility, had a big place of domicile in Dande-
nong-road, but the little bride declared it too
single-manlike for her fancy. “The dining and
smoking rooms are fine,” she declares, but the
rest of the house is weird and uncultivated, and
altogether unsuitable —for a married man. What
she might add, perhaps, is that the reminiscences
which cling to the dining and smoking rooms are
even more unsuitable for its one-time bachelor
occupant in his new—and happier—state. Let
not the bridegroom dwell in a reminiscent atmo-
sphere, where the odors of bygone tobaccos may
corrupt, and visions break through and steal, saith
the preacher.
Some of Melbourne’s smartest drapery “hands”
and figures are going to hold a winter show on
their own. The employees of Buckley and Nunn
have arranged a conversazione and dance for Aug.
Ist, at the Masonic Hall.
Why is it usual for the smartly-dressed, rather-
dandified, married man (the man who always has
an eye and a flattering word for likely-looking
girleens) to own a little, frumpy, frightened-
looking wife ? How was he attracted in the first
place ? And, in any case, why does he not use a little
judicious flattery and suggestion to tone her up
now that he’s got her ? Ornamental hubbies seem
to hide their lawful little frumps in the back-
ground, only trotting them round in a shamed
sort of perfunctory way at big official functions
and such shivoos, where it’s necessary to produce
your wife, if you’ve got one. Also, the sanie
questions and the same comment apply with equal
force to the dashing wife of the meek little citizen,
who is of no importance apart from his salary.
She rarely trots him round when his escort can be
avoided. It’s a law of compensation.
During the week the Athemeum Club will hang
a subscription picture of Justice Edward Holroyd,
and present him with a smaller replica. The
portrait—for which Leslie Wilkie, one of our
youngest artists, is responsible—depicts the little
judge, in a big judicial chair and his robes and
wig. The face is very faithfully done—a trifle
idealised, perhaps—and suggests that the judge
has an acquittal on the tip of his tongue ; and the
treatment of the strident scarlet draperies is
entirely successful.
Mrs. Dr. Hewlitt has always been rather
famous for the special atmosphere of her dainty
little dinners and card parties at the big grey
outer-city house, but recently there happened an
exciting and unexpected addition to the enter-
tainment. It was a Bridge party, and the players
were deep in calculations, when smoke came
tumbling up and flames gleamed on the premises.
A few buckets of water put out the conflagra-
tion, and Judkins’ sermon on how a Bridge party
was burned to a cinder in the midst of its sins
remains undelivered. And it would have been
such a thrilling sermon.
It was no sort of a 4th of July without the
genial Consul-General for the U.S.A. He had
flitted Northward, partly to get quit of some pro-
perty he recently acquired—to wit, a spacious
cold ; partly for other reasons. Vice-Consul
Merrill and his consort recepted in good ’Murri-
can style at the consulate. “Old Glory” was
much in evidence, tempered with the Union Jack
and Australian wattle. Consuls gathered in full
force, and discussed high politics and great inter-
national complications over fermented and spirit-
uous liquors. Womenfolk, many and various,
wrestled with tea, coffee and .an infinitude of
cates. There was no wearisome boldiug-forth
about “the day we celebrate.” If the Land o’
Liberty was toasted at all it must have been in the
inmost recesses of the consulate. The Prime
Minister bestowed a careworn smile on the recep-
tion. Henry Wrixon glanced at it nervously,
said the right thing to host and hostess, and fled.
Great times have come to cinematograph people,
dog showmen, and Punch and Judy folk. Young-
sters have pronounced in their favor, and children
are having it all their own way just now. The
noble army of commercial travellers gave a mam-
moth party, recently, to something like 700 plump
and pleasing young people. Never saw a prettier
lot—from toddlers to rising 15’s. They took pos-
session of the Masonic Hall. The C.T.A. men
made ideal hosts. Secretary Davies worked feel-
ingly, for he is the proud parent of something
very new in babies, and most of the other
men are married, and the lot of them were
tumbling over one another to amuse other
people’s children. Fathers score ’way above
mothers in this respect. You don’t see a mother
hustling much on behalf of Mrs. Brown’s Tommy
—not if she’s got a Tommy of her own. The
feeding of the guests began at four o’clock, and
went on, in relays, till six, and after that, at in-
tervals, till nine.- Odd intervals were filled up
with distributions of crackers, lollies, and squeaky
toys of all sorts, to say nothing of dances on
the platform, dances on the floor, marches, bag-
pipes, dog shows, bilious attacks, and so on.
All the schools have been breaking out into
breaking-up parties. Best of the lot was that of
the three motherly-looking little spinsters, the
Misses Turner, who seem to have given half the
leading men in this metropolis their educational
start in life. Their school in South Yarra
dominates a big slice of landscape, and is audible
anywhere within a half-mile radius. The little
ladies have week-end places of their own in the
hills and by the sea, where they trip off with
batches of boarders every now and then. These
trips naturally provoke comment. One little
Turner woman took train one day with ten small
boys. Enter that good old inquire-within-upon-
everything who haunts every railway route.
“My!” she ejaculated, after surveying the
youngsters. “Have you got nothing but boys?”
Guilelessly the dainty little spinster answered in
the affirmative. “Ah, well,” continued the
enquirer. “You can never tell. I had eight
boys myself before I had a girl.”
On July 1. Mr. John Dana and Miss Dorothy
Hunter took up the burden of holy matrimony.
The knot was hitched together at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, rather quietly. An overseas honey-
moon of long duration is projected by the con-
tented pair. The dainty bride is the eldest joy
of an Elmore squatter.
The much-advertised poster carnival, at the
South Yarra rink, turned out to be first cousin to
a second-rate football match. The arrangements
couldn’t have been worse. Skaters and onlookers
had to look out for themselves, and only free-
fighters could get admission after 10 minutes to 8.
The show in the rink was good, and a lot of the
dresses were clever, but many of the best had sus-
tained damage in the struggle before they took
the floor.
Another claim for damages caused by a broken
vow was brought against a grey-haired matron,
not so long ago, by a disappointed suitor,
30 years her junior. When her well-gilded
family considered the matter, they concluded
that they would prefer mamma to retain her
political prestige and the respect due to wrinkles
and snowy hair, rather than see her acquire an in-
fantile hubby of imperceptible social position, and
lose her dignity. The disappointed lover was
made to see things in that light, too. Since then,
the aged lady has suppressed the eternal feminine,
and devotes herself to politics in a dispassionate,
painstaking way.
From “ Rosna ” in Adelaide :
Adelaide hasn’t caught much of a glimpse of the new
aide yet. He is being tamed at the Residence (where he
can be heard barking on still nights), and taught the cor-
rect method of handling vice-regal wraps. His sportive
Ex. took him for a day’s quail shooting in the wilds,
either for use as a retriever or just by way of an airing ;
and I know a girl who declares her second cousin’s first
wife by a previous marriage saw' him picking a nosegay in
the vice-regal garden. But this is not actually authen-
ticated. We have now three bachelor aides at the
residence, and w'e intend to marry one of them, even if
we have to climb over our ow»n dead body to do it. -
Carreno of the curly-cue gave three recitals in Tor-
toise-tovvn last week, but although the musical popula-
tion crowded in long-haired herds to hear her, her houses
were not as packed as they deserved to be. Fact is she
was too modest jn her prices. If she' had charged a
guinea a la Paderewski, or even half, the whole peerage
would have put in an appearance (pun strictly copy-
right). Our peerage likes to feel it is paying a whole
golden coin for its seat, partly to show that it has the
coin and partly because it can then be quite certaip it is
not being jostled by the vulgar herd. (There’s a story
that a certain sbion of the snobocracy ordered the mana-
ger for one of last year’s most fashionable complimentary
concerts to cross off the seat next to his lot, in case any
common person should sit beside them.) All the
musical ton of the place, headed by Dr. Conservatorium
Ennis, flocked to the station to meet Carreno, and wel-
comed her formally at the South Australian after-
wards. .The usual compliments were exchanged,
and the star smiled amiably upon everyone.
Their Exes., with Miss Clowes and Captain-aide Ryder,
disported themselves at the Thursday evening concert;
also the Chief Justice Ways, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Rymill, the Bishop and Bishopess, the Melrose clan, and
hordes of other well-known folk. The star wore a
gorgeous robe of pale blue brocade, scattered over with
roses. She had some costly floral produce shot at her
between acts. Carreno finished with a matinee perform-
ance, and tore madly off to catch the Melbourne express.
In her haste she forgot to pack up the whirly thing she
wears over the “ n ” in her name, and it had to be, tele-
graphed after her.
The rink has closed with a slam, and melted into a
common C.vclorama room again. The smart girly popu-
lace immediately never smiled again, like Henry I.
The four clever Jurs maidens manipulated the pro-
gramme at the Lyric Club last week, and displayed a lot
of skill in the noisy art. They are a versatile family-r-
-two pianists, a fiddler, and an elocutionist. Also, lam
told, one of them paints.
The Row'ing Club ball drew shoals of carriage company
to the North Adelaide Institute last week. It was a
man-managed affair, and in getting up a ball the male of
our species proves that he isn’t so superfluous as he
looks. The Excellencies were present with the psual
procession of nice brass-buttoned aides, and got through
the lancers creditably.
Miss Jessie Ackermann, who is rushing through Aus-
tralia to tell the Westminster Gazette and other papers
whether the kangaroo still wears his pocket in his chest,
and how bad the rabbits are in Melbourne, spent a few
days in South Oss this week. She was greatly welcomed,
and all the societies gave her a reception ; in fact, she
was busy being feted most of the three days, and hadn’t
a chance to inquire why it was that the rabbits were so
bad in Melbourne. Since she was in Australia, 15 years
ago, Miss Ackermann has put five waist-bands round the
globe.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
GrO TO HELL
IGOIjAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are, highly recommended.
:iSj- per Half-dozen, free by post 1/irouyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
n
m
n
\(
\
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
C II Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER RROTHERS
Also at Mklhourkk.
281 George St.
(ml Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Mr. Reid is away in Sydney with Mr.
Spence advocating preference for unionists.”
That was the neatly malevolent way in which the
Age noticed G. Reid’s absence from the opening
of Parliament.
Sydney did not offer Prime Minister
Deakin a public welcome on behalf of its citizeris,
despite the good service he rendered to Australia
while in London. But a proposal to extend a
public welcome to the Maoriland football team
was hailed with enthusiasm.
Said that Iceberg Irvine is getting im-
patient as he freezes in an Opposition corner.
The arrangement by which G. Reid leads the
Opposition in name, and Joseph Cook in fact,
leaves no room for Irvine to squeeze in. There is
a move ahead to get the Opposition to ask Reid
to retire from the leadership. In that case Cook’s
chances of succeeding are said to be hopeless.
N.S. Wales’ general election prospects are
pretty cheerless all round. Even the Evening
News’ Sussex-street market reports are damp
and discouraging :
TO-DAY’S COMMERCIAL.
AN EGG-FAMINE.
SCARCEST FOR 20 YEARS.
F. C. Monger, M.L.A., of Westralia, states
that he is going to “ resume ” his advocacy of the
secession movement in Westralia, when he gets
properly rested. So far, Monger’s advocacy
hasn’t caused much ripple on the surface of
events, and his proposed resumption has been
received with the same profound calm which
greets the news that little Johnny, being now
restored to health, intends to take up the multi-
plication-table where he left off.
Even the hitherto faithful Argus now
comments on the infrequency of G. Reid at
the Australian Parliament, and asks him to
either gird up his loins for the coming fray,
or throw up the sponge and be dead alto-
gether. In the case of the Anti-Sosh champion
being too tired, or too moribund, to rise and
scatter Deakin, the paper seems to think that
the sword should be handed over to Bill Wilks or
Bruce Smith. The joy of B. Smith at being sized
up as fit for the same job as B. Wilks will be
something tremendous.
WHICH ONE WILL HE CHOOSEI
JAPAN: “ Full up ! Then one of you'll have to
come off the perch.”
Under the heading, “ Nuts for Socialists,”
S.M. Herald quotes from Saleeby’s recent
“Individualism and Collectivism ” :
The individualist must for ever be opposed to any form
of rule whatever which indicates the sacrifice of the
liberty of any individuals, however humble, to the in-
terests of other individuals, however distinguished.
Why don’t these people leave off their vague
platitudes, and come down to detail? For in-
stance :
The individualist must for ever be opposed to the law
which forbids men the liberty of selling cancerous meat
or diseased milk, or of passing bad money, or of gaining any
other advantage over their weaker or simpler neighbors.
Then, if they were frank like that, we should
know that Anti-Sosh is simply anarchy when it
isn’t mere savagery.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is famous
for its cures of coughs, colds, and croup.*
Dr. Arthur, who represents
Middle Harbor in the N.S. W. Assem-
bly, and who is a desperately earnest
man with a large Australian outlook,
lost in the lifeless gathering of small
characters who drift behind the Deform
Government, is to be opposed by a Syd-
ney business man named Scott Fell.
No one knows much about Scott
Fell save that he is doing fairly well
for himself in an office. The ideal
politician thinks, works and plans for
his country. The ideal business man
thinks, works, schemes, toils and grabs
for himself. And the business man,
in the vastness of his conceit, always
believes that a life spent in the sodden
selfishness of toiling exclusively for
self makes him just the unselfish,
altruistic sort of person who is calcu-
lated to do the best for the country.
A sensible Parliament would disqualify merchants
for membership.
From the market reports of Sydney Tele-
graph :
The market for rice remained well controlled at the
recently higher levels, best Japan being firmly held at
£22 10s., and locally dressed from about £lB to £2l,
according to quality. Export orders in ration rice for
the Islands were repeated from £lO to £lO 10s.
Which serves as an illustration of why Fat yearns
for the colored person as an employee. The coolie
imported into Fiji from his Asiatic home is fed
on “ration rice,” at less than half the cost of
the ordinary article.
Premier Carruthers’ suggestion that Colonel
Ryrie, M.L.A. and amateur boxer, would make a
good Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly, as he
could combine the offices of Speaker and Sergeant-
at-Arms, has the character of a loaded joke.
There is no sufficient reason why a Sergeant-at-
Arms, costing about £5OO a year, should be em-
ployed as an officer pf the House. The days of
physical resistance to a Speaker’s authority have
passed away, and, in any case, a Speaker’s order
to any of the policemen about the premises would,
if resistance did show itself, be ample for all
emergencies. Black Rod and Sergeant-at-Arms
are faded frills of a Parliamentary garment long
ago worn out.
In anticipation of increased Customs im-
posts, many merchants have lately been paying off
the duty on the goods which they have piled up
in bonded stores. In many cases the rush was
so great that there wasn’t room in the
importer’s warehouse for the goods, so he just left
them in the bonded store, duty paid. Now a
horrible impression is abroad that so long as the
goods remain in the bonded store they are liable
for any increase of duty, and another rush has set
in—to get the goods out this time. And even
hardened footballers, and people who are accus-
tomed to fight their way up the gallery steps when
Anderson is playing “The Eye on the Floor,”
say that this is something like a rush.
There are now only about 664 square
miles of Victoria that are not under some form of
local government—city, town, borough, or shire.
Of the 664 miles, about 600 are around Wonnan-
gatta, the most rugged part of Gippsland. But
it is intended to sweep this remnant in, and it
won’t be long before a shire councillor will hang a
promise on to the topmost peak. The other 64
unincorporated miles take in French Island.
The filling up of the “casual ” vacancy for
a Senator in S.A. is likely to cause trouble. The
Federal Attorney-General. says the vacancy is
casual. Three very high and expensive legal
opinions have been taken by the S.A. State
Government,, and they are all to the effect that
the vacancy is quite casual. And the conduct Of
the returning officers who muddled the election
was casual enough for anything. The bone of
contention is this: Crosbie was elected. He
died. While on his death-bed he was defeated
on a recount. After he was quite dead,
a High Court investigation (which was in-
complete because a very casual person had
allowed some ballot papers to be destroyed)
created the opinion that Crosbie had been rightly
elected, after ail, Under these circumstances, it
may be a casual vacancy caused by the death of
Crosbie, or it may be that the election was null
and void through the casual destruction of the
ballot papers. If the vacancy is quite casual, the
S.A. Parliament appoints a man on cheap prin-
ciples, and with Price as Premier, the appointee
will be a Democrat for celtain. If it isn’t
casual, there must be a huge, expensive election,
at which a Tory may get in, though the chances
are against him. Hence the row about the casual-
ness.
S.M. Herald reviews Moreing’s “Life
and Labor in Germany ” in the spirit one might
expect from the paper’s bigoted adherence to the
foreign importers. Mr. Moreingsent a number of
British workmen over to Germany to see for
themselves how German workmen live, and the
book tells what they saw. The Herald hints
that the favorable reports of the British workmen
were influenced by their knowledge of Mr.
Moreing’s opinion, and then goes on to say that,
anyhow, they weren’t reliable observers: —
It is conceivable that a deputation of English work-
men, without knowledge of German, or any particular
skill in the unravelling of social conditions, would not be,
in every respect, a trustworthy guide in the matter. The
reports, however, make interesting reading, and contain
much information as to the desirableness of being a
workerin Germany ratherthan in Greatßritain. As to what
the position will be when the “ boom” in German manu-
factures comes to an end—as indicated in recent cables—
there is nothing said in this pamphlet.
The sneer about the workmen not knowing Ger-
man is rich, since Mr. James Fairfax went to
Japan without knowing a word of Japanese, and
learnedly discoursed about the country when he
came back. And the Herald was quite sure,
without knowing any Taal at all, iaat the Boers
were a bad lot, and should be suppressed. It
couldn’t even hear their side of the case except
through an interpreter, but that made no differ-
ence.
THE ONE THING WANTING.
Mr. Deakin might accomplish a great work for the
Commonwealth were he able to heal all provincial divi-
sions and speak for a really united Australia.— Argus.
GRANNY : “’ Ere! How can there be any united
Australia with ’im out?”
Quite apart from the merits of the case,
Carruthers’ talk to a Sydney Municipal Council
deputation the other day gave a valuable hint as to
the way the Australian Government ought to talk
to Carruthers (the relative positions are about the
same). Carruthers gave the Council a severe lec-
ture about its mismanagement, and told it to
clean up its dirty spots before it talked about its
grievances against the State. There is sore need
of an Australian statesman who will say just that
and no less to Carruthers, and say it in public.
A new Australian-built lifeboat for use at
Watson’s Bay, Sydney, has just been launched.
When Carruthers agreed to get a lifeboat in
place of the imported ark hitherto in use, his
advisers pooh-poohed the idea of a locally-built
craft, and begged him to get one made in Eng-
land. The Cockatoo Dock people, however, in-
sisted that they could do the job, and pleaded so
hard for the chance that they got it. And they
have done their work well. The boat has
answered every test, except a practical one—and
that isn’t the boat’s fault, for up to now no gale
has transpired that the boat could be shoved into.
Thus the Sydney Worker’s London let-
ter
The distress in Leicester (Eng.) is terrible. The men
registered on the unemployed register of the Corpora-/
tion’s Distress Committee are mostly confined to the boot 1
industry. The depression is attributed to the unre-
stricted competition of American goods.
As Leicester is the constituency represented by
that queer anomaly, Labor-Freetrader Ramsay
Macdonald, a violent alteration of opinion should
be about due thereabouts. Either Macdonald
should alter his opinion about Freetrade, and the
glories of unrestricted foreign competition, or his
constituents should alter their opinion about
Macdonald. After all, lack of work means lack
of food, be the Freetraders’ boasted breakfast
table ever so free.
“ Falk ” from a small Tassy town
Tasmania, my country, how long shall the Federal
abomination oppress us? Shall we alone be silent? Look
at Sydney ! The right given her by the Constitution to
plaoe the Federal capital in Woolloomooloo is being trifled
with, an i even now she rallies to the banner of revolt.
Look at Westralia ! The transcontinental railway has not
been built within six weeks of Federation, as provided in
Clause 99J8, and her miners are marching overland on
Melbourne with picks and drills. Queensland knows how
clearly it was understood that the F’ederal Government
should never address her without first asking permission,
and the next insult will be avenged in blood. And we—
are we worms ? Shall we not also claim our rights ? Have
we not apple cases for barricades, and hop po'es for
offence? Was it not clearly understood that we should
have a Straits tunnel —or was it a free copy of the
Watchman all round, or—oh, tell me, someone, what was
it? What are our wrongs? It’s no good looking in the
Federal Constitution, because the Victorian printers
suppressed the clause I want. It’s true that my copy
says it was printed at Sydney, but I am not so easily
deceived. More Victorian cunning ! If Mr. Carruthers
would only come !
EARL TOLLOLLER SPEAKS.
The British House of Lords is still the best Upper House
the world.— AOUS.
THE PEER: “ It's true I'm a darned nuisance,
but anyway I'm the best darned nuisance .”
There was a panic in Maoriland Cow
circles, t’other day, and a number of teat culti-
vators got up in a violent hurry and yelped
perturbedly when some of the factory hands took
it into their heads to form a union. If only half of
what the average agricultural paper prints about
the wonderful returns from dairying be true, there
is no industry better able to afford decent conditions
of labor than the industry of the bull’s aunt.
Nevertheless, the stereotyped cry went wailing
up and down the Cow country, that if the agita-
tion for better wages were persisted in it would
mean blue ruin and .red revolution, and a grey
desolation would fall on the business, and all its
prospects would be dun brown. The outlook, the
cow-farmers say, is black. Apparently the indus-
tries which call themselves the backbone of the
country are a great deal more limp than those
that don’t even call themselves gristle. '
We are justified in claiming that there is
no remedy equal to Angier’s Emulsion for coughs
and lung affections. No other remedy has such
a soothing, healing effect on the throat, lungs,
stomach and bowels* and no other remedy will so
invariably promote appetite, aid digestion, and
build up health and strength. In three sizes, of
all chemists.*
A. J. O’Dwyer made the hit of the recent
Melbourne Town Hall welcome to the Common-
wealth Prime Minister when he said that “ all
true Australians were specially proud of the fact
that as their guest had left Australia so he re-
turned—just Alfred Deakin.” The storm of
applause which greeted that sentiment would
seem to show that the knight foolishness is re-
treating somewhat in the A.N.A. estimation.
“The Gunyah” writes :
The Victorian Government has thought better of it,
and decided not to be another cantankerous insect
buzzing round the head of the Commonwealth ; so, at the
last Cabinet meeting it was decided, “ after due con-
sideration,” to allow the Commonwealth Government to
remain in possession of the lately disputed Patent Office
Library. The Bulletin par referring to the proposed trans-
fer of the library must have lifted the vei from the eyes,
not only of the Ministry, but also of the Argus, which had
previously rushed into ridiculous articles anent the
“brazen effrontery” of the Commonwealth in stealing
from Melbourne its Patent Office Library. They had all
evidently believed that the Commonwealth had removed
valuable and rare law', books, instead of patent specifica-
tions which are of no use to anyone save those interested
in patent matters.
The mail brings the full text of Tommy
Bent’s uncouth comments on England’s demon-
strations of goodwill towards Botha. “In my
country—in Australia—we would not have shouted
ourselves hoarse at him,” said Bent. “We
remember things. We have a lot of wooden legs,
armless men, and sorrowing widows to keep our
memory green.” T. Bent had the effrontery to
talk like this, not in the name of his own cabbage-
beds at Brighton, but in the name of all Aus-
tralia, as if Australia were exactly the same sort
of dull, stale, fat, humorless mass as Bent is.
Australia did make something of an ass of itself
over the S’African war ; but it has not remained
an ass, much less increased to such a stupendous,
ravening jackass as to want to throw mud at
Botha because he and his countrymen, in fighting
for their own fatherland, damaged a few Aus-
tralians who were not fighting for anything much
beyond pure devilment. Bent afterwards ex-
plained the situation by saying that he always
spoke straight out, arid said at once what was in
his thoughts. Solomon of Jerusalem foresaw
Bent when he said “ A fool uttereth all his mind.”
THE HEN STRIKE.
There is an egg famine in Sydney at the present time.
Eggs have not been so scarce for over 20 years.— News
Item.
INDIGNANT ROOSTER CITIZEN : “ This is yetting
something shocking , you know. Well hare
to agitate for another Royal Commission on
the declining birthrate."
The N.S.W. Government is in a, state of
paralysis about six things (and about five of them
a whole lot of previous Governments have been
equally paralysed): (1) Greater Sydney ; (2) the
tramway congestion ; (3) the widening of George-
street; (4) the North Shore bridge ; (5) the exten-
sion of the railway into the city; (6) the Newcastle
harbor difficulty. It ku nvs exactly what the
Australian Government should do about every-
thing, and is simply boiling over with good advice
on Federal matters, but its own little job has
reduced it to chaos.
The twentieth State Parliament of N.S.W.
crowds a fourth session into its term. It pro-
mises to be just about the record Parliament for
hanging on to the last. N.S.W. had seven Par-'
liaments under the old law which provided that
an Assembly might last five years. The first
three endured a little over one year each—the
political sea was very stormy then. A couple
lasted a little over two years; one nearly four
years, and one nearly four years and ten months.
The present variety of Parliament that is sup-
posed to die in three years really lasts longer than
the old one that was supposed to live five years.
Under the triennial system, the Assembly that
hung on to life most tenaciously was the last one
(the 19th) ; it pegged out only eight days
short of its time. Premier Carruthers might put
up a record by letting this one perish natur-
ally on August 23. So far, two N.S.W. Assem-
blies have lasted six sessions; two five ses-
sions ; six have seen four sessions; five have
lived through three sessions; four only lasted
a couple of sessions; and a solitary one—
George Reid’s first Assembly—died in its first
session. Also, George Reid had the shortest-lived
Parliament; it lasted 10 months and 29 days.
The shortest session was the three-days meeting,
in 1904. The eleventh Parliament was a remark-
able animal in its way. There were six sessions.
The first lasted four months; the second, five
days; the fourth, eight days; the fifth, nine days;
and the sixth, 23 days. It was practically all
recess. The longest N.S.W. session lasted 11
months and eight days. The shortest-lived Minis-
try lasted 37 days. The most dishonest and
wooden-headed Ministry—but this par is already
too lengthy.
The laughing young urchin whose play
Inclined to bannister-sliding,
Who came on a tack by the way,
Was sad and lie ceased his deriding.
When the tack is a cough we endure,
We still may continue our scoffing,.
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Drives a nail in the coffin of coughing.*


Ronisch Pianos
:
SIP"
v-
SOLE AGENTS
These Highly Artistic Pianos
have been proving their
excellence in Australia for
the past 4>o Years.
To such good purpose have
they* done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace with
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case-
work is very chaste.
As to their durability, we
cannot speaK too highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full guarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalogues are yours
for the asKing'.
W. H. PALING (a CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
The accompanying letter represents
the sentiments of over 1000 Hotel-
keepers throughout Australasia who
are using ECKERSLEY'S AERATED
WATER MACHINES.
Machines are sold for
Cash or Terms from
£lB and upwards.
COOKTOWN
0/?ftnada/fo.
Hotel
Trooseotitinentol
BROOME
190
7
OOON
r/v
o/»
Ot&er
rr
/.z
ROCKHAMPTON
Si*#*,
/s< -I * , f H &
BRISBANE
iTk*'/'/ oTc
■2s^'/t^x&x&Ce*
'/c**za*2?
s*
&4<f
yC
+t*t>fZt/'
•7
/s///
sUtc4?
Y***s6YZ?
X<s+l/£/
ats/yiss***c
•S' 02+***'-
s*~*
*«e.
<4^«d
v /yfcceY/'
*Z4?I/S
NEWCASTLE
SYDNEYJ
j^YS/U/
•TERTH
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
k. ©
MELBOURNE
Agents —Queensland : Elliot & Hancorne, 113 Eagle St., Brisbane
W.A. : Wm. Sandover & Co., Hay Street, Perth
SOLE PROPRIETORS AND PATENTEES :
EGKERSLEY & SONS, Queen Streep Melbourne


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and," First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne andjydn^__
There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harmful drug.*
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 davs or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STO
ALE & LASER
E. RESGM, Brewer by -Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
No other Australian pugilist’s glory went out so
suddenly as that of Billiam Squires. After the oceans
of advertising ink that had been poured over him, after
the 6600 miles he had travelled, and the $5OOO he had
posted, to be laid out with three successive wallops was
too dreadful. And the worst of it is there’s no excuse to
be made. He was not beaten by any chance smack, but
bv superior fighting. He had met a man who declined
to be either rushed or bustled, and, like most other
fighters of the rushing fraternity, was just about helpless.
The only redeeming feature is his sterling pluck. Out-
geueralied, stunned, and, for the first time in his boxing
career, knocked down, the Australian went at his
opponent like a bulldog, and came up gamely from each
knockdown blow till he was stunned. Private cables tell
how Burns foiled Squires’ bull-dog rush by dancing
away like a bouncing ball on the end of a string, keeping
just out of effective range of the Australian’s blows.
Much of this dancing seems to have been done on one foot.
Squires rained rib-smashers, but Burns kept his ribs out of
range, and at the first sign of slackening on Squires’ part
Burns danced forward on the other foot and smote him
on the temple. With the light fighting-glove this ought
to have been a knock-out blow. It was the same blow
with which Burns, two years before, had battered a rival
pii"- so that he died within a few minutes. When Squires
ai-ose, Burns realised that he was up against something
extra’tough, and resumed his bouncing-ball retreat till
he got another opportunity, when he floored the Aus-
tralian a second time. When Squires got up again, he
was dazed, “ducking imaginary blows, trying to clinch
an imaginary opponent,’ and then Burns, ceasing his
ball-on-a-string dance, walked up, coolly measured his
distance, and smote the dazed Australian a finishing blow
on the chin. Beads brutal—but it is pugilism. The
trouble with Squires and his people was that they mistook
for skill a mere ability to rush in and hit hard, regardless
of punishment. In plain English, the Australian didn t
know how to fight, or he would not have walked into the
obvious tran laid for him.
* * * *
However, John Wren apparently believes firmly
that Squires is a champion, and he has made an effort to
•ret him another chance. The effort reflects much credit
on John Wren. The fact that he will probably make
money out of the event, if it comes off, does not detract
in the slightest from the merit of his action. On Monday
last he cabled to ’Frisco, offering Burns £5OO and_all the
o-ate —-win, lose, or draw —to fight Squires again - within a
month. Canadians are all rather keen after money, but
Burns has the reputation of being a regular Bluenose by
instinct, if not by birth, and unless he is tied up in some
way with other engagements (and there is no word of
anything of the sort just now), he will probably rush the
offer. A really dramatic finish to this little comedy
would be for Squires to refuse to meet Burns again.
There have been cases where men, hitherto regarded as
plucky, have, after a bad walloping, resolutely refused to
hold any further converse with the gentleman who sup-
plied it. * a •
“Micawber”: The recent demolition of William
Squires brings home, with painful suddenness, the wisdom
of Larry Foley’s remarks at a “ welcome ” tendered to
our black brudder, Jack Johnson, some several months
ago. During his discourse, Foley said : “ Squires is no
champion, but he is the pick of a bad lot, and may, be
depended upon to do his best.” Speaking to the veteran
last week, I asked his opinion as to the ability of the
Australian to beat Burns. “My boy,” said he, “if Squires
beats the Yankee, then all I can say is that the standard
of American boxing is down to bedrock.” Regretfully I
admit that the old-timer knew what he was talking about.
* ft * *
The big impetus boxing has received'in Vic-
toria is demonstrated by the success of recent amateur
and novice tournaments. The scraps and “ rastles” for
the Ballarat district championships drew big crowds
every night, and were a source of fat profits to the
VA.A.A. which ran them, besides bringing to light a
few boxers who are likely to figure in inter-State
struggles. The novice tournaments at the Athletic
Pavilion have been rushed by both competitors and cus-
tomers. The latest drew 50 triers and an audience on the
opening night that overflowed Wren’s establishment, a
rotunda capable of containing 4000 spectators. The
boxing of the novices was much superior to that in pre-
vious tournaments, the gameness and pertinacity of the
lads being particularly remarkable. Thirty pounds was
offered to the winner in each division, with cash prizes for
bout winners and runners-up. The management was
good, but the judgment was far from sound in many in-
stances, and defective refereeing knocks the spirit out of
a tournament. The best fight of the night, D. Walker v.
J. Mitchell, middleweights, was given to Walker, although
Mitchell was unquestionably his master, and had him any-
how at the finish.. Entries for the Slate amateur cham-
pionships, to be battled out this montn, are very numer-
ous, and a lust for slugging is abroad in the land.
“0.K.”: From the article on John Wren in the
first number of The Lone Hand :—“ Wren’s fights from first
to last have been worthy of their pro noter. The Noble
Art as the Tote Boss presented it to a gullible, hot-headed
public was the art of advertisement, whereof his show-
man Barney Reynolds is a rare old master. Having
engaged honest Bill Squires as a ‘ star ’ performer, for
gate-money purposes, the management had to fix up
other famous champions to fall before Bill’s rugged on-
slaught.” Now that poor Bill has been biffed clean off
his pedestal, it is interesting to remember that The Lone
Hand was the first hand to point a doubting finger at his
boxing capabilities.
* » * *
Someone recently thanked his Maker that the
spirit of professionalism is entirely absent from Australian
sport—especially cricket. And it is a matter for con-
gratulation. Apropos: The players are very shocked at
the proposal of the Board of Control to reduce the allow-
ance for playing against the English XI. from £25 to £l5,
exclusive of expenses and payment for loss of time. There
will be five matches, and, at £l5 per match, each amateur
will receive a lump sum of £75, and, in addition to that,
draw £5 ss. per week for expenses while out of his own
district. Almost immediately after, the same amateur
will have a chance to be shipped to England for a plea-
sant trip and for the purpose of making anything between
£7OO and £lOOO all for himself. Yes, it is fortunate our
players are all amateurs ! It is to maintain the “high”
standard of amateurism that the players want special
representation on the Australian Board of Control.
Turns out that N.S.W. Premier Carruthers’
threat to do something sudden and dreadful has not quite
broken the back of Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees, and
the question of what fees shall be paid for the use of
Sydney Cricket Ground remains unsettled. The stumbling-
block appears to be Richard Teece, who doesn’t seem to
care a hang whether the English XI. comes or not. He
reckons the Association is bluffing, and that it must
climb down to the Cricket Ground’s monopoly. Being on
the University Senate, he is able to block the Association
getting the use of the University Oval on the ground that
the applause of the people who watch the cricket disturbs
the studies of the professors. (The yells of the football
barrackers do not disturb the learned gentlemen.) The
only way to crumple up Mr. Teece is for the Association
to show him that it is in a position to kick back
with both feet. It is no good trusting to Joe Carruthers
to shift Teece ; the latter has too many friends in high
places whom Joe will not offend. Therefore, the Asso-
ciation can make up its mind that, unless it can retaliate
on the Cricket Trustees very severely, it will have to
pay the 20 per cent, after all. One of the best ways to
get back at the Trustees would be to play the inter-State
matches at Rushcutters Bay, and leave the big ground a
yawning space every Saturday afternoon. The chances
are that once the Trustees found the Association was
determined to do that, they would over-rule Teece as a
belligerent character who was likely to get them into
serious trouble.
* * * *
“ Blister ”: Is this a record ? A team of rustic
cricketers from Creswick(Vic.) tripped to Dean, and dis-
posed of a local eleven for one run, and that was a bye.
It seems as remarkable in its way as the case of the man
who held 13 trumps at whist and didn’t take a trick.
* * * *
The cause of muscular Christianity in Sydney
loses a powerful and healthy advocate by the departure,
for a holiday trip, of J. J. Virgo, the able and energetic
secretary of the Y.M.C. A. However, the chances are that
on his return he will find athletic virtue going on
serenely. It was J.J.V. who started the Y.M.C. A. Foot-
ball Club, and made it a body of young men who play a
rattling good game, and take the hard knocks as well as
any of them. Since he ran the Y.M.C.A. it has been a
body that any decent, self-respecting man could join, and
the long, gaunt face and woebegone expression have
entirely disappeared. The heathen in his blindness can
now stroll into the big building in Pitt-street, and get a
head put on him by scientific boxers, or have his ribs
soundly whacked by up-to-date exponents of the use of
single-sticks. The Association gave the departing secre-
tary a good send-off, and he deserved it.
* * * * *
The return N.S.W.-Queensland Rugby match
at Brisbane was a close thing. Messenger scored a try
and a goal for N.S.W., and Watson scored a try for
Queensland. After that both teams had several shots at
goal and missed only by inches, and the game resulted
in a victory for the Ma State by six points to three. The
team returned to Sydney on Tuesday morning, and the
“ All Blacks ” expedition left Wellington on Saturday
last, after sitting on the head of Wellington Province to
the tune of 19 to six. If the steamer kept time that
expedition will have arrived in Sydney before the public
holds this in its excited hands.
* •* * *
With the cracks away in Brisbane, the Sydney
barrackers expected to have indifferent football in Syd-
ney, but the crushing of St. George by North Sydney and
the downing of Balmain by University were great sights,
while the struggle between Glebe and Eastern Suburbs
was strenuous enough for anything. Eastern Suburbs
team, without its mighty Messenger, could not make
headway against the heavy bullockir.g pack of the Glebe,
and was overwhelmed by six points to nil. It was
by the weight of its pack that Sydney ran over
Manly to the tune of 23 to three. The Newtown
men ' fooled away the match against Western
Suburbs in an amazing manner, utterly neglecting to
take advantage of the high wind blowing when they had
it behind them. Western Suburbs utilised it for all it
was worth, and won by eight points to seven. But the
struggle of the day was between University and Balmain,
at University Oval. From start to finish play was un-
usually fast and sensational. Both sides made great
efforts, and the ball travelled about in a bewildering
manner. University had slightly more combination and
some little luck, and scored 17 to Balmain’s 12. The other
gay and alluring struggle was that between North Sydney
and St. George. In the first half the Saints scored eight
to nil, and then the other side got the wind and used it
with deadly effect. The game was three parts over when
North Sydney lifted the score one ahead of the Saints,
and the figures were nine to eight. Players and audience
went mad, and North Sydney men howled with ferocity
as they swept down the field to the attack, but they were
checked somewhat by one of them being ordered off the
field for violence. Before that wild Northern savagery St.
George crumpled up and was beaten by 12 points to eight.
* * * ye
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition has
now become an interesting gamble. South Sydney,
which had the bye cn Saturday last, is in front with 15
points, and Glebe holds second place with one point less.
Eastern Suburbs and University are together with 13
each, and Sydney and Western Suburbs have 12 and 11.
Below that are only single figures, and a single figure at
this stage is merely another name for oblivion.
* » » *
In the Association game the interest centred on
the struggle between Pyrmont and Balmain, the premier
and runner-up respectively last season. Both clubs had
received shocks to the nervous system the previous week,
when the premier club could play only a scoreless draw
against Rozelle, and Balmain was defeated by Petersham.
There was a widespread impression that Balmain’s
superior weight would wear out the premiers, but
nothing very dreadful happened. Pyrmont attacked vim-
f ully, and by half-time had scored two goals to the Bal-
mainers’ nil. Play became fierce, and illegalities were
the order.of the day till the referee threatened boiling oil
and eternal disqualification. Balmain attacked and
scored ; attacked again and was repulsed, followed up,
thrown down and trodden on, while the victorious Pyr-
mont scored again, and won with three goals to one.
With a head somewhat swelled over the playing
of a drawn game with the premier club, Rozelle
tackled the formidable Petersham crowd with a
jaunty expression. Petersham was one man short,
but in spite of that fact it put up so strenuous a
resistance to Rozelle’s opening attack that the head
trouble subsided rapidly, and the club settled down to
play all it knew. While Petersham was still a man short
Rozelle managed to get within striking distance and send
the ball into the net. Then the sides were equalised, and
the clubs so beautifully balanced that neither had any
hope of making any more points. The game ended in a
victory for Rozelle by one goal to nil. Glebe, of course,
ran over the Navy (the Navy is always run over), the
figures being five goals to nil. Ultimo had the bye.
Pyrmont is still leading in the competition with
15 points. Glebe and Ultimo are in the second line with
14 points each, and Balmain and Rozelle in the third with
10 each. The rest flourish single figures of various sizes.
m ♦ * *
In spite of a stiff wind and cold, showery
weather, Melbourne’s Saturday football provided some
pleasing episodes. Saints put a temporary stop to their
downward career by walking over Essendon —65 points to
37 —but as the ’Dons still divide with Eitzroy the honors
of bottoming the list of League clubs, the victory was
nothing to “ skite ” about. Geelong likewise ran over
’Roy—7l to 32 —and as the men from Corio Bay have suc-
cessfully beaten Essendon, Carlton and the Maroons,
they begin to think they know the game ; but they bump
against Saints next Saturday, and there may be a
different tale to tell. If they can win then, their hopes
of entering the final four will look rosy. Melbourne,
which, as last season, always threatens to do
something and never quite succeeds, put up a good
fight against Carlton, but spoilt what looked like a
winning- sprint in the last quarter by breaching the rales
in a regardless fashion. The umpire happened to be a
man who noticed that sort of thing, so Melbourne lost by
16 points : 9—16 to B—6. A similar misfortune happened
to South, in its argument with ’Wood. The threat of
rough play was visible all through, and only strict
umpiring prevented an unpleasant rough-and-tumble ,
but the umpiring was there all right. Entering
the last quarter South was 11 points in arrear,
but it had a fresh breeze behind it. ’Wood tried
kicking out of bounds, and was promptly penalised,
a goal resulting. Then ’Wood set out for the
strenuous finish that would break its opponents’ hearts.
By low skimming kicks that sent the ball crawling under
the wind its men worked the blown sphere into a good
position, whereupon South’s backs tried the brute-force,
rushing remedy, and free kicks against them were plenti-
ful, but only two behinds resulted. Open play—the3' are
bigger men than the Magpies—with high kicking might
have given them the two goals that meant victory, but
they persisted in forcing and rushing, and though they
snapped a behind, ’Wood replied with another just as the
bell rang, and departed winners by seven points—s 7 to 50.
* * * *
Of Association games that Obtween Ports and
Williamstown was the firmest discussion of the day, a fast
and strenuous argument, with each leading slightly
as the wind favored. It left Ports two points to the good
as the bell rang—34 to 32. Like St. Kilda, Essendon (A.)
has temporarily got into the mud, and sustained a notable
walloping from West, chiefly due to erratic kicking—the
board showing 11 goals six behinds to four goals 11
behinds. Richmond and Brunswick, both now under
the tutorship and having the assistance of ex-Collingwood
stars, bettered their positions at the expense of Prahran
and North respectively. The latter, having now sus-
tained nine successive defeats, will not be further men-
tioned here until it wins—or disbands. It is up to it to
do one thing or the other. Considering the high wind,
the occasional showers and the poor light, the shooting
throughout the afternoon was remarkably accurate, wit-
ness West’s 11 goals six behinds; Melbourne’s B—6;
Richniond’s 13—8. Preston scored six goals without
a behind —but as Footscray simultaneously notched 12
goals 14 behinds, Preston’s straight shooting was of no
practical advantage. During the week, sundry Associar
tion delegates got into wordy holts over the alleged
attempted abduction of two League players by anEssendon
(A.)delegate, said delegate being highly indignant because
he was said to have got the two to apply for permits while
they were unsober. He scorned the foul aspersion, etc.;
but it was significant that neither of the two ’bailers con-
cerned played for either League or Association on Satur-
day. Also, the Metropolitan Association considered the
questions of giving an umpire power to order a rough
player off the field, and of allowing substitutes for injured
players, but got no further than “ considering.”
* * * • *
Sydney footballers are somewhat exercised over
the news that Gillet, the Maoriland crack wing-forward,
is coming over with the team that is to play in Sydney.
Captain Judd has it on good authority that he has re-
ceived special instructions to worry the Australian backs.
Of course he has—what would he play wing-forward for
but to harass the backs? Why else is he placed on the
side of the scrum opposite to the referee? And Judd
inquires in a helpless tone of writing “how shall we
successfully cope with this harassing wing-forward?”
Maoriland wing-forward is usually a pointer of the deepest
dye, and it is an open question if he ought not to be
suppressed. How to cope with him is an easy matter.
There are several men in the Balmain and North Sydney
teams who can show the swiftest Maoriland wing-forward
points in illegality, and one of them might be picked
specially to look after Mr. Gillet.
■* * * *
The morning of June 10th found only five auto-
mobiles facing the starter of the Pekin to Paris Relia-
bility race, organised by the French paper Lk Matin.
The starter, The Bulletin understands, was the President
of the Pekin Automobile Association, who is a cove
authorised to wear a peacock’s feather in his hat and
yellow buttons on his tunic. The five starters comprised
two Dunlop-shod de Dions, an Italia, a Spyker, and, most
daring of all, aContal tri-car, ridden by a Frenchman
named Pons. The first day’s run was to Kalgan, 130
miles from the Chinese capital, and consisted of a
steady climb of some 5000 ft. The road was re-
ported as being indescribable in any European
language excepting that which gets the user
three months without the option. Caravans usually
take three days over it, but all the cars arrived there at
the end of the first day. The next town of any size was
the ancient Kuren, or, as it has been renamed, Urga,
800 miles away, across the Gobi Desert. The desert
should not have proved very formidable. It is level,
covered with a sort of spiky grass, and the mule teams of
some 5000 years have worn a well-defined track across it,
which is dotted over with small posts and villages.
Compared to what the Victoria Desert would have
been, it is a splendid road. Petrol stations had
been arranged every 60 miles, and, altogether, the
desert was far from being the most formidable por-
tion of the journey. The worst section should be
in the rugged mountainous country from Kiakhta, in
Trans-Baikal, to the lake from which the province takes
its name. Irkutsk and Yeniseisk provinces will both
provide much more severe obstacles than the sandy soil
of Gobi. At time of writing only the Italia car, driven
by Prince Scipione Borghese, had got through. That
descendant of a much disrespected line had arrived at
Irkutsk, and all the rest were still, apparently, in Gobi.
Pons’ tri-ear was known to have broken down, and was
being hauled out by natives and mules, while of the two
De Dions and the Spyker, there was no word. The record
from Pekin to Kiakhta is eight days, and was established
by the Chinese Imperial courier service with frequent
changes of men and horses, travelling night and day.
Borghese took 17 days to get over it.
The Automobile Grand Prix, France’s chief
motor event of the year, was responsible for one death
before the contest started. This year’s race was fixed for
the 48-mile triangle near Dieppe, and Albert Clement,
son of the French maker of that name, was thrown out
and crushed under his car while practising on the circuit.
His death caused the French Government to insist that
at the turnings there should be constructed dummy
roads, so that in the event of any competitor being un-
able to negotiate a turn he could run on to the dummy
track and pull up in safety. Although only 23 years of
age, Clement was a whizzer of renown and parts. He
just missed the Vanderbilt Cup in 1904 by 38 seconds in a
300-mile run, and finished third in last year’s Grand
Prix.
* ■* * »
The Petrol Consumption Test carried out by
the Automobile Club of Australia on the Long Bay-La
Perouse Road (Sydney) on Saturday supplied some very
interesting results. The 20 cars were carefully exam-
ined, and had their petrol tanks emptied ; and after
the club officials had poured half-a-gallon into
each tank, and sealed down the receptacle, the
cars were sent off to buzz up and down till
the petrol ran out. When the inevitable happened
the dried up car was to haul off the road and wait
patiently till the club officials came along and measured
the distance. This was not wildly cheerful, as a beastly
westerly wind was blowing, and went through everybody
in spite of wraps. The cars ranged from single cylinders
up to boomers with six cylinders, and the club had to
adopt a formula to make all these varying numbers of cylin-
ders and differences of horse-power work out dead level.
The longest distance was covered by Mr. Cusack’s single
cylinder 8-h.p. Rover, which travelled 23 miles 367yds.
on its half-gallon. All the same it didn’t win the gold
medal, which went to J. M. Arnott’s six cylinder 40-h.p.
Minerva, which travelled nine miles 1740yds. Arnott
and Cusack won the A and D class prizes respectively ;
B was won by L. W. Pye in a 12-14-h.p. Innes with a run
of 15 miles 7‘24yds. ; while class C went to I. Phizackerle.v
in a 10-12-h.p. Clemer.t-Talbot, the distance being 15 miles
1037yds. #
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen will fix theGoul-
burn to Sydney road race, which is to decide who will
represent N.S. Wales in the Warrnambool to Melbourne
race, for either 7th or 14th September. The Dunlop
Rubber Co. has opened the prize list w'ith a cheque
for £35.
* * * *
The Kangaroo’s tail is again exalted. A. J.
Clark, the Victorian cyclist who, in 1904, won the Aus-
tral wheel race, is making things hum in the U.S.A.,
where he is regarded as the fastest sprinter after Frank
Kramer and Ivor Lawson.
* * * *
The G.N. Hurdle Race at Flemington resulted
in another triumph for the bookmaker, who re-
turned to the betting paddock after the race, roaring
“I’ll pay the winner” in mockery of the disconsolate
army of backers. Though quoted in some of the news-
paper reports at 33 to 1, Bribery had been on offer at
40’s and 50's to 1. The Tasmanian gelding was one of the
three horses in the field that had started in last year’s
Hurdle Race. The fact that he then finished sixth to the
mighty Realm seemed to give him a good chance
this time but for the extra 161 b. on his back. Probably
the horses on Saturday were a bad lot. They had a hot-
headed pacemaker in Lion Heart, nevertheless the winner
took 5.53 for the journey—4sec. slower than last year.
Bribery (lOst. 21b.) won because none of the lightw eights
was of much account as it happened. Solano, the
runner-up, had 11.0, and he was followed by South Head
(10.1) and Superstition (11.2), so for the first time in
many years not one of the placed horses carried less than
10 stone.
The only lightweight that looked like winning
was Lion Heart (9.13). Here was a remarkable instance
of a horse’s persistence in spinning himself right out.
Ridden on his neck by a slim fellow, who had the, longest
of legs, and the shortest of stirrup leathers for a jockey
of his inches, Lion Heart bolted off with a lead from the
start. At one time he w'as, perhaps, 100 lengths ahead of
the crowd. When half the journey had been covered, he
was not less than 50 lengths to the good, but at 2 j miles
Lion Heart was the most beaten animal in the race. His
owner had expected him to stay it out; the trainer hoped
that he might just get home. The absurdity of Lion
Heart’s performance surprised even the touts, who had
predicted his collapse. As a fiery non-stayer, the ex-
Maorilander beat the record. Another striking disap-
pointment was Red Sea. The sturdy little son of Portsea
had to be spurred to keep him among the possibles, and
his final position, 7th, was as near the front as he had
ever been.
One of the best-handicapped and best-con-
ditioned chances for the G.N. Steeplechase on Saturday
is Decoration —last year’s winner. Decoration was only a
five-year-old when he beat Beilis and a lot more of them
by 20 lengths in record time. He will have 151 b. more
to carry this year, but the extra bit of age will discount
the disadvantage in weight, and if the course doesn’t
get sodden in the meantime both Decoration and Beilis
(13.1) are likely to be placed. Ofc the two top-weights
Decoration is preferred by the wise men who sometimes
prove worthy of respect. But even 12.3, which is
Decoration’s burden, comes very heavy on a jumper’s
back at the end of a three-mile struggle. The moderately
weighted ones have the chance of heavy-going on their
side. This scribe reckons that The Trick (9st.) is
the most dangerous opponent of the top weights. Some
of the others have no possible chance save the chance of
getting omitted from an extraordinary chapter of acci-
dents. •
* * * *
The Y.R.C. has been in a forgiving mood of
late, and has raised the ban from many disqualified
trainers and jockeys. But the straw which is likely to
make the camel sag down in the middle happened along
last week, when Jack Wren made application for the
registration of certain racecourses of which he is alleged
to be the owner. So far, the V.R.O. has not been heard
from. Presumably, it is still speechless.
* * * •
Just a month ago, present owner of ’chaser
Unanderra bought that horse for a comparative trifle of
21 guineas, and he saw it, on Saturday last, start the out-
sider of the field for Moorefield Steeple and win in a
canter. Another spec, that panned out right same after-
noon was Tasmanian “ lepper” The Trick, which won
V.R.O. Maiden ’Chase at Flemington. A little while back
The Trick was sold for something in the neighborhood of
£7O. Additional hundreds wouldn’t buy either to-day.
* * * *
Clarence Weber, who seems to have retired
from the wrestling circle, is reported as having taken to
weight-lifting competitions. It is probably almost as
lucrative and will certainly be a lot less dangerous. He
can always drop the 1501 b. bar with much more ease of
mind than he can drop Buttan Singh’s leg. The bar,
when it is let go, lies where it fell. When Buttan’s leg is
let go he turns on you.
° * * * *
The dog that won the Champion Cupatßenalla
(Vic.) Plurnpton coursing meeting last week, was named
Victor Daley. By the way, why drag the word “ Plump-
ton’’into the title of sundry Australian coursing clubs,
merely because of its ancient association with coursing
in England? It is just as absurdly out of place as the
name of Wren’s pony-course, Ascot.
BLACK FRIDAY IN MELBOURNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The stricken city drooped its head,
And hid its solemn, thoughtful face,
As though in mourning for the dead,
Or sorrow for a dire disgrace.
I tapped a newsboy on the back
And asked him, “ Why this grief profound?
What makes the atmosphere so black?”
Quoth he—“ Bill’s beaten in one round.”
Great Squires is beaten ! He whose fame
Was as a light upon a hill ;
Whose blow, when struck with deadly aim,
Was guaranteed to maim or kill!
I muttered to the weeping youth,
“ You do surprise me ; you astound."
Again he sobbed the bitter truth—
“ Yus —beaten-in-one-bloomin’-round. ’■
A City Father, white with fear.
Stood at the corner of the street
And muttered, “ What is this I hear—
Has William suffered a defeat ?
I had a fitting speech to make
When home he came with laurels crowned.
I’m sorry for the country’s sake—
Poor fellow ! beaten in one round.”
A gal with grease-stains on her dress
Made brave pretence to blow her nose ;
The symptoms of her sore distress
She would not .willingly disclose.
But as she passed me, walking slow,
Methought I heard a moaning sound,
And then the words, “ Well, here’s a go!
Lord luv ’im ! Beaten in one round ! ”
On train and tram,-from noon tilj-ilight,
One subject only was discusst —
Folk talked of nothing save the'fight
That brought their Idol to the dust;
And ere they laid them down to sleep,
They knelt, as 'twere, beside a mound
Which marked the spot where, buried deep,
Lay William—“ Beaten in one round.”
VIC.
O.K.
THE GREATEST ORGAN IN THE WORLD.
Most people think the greatest organ in the world
is in the Sydney Town Hall. Such, however, is
not the case. The greatest organ is located in
each of our own bodies, and is the Liver. When
it gets out of order our whole system becomes
deranged. We are dull and heavy, and life is a
burden. The climate of Australia, and the
tendency to over-eat and over-drink are the
principal causes of this great organ getting out of
harmony with the rest of the system. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills reach the liver as no other
remedy does, opening the clogged ducts, causing
the bile to flow, and aiding in the digestion and
assimilation of food.*


jr TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
I
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrub to & Co. on each Bottle.
Makes .you look manly
''§T-
After
Before
1
A Certain MOUSTACHE GROWER 1
OAPILLARINE will actually and positively
produce a full-grown moustache for any man
who follows the simple directions on the label.
It is nice to use and absolutely undetectable.
Price 10/6 Per Pot Post Free to Any Address in the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 25 years.
£BOO
For a Few Old
Stamps.
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £BOO to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Scamp
Merchant, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Send
for hisfree Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some? Hunt them up at
once — thsy are worth lots of money.
A .
*
Works: Redditch, England.
There is no part of your cyc-
ling experience which you
enjoy more thoroughly than
That Glorious
Coast,
and there is no period when
your safety is more depend-
ent on the efficiency of
your brake control, and the
reliability of the machine
you ride. The reliability
of the bicycle built from
Eadie Fittings
is beyond question, and the
efficiency of the brake con-
trol of the
ERDIE
eOHSTER
is such as to ensure your
safety under all conditions.
This is the coaster with
the simple brake—simple
in construction simply
applied, and its free-wheel
is absolutely frictionless.
[Ask your Dealer.]
Dept. A., EADIE M’F’C CO., Ld.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
Collins St., Melbourne.
The “CRYSTAL"
PARLOUR LAMP
A TACK WILL HOLD IT ON THE WALL.
Jus! as Ussful for the Table.
HAVE YOU GOT ONE IN YOUR HOME?
I You ought tc m
Look at this beautiful and most popular
lamp on the market. It is unnecessary for us
to dilate on its numerous advantages. You can see
them for yourself. You can use it on the Taole, or by
a simple single movement, instantly turn it into a
AVall or Parlour Lamp by swinging back the ingeni-
ously made Stand, which catches on to a screw or tack
on the wall. When lit it gives a most beautiful,
soft, clear, white light, it can be lighted
without any trouble, and when lit will burn all night.
Its harmonizing effect makes it the ideal lamp for the
hall, or passage or stairway, or even the verandah.
It is appreciated by all who see it I
The *• Crystal” Parlour Lamp is posi-
tively odourless. It does not smoke. Ii is, therefore,
most' valuable for the sick chamber, where its soft
light has a desirable soothing effect upon the
patient.
’'nommended by all the leading physician* I
“ Crystal” Lamp Is Of very handsome
annearancs; an ornament by night or day. Highly
finished in Polished Nickel. We have fixed the price
extra low, so that all of our friends may have one.
Don’t delay in sending.
The price for the present is Only Is 0d each,
post free anywhere; or a pair Tom
3s. post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
KUGELMANN’S
$
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
jfi
111 FREE
H SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
•» And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
9
38
&
&
&
itivv
St
e
K>
cw
foi
:
m
£
a
%
a
U*
WORLDS
"MOTOR RECORD 9 ]
AN EXTRAORDINARY FEAT.
1581 MILES IN 24 HOURS
(65# MILES PER HOUR)
i
«m.i.ON
DUNLOP
Motor Tyres
This wonderful performance, it is cabled, was
$ accomplished on the Brooklands Track, England, by
S. F. Edge, affording further demonstration of the
Wonderful Wear=Resisting qualities of the world
famed DUNLOP MOTOR TYRE.
Mr. Edge’s almost incredible performance easily
ranks as the Finest Motor Record yet accomplished,
and equally the Finest Run yet established on
Pneumatic Tyres. CONSIDER what the Tyres had to
withstand in this all=day drive, and you can gather an
idea of what wear an j friction the Latest “DUNLOP”
is capable of withstanding. Artistic Booklet, i
describing these wonderful Tyres, free on application '
DUNLOP RUBBER CO-
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
Melbourne billiardists were disappointed last
week in finding the popular local man Memmott utterly
ineaiiable of making a bold show against Inman, on what
had seemed fair handicap terms. From the very outset
of their game at Alcoek’s Hall, the visitor, conceding
‘’soo in 9000 to the local man, was able to do as he liked
S him Long before he had scored half his points
Inman was ahead of Memmott, and the rest of the game
had little interest for anybody save the leader, who was
nutting in good practice at Memmott’s expense. On this
showing, the disheartened Memmott would have no
chance of preserving his Commonwealth championship
title in his forthcoming match with young Lmdrum—but
billiards is often a game of surprises. A man recovers
“ form ”as inexplicably as he loses it; and Memmott,
who has much of the great player in his method, may get
back his lost “ touch ” and confidence under the trying
circs, of an attempt to prevent himself being snuffed
out by a mere boy. His best “form” is equal, or
superior, to Lindrum’s. It is never safe to assume that
an able-bodied artist has seen his best day.
As for Inman’s display, it raised the question
whether Stevenson can give him a start of 25 per cent, in
18 OOOup, though the length of the game will allow fall scope
for the scratch man’s ability to make some big breaks.
After dropping the idea of playing for a purse of £5OO
provided by Wren, the two Englishmen, who are keen
antagonists, agreed to meet on their own, and battle
under their respective managements—9ooo points on an
Alcock table in Melbourne, and 9000 on a Heiron and
Smith table in Sydney, the winner to get the bigger cut
at the gate-money. Stevenson gives a start of 4500 in
the 18,000, which is quite as much as his warmest bar-
racker would back him to do.
* * *
John Wren, having achieved another cheap ad.
through his rejected offer of a £5OO purse for a Stevenson
v. Inman billiard match in Melbourne, may be expected
to break out in a fresh place at any minute. Somebody
suggests that bowls provides a fine opening for Wren’s
gracious patronage. He might offer a £lOOO prize for a
bowls tournament without much risk of having to put up
the sugar.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s prediction, a week or two ago,
that the mingling of whitewashed ponies with horses would
sorely trouble the punting brotherhood, has since had
strong endorsement. Ten or more of the small nags
figured at Moorefield (Saturday), and two won races,
while others ran sufficiently forward to indicate that
they’ll have to be reckoned with when their riders get the
right instructions and act up to them—a provision that
makes all the difference in some cases.
* * - *
At the recent race between crack motor-
boats Invincible and Fairbanks, motor-boat men were
agreeably surprised to find that there is-quite a large
public interest taken in their sport. Although only
advertised on the morning of the race, the two boats
which “ followed ” the race each had a comfortable crowd
on board, and the Manly steamers that ran over the
course during the time of the contest were crowded by
people who had embarked specially to see it. Just now
the Invincible and Fairbanks have the floor to themselves,
but there are rumors that it will not be long so. Said
that at least two speed boats are under construction in
Sydney for the definite purpose of sweeping both the
present champion and its cedar rival into oblivion, and a
Melbourne enthusiast is, as usual, importing a Mercedes
engine of 100-h.p. for the same object. Another man is
threatening to bring out a 110-h.p. French engine to do
the job; but so far no one has said a word about building
a local engine to do it. If all these foreign notions do
arrive and lower the Invincible’s colors, it is to be sin-
cerely hoped that Mort’s Dock will take off its coat
and wade in to show what its splendid plant can really
turn out when put to it in deadl.vearnest.
Cabled that one of the English turf “toffs”—
Mr Leopold Rothschild—has been finding fault with the
starting-gate, and that the Jockey Club told him it
had come to stay. Presumably the average results of the
gate, as compared with the old system of starting a field
of horses, are accepted as an improvement by even a Im .v .
Rothschild. But it would be fairly open to him to com-
plain that the innovation leaves room for amendment. I
Under the “ barrier ” system a bad-tempered animal
seems more likely to get left at the post than if the field
were subject to the authoritative “ Come back !” of the
starter. A most absurd weakness in the improved
system is the rule which gives finality to the word
of the barrier. When it rises it says “Go ! ” and, though
the start, once in a way, may deprive one or more horses
of a reasonable chance to win, the man at the gate has no
authority to call them all back for another attempt to
get awa von fair terms. In short, a very bad start is now
a true start, whereas it was formerly cancelled as a false
one. And there's no ghost of a reason why this defect
in the system should not be remedied. As things are, it
is possible for the controller of the “gate” to show
favoritism whilst throwing all the responsibility upon the
dumb machine.
* * *
Goldsbrough, Mott & Co. report : A very quiet
tone has prevailed in the local wool market during the
past week, although we have been instrumental in placing
several large lines of skin wool at prices slightly below
those ruling last month. Buyers at present, however,
are not showing much inclination to do business,
evidently preferring to wait the opening of London sales
on the 9th inst., before committing themselves to any
great extent. Interest has been chiefly centred in the
stud sheep sales, and we have had the pleasure of wel-
coming our many friends who invariably visit Sydney at
this season of the year.*
Another ex-N.S.W. public officer, now
appointed to the Commonwealth service, has ar-
rived with some particulars showing how the Ma
State has suffered at the finger-nails of its raven-
ing sisters or daughters. In 1900, when the Curse
arrived, N.S. Wales had 4’38 persons per square
mile; at the end of last year it had 4’92 per
square mile, a gain of 54 per 100 miles. Victoria
in the same time has gained only 41 per 100
miles, Queensland but six, S. Australia but two,
and Westralia but nine; so that under Federa-
tion the poor, crushed and robbed Ma State’s
gain per square mile has been within a fraction
of as much as the gains of all the other mainland
States put together.
Nowadays the Stinking Fish seems too
often to be a New South Whale.
“ 0.K.,” from Melbourne :
Cole, of the Book Arcade—he of the good heart, but the
bad politics, who favors a tinted Australia, and should be
properly known as Brown Cole —has lately received a
severe shock to his confidence in Man’s honesty. A while
ago Cole published a sixpenny almanack of simple,mental
entertainment and instruction, whereof he wa,s so
proud that he promised to pay a shilling a copy for
any that were returned after a given interval. The
almanack was honestly worth its price to purchasers
who wanted it for reading purposes, therefore old King
Cole—confiding old soul !—reckoned that his only returns
at the end of the stated period would be expressions of
satisfaction from his customers. He was testing Human
Nature with every confidence in the success of his experi-
ment. Alas for Human Nature ! The almanack sold
freely at sixpence. The word went round in sundry
places that a sure profit of 100 per cent, could be made by
buying Cole’s latest publication and selling it back to him
in due course. The schemers didn’t read the bboklet.
They stocked it and waited for the rise. Within the past
few days the almanack returns have been rolling in and
the shillings have been rolling out. According to the
rules of the game, only one copy can be taken back from
a person who desires to exchange it for a “ bob,” so the
purchasers of large parcels are returning them as they
bought them, by instalments. For instance, a young
man named Brown, or Moses—more often Moses than
Brown —wi 1 drop into the Book Arcade with an almanack
at 11 a.m. An hour later he reappears, disguised in blue
spectacles, with another copy of the profitable work.
Anon he changes his hat and turns up again with yet
another shilling’s worth, and so on until his little stock
of almanacks is exhausted. Cole is the philanthropist
who gives new bobs for old tanners.
Reid’s political motto : Change here for
office.
N.S.W. Works Minister Lee lately had a
difference, or shindy, with a deputation about a
bridge. As a bribe, it was said that the bridge
would open up some State lands, and a basket of
fine strawberries, alleged to have been grown on
these lands, was trotted out. Then Lee (who was
also a trotter that day) trotted out a report by a
“ highly competent officer” of the \\orks Depart-
ment, stating that more barren land could hardly
be imagined than the State land in question, and
that, despite the strawberries, it was worthless for
tillage. That report may or may not be correct,
but the first thing that strikes one about it is that
when a Works official decides the quality of land it
looks very like a shoemaker getting beyond his last.
Also, there are some curious exam pies of apparently
barren but really fertile soils. 1 lie famous Cinna-
mon Gardens, near Colombo, in Ceylon, are
nearly pure quartz sand, as white as snow on the
surface. A few inches below the sand is grey.
The analysis given by an agricultural chemist
shows that the soil of those famous gardens
consists of 984 per cent, quartz sand, 1 per cent,
vegetable matter, and \ per cent, water. You
can’t well get anything in the way of soil that, on
paper, is poorer than that. Yet the Cinnamon
Gardens are famous. The inference is that, pro-
vided there is water, every place, even a gallows,
will grow something. It is only a question of
finding the right thing to grow. Another infer-
ence is that a Works official isn’t necessarily an
agricultural expert.


GIFTS FOR
The Art of Giving is not only to select an article that pleases,
But something that always remains a source of satisfaction and delight.
Buying by Mail.
Our Mail Order Department will serve
you promptly and satisfactorily. Orders
large or small, you will receive the best
merchandise and the best value.
Free Carriage.
Our system of free carriage on all goods
to any part of the Commonwealth means a
big saving to you. AUL goods carefully
packed to ensure safe delivery.
Illustrated Catalogue
is yours for the asking, write for a copy. We
send it post free to any address. It contains
over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,Silverplate,Leather,Optical Goods.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND,
Pure Silver Plated,
Hand Engraved,
Highly Burnished,
Post £2. Free.
Other styles,
85s, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver, Richly Engraved.
Post 2/6. Free.
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL AND TONGS,
Pure Silver Plated,
Blue Glass Lining.
Post 4/6 ■ Free.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 12s 6d.
T/n
m
MS
O/A
B
Cb
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
TANTALUS FRAME, English Oak Frame,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2. Pree.
Richly Carved Frame, £3/0/0.
Other Styles, 355, £2, £2 10s, £2 15s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
TIE CLIP, SOLID SILVER,
2s 6d; Engraved 3s Gd.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d,
Engraved 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR,
Pure Silver-plated
Frame and Spoon,
Rainbow Glass,
Post 5/3. Flee.
Other Styles,
2s Bd, 3s 3d, 4s 3d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, 4-Branch,
Pure Silver Plated, Ruby, Opal,
Clear or Green Tinted Glass,
Post 15/6. Free-
other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Engraved,
Post 2/6. H'ree.
Other Styles, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE CUP,
Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
Engraved Name,
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
Clear Glass Dish,
Post 8/6. Free.
• Other Stylei,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
8-DAY MARBLE CLOCK, First-clasß Movement,
Strikes Hours and Halves, Cathedral Gong,
Visible Escapement, Enamel Dial.
Kept in Free Repair for 3 Years.
Post £4/10/-. Free.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £3 15s, £4,
£i 10s, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Embossed,
Post 3/6. *' ree -
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s Gd.
bkmwk
isov'-sy.
EEE
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated,
Cut-glass bottles,
Post IT/6. Free
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
English Oak,
Porcelain China Lining,
Post 7/-. Free.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A'. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, Niclcel Silver,
A 1 Quality, .
Gut Crystal Glass Bottles,
Post 25/- Free.
Other Styles,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL,
Silver-plated
Floral Decorated China,
Post 12/6. Free.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 9s 6d, 16s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
3-Piece, Pure Silver-plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Grit Lined, with Covers,
Post £2/15/-. Free.
Other Styles, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK,
Pure Silver-plated Cup,
Patent Stop,
Morocco Covered,
Post 17/6- Free.
Other Styles,
8s 6d; 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Engraved,
Burnished or Satin Finish,
Post 20/-. Free.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING,
Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal,
Richly Embossed and Engraved,
Post 3/6. Free.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s Cd, 5s 6d, 6s Gdl.
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL,
Pure Silver-plated,
Solid Silver Handle,
Post 4/6* Free
Other Styles,
8s 6d, 10s 6d.
» .VitiWWVi
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Fine Cut-glass Bottles.
Post £2 /“/"» Free.
Other Styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ORIBBAGE BOARD AND
CARD DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Post 15/6* Pree*
Other Styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC BINOCULAR,
Complete with Sling and Case.
Large Field of View, Perfect Definition.
No. 6. £7/-/-- No. 8, £B/-/-.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, 40s, 50s
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney-


1 "* v .3 ' 'P, . ■
■
•'im
Sp; jmfy
; ?a»s*
if
#
■
v?
1
rK-r-
-m
■
7
\
li;|i
jSt&i
m
■
•" v - ••• -■’ •'*
ii
IP®
i
•4
*»«
s
a
0
ii
M
HI
■
t
i
VA
ifiS
:
/
....
■
ON THE HONEYMOON.
“ How careless o/ you, darling; you’ve dropped our
CAMEO CIGARETTES!”


Amusements.
AUSTRALIAN EXHIBITION OF WOMEN’S
H WORK.
THE SYDNEY DISPLAY
ON THE SHOWGROUND,
FROM SEPTEMBER 9th to 14th.
LADIES’ RIDING AND DRIVING
COMPETITIONS.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST Ist.
Full particulars on application to the Secretary,
Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY at 8. .
Matinees Each WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
EDWIN GEACH presents the
EMPIRE PICTURES CO.
First Production in Sydney of a Magnificent Sequence of
Animated Views, representing'
BONNIE SCOTLAND AND DEAR OULD IRELAND.
PRICES—2s, Is and fid. Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
the Latest London Gaiety Success,
enti tied,
THE SPRING CHICKEN,
interpreted bv the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrovr.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
JHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and fid.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Remarkable Success of THE SVENGALIS.
CARLTON. Card King and Quaint Jester.
Splendid Success of Mr. V. L. GRANVILLE.
GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAIIAME. WILL LOOHRANE.
Splendid Success of FRANK HARTLEY, the Juvenile j
Wonder. The Juggling Schoolboy.
IRVING SAYLES. LITTLE MARJORIE BRAY.
Miss EILEEN LYONS, Miss NELLIE TYE.
LES WHARTON. LEONARD NELSON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
JARVIS & CAMPBELL, Eccentric Jugglers.
TECHOVV’S PERFORMING CATS.
FOUR ROSEBUDS, Vocalists and Dancers.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.'
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy,
MY YOKOHAMA QUEEN, Musical Scena by England’s
Clever Coined}' Duo.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
GREAT SUCCESS of the Popular Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK
IN TOM MOORE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 13, THE WAY TO KENMARE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
NEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s,, 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
THE BLUE MOON.
Box Plan at Allan’s. iW~ USUAL PRICES.
pEAL ICE SKATING.
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
OPEN THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s ? SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION,; Is ; SKATES, 6d.
Monthly Tickets at Reduced Rates.
ON THE HOP !—3OO of “Hop’s” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
Missing Friends.
SHOULD this meet the eye of WILLIAM
KENNEDY, formerly of Gippsland, Con-
tractor, or anyone knowing his present address,
kindly communicate with
McMERNEY & WINGROVE,
Solicitors, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
Closer Settlement,
IN ALL CLASSES OR
COUNTRY LANDS,
PUBLIC NOTICE
To meet the growing demands from people who desire
to settle on the Land,
HARDIE & GORMAN
have opened
A Metropolitan Central Office
for the Sale of COUNTRY PROPERTIES.
In order to facilitate the work of inspection, HARDIE
and GORMAN will open an OFFICE RECORD, so as to
be able to supply the fullest particulars of AREA, SOIL,
CLIMATE, RAINFALL, FACILITIES TO MARKET,
NEARNESS TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS, TIMBER SUPPLY,
CREEK and RIVER FRONTAGES, and generally what
the lands are best suited for, etc., etc., and a PRINTED
REGISTER will be issued quarterly.
Specially in connection with the above, HARDIE
and GORMAN have secured the services of Mr. C. H.
GORMAN, who for years past was Manager of the
GOVERNMENT EXPERIMENTAL FARM at WOLLONG-
BAR, on the RICHMOND RIVER.
AGENCIES WILL BE FORMED IN ALL COUNTRY
DISTRICTS, and everything will be done in the most
comprehensive way to supply the wants of Purchasers,
and at. the same time give such detail information as may
justify inspection.
OWNERS OF COUNTRY ESTATES
are recfUested to send particulars of all Properties “ FOR
SALE, or FARMS “TO LET” to 133 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, at the earliest possible moment.
Whilst giving' special attention to the sale
BY PRIVATE CONTRACT
of separate Farms, or Blocks in Properties which have
been subdivided, HARDIE and GORMAN would be
pleased to receive instructions to conduct
AUCTION SALES
of NEW PROPERTIES suitable for Subdivision into
Farms, etc., or to report on the proposals to subdivide
before any Plan of Subdivision is arrived at, and arrange-
ments may be made to sell with other Auctioneers.
All Communications to be Addressed to
HARDIE AND GORMAN,
133 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE GASKET CF COSMETICS
MAKE-UP BOX OF GREASE PAINTS,
POWDERS. NOSE PUTTY. MASTIC, Etc.
WARRANTED PERFECTLY HARMLESS TO THE SKIN
m
Complete rith Illustrated Qnly K/_
Book of Instructions * •
AND WE PAY CARRIAGE
everything needed to alter the
* face to represent any character. the
Beautiful Heroine, the Heavy Villain, the
Charming Beau, the Comic Old Lady, the Quaint
Clown and many others. Just a few touches, and
the expression is entirely changed, So that even
your most intimate friend will not know you. This
offers the chance for plenty of amusement, quite
apart from theatrical performances. Everyone
enjoys the fun of ** dressing up," and, for once in a
while, masquerading as someone quite different
from one’s-self, and many a good evening’s entertainment can be had in
this way. The Casket contains Six Sticks of Grease Paints, of all the
necessary tints; Two Boxes of Hair Powder, fair and dark ; One Box of
Face Powder; One Roll of Composition to alter the shape of the Nose .
One Bottle of Mastic, to attach moustache, whiskers, &c.; fair and dark
Moustache and Whiskers; Wool for applying and smoothing the
powder; a small Mirror in celluloid frame , and a Book of Instructions
for Making-up the various characters, with explanatory illustrations
The paints, &c., are prepared in the best possible style and are guaran-
teed absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin. The outfit is com-
plete and ample for many times of using, and the printed directions are
so clear that no difficulty will be met with. The price is only 5/- and
we pay the carriage to any address Send Postal Note of any State to
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
jh
HEINDORFF BROS.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. I nce £1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/b extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Eto., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
EXPERIENCE
GUIDES THE WISE, and that is why Wise Men
and Women consult MR, EDWIN HOLLAND,
and use his Preparations for Restoring Growth,
Lustre, and Vitality to the Hair,
MR. HOLLAND has had 28 years’ experience in the treat-
ment of the Scalp and Hair, and that is why he is the most
successful Hair Specialist in Australasia. His preparations are the
result of the knowledge gained by this long experience, and their
success is proved by the thousands of testimonials in his possession
expressing gratitude for the growth of Hair, for the cure of Scalp
complaints and greatly improved appearance through Beautified
Hair. It cannot be too strongly emphasised that MR. HOLLAND
is an Expert Hair Specialist, and is consulted by num-
bers, including medical men.
mm
One of the most extraordinary cases was that of Mr.
SCOTT, of 319 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. He was as abso-
lutely bald as a billiard ball for five years, and he has
jiqw 2, good head of hatr as a result of my treatment.
Call and see Mr. SCOTT, 319 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Inexperienced Novices may make extravagant and
impossible claims for their untried preparations, claims which burst
like a bubble before practical tests. But, although MR. HOLLAND
can prove his preparations to have succeeded where all other treat-
ments have failed, his experience has taught him both the possi-
bilities and the limitations of all Hair and Scalp treatments, and he
values honesty and honor in business too highly to make any claims
which cannot be fully substantiated by fair test.
As good looks these days are essential to both sexes, and,
indeed, are woman’s chief object in life, and a Beautiful Head of Hair
is the chief essential to Beauty, MR. HOLLAND S unequalled ex-
perience is of the highest value to all seekers of Improved Appearance.
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hail is falling
off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 35., 45., 55.,
3s. Bd. 4s. Bd. 6s. 2d., Posted.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making Hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 55.; 6s. 2d. Posted.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly, Naturally,
and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d.; 6s. Bd. Posted.
Consult E. HOLLAND for all Diseases of the Hair.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, AND BY
E. Holland,
HAIR ■ a ■ •
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.


CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACT 1904.
PERMANENT SETTLEMENT
NOT PECUNIARY GAIN.
SUBDIVISION OF THE
II
-I
H
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Lands Purchase and Management Board for Farm and
Agricultural Laborers’ Allotments on the ALLAMBEE ESTATE. Applications close 10th July, 1907.
THE LOCAL LAND BOARD to deal with Applications will be held at WARRAGUL, on 24th JULY, 1907.
Lot
No.
1
2
3
4
&
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
IS
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
HEDULE OF ALLOTMENTS.
abject to Adjustment of Areas and Values.
Area —-5006 acres.
Situation —-In Gippsland, six miles
south of the Yarragon Railway
Station, 97 miles from Melbourne,
at the head of the Tarwin River.
District —Principally Grazing and Dairy-
ing, Fastening Cattle, Sheep and
Lambs.
Configuration —Undulating and hilly,
some cleared, some partly cleared.
Rainfall —Averages nearly 50 inches
yearly.
Water Supplies— Tarwin River,
numerous Creeks and Springs.
Soil —Grey loam, with darker and black
soil on tbe creek and river flats;
only small portions have been culti-
vated, and these are not in any way
exhausted.
Timber— Abundant supplies for fencing,
firewood, and building purposes on
every allotment.
Markets— Warragul, 14 miles ; Yarra-
gon, 6 miles ; and Melbourne, 97
miles.
There are a number of Homesteads on the
property, the values of which are shown ■
in the Schedule.
»
After referring to the plan herewith, eligible
persons should take out and fill in the application
form included in this paper, sign it before a J.P.
or a Commissioner for taking Affidavits, and
forward it to “The Secretary, Lands Purchase
Board, Melbourne.”
NOTE.—When sending the application
enclose 3 per cent, of the actual value
of the land you apply for, also £1 for
preparation of Lease, and ss. Regis-
tration Fee. If not successful, these
moneys, less the Registration Fee, will
be returned. Send deposit on maximum
value.
If the Deposit is too small
or too large, it can be
afterwards rectified.
Presentation at any Victorian Railway Station
of the Board’s certificate that deposit has been
paid will entitle the applicant to a ticket, at holi-
day excursion fare, to visit the Estate and select
a block. The certificate will also entitle appli-
cant to a similar ticket to attend the Land Board.
The money sent to the Board by unsuccessful
applicants will be returned immediately. The
deposits, etc., of successful applicants will be
retained, and they will not be required to pay
anything further for six months.
&
IS
ltn*t
so
TRAC*
Vi»
v
3
32?
«/o
tf'OO
l*f
~jso \o 0
15
4
3i‘.
6 £
5, :
m-ofi f
196
JfS°
l
y\ s
Jc^
0
0
16.
31
(55ac)
/G i
/ V HtmtsrcAO A
f s"7 ~<u
PIGS/ 0 * O /
0
0
m
k/.'j
*7
fv\ « :
VHj i
o.\te .
• >5-(5 5
SC ff-v-— h-.
//'»i
// V'.-,
" .
t'*
9
■ \awvAU>
o
18*
~SV/\
<5/57 O^#VJB
'"- / X, . if S '
150 ojo
C/
, '\
!8®
2G
r u b
/ <y n ci
**€/
'**. 1 HOue^rtAZ:
157- 0 0 rz '*'
. Ji5 u ‘
£sl
m 'so) 00
iO
*5
\
I8 d
MA ft City
‘MAftClty
SCRUB
%
. (7
26
150
27
11
28
N
land
d
CLdjJi e
12
Scf o
160. 0 0
0
165 0
44 Q r O
$ _
0
6*o 0 0
0
</ i
17 s
> >
130
Jc/A b )
h
I t i 13
ins^y
( x /
14
25
, %. r-
/2 &s>Ad
‘ V . •* \\ 'A
QC
Hbt*asfafo
m
0
>/•• *
60
*W
0
A'/a ft
A*
JT '
5:
22
/"
V&y
\
O
0
7 V $7 \ N /A-
,, \' sl °"\ m'"" |
•- he s c V £ v -\k *
,M y \ § 160- ,
15.6
IG
yj.
to
.CtfOHJiTtAD
16
or
0
75/ 1° 0
/50
<U
\
21
Q--
>\\
Jcrui
52.
land
20
a
15
/s iso. 0.0
$
b
uln
sL;«gJ '|j '1 \
xCleni
>Sa
' a>* > >a
ro
\i
50
• M«OJ
«l> ?»f
' iiVarra 1
Darnum
M6>. Jins
i
.;<.MtivJEK ms whs - ■->-■■ . >•
n V Pte’/:
Itjf ffl'CoalvillJ
Df
nil
'KUKU
18
19
NTCoalvillen A Xvjr
„,., ■•. MBsi f Morwell
JfetTacaji-^^’' MBslM3Bs ./? fMsai K2BJ
.■ , •
H* ■ • /" .■— r J-i MUiiolu/ AAi4
\ /and
4UUMBK*
MBB> W JB3
C/eared
.A
per/ tv /-‘i-naielwpod
“1 W A ..•; r#MS2I H2U V ~
/ Yinnanf a c
7- ' «3«H233jp\^,g x
±Wj
<~a
o
iLLfIMBtE
idal
55.0
ESTATE
tffrl
imnacf •1./iu-j-.
c
To save delay, DON’T SEND CHEQUES. Forward Deposit, etc., in Cash or Post Office Order, Postal Notes ,
or Bank Draft, payable to THE SECRETARY, LANDS PURCHASE BOARD, MELBOURNE,
<S. C. JZX'I'I.VS, "eeie'-r y
7th June, 1907,


ON LITTLE BOY
Mouth and Eyes Covered With
Crusts—Face Itched Most Fear-
fully—Hands Pinned Down to
Prevent Scratching.
MIRACULOUS CURE
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“ When my little boy was six months old, he
had eczema. The sores extended so quickly
oyer the whole body that we at once called in
Alfonso Hohrath.
the doctor. We then
went to another doctor,
but he could not help
him, and in our despair
we went to a third one.
Matters became so bad
that he had regular
holes in his cheeks,
large enough to put a
finger into. The food
had to be given with a
spoon, for his mouth
was covered with crusts
as thick as a finger, and
whenever he opened the
mouth they began to
bleed and suppurate, as
did also his eyes.
Hands, arms, chest, and
back, in short the whole
body, was covered over
and over. We had no
rest by day or night.
Whenever he was laid
in his bed, we had to
pin his hands down:
otherwise he would
scratch his face, and
make an open sore. I think his face must
have itched most fearfully.
“We finally thought nothing could help,
and I had made up my mind to send my wife
with the child to Europe, hoping that the sea
air might cure him, otherwise he was to be
put under good medical care there. But,
Lord be blessed, matters came differently,
and we soon saw a miracle. A friend of ours
spoke about Cuticura. We made a trial with
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent, and
within ten days or two weeks we noticed a
decided improvement. In ten weeks the child
was absolutely well, and his skin was smooth
and white as never before. F. Hohrath, Presi-
dent of the C. L. Hohrath Company,Manufact-
urers of Silk Ribbons, 4 to 20 Rink Alley,
South Bethlehem, Pa,, June 5, 1905.’’
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sold
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston,!!. S.A.
©3T* Mailed Free, “ How to Care for the Skin.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
L
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock IBooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Bodies.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
j QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building', Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Som Ai'straman Agent Wabash Systems.
Oaline
HAVE YOU TRIED THIS
FACE CREAM YET?
Do so now. It will remove all dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, from
the pores, and keep your skin soft and clear.
It is the one thing that will enable your com-
plexion to withstand the dry heat of the
Australian climate.
Whatever the weather, Oatine will not go
bad. It contains no animal fat or dangerous
mineral salts, being made from pure fresh
oats. It does not grow hair. Men use it
after shaving.
Get a jar of Oafcine now. It costs 1/9,
or a larger size, holding four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists, storos,
etc., throughout Australia
A POLICY for the* COMMONWEALTH
Price Cd, from The Bulletin Office.
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING,
h
V
h
&
ff
l«»PIISK
i mmm
h
ss
%
o
ins
re
T 1
in
m
&
rs
4^
' k
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
j
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES’
OXFORD,
10/6
la glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6,
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
FREE. Booklet, “Shoelight,” that
illustrates and describes our stock of Foot=
wear. Posted anywhere free on request.
g
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at I & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST. r PRAHRAN.
Mrs, MACLUROAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
If..'-. ■ / ' ; -
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2 6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
AFORTUNEs CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known. Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
Disth, postal note or stamps for //-, and postage for..
A TEST HOROSCOPE OF 5 LARGE PAGES ,
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes
W. B. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
... . “ REFEREE” says “ The Prince of living Astrologers.”
This offer is made t<» convince those who are sceptical of, br unacquainted with, the truth and value
Of Astrological Science.
money returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. EKESCIIBIiL (of liondon), “ Woodville,” Mont Albert, Melbourne.
FILL. IN, OUT OUT, and SEND THIS A DVT.
Address
Date of Birth
Name
FREE
Your name, initials, etc., on
all articles purchased from our
largo-stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em.
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver and
Goods.. VVe are
late of N.Z. Ex. so give its a, pail.
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade. (fe»rgc and King Sis., Sydney.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the ease
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
c\it it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
Business, Robbery, etc.
The associated banks in Melbourne were undei
the impression, until the other week, that they had made
arrangements with the local police authorities whereby
five policemen would be rushed along in a cab to any bank
that telephoned an “ alarm ” between the hours of 6 p.m.
and 6 a.m. The mere mention of the place that sounded
an alarm was to signify “ Burglary on the premises,” and
bring a detachment of thief-catchers. The other night,
at 10.30 o’clock, the manager of the London Bank rang up
the police barracks in Russell-street. After about five
minutes ringing he got a reply, and when he stated
where he was ringing from a gruff authoritative voice
desired him to tell his business. As a test of police
alertness in the matter of bank robberies the “ ring-up ”
was a most instructive failure.
* * * *
Alleged now that most of the sago imported
into the Commonwealth is a compound of wheat and
maize, instead of being the pith of the sago palm ; so
acting-Customs Minister Chapman ordered analyses to be
made. “ If the allegation is proved the importers will
be required, under the Commerce Act, to apply to their
‘ sago ’ a true trade description.” That is all. Yet if a man
sold for 20s. a note of the defunct Oriental Bank in place
of one issued by a live, financial institution, an indignant
Judge would probably send him up for two years, instead
of Mr. Chapman simply requiring him to give a correct
description of his notes in future, Wonderful is the
difference between thieves.
• • » *
The English Church Times is moved to advo-
cate the abolition of the hot cross bun, owing to tha
sweating that seems inseparable from the production of
this flabby mass of indigestion. It has been discovered
! that Cold Country bakers are so rushed at the bun season
j that they often have to work for 30 hours continuously
for about 3d. an hour! One instance is given of bakers
toiling from Wednesday noon till Friday morning,, with-
out any rest at all, and then receiving the princely pay of
3s. 6d.—about Id. an hour. The “ chean loaf.” Heavens
yes—England ought to be proud of it!
* * *
“Agricola”: Of all sharks, the feminine shop-
ping shark is the most callous. The quibbler over full
measure, and the bargainer who beats down prices, are
varieties of this species. But the variety most dreaded
by the she-counter hand is the change' disputer. She
generally chooses a busy day, when there is no time to
argue the matter. “ That was half-a-crown I giv’ you,
Miss,” she says, when the worried saleswoman is too busy
| to remember that it was a florin, and it is no use showing
her the 2s. marked on the bottom of the purchase slip.
; “ I never seen what you put down. I on’y want me right
change ! ” and as her voice rises in a rapid crescendo, and
people begin to look round, the floorwalker ambles across
and arranges things to the tune of a deduction of six-
pence from the unfortunate she-hand’s screw on Friday
night. Some extra-bold sharks have been known to work
the swindle with half-a-sovereign, claiming that it was a
full-grown quid. In almost every case the firm comes
out quits, the shark wins, and the saleswoman loses.
However, hands in many shops have learned to press the
coin hard on the purchase slip, so that the impression is
printed on the duplicate by means of the carbon transfer
! and then the change disputer is bowled out first ball. ’
* * * *
Charity hath strange disguises. A Liverpool
(Eng.) woman, recently fined for unlicensed money-lend-
ing, pleaded that she wasn’t a professional, but lent
to working people “out of kindness, and to oblige'
neighbors.” A deeply-affected beak was just about to
dismiss the charitable one with Heaven’s blessing, when
it transpired that the “ kindness ” cost the unfortunate
borrowers just 866 per cent, per annum. This case, by
I the way, should int rest people like Parson Fitchett, who
are never tired of holding forth about the “freedom ” of
England because it has a comparatively short list of
Customs duties—only 47 of them. In Whitaker’s
Almanac there are six closely-printed pages of small type
setting forth the things you must not do in England
unless you pay a licence fee. They include being a
money-lender, a house-agent, a dealer in sweets, or the
owner of a carriage, and there are even ecclesiastical
licences—“ to hold the office of lecturer, etc., 10s.” And
a dog is 7s. 6d. So if Fitchett were in England he might
rank, for licensing purposes, as one dog and one-third of
a dog.
• * • «
“ Itan ” : You strike one of the other sort now
and again, but mostly the bagman has a loud-voiced
contempt for “these labor unions,” and their demands
for preference and things of that sort are “outrageous.”
Wflerefore it isn’t as generally known as it might be that
entrance to the Bagman’s Association is restricted to
males between the ages of 21 and 45. And to successfully
trade outside the ranks of this union is hopeless. In the
first place, the big warehouses will not employ outsiders •
and to become an insider isn’t as easy as telling lies'
But, once you get on the right side of the fence, you have
a 20 per cent, reduction in fares on coastal’ steamers
belonging to the inter-State shipping ring, 10 per cent,
on deep-sea liners, 20 per cent, at hotels, a substantial
concession from the Railway Department (which, for some
reason, is not announced), and a fund of assurance worth
a guinea an ounce. On the whole, there probably isn’t
one labor union in Australia so conservative ; not one so
exclusive; none so intolerant towards outsiders; and
scarcely one which has grabbed such advantages for its
members.
• » * *
Last year the Melbourne Board of Works
made a profit of £08!)." out of the sheep alone which it
fattened on its sewage farm. The whole farm area is 8847
acres, of which less than half is in the Board’s occupa-
tion—the balance is either let, on lease or is in course' of
preparation.
STARCH SINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Suggested by recent inquiries.)
The world of Fashion fondles me ;
The dudes adore. Society
Could not exist without my aid.
I am that useful little maid
Who stiffens clothes, who shines the shirts.
Renews both cuffs and collars. Squirts
The magic paste each lady blesses
Over her blouses, skirts and dresses.
Without my help the Best Dressed Man
At once would look no better than
The baggy-trousered crew who write,
Or paint, or play—a shocking sight-
Without stiff skirts that hardly screen
Who would applaud the Ballerine?
Who would admire Fat’s broad chest arched
Unless its front were stiff and starched ?
I am that dainty cake of dirt
Each Fat Man blazons on his shirt;
While he who makes these magic blocks
Barely a shirt can sport, or socks.
I form the bridge that none can pass
'Twixt Toilers and the Upper Glass.
Without my gloss the world would be
Submerged in gross Democracy.
Protection is a wicked thing—
What legislation it would bring
To place an economic ban
On products not Australian !
Let Competition ever reign
Till workers are like serfs again
For all things unto Fat indebted ;
Let local toilers aye be sweated
So Duties high may not offend
Fat Europe at the other end ;
Let Fat and Foreign-trade arise ;
Let rampage Private Enterprise ;
And Anti-Sosh, potbellied, march
. Backwards, beneath its flag of starch.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD."
“ 0 ” writes :
The retailer of groceries, or draperies, or fish, or flesh,
or bedsteads should not appear in working hours behind
his own counter between the date of his selection as a
candidate and polling-day. “ 1 was only lialf-an-hour
behind the counter this morning,” said one, “ when the
man who seconded the vote of confidence in me last night
came in, and carried away £3 worth on tick. He was
only out when a man who led the cheering cornered me
for 15s. worth.” “ I’d shut up till the election is over,”
said an ambitious politician; “only it would scatter my
trade, but I can’t stand this run. And, after all, I’m
not sure of their votes.” “If I get in,” wept another,
“ every penny of the £3OO will have been swamped before
polling day. “ Wait! ”he suddenly broke off, and dipped
under the counter. A red-faced, gruff-voiced man glared
round the shop, and, failing to find the object he sought,
he asked a “hand” where the boss was. “The boss?”
answered the mild young man. “He went home early,
and I don’t expect him back till to-morrow.” “Very
unfortunate, very unfortunate! ” cried the red-faced
man. “ I’ll come earlier to-morrow.” “ That’s the
way,” resumed the boss, bobbing up again from behind the
counter; “it goes on like that all the time. If that man
had caught me he would have carried away 30s. worth at
the very least, or he would have gone over to the other
side, and the fellow on the other side doesn’t keep a shop,
worse luck ! ”
Discovery of a Rational
Treatment for Deafness.
A glance through the medical literature of the
last 20 years reveals to the close observer a re-
markable diversity of opinion among aurists as
to what constitutes the proper method of treat-
ment for deafness and diseases of the ear. Some
authorities recommend in obstinate cases cutting
away the drumhead of the ear, other aural surgeons
are emphatic in saying that the results obtained
are too uncertain to justify such severe measures.
Another class of medical men base the treatment
of deafness almost entirely on the application of
medicated vapors forced through the nose into the
middle ear by way of the Eustachian tube, but it
is strange to find these sameauristsaclcnowledging,
in their writings on this subject, that it is doubt-
ful if medication applied in this way can reach
the seat of disease which causes defective hearing.
In the midst of all this doubt and uncertainty
there is fortunately the record of the discovery of
a rational method in the Electricon to successfully
apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to the
Ears, permanently curing Deafness, and com-
pletely banishing all distressing Head Noises.
Like all innovations the Electricon received the
severest criticisms, but notwithstanding such
opposition, seven years’ test of the method has
given results so emphatically successful that the
usual medical opinions on the curability of deaf-
ness have been completely overthrown.
Those who are interested in the subject would
do well to read the complete description of this
method of treatment in the “Journal for the
Deaf,” published by the L. R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney, and sent FREE to
to any one asking for it.
DON’T YOU
strength they have lost is Electricity,
fricity; therefore, Electricity properly
STOP DRUGS?
'V 7 ’OU have a complaint or weakness that has bothered you for
years! You are still doctoring and dosing yourself! You
are trying one doctor and then another; one medicine and then
another, but you are no better, and your stomach is turning in dis-
gust from it all. Now then, why don’t you stop it? Why
don’t you hesitate before you carry the dose to your mouth and ask
yourself, “What is this stuff lam taking ?” “ What am I taking
it for ?’ ’ How can I expect it to make me strong ?’ ’
Ask yourself these questions; think them over, and if you have any “common
horse sense” you will quickly see your folly ; you will quickly realise that the
remedy you need to cure must give new power, new strength, and new life to
the impoverished nerves, organs, and blood of your body. The life and
The most eminent scientists of the world to-day admit that life is elec-
applied, as it is with the improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT,
is the only certain and natural cure for you. It cures where drugs fail because it is Nature’s cure, and restores the
natural Electricity to the body. Throw physic to the dogs, and try this world-famed Electric Appliance. It is
the original and standard Electric Belt of Australasia, and the only one that has stood the test of time.
Its price is as low as £1 in many cases, and with its special attachments for men and
women it is a certain cure for all nervous and chronic diseases. We have testimonials from every part of
Australasia, and will send you the names of people in your own locality whom it has cured.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon ‘o-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man !
Send the COUPON or call to-day.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
J “ * Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McLaughlin co. 9
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
6
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lQd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6dieach, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. DR- Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald!leads, etc,, Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is (id. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
&
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Irf.land, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. WAnnan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameiion, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into payings more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pp~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROJT THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is> && Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy lspost. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
ĝĥj
ĵh
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Bengers Food is soIJ in tins by Chemitsts, etc., everywhere.


The Genuine Edison
Gold-Moulded Records
are, without question, quite the finest
that are produced, and the owner of an
EdiSOVl Phonograph
who cannot find a number of selec-
tions to suit his taste must be very
hard to please.
There is something for Everybody—Some-
thing for every mood.
Of course, you must be sure
to get the Genuine Edison
Gold-Moulded Records. The
famous inventor Thomas
A. Edison—thinks so much
of them that a fac simile- of
his signature is printed on
each. Look for it before
you buy.
Ask us for t,he latest lists. Sent post free OH
request.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH 00.
of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR WINTER! f
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
i Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the'-safest'
, and most comfortable form of clothing. We reeom-
I mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
j but for those who prefer wool next, the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
In Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. C. E. Borchgrevink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to reach the
South Pole, writes :—“ Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing proved most excellent during the time I
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.”
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets),
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“XJJRICA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindred ailments.
iiiiiiiniiiniiiiiimiiinii,,,,
lUlllllllllltlllUlHlU
These rings are scientifically
made Irom specially prepared
metals with four zinc and three copper
coils homing a complete battery.
The natural moisture of the finger
connects the coils, causing a gentle
current of Electricity to circulate
throughout the whole body, which dis-
solves the uric acid crystals.
Prices, Post Free. —White Metal, 2/-;
Silver. 3/6 ; Gold filled. 3/-, 5/- and 7/6;
SEND FOR SIZE CARD POST FREE,
DUNKLING. The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET., MELBOURNE.
EBK
The is the Pipe
that does not crack or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KELP IT
Wholesale Depot
for Australasia,
251 Clarence S h . Sydney.
EST
FLAT
SHAPE
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 184 a For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Why Take Large Doses
of Nauseous Medicines?
The Homoeopathic Treatment is
mild and unobtrusive in its
effects. Its simplicity makes it
possible for the patient to use
the remedies without his friends
knowing anything about his
troubles.
Homoeopathy
• ai«
Vi
> a
vt
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts Have met witH unpre-
cedcnted success, and we are
g'lad to be able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
©i Liver Xroubles, Vari-
cocele, Rheumatism,
© Allied Complaints,
The
Secret
0f...
Health
Prostatic Affedions, Etc., are completely (St permanently cured by
Patients living- at a distance, who wish
to give the HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMOEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
. . A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, statedHomoeopathy is only in
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly to
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOM CEO PATH Y.”
VVe would like you to know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “WORDS OF
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to —
THE KEELEY HOMEOPATHIC COMPANY,
Cr. Hunter & Bligti Streets, Sydney.
Edward L. Keei.f.t.
[CONGO ROOFINGI
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples lo any of the addresses below
il nnujactured ly BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co.,
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For. Sale by:
G. E. CRANE & SONS Ltd.,
Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS & Co.,
Brisbane.
PiOB ?
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
jgjg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Works 3
Birm
ngham,
England.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,
M mII
In a of P i e «H i frr VOUS ’ S xl n and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed
Ilf fin I# HU TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
WUI Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lout Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS. Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
rf« a Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Ufpn|# lAfnmPn complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses. 23/6.
™ eaK women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; IS PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
mm-
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O/A the Bunch
u post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanstcn Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [2
I
with 4 months
jg
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which iead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD S CURE
FOR
Cougtis, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge
£ung Tonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
Cure
Drunkards
Proof Positive!
more homes MADE HAPPY !
MORE TESTIMONY !
MORE GRATITUDE!
Further Conclusive Testimony as to
THE MIGHTY WORK
EUCRASY IS DOING.
Sample {roejor Writing
Recollect that every Letter has been sent
quite Voluntarily and Without any Request
on our part. What it has done in these
Cases it will do in others.
EUCRASY
is doing a great Humanising, Reclaiming,
and Reforming Work throughout Aus-
tralia. One. of its Most Valuable Features
Is that it is Tasteless and Odorless, and:
can be administered with or (secretly)
without the knowledge of the sufferer-
It is imperative to note that—
EUCRASY DIFFERS FROM ALL
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
Townsville (Q.), March 21/’O7.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I am sorry I have not written before to
state the result of the case I have been treating:, but I
have been too happy in the great blessing which has be-
fallen me. My was the patient to whom I gave the
powders, quite unknown to him, of course. At one time
it seemed hopeless, being in the bar all day, as he was, in
the very midst of temptation ; but I kept in the bar with
him myself as much as possible, and did not let him stay
in it any more than I could possibly help, and I am now
thankful to see him constantly turn away from the spirit
bottles with a shudder. I have about a dozen powders
left. I shall recommend Eucrasy to anyone I know
troubled like I was.—Believe me to be, yours sincerely
grateful, (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE.
If you mention this paper, a Sample
of EUCRASY and BOOKLET of IN-
STRUCTIONS will be sent ypu sealed.
Enclose 6d. stamps tor postage. This is a genuine offer.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS—
THE EUGRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER stpeet gvnMFV


EWARj
mp**.
m
mm
m
m
m m
as
■
DEWAR’S
the Whisky of High Repute
jgcj
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - 6d. ~
Extra Chimneys - - 2hd. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is.
Packet of TEN, lOd
Some “Record” Statements.
The Output of
Records
reaches the enormous total of over TWO
MILLIONS a Month.
%
THE enormous repertory of Columbia Records is constantly
being’ added to by our Laboratories in the Great Musical
Centres of the World.
COLUMBIA RECORDS can be obtained in almost any
language.
At ever, International Exposition COLUMBIA RE-
CORDS have always secured the Highest Possible awards,
COLUMBIA RECORDS Fit All Makes of Talking
Machines, and greatly improve the Tone Quality of any
machine. Our recent lists of Disc and Cylinder Records
are Especially Fine.
You Can’t Resist Buying When
You Hear Them.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. CEN’L.,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in the World.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Send at once for Record
Lists “ B.”
The Wonderful
MAJESTIC PHONOGRAPH
And 6 Records
XSOd
NEVER before has such a Phono-
graph offer been made at the
price. The “MAJESTIC” is a
wonderful instrument —it plays—talks
—laughs—sings and gives splendid
results.
Nothing to get out of order —and is so
easy to work that a child could handle
it.
We have over 20,000 Records of Songs,
Band Pieces, Operatic Selections, &c.,
from which you can make your selec-
tion.
The MAJESTIC PHONOGRAPH and & Standard
Size Records sent Free anywhere for 20/-.
Write for Cists of Records (El Catalogs of Instruments.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., **2s
Importers of PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS.
393 George Street,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
gj
PRIZES value £.1500.
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £5OO
Second Prize, value £'oo
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last veitr was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.YV., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised,in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding- stamped addressed envelope a list Of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all, Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
m
A GOOD SHAVE
The PLUM is a clean cutting, easy-going,
dependable Razor that will make you say
“ Ah, a good comfortable shave at last.’’ .
Try it —your money back if it fails to please.
The Pltim Razor, 10 6 Post Free.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, tO/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Singie Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Post Free to any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG k AITKEN, 654 George SU Sydney*
Established
25 Years.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &e., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklbocrnb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking. Public Companies. Ac.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55.000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS AD STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148— Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED•
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
BanlTTf [|eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. .. £500,000.
ADAIITC (ID A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
UIfANIO Ilnur I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GOVERNi*IENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
ri'HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
rates of interest.
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, 4
P. E. WILLIAMS, V Commissioners.
W. H. O’M WOODj
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
-» ’ ’
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4k Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
TTIACT’RY »ANDS,” by Edward Dvson.
_|j “ Best book of Australian hum >r,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
nxr. 33. Hu
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
<l
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. 24th SEPT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITED. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.).
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
j
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & COLtd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of deui S UJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. _. .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund ... .» 1.500,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 55,00,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLacrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
/"> C" A f\l Accident and Guarantee
VVuMIN Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
ĵy
$
i^>
*
Free
w r ■
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress , Usury.
nxr.s.-W.
IQoit di piste
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre), 1
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ĵ
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to sail about 12th JULY.
RUNIC, to sail about 7th AUGUST.
MEDIO, AFRIO and SUEVIO to follow.
B’ARES—< Capetown or Durban £15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
tDAMASCUS . I H. A. Schleman .. I Noon. July 19
"MILTIADES .. i A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 10
MORAVIAN .. | A. Simpson .. I Noon, Sept. 13
t3rd Class Passengers only. *Twin Screw. Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £16 Os to £20 Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £31 10s.. £13 13s to £17 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £115.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Scenic Route
to Europe
is via Canada.
SAILINGS :
PASSENGERS BOOKED TO
ANY PART OF AMERICA
OR TO EUROPE.
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconifield Parade
ST. HILDA.
fTVHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
m
George: hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TjWNEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS- j
J- LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A DAY Telephone 174.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields, ./
S.S. Gran tala, Saturday,
July 20.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Ciirns.
S.S. Yongala, July 13.
'S.S. Wollowra, July 20.
Best ami Cheapest Ho ate to Gold/iehis.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
Q. S. YU ILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON and LIVERPOOL
{via Melbourne and Adelaide), calling at Durban to land
passengers.
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer—
DORSET,
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 10th JULY', 1907
~ „ ~ Hobart ~ 11th ~ „
„ ~ „ Melbourne „ 19th ~ „
~ „ „ Adelaide ~ 23rd ~ „
Excellent Accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
Passengers.
The Saloon Accommodation consists of all two-berth
deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The Third Class Accommodation comprises 2,4, and
8 berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main deck,
with dining saloon on the upper deck.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
carried.
FARES— SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
Durban .. .. £2O £10; £ll ; £l2
Capetown .. .. £22 10s £lO 10s ; £ll Us ; £l2 12s
London & Liverpool £45 £l2 12s ; £l3 13s ; £l4 14s
To be followed by other similar twin-
screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, SATURDAY, July
13, 2 p.m.
COOLGARDIE, WEDNESDAY,
July 17,12 noon.
BOMBALA, SATURDAY, July 20,
2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
COOLGARDIE, WEDNESDAY,
July 17, 12 noon.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, SATURDAY, July 13,
2 p.m.
•ALLINGA, TUESDAY, July 16,
5 p.m..
PEREGRINE, SATURDAY, July
20, 2 p.m.
* Through steamer to
Rockhampton.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707. 170«.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMBER.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swans ton-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application, to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.


M Britis[)=Hustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the B ritish- A ustralasran during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
&
A Dainty Sample of
the world-famous Face
Cream— Creme Simon
—white, cream, or pink i
powder, or a Cake of
Soap mailed free to any
address on receipt of Id.
stamp.
SOLE AGENTS i
. JOOBERT&JOOBERTT
MELBOURNE
1
u
2%
R*
PURE, WHOLESOME,
INVIGORATING.
“ 0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating, delicious —a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a winter
beverage.
WHOLSALE AGENTS :
Sydney:
Orme, Keigwin & Co.
Brisbane:
Quinlan, Cray& Co.
Adelaide : Tolley & Co.
Fremantle : Tolley Ltd.
0.0 I Punch
Dixon&O?
ThegreatHairproducer
and RESTORER
That’s C A PILL A HAIR TONIC.
“Capilla” will cultivate hair where
other remedies have failed.
It preserves—strengthens—imparts to
the hair that beautiful soft appear-
ance so much admired.
The well-known remedy for baldness.
“ CAPILLA ” is absolutely different
and better than all other hair pre-
parations.
Here’s proof of its superiority.
Read it—then sit right down and
write for a bottle; better still, go
straight to your chemist—he sells it.
Charleville, Q.
Mr. Richards.
Dear Sir —Please send me another bottle of
your “ Capilla.” The last two bottles have
worked wonders with my hair, and I have not
the slightest hesitation in saying that I believe
it to be the best preparation yet discoversd for
the hair.
(Mr.) W. M.
Thisoriginal, together with thousands
of others, may be seen at my offices.
ALL CHEMISTS.
IJ6 and 2/6 a BOTTLE.
W. O. RICHARDS, Savings Bank
Chambers, Moore Street, SYDNEY.
Posted 2/- & 3/3 Bottle. Full course
of six bottles , posted, N.S.W., 17/6 f
Inter-State, 19/2.
Mother Seigels
INDIGESTION is the root cause of
nearly all human ailments. It
robs you of the power to digest
your food, saps the very source of life
itself. Slowly your strength ebbs away,
you are tortured with pain, and life
becomes a misery.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is a purely
vegetable compound having a specific
action on the stomach, liver and kid-
neys. It promotes healthy action of
the stomach and intestines, expels im-
purities from the system, enriches the
blood, and thus imparts health and
tone to every part of the body.
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
Read This Testimony:
Mrs. CAROLINE M. WHITE,
of MACQUARIE ST.,GLEBE,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., in a
letter dated Jan. 9,1907, says:
“ I strongly recommend
Mother Seigel’s Syrup to
all suffering from indi-
gestion and biliousness,
as I have proved it to be
an unrivalled remedy for
those dreadful maladies.”
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, CONSTIPATION, HEADACHE, PALPITATION and DIZZINESS
V
ggk IB EST. 1847. wm j
Allcocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumhago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock's
¥
For pains in the region of tile
Kidney*, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied at
shown above.
Wherever there is mis apply
Allcook's Plaster,
_ For Rheumatism or Pains in
Shoulders, tlbows or elsewhere,
or for Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
and for Aching Feet, Plaster
should be cut site aud shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc
Established 1762.
THe* *Ynr,
mmmm
' ?-. .j
i
rr«cs
■MlpgpH
r 226"ftmDsftS lA«e
/ Mgug.. sate
To Hotel & Boarding House Proprietors & Others
ýj
For the preservation of your meat, fruit, and vegetables,
as well as for the improvement in flavor and tenderness of
meat that is hung, and from motives of economy, you
should not be without a
BRUNSWICK
ICE MACHINE
which, at a small cost, gives you a perfect cold storage.
Only l h.p. is necessary to drive the plant. It requires
practically no watching, and will give you splendid
reliable refrigeration.
The smallest size of Brunswick tee Machine gives
refrigeration equal to the melting power of 2001 b, of
Ice ; i.e., if you could get 20 101 b. blocks of ice in your
ice chest, you would then produce the same refrigera-
tion, BUT AT WHAT COST? The Brunswick will
save you money.
Write for Catalogue and Further Particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7*9 Market St., Sydney.
“ Quidam ” : The English perch in Vic-
torian streams is rapidly destroying the Victorian
blackfish, and as the blackfish is generally reck-
oned a lot better fish than the imported perch,
fishermen are coming to the conclusion that
another imported article is a failure. A still
worse failure is the English carp, which voracious
but slushy fish is a nuisance to fishermen iii the
Turon and Macquarie Rivers, near Hill End
(N.S.W.), and is locally believed to be rapidly
displacing the Murray (or Macquarie) cod. By
the time Australia has wiped out all its native
fish in favor of imported ones, and completely
killed off the marsupials in favor of rabbits and
hares, and ruthlessly slaughtered all its valuable
native timbers, and seen its last lyre-bird eaten
by a slinking fox, it will probably begin to realise
that Nature gave it a dashed good outfit to start
with, and that, if it had only realised it about 20
years earlier, it might have turned the knowledge
to some good account. With the present rapidly-
disappearing fur-supply of the world, for instance,
a little animal which can produce such a valuable
crop on such cheap tucker as the Australian
’possum is worth paying attention to ; but it will
probably be several years after the last ’possum
has been slain, when furs are about 10 times their
present price, before Australia wakes up to the
I fact. Even now a man could start an elephant
farm nearly as easily as a ’possum farm. The
Tantanoola tiger appears to be the only animal
Australia can’t kill, and the presumption is that
it was imported.
“Hermes” writes:— *
The propensity of the opera singer to go on strike
is nothing compared to that of the professional cycling
crack. When Henri Mayer was here he lost his
head one night, and bursting his way through the rue,
sent one fellow spinning circles on the top of the track,
and the other waltzing across the grass. Disqualified for
that event, of course. Henri was in his dressing-room
when the news reached him. He rushed out with his
pump in one hand and his shirt in the other : “ Vare is
de McIntosh ? I vant him ke-vick.” Was he, Mayer,
not to start? Was he not the reputation, without him
would not the seats be empty ? Ten thousand devils—
big blue devils ! Yer well ! He not ride in the Sydney
Thousand, See where the McIntosh be then. Who the
McIntosh think the people come to see? The McIntosh?
Bah! Next day, accompanied by Ivor Lawson, who was
under a cloud at the time, he came along with a
doctor’s certificate. “Mr. de McIntosh, I am some-
thing sick!” he explained, ja'bbing himself cautiously
with his forefinger, in the neighbourhood of the
breastbone. “ Yes, I cannot race in Sydney Thousand ! ”
McIntosh looked at the certificate, which was from a
doctor he had never heard < f. “ All right, Mr. Mayer.
Sorry to hear it. But I can’t take this certificate. The
rule is that you must go before two doctors retained by.
the League, and if they certify you are ill, all right. If
they don’t, you either race or stand disqualified ; andas
this League is affiliated with the international body, that
disqualification will be enforced against you all over
Europe. It may not be anything serious, Mr. Mayer—
the liver, perhaps, or more likely the spleen. Oome in
this afternoon at 3 p.m., the doctors will be'here then.
Good morning ! ” Mayer’s eyes glittered. “ Ver well
Mr. McIntosh, I ride in Sydney Thousand—I come Aus-
tralia no more. I am stranger in strange land—you treat
me too considerately. I ’fraid if I come again I stay here
always—behind the wall ! ” And he nodded and strode
out.
“Nulla”: Talk about the casualness of
the Australian kid ! I saw one t’other day. He
was a two-year-old, and was accompanied by a
large, badly-frayed apple, and a ditto ditto dog.
He roamed about amongst the trams and ’buses,
until a desperate traffic policeman tucked him
under his arm and carted him to the lost kid
office. Did that kid howl for his mammy, or
promise never to do it again, or say that he pre-
ferred death to dishonor, or, in fact, say any of
the things a kid is supposed to say ? Not much.
He just made himself comfortable, and gnawed
his apple as though being tucked under the wet
macintosh of a huge “John ” wms the most com-
monplace proceeding imaginable. Also he
showed no concern about the whereabouts of his
dog; likewise the look of weird expectancy was
only noticeable when he proceeded to bury his
face in his apple.
“ F.C.” writes:—
Although the recent press condemnation of so-
called “ savage ” and “ vicious ” football has led Vic.
League and Association players into a less riotous frame
of mind, the very junior and country players still indulge
their habit of kicking the man instead of the ball. When
Seymour was playing Avenel the other Saturday, two
players came to blows, and the crowd rushed the ground.
The warriors were separated, but another argument
speedily arose, arid play was suspended while fights
raged in half-a-dozen parts of the field simul-
taneously. That diversion naturally left relations a
trifle strained, and when the game was continued
the players took to charging one another even as the
hulls of Bashan charged, and two Seymour men had to
be removed per ambulance. But for real “joy” one
looks to the “ church ” clubs around Melbourne. Same
Saturday Brighton Presbyterians proceeded to Ormond
to discuss matters with Ellendale, which, lacking a con-
stable, relied on .150 barraokers to k ep order. These
promptly set out to follow the umpire around the ground
in packs, speaking firmly to him the while, and
promising to “deal with” him every time he gave
a free kick to the Covenanters. Heaven knows the
result of the match, for before the finish the 150 beauties
wearied of talking and went for the umpire, who was
escorted into a furniture van, where the Scotehbyterians
dressed. Even then the hart-ackers were not to be
denied, and as they threatened t.o capsize van, horses and
players to make sure of getting the one lone umpire, the
driver was compelled to clear off with him to save his
life, leaving the players dressing in the road, to the
accompaniment of insulting- remarks, road metal, etc. It
is a vast pity these precious barrackers can’t be compelled
to play a game themselves, instead of smoking cigarettes,
spitting, and using choice language.
“W.P.B.”: I was talking to my fruit
John, the other day, and paid him a compliment
for having a good horse and keeping it in excellent
condition. Also asked what sort of a beast it was
morally. John shook liis head and looked sorrow-
ful for the vagaries of the animal that should have
been a companion rather than a delusion and a
snare. “No goo’,” he said, “ velly wi’. No
catchem someti’. Me catehem one day, velly
flash, muchee work catchem. He buckjump all
one si’, me losem alonga sclub, no fi’ long ti’. Give
small boy calloway Seed poun’ half help catchem.
Velly wi’, but goo’ work when qui’. I take him
longa Boulke one ti’. Maly Ann she won’t come,
me no like Maly Ann come—too much money
two. Maly Ann cly, so me solly. She come. I
take spling ca’-t,. get Boulke, go bed. Wake up,
no Maly Ann. She gone. Spling ca’t gone.
Hossee gone. All gone. Then I know why Maly
Ann cly. I catchee, beatee —know why she cly
tha ’ time !” And John chuckled happily. Then,
shaking his head, he looked solemn, and con-
tinued : “Maly Ann no goo’, steal flowty pong.
No fi’ long ti’ now. Plenty money flowty pong.
If me catchee Maly Ann cly some mo’.” He went
to the cart and fished out a length of clothes line.
Evidently he was ready to beat Maly Ann at any
moment if he met her on his rounds. I bade him
good day, and urged him to keep a bright look
out for Maly Ann, and he passed on with the
animal that was velly wi’ when it wasn’t qui’.
The latest suggestion from China is that the
“ extra-territorial ’’ rights of foreigners should be
abolished. The Asiatic peoples clearly intend to
rule in their own house. Since Japan secured
the abolition of extra-territorial rights no foreigner
gets a fair deal in a Japanese court, and that fact
is acting as a very good Aliens' Exclusion Act.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
» — .
BLN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most .importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
9 Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste, poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid.y on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses w r ith each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests,, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
Completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose ot Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, c. ■ storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne,, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
ust because
you’re a man
don’t think
you have got
to be bald.
Your hair
grows out of your scalp, then
nourish your scalp and your hair
will grow.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
builds up, and energizes thin,
dry, tight scalps. It gives them
strength so that they can supply
vigor and life to the hair roots,
which in turn will grow thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry’s Tri-coph-erous.
Reuter’s Soap is good for shaving
yj
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596,
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask vour chemist for its history-the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambct.li Load, London, Eng.
110,000
The War baeK Series.
Av.stralia luuy'-ed ! ! No. 3.
and keeps la ■igl. < ig. Red Harry Is.
n
27 Si
PRIZE
■MEDALS
g
HTmT 13 YOUR Cue”
When ordering Billiard
_ REQUISITES OR
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Alcock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
MELBOURNE,SYDNEY.PERTH.
Wellington,N.Z & London.
ĝ
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
ğ
SALT
“THE HOSPITAL," London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
“It has an elegant appearance, white and granular, like sifted sugar, and is
certainly one of the daintiest and most highly prized articles on the table. In
warm climates it is useful on account of its not readily clogging.”
.Agents—Harrison &• Attwood, Sydney,
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9perbox
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
ġj
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution- —(Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRH(EA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, <fcc. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING $ MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON, » # Loftus Sts., Sydney
I WILL
TELL .
YOUR FORTUNE FREE
To prove my Wonderful Powers, / will lay bare the Future like an open book.
IWANT to tell every reader of this magazine what the future has in store for
them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and years to brighten
their lives ; what sorrows, disappointments and reverses are hidden in the
future, most of which can be avoided if you only knew how to go about it. I
want to prove to your perfect satisfaction that my system of Practical Astrology
will make your future like an open book. Simply send me your name, date
of hi(;th, sex, and whether married or single, and enclose with your letter 1/-
postal note or stamps for return postage, and a Horoscope or reading of your life,
together with my interesting book, “Your Destiny Foretold,” will be sent to you
in a plain envelope, sealed and confidential.
When you receive this reading, you will discover how absolutely correct, as
well as wonderfully helpful, it is, and you will be glad to write me when you wish
to knovvwhat to do about the future, for success in love, marriage, speculation,
or business. You will, I am sure, be glad to go out of your way to advise your
friends to consult me, and in that way repay me for the cost of the trial Horos-
cope I send you.
My system of Practical Astrology is different from that of any other
Astrologer living or dead. Hundreds of letters in my possession prove that I
have predicted events that have actually come to pass, that, if my advice had
been followed, disappointment in love and money matters could have been
avoided ; that I have told the future as no one else has done.
Each week I publish letters from friends who have been so well pleased and
so well satisfied with my work, that they have freely granted me permission to
use their names and portraits in my advertising. Positively no letters are pub-
lished without this permission.
Riches
The Stars as read
by me will tell
what business or
profession you
should follow to
gain wealth I
can also give
your lucßy days
and months for
speculating.
gfgjf
YOU sent me a life Horoscope last
fall which was very correct, and
I can recommend you as a true reader
of one’s life according to the Stars.
The things you mention have come
true exactly as foretold; the long
journey, the supposed friend who
would cause me trouble and the loss
by theft. You recommended me to
deal in ladies’ dress goods. I am
doing so, and have been very fortu-
nate. You also pictured my health
correctly.
Cora G. Hampton.
Love.
Let me tell yot*
how to be
successful in
love, and the
person you
should marry to
ensure a happy
wedded life. The
stars tell me all
this plainly; I©*
me tell you.
Write me to-day and learn what the Future has in store for YOU.
To day may be the turning-point in your fortune. Do not therefore delay, hut write to me at once and get the valuable information that I alone can give
vou Let me prove to you my wonderful powers, and then help me by recommending my work to your friends. Simply send me your full name, date of birth,
your sex whether married or single, and a 1/- postal note or stamps for return postage, and the Horoscope will be immediately mailed to you sealed free of charge.
±f*? ress -: Professor H. De Astro,
360 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.


i3<33.Q,-»r»r>
il [fit's from
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store nearest\
you.
Modern Jewels
AT
Stewart Dawson's
By a combination of Good Luck and Ready Cash we have just managed
to secure a Big Parcel of Fine Australian Opal, Good Opal is very scarce
just now. The Continental buyers snap up at once all the good Opal they
can find. We have been busy mounting them up as Brooches in 15-carat
Gold of most artistic and modern designs, and we expect a prompt apprecia-
tion of their extreme beauty. We have decided to make the price so low that
the majority of our Lady Customers can readily possess at least one piece -
if desired, we can substitute for the Opals, Green Queensland Sapphires .
VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS* Melbourne# 2,
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
395 & 397 HayS? Perth [((l
QUEENSLAND (V*
Queens Edward St? Brisbane'
NEW ZEALAND
M6SI4S QueenS?.
18-3 LambtonQuay.Wellingtr^a.
236 £238 HighS*
Princes £ DowlingS* Dunedin^
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery,
Silver and Silver-plated Goods
sent free on request. YOUr
;• .. \ ■ ■’ ; **s*;,,
Address on a Post Card will
bring them.
C3338—15-et. Gold and Real Pearl
Oiiele Brooch, £l/15/-.
D 1579. —l.'-ct. Gold and Real Wing
Shape Pearl Brooch, £2/15/-.
C332B—The , “Lohengrin Brooch,
15-cfc. Gold, Beal Pearls, RuLi.es,and
Olivines, £6/10/-.
D1277—15-ct. Gold lti'ooeh, set. Fine
Whole Pearl and Diamond, £9/10,*.
C3333—-15-et. Gold Brooch a>nrf Pen-
dant, set Real Pearls !>,id Green
Tourmaline, £3/10/-.
GB92B—Fine Diamond, Real Whole
Pearl, and 15-et. Brooch, £(i/U/-.
»
T
m
&
Sr* ■
' r
OP
; %
7 o
o
13.
12.
14.
<L_
6
19.
18.
20.
0
22
23.
21.
25
26
24.
29.
28
27
_7^NjB2
SO
C3lB3—Pearl and Turquoise Laughing
Jackass Brooch, 15-ct. gold, £4/10/-.
D 1276— 15-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pine
Whole Pearl and Diamond, £7/10/-.
03334— 15-ct. Gold, Beal Pearl and Ceylon
Bubles. Set Brooch, £3/3/-.
C32oi 15-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Olivines, £4/4/-.
Beal
C3331—15-ct. Gold, Beal Pearl and Pink
Tourmaline Brooch and Pendant, £2/15/-
GB93o—Pine Diamond, Beal Whole Pearl
and 15-ct. Gold Brooch, £7.
©o
18-ct. Gold, Pine 18-ct. Gold and Fine
Opal and Green Green Sapphire
Sapphire Bing, £4. Bing, £3/10/-. ,
C3332—].5-ct. Gold Brooch
and Pendant, set Heal
Pearls and Australian
Rubies, £4/15/-.
SB—9-ct. Gold and Real
Pearl Brooch, 9/6.
08X12 —Beal Pearls and 15-ct. Gold.
Brooch, £2/15/-.
A Handsome
C334.5C—9-ct. Gold and Real
Pearl Brooch, 9/6.
03335—15-ct. Gold Brooch, set 1 Row Real Pearls,
and 1 Row Turquoise,£4.
C33l4—l6*ct- Gold and :
■GMEF 6 ®
teal PcaiflSeC Brooch, £2/7/6.
Order by Mail if unable to call. Money back
if we fail to please you.
'awswit
C 3313 —15-ct. Gold aud Real Pearl Set Brooch, £2/5/-.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
&he LEADING
HOUSE
sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
>■; - •
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
°2 r Special Snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
gjf
CANT
BEAT
JNo. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38Jin., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
£1 15s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W. ; 3s 2d, Interstate.
HEARNES
Tlx© Famous Remedy For
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Side of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get if
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly
NOTICE. Hearne's Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
- the youngest child and the most aged person.
Sr As «. for.
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT 1
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES, j
*LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’for Coughsand Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs ar^d
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation, e
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND 7 for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUNDS of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
COAGrULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cl '~ , nts for broken and other articles.
Lijr UM CATHARTICUM PILLS ’ of
_oun_ama, ax . An a g reea iji e aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEU) COMPOUND. 7 Trade^Mark of
of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
RODS
“"—For Locating MINES)
LOST TREASURE &c.
f -fc»e Latest Improved.
Write f or Booklet, 2 Stamps,
Edw. NORTON, 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
lightful and wickedly true.”*
“De-
jfg
ğ
f
Solid
Gold.
In order to introduce the Dr. SIMS’ LAXATIVE PILLS into every home,
and as a huge advertisement, we are
GIVING AWAY £5,000 IN PRIZKS.
We Make You a Present of either a
Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch or a Gent’s
Solid Reliable Nickel Silver WATCH
and Handsome DOUBLE ALBERT
FREE
For Selling for ns only ONE DOZEN BOXES of our PILLS at 1/- per BOX-
SEND NO MONEY
Simply send a post card with Full Name
and Address, and say you will either
sell our Pills or return them to us if
ĝ
not sold. On receiving your post card or letter we will post you the Pills When sold, send us the
12/- received for same, and we will at once send you Absolutely Kree the Watch and Chain,
or Solid Gold Brooch, or any other Prize you may choose from our Premium Lists we will send with the
Pills. No Trick or Catch about this. We do exactly what we say, our object being
to thoroughly introduce and advertise the Dr Sims' Laxative Pills all over Australia and New Zea-
land, a pill that is safe and a certain cure for a deranged Stomach and au inactive Liver It is an
invaluable HOUSEHOLD remedy.
These Pills are purely VEGETABLE in composition, and we GUARANTEE them as such. They
are active, and cure diseases and conditions such as are caused by over-eating, sluggish liver, and by
deficient intestinal secretions. One or two Pills at bed-time are positively certain to relieve and cure
Billiousness, Constipation, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Wind, Heartburn. Dizziness, Sallow Skin, Pimples,
Loss of Appetite, Pain in the Stomach after eating. Heart Palpitation, and all Kindred Ailments.
They act on the Bowels gently, without any gripe, and it will be found that their Tonic action so
strengthens the Stomach, Liver & Bowels that these Organs will soon perform their duty without assistance.
WPITF TO-DAY H y° u are unable to sell the whole 12 boxes we will send you a Gold Shell
Ring for selling 6 boxes, but you will have no difficulty to sell our Pills, as
their medicinal high quality recommends them wherever introduced.
THE SIMS REMEDY CO. (Reg.) 4 Martin Lane, Sydney, N.S.W.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
mm
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
fg
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
f
THE GREATEST
Blood Purifier
KNOWN.
This Great German Medicine is the
CHEAPEST and best. 128 doses
of Sulphur Bitters for $l.OO, less
than one cent a dose.
It will cure the worst
kind of skin disease,
from a common pim-
ple on the face to
that awful disease,
SCROFULA. In
all cases of such
stubborn, deep
seated diseases, /
Sulphur Bitters /
is the best med- /
icine to use. /
Don’t waitun- /
til tomorrow, /
try a bottle /
TO-DAY. /
'Don’t ever
r take BLUE
PILLS, or
r mercury,they
are deadly.
Put your trust
' in Sulphur Bit-
'ters, the purest
and best medi-
cine ever made.
Is your TONGUE
COATED with a
yellow, sticky sub-
stance ? Is your
Breath foul and of-
fensive? Your Stom-
ach is Out of Order.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
If you are sick, no matter what
ails you, use Sulphur Bitters.
Don’t wait until you are unable
to walk, or are flat on your back,
but get some AT ONCE, it will
cure you. Sulphur Bitters is
THE INVALID’S FRIEND.
%
Or
<*
O
%
&iuhg
INORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
°IHTMEHT
B^niT*rTTrT r ii«^''f*
’jgipt
npHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—Kew
i Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Teh, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address. ;


■
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee,
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopaecia (loss of
hair) stated that if a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later, on, when
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remarked that the Cap would
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Board.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive booh of the Evans Vacuum Cap will be sent, post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Bfye BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
NATURE.
When a person suffers from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
it is but Nature’s warning that the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
are not efficiently doing their duty.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about.an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounbe to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter ieaves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but, if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins con-
taminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand
until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brickdust, is of an unnatural color, Or
has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be
taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric
poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we
suffer from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia,
Jaundice, Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding'a
medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [l2]
Science and Politics.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sydney Morning Herald (27/6/’O7) stated that at
the meeting of the Linnean Society the President men-
tioned that a new educative body called the British
Science Guild had been launched in England; and said
that if the public could “ be trained, and the politician
induced to take an interest in natural science, it would
be well for the country.”
HERE’S a hopeful prospect dawning
For our local M.L.A.’s ;
They’re to tread the paths of knowledge,
And to walk in wisdom’s ways.
And our Legislators’ leisure
Will be profitably spent
In the patient cultivation
Of a scientific bent.
All the flora and. the fauna
Of our most prolific bush
Will be carefully examined
By the Legislative push.
They’ll inspect the birds, and make it
Quite apparent that the owl
For profundity of wisdom
Is an over-rated fowl.
Then the fish will be exploited,
And some M.L.A. will feel
Quite a brotherly sensation
When confronted by the eel.
In the numerous recesses
And adjournments of the House,
They’ll investigate creation
From the mammoth to the mouse.
They will chevy every lizard,
Every creeping thing they see,
From the pious praying mantis
To the wicked little flea.
And the eye of fancy shows us
Quite a corpulent M.P.,
Wiio is frantically chasing
A “ goanna ” up a tree.
By some fickle freak of fortune—
Some peculiar turn or twist—
Mr. Crick may earn distinction
As an entomologist.
On the breezy heights of Randwick
He will probably be met,
Chasing butterflies and beetles
With a patent folding net.
How he’ll love these healthful races !
Where he needn’t waste his tin,
Backing stiff uns for the places
They can never hope to win.
Still, in such Arcadian gambles,
If he really wants to bet,
He can back the blooming insect,
Or the sanguinary net.
Yes, the prospect’s very pleasing,
But, en passant, let’s suppose
Some enthusiastic Member
Carries serpents in his clothes !
In the absent-ibinded manner
Which some'scientists affect,
He may take ’em in his pocket
To the Halls of the Elect.
Just imagine what a scatter
There will be to reach the door,
If a snake gets loose and wriggles
On the Legislative floor !
And a horrid thought arises—
How the deuce will some M’s.P.
Tell the substance from the shadow
If a snake they chance to see ?
Still the scheme is worth a trial,
And we candidly confess
That the movement has our wishes
. For its ultimate success.
And we think a blend of science
With our politics might throw
Quite a glamor o’er the future
Of Australia, doncherknow.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.
The Trials of Tom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I FIRST met the next-door neighbor’s
tomcat when he, drove our own feline back
into our lines with great slaughter. He
appeared then as a rapidly-whirling ring of blade
encircling a less mobile ball of grey. The grey
was our cat, and his language was a deep purple.
The whole thing made quite an artistic color-
scheme, and I hated to destroy it. But it had to
be. I hurled the brick, and it hit the grey bull’s-
eye, an excellent shot from a marksman’s point
of view, but unsatisfactory from the standpoint
of our cat. The black “outer” disengaged itself
in great haste and clove the atmosphere in a bee-
line for the top of the fence. Our discredited
general limped into the kitchen with his left ear
in festoons, and a “ regret to report ” expression.
And hereafter our yard was added to the
dominions of the next-door Alexander, our cat
being busily engaged in searching for mice under
the kitchen dresser whenever the victor chose to
triumph in his newly-acquired territory.
I grew quite friendly with the black war-
rior— I was always a hero-worshipper. I
named him Tom, and discussed the ques-
tions of the day with him. He was an intel-
ligent beast, much more intelligent than the
average suburban alderman. When I mentioned
George Reid he would wink slowly—first with one
eye and then with the other. If I said “Cook,”
his tail would bristle up ; while the name of Car-
ruthers was oddly connected in his mind with
flies. I can’t see the connection myself, but hope
to work it out some day. Never believe what
people say about cats being mere bellies on legs.
Because they do not fawn upon their owners like
dogs, they are charged with lack of intellect. To
me, the dog seems the fool.
But that is another story, as Shakspeare says.
This cat lived with some rather faddy people.
They had a baby, and, will it be believed, they
would not let the poor cat sleep on said baby’s
face ! They did not mind the infant pulling the
cat’s tail, but they had no sense of justice, and
when Tom, entering into the gambols of the child,
made pretty, red scratches on his hands, he was
cruelly beaten, and Carlo, a base, time-serving
retriever and a fatted slave, chased him into our
yard. Man’s inhumanity to man is all very well,
but what about woman’s inhumanity to eat ? One
would think a community of nature and intefe,is
would lead to harmony.
When first I knew Tom he was every inch a
cat. lie could handle any other tomcat in the
parish, and it had to be a big dog, and a woolly
one—for his claws caught in long wool—who could
strike terror to his soul. But when the aforesaid
baby had reached the age of two years, and Tom,
in consequence, made our yard his real head-
quarters, he was attacked one day by my terrier,
and fled for safety. Formerly our dog had been
afraid of him, but now—plainly Tom was failing.
Day by day his warlike spirit and high intelli-
gence waned, until at last our old cowardly cat
beat him in fair combat. I was vastly puzzled, for
he was notan old cat, his black fur showed no
grey, and his teeth were good. I matched him,
and encouraged him again against our own cat, but
he was more decisively beaten than before.
Then one day my aunt, reading an article in a
faith-healing paper, looked up over her spectacles
and informed me that this faith-healing and health-
food and vegetarian business was gaining ground,
and that there must consequently be something
in it. “And, James,” she continued, “the
Featherstonhaughs ye gods !—“ next door
have turned vegetarian. Their cook left last
month because of it, and they haven’t been able to
get another.”
I saw it all. The fiendish cruelty of their con-
duct ! Did they consider, in their selfish care of
their own dyspeptic Little Marys, the poor cat
which they had brought into the w I mean —
er—nurtured tenderly from youth ? Imagine the
agony of Tom when he was offered, day in, day
out, pure gluten and granose, and lentils, and
butter made out of nuts. My sympathy was
aroused. I bought a beef-steak, and called Tom
over the fence. He fainted when he saw the steak.
I waited until he recovered. When he had done
so, he approached the meat cautiously, and, while
he was considering whether it was meat or that
villainous imitation, which the phytophagi call
protose, my terrier, who knew meat when he saw
it, snapped up the steak and bolted with it.
There is little more to aid —except that my aunt,
complaining of the quality of our drinking water,
sent me up to the roof to inspect our tanks a
month or so after this incident. With a long, long
pole I removed the waterlogged carcase of Tom
from our little reservoir, and dropped it down the
next door neighbor’s kitchen chimney.
HOWARD ASHTON.
A Long Way to Cork.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
were spelling in the shade of a
bush fence, or pile of cut scrub, or some-
thing, and Pat O’Brien had a place that
ought’ve bin covered by a patch ; and it was in
the sun with Pat’s outlying regions. And Dave
Regan had a burning glass. Whispered Dave to
his mate lazily :
“I’ll pop the glass onter Pat, Joe, an’ when he
jumps, you jump too, an’ yell ‘ Snake ! ’ ”
“ Uh-um,” murmured Joe, and he reached care-
lessly for a new axe-handle, which he fingered
abstractedly.
Joe rolled over very lazily, on to his elbow, and
applied the glass.
In a little while Pat got up like a nervous horse
that had thought it was miles away from man
and alone, till suddenly yelled at. And his
language was bad about bull-dog ants. But, at
the same time almost, Joe jumped up, yelled
“ Snake !” and started to slash the bushes with
the axe-handle.
“ Beggob, boys,” said Pat, “ I’m bit! ”
They were all up now.
“ I’m bit, boys—an’ where ye can’t tie it ? ”
Joe and Dave took him, one on each side, and
started to run him along the track ; but they
hadn’t gone far when, at the hurried suggestion
of one of the others, and clamorous approval of
the rest (there were four others), they threw Pat
on his flat and sat on him while Dave cut the
place with his pocket knife and squeezed out as
much blood as he could.
Then they ran him on again, only stopping
once to take more of his blood, till they got to the
huts.
“Doan’t cut me roomp off, boys,” he said
pathetically, the second time. “For I’d as lief
die as be widdout it.”
They ran him on.
The storekeeper was absent after his horse, so
they walked Pat up and down while the super
opened the store with the wood axe, and handed
out two bottles of brandy.
They gave Pat a long pull, and gave a nip to
two fresh men who relieved the pacers, and
walked Pat up and down with a spurt, while the
rest had a nip to brace their nerves.
“ It’s a long way to Cork, boys,” said Pat, “ it’s
a long way to Cork.”
They gave him another pull, and walked him
up and down.
“I can feel it goin’ through me like fire, boys,”
he said ; “I can feel it goin’ through me like fire.
Can’t ye tie me up somehow ? Take a twist on a
bit of fincin’ wire or something.”
One of them picked up a piece of fencing wire,
but dropped it hopelessly.
They gave him another pull and walked him
up and down. And every time they walked him
up and down the others had nips to keep up their
spirits.
“I’m drowsin’ down, boys,” he said wearily ;
“I’m drowsin’ down. Ah 1 boys, it’s a pity to
lose such a man.”
They roused him up and walked him up and
down before giving him another pull, but they
had nips themselves to keep up to it.
“Ah! boys!” he said. It’s a long way to
Cork.”
“ So it seems,” said the super, but he got out a
couple more bottles to be ready. He had some
himself. They gave Pat another pull, and walked
him up and down. The relief had pulls before
they went in, and the relieved had pulls when they
fell out.
And they walked him up and down.
They started a man off on horseback to Stiff-
ner’s, on the main road, to see if there was a
doctor or snake-bite expert there, and to bring
back more spirits in case they ran short. The
super gave him two quid, but he never came
back.
And they walked Pat up and down, and did
exactly as before till they couldn’t wake him, nor
the super—nor themselves, till next day.
Pat woke first, and thought, and remembered.
Then he roused Dave, and, staggering, walked
him, up and down.
“Dave,” he said (in conclusion), “Dave, my
friend. Ye saved my life wid y’ere pocket-knife.
Here’s a couple o’ quid for yer sweetheart, me
boy. An’ there’s wan of the same again whinever
and any time ye ask for it.”
“Don’t mention it, Pat,” said Dave. “It was
nothing. I’d do the same to yer any day.”
“ I know ye would, me boy,” said Pat, and, the
super being still unconscious, they lay down again,
well within the home gums shade, and slept like
brothers.
HENRY LAWSON.


WINTER GHAFINGS
And All Winter Skin Troubles.
THE keen winds of winter play havoc with a delicate skin, and
1 frequently give rise to roughness, blotchiness, and feelings of
A
vr
rawness and irritation. The whole
surface of the face becomes tender
and raw, and its “ feel ” is as un-
pleasant as its appearance. The
woman who is troubled in this way
should anoint her face each night
(and, if possible, morning) with Zam-
Buk Balm. Zam-Buk will take away
all soreness, make the skin beauti-
fully soft, clear, and healthy, and the
tendency to chap, even on cold, wet
days, will not manifest itself.
Mr. J. H. Reed, residing in Illawarra Road,
Mart'ickville. Sydney, says :—“ I have great pleasure
in stating that I have proved Zam-Buk Balm all
that it is claimed to be. When driving at this
time of the year, the face, on returning home,
is often smarting-, but an application of Zam-Buk soon takes the “ smart” out.
CHILBLAINS.
CHILBLAINS area mild form of frost-bite. The affected toe, finger, nose, or ear
is always much inflamed, and there is generally swelling, redness, heat, and
tingling pain, while excessive heat brings on an almost maddening itch. Zam-
Buk is to be applied as often as possible by gentle friction, and the parts guarded
against sudden changes from cold to heat. If the blisters burst, leaving a suppurating
or ulcerating surface, Zam-Buk Balm is doubly valuable because of its great healing
and antiseptic power.
Mrs. M. Jenkins, Arlington-street, Wellington, N.Z., says : —“ Asa remedy for Chilblains, I find
Zam-Buk Balm invaluable. I have great faith in it, and can recommend it to everyone.”
Zam-Buk Balm cures chilblains, cold-sores, chapped hands, sore lips, roughness,
frost-bite, winter eczema, piles, eruptions, poisoned wounds, etc., and is invaluable as
an embrocation for rheumatism, sciatica, chest cold, sore throat, lumbago, and all deep-
seated pains. Price Is. 6d. per pot, or 3s. fid. special family size (contains nearly
four times Is. fid.); from all Chemists and Stores.
%
u
THE
| EVER-
| READY
5 HEALER
\ FOR
§ EVERY-
: DAY
: HURTS.
&4M ddidmad ufate',
amdm/ialdaimJdMd
d/w//i y/ffa/imM
il id
md iadi) dm?€di id
i) dd dIM/l£dd.
The Sinners.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILLY’S clothes show creases yet,
Billy’s face is pale ;
Half an hour ago they let
Billy out of gaol.
Got the chance he’s waited long,
Going to see it through ;
Strolling, hopeful, happy, strong,
Back to Waterloo.
Making for his sister’s place,
All his thoughts of her ;
Thinking of her kiddy face,
When he went to “stir”;
Maggie, who was good as he
Knew that he wascrook;
How she cried the night that she
Heard that lie was took.
Maggie’s changed since Billy’s been
Doing bits of time;
Maggie's frocks are like the sheen
Of a pantomime.
Through the streets does Maggie roam
Nightly, up and down;
Maggie’s left her work and home—
Maggie’s on the town.
Maggie’s battling every night,
Up in Castlereagh ;
Maggie’s always three-parts tight,
In the light of day.
Quick for action if they stare,
Maggie quickly turns;
And a “ boy ” has Maggie there,
Catching what she earns.
Billy’s eyes are shot with blood,
Billy’s jaw is set;
When they sight him through the mud,
Billy’s cobbers “ get ”;
Scaring all the push he knew
With a loaded squirt;
Looking for the fellow who
Done his sister dirt.
Maggie laughs, for Maggie’s game;
! Maggie will not tell;
When he threatens for the name,
Bids him go to hell.
Billy sees her hardened cheeks
Flaming like a rose,
Sniffs the perfume cheap that reeks;
Billy cries—and goes.
Billy’s courage all has dropped ;
Billy’s down and out;
Billy’s soul it was that stopped
His almighty clout.
Billy’s at his game anew.
In the shadows dim—
Now that she’s a sinner too,
Just the same as him.
N.s.w.
MILTON MACGREGOR.
The Irishman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ f INHERE is no one who can make love
like an Irishman.”
The girl wore a black pongee even-
ing dress, with a hint of cream like the petal of a
magnolia blossom, and a touch of pink like the
heart of a blush rose about her shoulders. Her
slim waist was encircled by a wide belt of the kind
called Empire, and when she leaned forward,
clasping her soft hands around her knee, one
caught the shimmer of the silk against the long
graceful lines of her limbs.
“No?” I answered, inquiringly. I doubted
her —because I had once known a Scotchman.
She looked dreamily out into the dusk of the
garden, where a feather palm waved in the
drowsy breeze, for it was a hot night in a tropical
city.
“Tell me about the Irishman,” I said, dragging
the cushion of my chair into that weak spot in
my back, and thinking that middle age had its
compensations after all, since I was always given
the most comfortable chair.
“You would not understand, ” she said. She for-
got that I had once been young, and had worn, per-
haps, black pongee with a wide belt and a thing
that sparkled in my hair. Young people are so
very decided.
“ Try me,” I said, and I moved my chair nearer
to her. I could see the lids narrowing her blue
eyes, in the stream of orange light that came
through an open door looking on to the verandah.
She was staring hard at me, summing me up as a
possible confidant. She was no fool, this girl—in
spite of the Irishman.
“ I remember the day I spent with him —all
alone,” she said. “ I had no business to go, of
course, but then I like doing things I ought not to
do. He got the tickets, and he was waiting on
the platform when I got there. It was an early
train. I remember that I didn’t wait for break-
fast. There was a truck-load of pigs—pigs of all
things ! The reek of them was all about the plat-
forms, and I could hear them squealing as I came
down the hill, and it made me think for a
minute that the circus had come back. We
had to wait till they moved on, before our
train came in. He hurried me into a small first-
class carriage. He always did things in a hurry.
1 hadn’t known him so very long after all, when
lie first—but perhaps you will understand, if you
have ever known an Irishman like my Irishman,
that I didn’t mind as much as I should have then.
I was glad—yes, glad—when he kissed me again.
He had such merry eyes, and his hair curled all
over his head —no matter how short he kept it
cropped you could always trace the little bronze
ripples —and he was so straight and tall and
young. Why, even you—but never mind ! I am
not asking your opinion. I am reckless to-night,
as I was that day ; the black coffee I had after
dinner has gone to my head, I suppose. I must
talk to somebody !
“Have you ever travelled alone m a railway
carriage with the man you loved ? If so, you will
al ways like the smell of the shiny leather cushions,
uid the varnish, and the coal dust, and every-
thing. There is such a delightful sense of freedom
—such a running away from trouble—such a leav-
ing of the old leering, babbling world behind you.
I lave you ever let him point out to you—if he has
the seeing eye—the little things worth noting along
ili,; line—the wattle, like living, growing sunshine
in the swamp paddocks; a bank of rough, red soil
crowned by wisps of coarse faded grass; a black,
freshly-ploughed field adjoining a perfect square
of bright green barley ; the polished curves of a
branch line running between the dull olive of
hillside scrubs ; a sandy road walled in by ti-trees,
and across it the dark shadow of a towering gum,
and, showing between the slender bleached
trunks of the ti-ti’ee, the red flank of a rumina-
tive cow ?
“ He holds your hands and he laughs into your
eyes. He says since the world began there never
was a woman like you. He doesn’t go in for the
down-on-your-knees attitude at all. He wants
you close to him, not on a chilly pedestal to be
worshipped afar off. He is as light-hearted as
the breeze, and as full of vitality as the sunshine.
He calls you all sorts of unexpected pet names,
and they don’t come trippingly off his tongue,
either. He makes a joke of love, even while he
offers it, but his eyes are so fond you forget that
to-morrow he may see that this is a world full of
women. He says you have no faults—your weak
points are the ones he picks out to praise ”- —•
“That’s not like a Scotchman,” I murmured,
wondering at the girl. I had never heard her
talk like this before. I supposed, as she said,
that it was the black coffee. I was glad in a way,
too, because I liked the girl, and 1 knew that it
meant she trusted me.
She did not notice my irreverent interruption.
She was looking away, with her deep blue eyes,
at the feather palm and the darkness. She went
back to her story.
“ When we reached the seaside place we had
fixed upon for our day’s outing we saw the little
town standing, as though surrounded by water,
against the blue of the high tide. The stiff breeze
had beaten the lift of the waves into white froth,
and a red-funnelled dredge was rocking and lung-
ing heavily away out in the bay. He found a
hidden beach where a great fig tree climbed the
rocks and clung to the crumbling cliffs with its
tough-twisted roots, and where a gravel of shells,
golden and white, stretched away under our feet
to where the sand was wet and hard.
“We lunched on—l forget what—something
out of a basket, and we laughed all the time.
That was the best of him. He was never too
serious, though he could be, ah !so tender. I had
a soft white silk blouse on, with a collar of pale
blue turned back sailor-wise at the throat, and
just before we left to catch our train home he put
his big brown hand under my chin, and, lifting my
face, kissed my throat—just there —and said it
was a seal—sealing me to him—for ever—and
then—the stars came out and we —we came
home.”
She was silent. I could not see her eyes as she
leaned back in her chair, but I saw the white
hands shiver in her lap.
A strident gramophone began to play next door.
“You never heard what became of him?” I
said. Somehow I guessed that they had not
stolen another day.
“Yes,” she answered, and she was her keen,
cynical self again. “I heard of him last week.
He has been married eighteen months. A man
who stays here has seen him out west. He and
his wife and his—his thumping baby—yes ! that
was the expression—thumping baby ! ”
I looked at her in silence, tracing the long lines
of her graceful, girlish figuie in the darkness, and
seeing the glint of her high-heeled, patent
leather shoes with the silver buckles, where the
lamplight caught them.
“ Thumping baby ! ” I repeated, stupidly.
“That takes the romance out of the picture,
doesn’t it”? she said, hardly. “They fed it on
a patent food, the man said. The Irishman mixed
it himself. Fancy a baby that thumps.”
She settled herself comfortably in her chair.
“ Your turn now,” she said. “Did you have
coffee to-night ?”
The breeze had freshened, and I moved back
my chair and got up to fetch a wrap. I am old
enough to be careful about chills.
She stretched out a white, detaining hand.
“Don’t go,” she said, imperiously. “I want
to hear all about your Scotchman ” !
But I laughed, shaking off her ringless hand.
“ There is nothing to tell about a Scotchman—
there never is,” I answered.
M. FORREST.
Nest Eggs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THINGS had gone wrong with the
Joneses. Mrs. Jones had just returned
from town, and stood before her dressing-
table, on which she emptied the contents of a
small velvet bag. Two or three half-crowns and
several shillings she picked out carefully, and
placed in a neat little pile. The rest —two
diamond rings, a diamond necklet, and pendant
—she left in a glittering mass where she had
emptied them.
Jones entered with his finger on an advertise-
ment.
“Look here, Emma, here’s something that’d
suit us—Poultry farm, going concern. We’d
have to raise a little more to doit with, though.”
“We could sell something,” suggested Mrs.
Jones.
“That’s what we’ll have to do,” acquiesced
Jones. At that moment his eye fell on the
jewels. “ Emma,” he said feelingly, “come what
will, I’ll never ask you to part with your
diamonds, my girl. Not for the common fund,
anyhow. I gave you those before we were
married, and you must never part with them—
unless—perhaps, when lam dead and gone. But
I hope there’ll be no necessity for it even then.”
All the time Mrs. Jones stood gazing at her
husband as if she had never seen him before—in
fact, as if she had never before come across the
species even. “ There’s the piano, and that silver
teapot, and things of your mother’s,” he added.
“We ought to raise something on them. And
you won’t have much use for the phseton
either, Emma.”
* * * *
The Joneses were installed at the poultry farm.
Jones had taken off his coat, and was endeavoring
to look familiar with things, and Mrs. Jones had
nearly finished unpacking, and sat on the bed
sorting out a hamper of miscellanies.
“I think, Emma,” said Jones, coming in,
“ that everything is very complete. We might
want a few china nest-eggs.”
“We don’t want any more glass nest-eggs,”
interrupted Mrs. Jones, acidly.
“Not glass, my dear, china—to look like the
real thing, you know.”
“We don’t want them,” snapped Mrs. Jones.
Adversity had not chastened her temper.
“ I had no idea you knew anything about those
things,” said Jones, apologetically,
“I know everything'there is to know about
glass nest-eggs,” said Mrs. Jones ; and she emptied
a bundle of miscellany on the floor, with a bang,
and there was a diamond pendant among the
things, too.
TWIG.


" V
We take pleasure in publishing the following in-
teresting letter from Mr. James Sumers, who also
very kindly sends his photograph :
4s
“Indigestion and liver complains
troubled me greatly, and the money I
spent on various medicines was only
wasted, as they did me no good. A
friend asked me why I did not take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I thought that if I did the result would
be the same as with the other medi-
cines; but, to my great surprise, after
taking a few doses I felt really better,
and I continued until I had taken, in all,
seven or eight bottles. I was then able
to digest my food, and it made me feel like a new man. I now always
have with me a supply of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” James Sumeks, North
Terrace, Adelaide, S. A.
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out.
You must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep
your liver active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be
active, and a feeling of general good health may be yours by keeping
your liver active and your blood pure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens
the stomach and aids digestion. •
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do all this for you, but
you must insist upon getting “AYER’S,” for it is
stronger, contains more valuable ingredients, and
cures more quickly than any other kind.
Prepared by DR. .T. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition,
FREE
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your, name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing' 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
gfg
f T
X I
1 " • 1
CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Syd
FREE TRIAL/!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS free;.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever in vented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women,
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any wav
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
b RKCORO’s
The only IntaiuOle Remedy for WEAKNESS & DSJILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout, the' world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
I nqe 125., or four quantities in one for 36s : freight Is. &
Is Od. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauiding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annuallv. Remedw
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address: HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
w * lo lost all hope before reading this book.
SENTH EEoiiAPmCAT.ON, Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address •
Arthur Hale," Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CUBE, will
forward the same, free o* charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A,MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. 6d. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d.; The Bulletin
.Reciter 4s. (id. ; The Southern Garland 4s. 6d.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of
books.
YOU WILL BE
DEAD A LONG TIME
before your time unless you wish to live. As a race we are living longer
than did our grandfathers ; but not yet so long as we ought to do, or coSld
Iwe ace angit. o let one s self die before one’s time is tantamount
to committing suicide. It is usually put down to the “ rush of modern life,”
which is only a familiar excuse, not the reason, for dying young. Is it too
U U j : V°mf y n( f m S worries the healthy man, and work never killed any-
body? The ordinary man could be a healthy man and live, longer he
wished; and what is more important, he could really live every day of a
longer life ; that is, be always physically fit and keen for work or play. To
know what life is let him take
BEECHAM'S
PILLS
and he will rarely be ill. Thousands let themselves die every year because
they don t know how to live. They let themselves “ slide ” until they are
actually, perhaps incurably, ill, and put it down to “ business cares,” and
the ‘ worry of life. ’ In most cases it is due to not having the common-
sense to draw a safe line. Attend promptly to every little ill and be sure
us mess _will never kill. Nature alvvays lets a man know as he goes
along. A Headache, Constipation, and like warnings, are red lamps alon«-
the line. Disregard them and the end is disaster ■ proceed cautiously, and
tii(3 running is both su£© and smooth unci may b© rapid.
• BEECH AM’S PILLS are the best medicine if you feel out of sorts,
they maintain your vitality at highest business pitch. ' With their help you
can work hard, live strenuous days and yet long days. In a word they
PROLONG LIFE.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM,
St. Helens, England.
$•"“ sold boxes, price 10fd., Is. ldj., and 2s. 9d.
[3.]
If You wisK to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your..•
Rabbit iSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS* PRODUCE
. ■ TO
HILL, CLARK ®. CO.,
SYDNEY.
\\/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
w T BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
tal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6 j with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
jg
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience. ,
Eaoh Capsule bears the name nr (ftIDY)
men
a NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Mep and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and 'Co., Ltd and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you ant>lv to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pae’es
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 103 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called, medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ever been published
FRFF A s'hpage specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate
" *■*->*■■ giving a very fair idea of what, the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FRFf’
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin ahd his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments urxjt-prf
anywhere on receipt of Is Cd (stamps). 83?“ Note Address s — v
DR. MARTIN, NI.D., “E'mley House,'
Please mention this paper when writing.
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


TO KEEP YOU
d
Alin ADV USE OUR —
IiPiU Hill MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30/-, 42/-.
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdriau Rubber Co. ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
ĝjfgj
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Pest Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Sind Stamp for lUuttrated Lilts of Books and Aoveltie.%
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0. , SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Dlfflenlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervons Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chcmuti.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s (id. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office. ss.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181b=. Operated by compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE
AGENTS: Uf CL | iFMPRIFRF 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
*»• CC Ua LClVlrnlEliEj And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition.
gj
Price,
57/6
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal., Oct. Barrel about
24- inches, Weight B|lb.
James Martin and Co., CL ™ d N ney. STREET:
— —— —— : 1
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES,
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
li-
ne
dh
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
Henry Skinner,
Clareudon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No, 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a verv extensive ,and carefully
selected I‘UANT Ol<' TABUS FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
.. ..u
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
SiIVNNVH
- ■■ ■
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Co he
Mbs
WOLF
or
At the Showrooms*
Empire Chambers. 93 York Street,
aiso at SYDNEf
“THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd- Sheffield
rm
Horse Power MINING WHIM
This appliance is invaluable to Prospectors and
others in the development of mining properties,
it will raise a load of from 500 to 7001 b. from a
depth of 500 ft. The weight of the whole machine
is only 12001 b., and the heaviest piece 2501 b.
Price includes Sills, Sweep Extension Rods, set of
Hand Levers with Castings and Bolts to connect
same, and 3 Shelves for Gallows Frame. Timber,
Rope and Car are not included.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 Clarence St, Sydney, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES, and BOILERS.
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO..
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Marshall’s Portable
SOLE AGENTS—
-9 Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements- Correspondence Invited.
GOLF
TELEPHONES—BB2 anti 2435 CENTRAL.
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Professional
° r THE
Silvertouin Rubber Co.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ĥf
Crooked Creek,
Almaden, Queensland,
May 23rd, 1907.
In reply to your enquiries I have pleasure in being able to say that
I have now worked the “ Sperry Slimer ” that you supplied, for six months,
and it has given great satisfaction.
It is a top-notcher 09 silver-lead slimes, and requires very little adjusting.
: A. HAWKS, Manager.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Sole Manufacturers,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
