

-LIU W-A-b</S THE
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
mb
%9Rri
pdley’s Orient Ret®!.
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
RUSTON PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES
Are used throughout AUSTRALIA by Squatters, Farmers, Sawmillers and others because
they have IMPROVEMENTS adapting them to the Special Requirements of the country.
Send fo,r Illustrated Descriptive Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St, Sydney, N.S.W.
sd
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
fsd
CHUBBS
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
'7lationaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society) - IF. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted. '~ms
da ,
u
PfIMQIPM RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
UUIIOIUII HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent .
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
sd
sd
s
fsd
9
FISHING TAGKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— > SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice~MaKirvg' Machinery.
HELIDON SPA WATER
COMPLETES A NATURAL
DIGESTION OF FOOD. J
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1433.]
[Thursday, August 1, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, IST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE MOST POPULAR ART BOOK.
PALL MALL PICTURES OF 1907.
The best and most popular guide to the Royal Academy and New Gallery, containing 200
reproductions of worhs actuaHy with exclusive reproductions of work of
J. 9. 9i&-niU'XiJN -I. xC.A., and others.
WRAPPER (size 11 X 8 inches) 1s 3d, POSTED is Bd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
UlßlieftU’6
HUIJ«3)UPi H
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
śď
A—The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
■D — A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food.
THE RED PAGE
THE WHITE POLYNESIAN
mHE theory, to which special promin-
|_ ence. was recently given in this page,
that the Maori was of a white Cau-
casian stock receives scientific verification
and a remarkable amplification at the hands
of Professor J. Macmillan Brown, of Christ-
church, M.L., in his book Maori a/nd Poly-
nesian (Hutchison, per Dymock’s). The
author is now expounding his interesting
theories in a series of University extension
lectures in Sydney. His book is indeed a
remarkable and convincing contribution
to the study of the ancient races of the
Pacific. He proves an immense anti-
quity in the story of man in Polynesia.
The first observers regarded the Maori
as a primitive race, but subsequently facts
came to light that led to the announce-
ment of an earlier race, the Moriori,
and finally evidence accumulated that
proved the presence in the Pacific of a
still earlier white Caucasian race. Now
Brown sweeps us back to megalithic times,
and depipts a great migration of white Cau-
casians east from the Mediterranean to
Maoriland, British Columbia, and South and
Central America. These megalithic wander-
ers have left their footprints plain ; their
track is marked, as with a series of unmis-
takable mile-stones, by the gigantic un-
mortared stone monuments they left by their
roadside. And the trail of this people that
displayed such remarkable engineering skill
without the assistance of metal weapons,
wheeled machines, or draught animals, leads
from Mauritania, or the north of Africa,
across Northern Asia, and down into the
Pacific. They wandered west as far as
Ireland, north as far as Norway, and
then, baulked by the Atlantic, they moved
east. Their route, as marked by their
dolmens, was across the Russian and Asiatic
steppes, past Lake Baikal, through Mon-
golia and Manchuria, thence into Japan, and
over the long-since-vanished stepping-stones
of innumerable islands into the Pacific. In
Samoa, Tonga, Tahiti, and Hawaii they set
up their colossal monuments ; in Maoriland
they left a miniature Stonehenge ; they
reached far east to Easter Island, and finally-
halted in Central and South America.
Another branch of this migration skirted the
northern coasts of Asia, and, by way of
Kamschatka, reached British Columbia.
Evidences are also found of another, and
probably earlier, eastern route of the same
megalithic people from the northern Medi-
terranean shores through Syria to the Per-
sian Gulf and Northern India, down the
Malay Peninsula, and into Java. But here this
migration ended, its path invaded and its
passage closed by the overflowing of the
Mongol peoples southwards. Thus it
was by the northern Asiatic route—the
path now marked by the steel rails of the
Siberian railway—that the Pacific was in-
vaded in early neolithic times. And it was
through the funnel of Japan that some ten or
fifteen thousand years ago the white race from
the Mediterranean reached Maoriland and
America. And this white race possessed,
even in that stage of its evolution, the
peculiar characteristic of the Caucasian : it
was a maritime people. And its power’ to
raise enormous unmortared stone monuments
was not a stage in the evolution of any other
race ; it was the special possession of one
superior race. None of these remarkable
structures are to be found in the lands of the
negroids—Central and South Africa, Aus-
tralia and Papua, nor in the regions of the
pure mongoloids—China and Central Asia,
Central and Western America. This lordly
track, the special highway of the Caucasian,
is marked, too, by the prevalence to this
day of blue-eyed peoples all along the
north of Central Asia. Brown proceeds to
show that Maori legends point to the far
north—Japan—as the route by which the
successive migrations reached so far south,
and he cites striking ethnological resem-
blances between the Maori and the primitive
race of Japan, the Aino. In the arts of
sculpture and design he finds a resemblance
between that of the Maori and that of the
Japanese, pointing to a common racial source.
Brown notes also that :
Many of the Maori children’s plays and games
are almost the same as those of Japanese and
those of European children : flying kites, skipping
with a rope, the top, the hoop, the bull-roarer,
the giant’s-stride swing, walking on stilts, throw-
ing somersaults, hide-and-seek, ducks and drakes,
counting out, hunt the slipper, knuckle-bone, and
cat’s cradle.
His conclusion is that:—
The Japanese must have absorbed much of the
race that they drove off southwards, and absorbed
with them not only their maritime habit, but
their artistic habit.
There are still closer resemblances, especi-
ally in the art of carving, between the
Maori and the northern olf-shoot of the
megalithic migration, the Indian of Brutish
Columbia.
Maoriland was the ultima thule of the suc-
cessive migrations, the later of which, a
brown race, came via the Malay Peninsula.
Thus into this cut de sac poured wave after
wave of humanity, and, piled stratum upon
stratum, we- still find in Maoriland the
remnants of these civilisations.
Maoriland 11 ‘is the palimpsest, or many-
times-re written record of the prehistoric
history of the Pacific.” As each new-comer
conquered and absorbed the prior occupants,
he absorbed some of their social customs.
Maori and Polynesian is mainly an elaborate
investigation into these customs, and a care-
ful tabulation of their origins.
J*
Of the Maori language, Brown makes the
astonishing statement that its true classifica-
tion “is with the modern European lan-
guages, and especially with the most modern
of all languages, English.”
It has reduced inflection to a minimum, and
expresses the grammatical relationship of words
chiefly by their order in the sentence, and the use
of auxiliaries and particles. ... It is as uninflee-
tional or isolating a language as English, and it is
agreed by most philologists that thi§ type is by no
means primitive : it is, in fact, the end of a long
process instead of the beginning. .. . But the pro-
cess of rubbing out the inflections has gone much
further in Maori than in English. It has retained
no external method of indicating the number or
gender, except by the addition of another word.
... In the Maori pronoun, the disintegration of
grammatical form is perhaps not quite so ad-
vanced, for we have a dual in the personal pro-
nouns. ... In the Maori verb, the old inflections
have left fewer traces than in the English verb;
in fact, there is only one, that for voice.
... • Now, the only explanation for this striking
linguistio development is that which we know fits
the modern evolution of English. Two languages
far rtlore highly inflected than modern Maori have
come together in the same region and mutually
destroyed the formal grammar, leaving only a few
traces of the inflections.
It was in Indonesia that this change took
place. Two Caucasian, and most probably
two Aryan, tongues came into collision in
Indonesia through the amalgamation of two
Caucasian races; and this grammar was
brought by the conquerors and acquired by
the conquered throughout the Pacific some
centuries before our era. The Maori
language is the descendant of several
languages, and the same evidences of strati-
fication are seen in it as in the manner and
customs of the Polynesians.
It has thrown off almost all the formal elements
that speech could dispense with, and it has
attained an absence of inflection and a simplicity
of system that few tongues in the world but
English have reached.
Jt
Among other interesting deductions Brown
shows that the Malay was not a migrant into
the Pacific q for the iron age began in the
Malay regions about the beginning of our
era, and, till the European ships arrived,
iron was unknown in Polynesia. \ He traces
the last migration into the Pacific by Way of
Java, as was indicated in our recent article ;
buthemakesthe important point that this was
almost wholly a migration of males. These
adventurers were a nation of wife-deserters.
They left their wives at home; the danger
and length of their explorations into the
unknown deterred any but males from the
venture ; and these, finding a plentiful sup-
ply of wives—or more probably widows—in
the islands they had conquered, did not
trouble to return. This deduction is con-
vincingly worked out from Brown’s analysis
of the arts and customs of the Maori. In
some of his arts he displayed an extraordi-
nary development, in others he was in an
equally extraordinary primitive stage. And
the reason 1 .Seek the woman !
It was the men who brought with them
the more developed arts, and taking the
aboriginal women into their households
allowed them to stagnate among their primi-
tive customs. It was mankind’s universal
mistake of leaving such an important art as
cooking in the hands of that universal in-
competent, Woman. When Man had to go
forth, to hunt, or kill his enemies, he left
Woman to nurse his child and light the fire
in readiness for his return. He left her in
the kitchen—and since the beginning of
time no woman has ever done any good In a
kitchen. No woman has ever invented
a labor-saving device for use in a kit-
chen, and, if left to herself, no woman
would ever use one. The only improve-
ments made in cookery were due to
the incursion of the orderly male into this
region of female j muddle. All the great
cooks are men ; and modern labor-saving
devices in the kitchen were only made possi-
ble by the fact that steamers and hotels
brought into that desolate arena—the
kitchen—the triumphant male. Woman to
this day is content tp get her results by the
most primitive means : in making puddings
she still measures by heaped teaspoonfuls
and half teaspoonfuls, and her cookery-books
are as vague and elusive as the novels of
Henry James. She is a hopelessly paleo-
lithic cook in what should be the most exact
of all sciences.
J*
So it was in Polynesia. The men invented
and raised the masculine arts of canoe-
building, carving, tatooing, and military
engineering to an extraordinarily high state of
development, while their women, taken
from the aborigines, left muddling along in
the kitchen, never thought of inventing pot-
tery, never improved upon the method of
rubbing two sticks together to make fire,
and, though they wove textiles, never had
the sense to use a distalf or a spindle. Had
it not been that modern civilisation allowed
men the leisure to interfere in the kitchen,
household arts would still be with us as they
were with the Maori—in the paleolithic stage.
Thus Brown—who, it is fair to state, is
only by implication responsible for the above
criticism of the modern kitchen—shows us a
Polynesia peopled ten or fifteen thousand
years ago by a white race that took their
women with them across the innumerable
stepping-stones of the vanished archipelagoes
of the Pacific—though it is probable that
even these migrants found the islands already
in the possession of one of those inferior
races that seem to have been indiscriminately
spawned in the beginnings of history. But
when the stepping-stones, one by one, sank,
the women of the new migrations were left
behind. 4ud all the evidences in Maori-
iand point back thousands of years, and
prove the immense antiquity of man in the
Pacific. The white Australian may note
that historically he has pre-empted the
Pacific, but, also historically, he was sub-
merged by a colored race. However, he
can try again.
The proprietor of The Commonwealth Annual
has been justified by the reception of his earlier
issues to proclaim this —the third—number jßow-
landson's Success (N.B.W. Bookstall Co.). With
an attractive cover design and contributions by
many eminent Australian authors and illustra-
tors, the magazine is a readable shilling’s-worth/
It is excellently produced, and illustrates once
more the large amount of “ copy ” available with-
in the Commonwealth.
Arthur Streeton, fresh from his record sales in
Melbourne, has placed before the art patrons of
Sydney a delightful exhibition of his art in rooms
in Victoria Market Chambers. The critic dis-
covers that there are five Streetons —the earlier
brilliant colorist of “Fires On,” the delicate
dreamer in pearly greys, as illustrated by his
poetic studies of London mists, the solid and satis-
fying painter of English sunlight and cloud effects
as in the rich and sombre “ Chepstow Castle,” the
equally painstaking student of the nude, and the
brilliant impressionist, returned to Australia with
a more assured craft, the painter of heat and the
blaze of the southern sun. And in all his pictures
Streeton paints himself, his unique poetic vision,
subjectively. And-upon all his work lies a delicate'
and almost unanalysable charm, the charm'of a
Conder or a Whistler. Streeton is a poet who has
chosen the brush, and chosen rightly.
Is it worth while? John Davidson, author of
Fleet Street Eclogues, Ballads and Songs, and
twelve other poetical or dramatic works —on an
average, since 1893, he has published one book
every year—is recognised as one of the foremost
living English poets—and now at fifty he is glad
to take a pension of £lOO a year ! And Ouida,
with probably thirty successful novels to her
name, thankfully receives from a generous monarch
£3 a week. Expressed 1 in terms of cash, literary
fame seems mud.
If there are any theoretical or practical Free-
traders left in Australia, The Fundamental Fal-
lacies of Freetrade, by L. S. Amery (“National
Review,” London,* per G. Robertson), may be
recommended to their perusal. The case for Pro-
tection is concisely and convincingly put.
“Women begin to be socially tolerable at
thirty, and improve until the deepening of their
consciousness is checked by the decay of their
faculties. But they begin to be pretty much
earlier than thirty, and are, indeed, sometimes at
their best in that respect long before their, chat-
tering is, apart from the illusions of sex, to be
preferred in serious moments to the silent sym-
pathy of an intelligent pet animal.” — G. Bernard
Pshaw.
UNGUARDED GATES.
A certain similarity of conditions gives an Aus-
tralian interest to the appended verse by the
American man of letters, Thomas Bailey Aldrich,
whose death in his 71st year was recently recorded.
“ Unguarded Gates ” first appeared in the Atla/ntic
Monthly for J uly, 1892.
Wide open and unguarded stand our gates. ...
A later Eden planted in the wilds,
With not an inch of earth within its hoimd
But if a slave's foot press it sets him free !
Here, it is written, Toil shall have its wage ,
And Honor honor, and the humblest man
Stand level with the highest in the law.
Of such a land have men in dungeons dreamed ,
And with the vision brightening in their eyes
Gone smiling to the fagot and the sword.
Wide open and unguarded stand our gates,
And through them presses a ivild motley throng —
Men from the Volga and the Tartar steppes,
Featureless figures of the Hoang-Ho,
Malayan, Scythian, Teuton, Kelt, and Slav,
Flying the Old World’s poverty and scorn ;
These bringing with them unknown ggds and rites,
Those, tiger passions, here to stretch their claws.
In street and alley what strange tongues are these,
Accents of menace alien to our air,
Voices that once the Tower of Babel knew !
O Liberty, white Goddess! is it well
To leave the gates unguarded 1 On thy breast
Fold Sorrow's children, soothe the hurts of fate,
Lift the down-trodden, but with hand of steel
Stay those who to thy sacred portals po-me
To ivaste the gifts of freedom. Ha/ye a care
Lest from thy brow the clustered stars be torn
And trampled in the dust. For so of old
The thronging Goth and Vandal trampled Rome,
And where the temples of the Caesars stoojf
The lean wolf, unmolested, made her lair.
OUR SAUSAGE SERIAL
Following the example of the great morning
dailies, The Bulletin has made arrangements to
run a serial story in this page. In order to save
ourselves trouble, and in order to get a local serial
almost as cheap as the imported article, we mean
to ask our contributors to write our serial them-
selves. Our—or their—serial will have every
week as many sensations as it is possible to crowd
into that instalment—say, as many thrills as occur
in a fortnight’s batch of the imported serial in the
great morning dailies. Each chapter will be built
upon the sausage principle—everything will be
chopped fine, and nothing will be left out. The
first chapter (compiled by the pink page who
figures in the heading of this page) is given below;
and, after a silence of a fortnight, due to the
fact that this page goes to press something like
seven months or less before it is published, each
week we will print the chapter sent in that most
convincingly develops the plot and enchains the
interest of the reader. Each weekly chapter must
not exceed 200 words; and ten shillings will be
paid for the instalment used. Contributions
should be marked “Serial” on the envelope, and
addressed to this page, and must reach this office
by the following Tuesday. The serial starts
thus /
“ To render permanently navigable three great
rivers for a distance of three thousand miles
inland ; to provide a plentiful and regular supply
of water to vast territories sometimes smitten by
drought] to throw open fresh fields for home-
seekers is a -policy which should appeal to the
imagination as Well as to the patriotism of Austra-
lians.” In pursuance of this policy The River
Murray League of S. Australia publishes The Nile
of Australia: Nature's Gateway to the Interior
(Thomas and. Co., Adelaide), a series.of informa-
tive articles by David J. Gordon.
An English review mentions that; Madame de
Stael was the original of Charley’s Aunt. Invited
by the undergraduates to visit Oxford, Madame
de Stael at the last moment excused herself. In
order not to disappoint the large gathering of
undergraduates, a student who knew French un-
dertook to impersonate the celebrated woman. It
was comparatively easy for the actor in a gorge-
ous robe and the celebrated turban to be Madame
de Stael, She was so much a man that the manly
voice and the masculine manner were helps rather
than hindrances. So Madame de Stael has some
claims to fame, after all.
G. K. Chesterton is of the opinion that a
grocer’s is the most romantic profession in the
world, and though we have never yet met a
romantic grocer, his shop is a storehouse of pro-
ducts brought from all the corners of the earth, and
collected and transported and adulterated under
conditions full of danger and heroism arid ad-
venture. This romance of coirimon things is fully
brought out in the superbly illustrated The
World’s .Commercial Products, by W. G. Freeman,
Superintendent of the Colonial Economic Collec-
tions of the Imperial Institute (Pitman’s, per
Dyniock’s), with contributions from various other
scientific writers. Excellent maps showing the
world-distribution of all the chief commercial pro-
ducts, useful and popularly written accounts of
the culture and manufacture of the fruits and
roots of the earth, arid beautifully reproduced
photographs of every step in the process of their
preparation for the use of mankind, Wmbine to
make up a very useful volume.
THE TREND THAT DION'T.
Chapter I. The Knocking at the Door.
As Alice entered her boudoir after a busy day,
she stumbled over five dead bodies.
“I wondered what it was, that stuff that
Oarruthers was licking up on the stairs,” she
exclaimed.
Heroines never say anything: they always
exclaim.
Oarruthers was her pet poodle.
“And now Oarruthers will have indigestion.
That blood must be quite stale.”
There came a knocking at the door.
Alice stood aghast, frenziedly raking up her
back hair,
Alice was a woman, and spent most of her life
trying to make hair that nature meant to grow
down grow up.
Which is opposed to the law of gravity.
But what has gravity to do' with a superb crea-
ture like Alice ?
She strode hastily to the wardrobe, and started
back with a shriek.
Four policemen (three sergeants and a red-
whiskered constable) were hanging by their necks
among Alice’s nasturtium silk underskirts.
“The telephone-wire ! ” she exclaimed. “I
can escape by it! ”
A face appeared at her window, the face of a
telegraph-line mender. She listened aghast as
he snipped the sole connecting line that lay
between her and safety—and Charles.
Again came that importunate knocking at the
door !
(Next, please !)


115
D
D
B
0
6
b
o
ER
TRALKA
L'i A
GEN
*N()
TOWNSVILLE •
OE
OURNE
fiß
W
m
•ass
1
ISH3
ROCKHAMPTON
ti m
i- ill pip
111!
MARYBOROUGH*
lililO' "fo i>
BRISBANE
rz
CARNARVON
raw- GSfWfWIKFIBB iJP : EI I WZm t P-W 5i »J
ROKEN MIU.
• GERALOTON
V f
« COOLGARDIE
BATHURST •
PERTHY#
SYDNEY
9t
DELAI
BALLARAT. MELBOURNE
*JT
ONLY
NI VERBAL PROVIDERS,
I PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY N
wAUjN CESTON • A I
5.W. Tf m /HOBARI
ISO
100
Anthony Horderns’ Sale.
WISE BUYERS WILL REAP A HARVEST OF JOY.
First Day :
Monday,
Jnly 29, 1907
D
Last Day:
Saturday,
August 17, 1907
Send for Sale List, “THE BOOK OF BIG BARGAINS,” POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
ds
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1907.


ś
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHC3MBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.
Great and Special Offeri
From the SIMS REMEDY CO-'
(REGISTERED)
Send N© MONEY
£25000 G?nre. I
20,000 Unsolicited Testimonials. ,
In order to introduce THE DR. SIMS LAXATIVE PIETS into every
home, and as a huge advertisement, we are going toGive Sway |
jVJusical Instruments, Cutlery, Boys’ Suits, Girls’ Dresses,
Blouses, Leather Goods, Jewellery, Ladies’ and Gents’
Watches, Gold Icings, Cricketing Goods, Rifles, Footballs,
Phonographs, Cameras, all kinds of and Sporting
Goods, Clocks, Sewing Machines, and Other Useful Articles,
■ to those who will assist us to INTRODUCE OUR PIETS.
n/C TPUQT vnil Simply send a Post Card with full Name and Address, and say you
VtC I IVDo 1 I UU. w jxi either sell or use our Pills or return them to us if not sold. On
receiving your post card or letter we will post you 12 Boxes of our Pills to sell for us at Is
Per Box. When sold, send us the 12s. received for same, and we will at once send you rtb9o=
lutely Free a Watch and Chain, or Solid Gold Brooch, or any other prize you may choose
from our Premium Eists we send with the Pills. No Trick or Catch about this. We
do exactly what we say, our object being to thoroughly introduce the Dr. SIMS LaXA*
TIYE PILLS all over Australia and New Zealand—a Pill that is safe and acertain cure for
a deranged Stomach and an inactive Liver. It is an invaluable HOUSEHOLD remedy.
These Pills are purely vegetable in.composition, and we GUARANTEE them as such. They
cure diseases and conditions such as are caused by Over-eating, Sluggish Liver, and by deficient
intestinal secretions. They act on the Bowels gently, without any gripe, and it will be found
that their Tonic action so strengthens the Stomach, Liver and Bowels that these organs will
soon perform their proper duty. j
The Prizes we GIVE You FREE are worth more than the Money You
Collect for us. |
WRITF Tfl DAY If y°u are unable to sell the whole 12 boxeswe will send you a gold shell
irnilC I u-um. r ; llC r f o j- selling 6 boxes, but you will have no difficulty to sell our Pills,
as their medicinal high quality recommends them wherever introduced.
THE SIMS REMEDY, CO. (Reg), 4 Martin Lane, Sydney, N.S.W.
df
C-B-
-TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C-B-
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In 50
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
All C.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports.
RO
ftfE WORA/
%
&
❖
>5
£
»!ra£
K
<**
'lffy
H
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 1 Guineas,
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to:
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., I
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. |
A. E. WITTEY,
York Street SYDNEY.
j. Bunting,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: ST A TES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITXOKT.
WINES rhe Bat *£* onlv ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
d
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
la. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. Tiie Wipe, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
op Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride op the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits op Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. Tiie Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Komish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s Gd posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling, ls.3d. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts"
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
V
m
ii#,*
c
m
9
mm
M Repeater w
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand first
in popularity, records and shooting
; qualities. Always use them
| for field or Tra|> Shooting.
| Ask Your Dealer For Them.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &e., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with’ Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
a Weeß
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt:
The effect of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare 0
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr*p*r*a onl,by J. O. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON, HNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere. ___
ARTER*
manure P°wll s ipoiuls.
BILLS
PSS
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should Imow that L gaUow gkln.
injure the complexion, induce Ping LITTLE LIVER
Remove the cause by using CAR ' tipat ; oa . Begin at
PILLS,, and above all PILLSi. Liv«
once with CARTER’S. LITTLE LI v
The Public are cautioned to observe that ffenuino
Carter’s Little Liver Pill# Must Bear Signature oi
ďs


Do not envy
th_, beautiful
jiair of others,
but possess it
yourself. Some
are born with
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none
have it thrust
upon them.
Those who ac-
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the
discovery that
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
remedy is
V
/V
A
ztifer’s
!ttair Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
śf
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without qutstion
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
S?t T 3 £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Him Brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
Ant UC AIJCHTQ wanted in each district.
HU I IVC HuK.ll I O Large profits raßily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our medal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO a, Kept. 280 Liverpool-
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
As LIVELY asa
CRICKET
—THE EVIDENCE —
from 13, Yule Street, Petersham, N.S.W.,
July 23rd, igo6.
“ My friends did not think I would
rear my little William who was a
very frail child from birth. But
I never despaired of his life, for
I commenced giving him Scott’s
Emulsion when he was only
a fortnight old, feeling sure
that Scott’s would build him up
and make him strong. Pie is now
as lively as a cricket, he has lost
all his delicacy, and is a fine,
bright, healthy child, which is
entirely due to Scott’s Emulsion.”
(Mrs.) EDITH C. SMITH.
:the reason why;
LIFE WAS SAVED
c. Scott’s Emulsion went to work
to help nature by filling the little
system with the abundant nourish-
ment which it so badly needed.
Scott’s was able to do this be-
cause of the fine, pure Norwegian
TRADE MARK
cod liver oil, of which it
is invariably made,
and also because of its
perfect digestibility
attained by the beau-
tiful Scott process of
m an ufacture—the
secret of which is
possessed by Scott’s
Emulsion only.
Make sure of getting this best of all
emulsions by seeing “ the fishman
with the fish” on the package.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
From all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
BUILT HIM UP”
SSOM HSiai
FOR
The besf remedy
INFLUENZA, "
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
Ask for Borin 1 ng ton’s
and seetkatyou qetit.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
Fos LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Beautiful Home Decorations
r*
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
"SAPOIiUV ESIAMEhS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
"SAPOUIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALTJMINPM ENAMEL, Etc.
By
Royal Warran
Purveyors to
dsf
His Majesty tub
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney,
1
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
WORLD'S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Owbridges
£ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases,
| Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
(Made by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
PLASMON
COCOA
THE FOOD COCOA. .
► >
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment .
than ordinary Cocoa. '
1
PLASMON OATS;
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of HusK and Fibre.
Furnish "
perfect nourishment
with easy coo King.
PLASMON
SPECIALITIES <
ARE CONDUCIVE '
TO k
GOOD HEALTH.
*
Ash for them. '
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORED.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Metamorphosis.
Surely you remember Nancy, surely it is more
than Fancy
That comes floating like a bubble over my be-
wildered brain,
When I seem to dream in Cloud-land, in the
Shadows of the Shroud-land,
That I've known you through the aeons, and we’ve
only changed again.
Were you once a lovely Lily, grown in Me—an
old Tin Billy—
I, so bent and badly battered, red with rust from
years of rain ;
You, like opalescent morning, all the garden
sweet adorning,
Showing ’midst the common blossoms like a poppy
. in the grain ?
Were you Fiddle, was I Nero ; I Leander, were
you Hero,
Watching for my nightly swimming of theHelles-
pontine stream,
Till at length the stormy water, jealous of earth’s
fairest daughter,
Reft you of your hapless lover, robbed you of
your first young dream ?
In the ages past, near Dutton, was I Wolf when
you were Mutton
(Lamb before I met you, skipping in the wood-
land fair and free) ?
Did I eat you like a glutton, leave your bones
without a cut on,
Dine upon your bleating mother, have your
brother for my tea ?
In the meads of old Meander, were you Goose
when I was Gander,
Lurking by the Trojan city when ’twas battered
by the Greeks ?
Did we just escape the billies of the cooks of
brave Achilles,
Hide from Hector and from Ajax in the marshes
and the creeks ?
But at present, darling Nancy, you’re a most sub-
stantial Fancy—
Twelve stone ten, and growing stouter, as the
seasons swiftly flee ;
Nought about you, light and airy, indicates a
latent fairy
Longing for Titania’s kingdom, underneath the
greenwood tree.
TAS.
ALBERT J. WOOD.
The Eiders.
A man rode down our track one day ;
I gave of my best, and he went away.
I loved him well, so I called him back ;
He whistled as he passed up the track.
Another man came, but I said him nay
(I thought of the first who rode away).
This man loved me, so he wandered back.
’Twas me or his future. He took the track.
And whether we give them nay or yea.
Sooner or later they ride away.
QUEENSLAND.
S.S. SEVERN.
The Leaves.
Leaves that circle and soar together,
Withered and shrunken, sere and pale,
As you whirl and fly in the wild June weather
Like wrinkled hags on a broomstick’s tail,
To me a sorry sight seems your revel,
As if the spectres of cold, dead sins,
Their sweetness soured i’ the mouth and evil,
Were dancing in darkness with mirthless grins.
Alas, how soon doth the summer fade !
You danced your fill ere your race was run,
When the warm west wind in your branches
played,
And twittered the sparrows and shone the sun.
But the sweetest fruit hath the soonest riping ;
Stern Winter came with his icy breath,
And lo ! to the sound of his joyless piping
You dance on dead in the dust of Death.
In the long, cold nights, when the moon gleams
sadly
Through clouds that darken with drifts of rain,
The wet, waste fields where the wind flaps madly,
Of the days that are dead you shall dream again ;
Of the scent of roses, the hum of bees,
The song of the stream as it ceaseless floweth,
Till the drip and sob of the sodden trees
Lull to the sleep whose end none knoweth.
For all that is on the earth and o’er it,
And all in the waters under the earth,
Must yield again to the earth that bore it,
Itself the seed of a newer birth.
And ever with sudden and stealthy pace
Death smiteth strongly nor pitieth ;
And lo ! where they flourished, full little trace
Bemaineth —dead in the dust of Death.
The lips we press and the cheek that glows,
The eyes that we drink to, laughing lightly,
Must fade as surely as last year’s rose
Has fled from the spot where it bloomed so
brightly.
Nothing remaineth save God or Death ;
And there comes the thought, like an old refrain,
Shall He abide when all vanisheth ?
When all else passeth, shall He remain ?
Howe’er it be, let the question pass;
We have learnt one lesson, poor leaves, from you.
Though we see but darkly as in a glass,
Could we bear, if we knew of, a clearer view ?
While the limbs are free and the warm blood
glows,
Let us make the most of each fleeting breath ;
Till we tread a measure at last —who knows ?
With them that dance in the dust of Death.
N.S.W.
F.S. BURNELL.


mm
$
i
A
/J
N
S'eyndsFor
Wunderlich
Aer/ /H
METAL
LINGS
ƒs
Your Home and Your Business Premises should be ceiled with
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings.
They are handsome, hygienic, and fire-resisting. May be had in
hundreds of designs to suit all tastes and building^.
Send for Catalogue “D.”
The Wunderlich Patent Ceiling & Roofing Co*, Ltd*,
Sydney Showrooms: 56 PITT STREET. N.S.W. Postal Address:
Victorian Branch : 123 Queen Street, Melbourne. BOX 474, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Agents in every State and New Zealand.
„ THE TIE THJST BINDS.
CADBURY’S COCOA can be obtained in every corner of the British Empire
agreesthat for Strength. Purity, Flavour £ Economy it is ( unequalled.
■MR*’ Vf'L.i
A- •. JiHIDi BRITISH -A 5I* /fa
ilffipJWV!nilik nlllinih. m 4 .1 3 ->• • _.ta ■••*.•• '
sp s *^
w s / f§
VrH / /
Sii : .h»~sa "iV % / ((•
' BRITISH '
UIRNA VjdlH
NicimT'x!!'
THE GlFT\xhsf
w
.y ; W
to; Her COLONIES
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, IT. 3.A. BY hand labor.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF e
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trust or Combine.
Manufacturers—
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agentsr
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
johnßeccs.
srECIM. IIOIttUR
Scotch whisky
M
mm
A
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
W£
A
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Biiakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions.
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
Combings made up.
Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
śdf
CAPEL’S SUCTION GAS PLANT.
Five Times
Cheaper than
Ordinary Gas.
ƒ
Twenty Times
Cheaper than
Electricity.
LESS THAN A PENNY PER HOUR
For a 10 H.P. Engine.
Send for Illustrated Booklet and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., LTP., Sole Agents,
7 and 9 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
0
4
A Permanent
Roofing with
» <-■
A Permanent
Color.
ALL BUILDERS’
IRONMONGERS.
*
Wholesale Agents :
E. Rich. & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vou 28.—.N0. 1433.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1907.
Prick 6d.
ONLY A FLEA-BITE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
Austrul i<t jo r the -( itstn/ilifiiis,”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wale.:, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... Af 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... n 7 n
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office, Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques ; Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 mv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the pager
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 5000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. xvhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A Hint curs in TtlacTc and white.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. _ Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central Neios Agency, Capetown;
The. Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., \ ancouver , B.C.
San Francisco. — lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x Win.,
will be forwarded 011 application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
UTie'^'alldxm,.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1907.
WANTED A N.S. WALES CHAMPION.
The Bulletin, though an Australian newspaper,
and as such knowing no State, but only the
Commonwealth, cannot quite forget the fact
that it is published in Sydney (N.S.W.);
and that it would prefer to be published
in Sydney (N.S.W.) than in any other city of the
Commonwealth for reasons which will be obvious
to the intelligent Australian who has ever lived in
Sydnev (N.S.W.) for any length of time. With
the charm of winter in Sydney (N.S.W.) warm
upon it, The Bulletin prints, without charge, this
advertisement: —
WANTED, a champion for N. S. Wales. Should be a
man of Brains and Energy. Previous experience not
absolutely necessary. The Pay is Poor, but the Work is
Hard. Apply at once, in view of the imminence of the
State elections.
* * * *
It is another of the consequences of Federation.
If it were not for Federation the champion of the
State of New South Wales would not be needed.
As things are, he is a sternly necessary personage.
Consider the facts. N.S. Wales is the “Mother
State” of the Australias. It was the first
founded, and, excepting for an interval of about 36
years, it has always been the greatest in popula-
tion and production. At present it is ahead of any
rival in all that makes for material greatness.
Some few years ago, after standing for a long
time in the w&y of the n&tioiuil cispniition for
union, N. S. Wales invited the sister States to
join in a Commonwealth. The invitation was
accepted, and the Commonwealth came into
being, not without some shameful incidents,
arising from the fact that at that early stage
N. S. Wales had not a champion, and was
abominably misrepresented and traduced as a
faith-breaking community by its State politicians.
But that is of the past. The present position
is that N. S. Wales—the greatest and most popu-
lous State of the Commonwealth, the State which
has gained most from the Commonwealth in
manufactures, trade and revenue, the State which
has almost had a monopoly of the best positions
created by the Commonwealth—is represented by
its political leaders as a mean-minded, huckstering,
lying and generally disreputable community,
full of nasty little tricks and devices, with no
manners to speak of, no dignity, no sense 9 f
iustice, and but little honesty. The champion is
wanted to give the lie to all that, and to speak up
for New South Welshmen, and to declare that, in
spite of their horrid name, they’re as good Aus-
tralians as anybody else.
* * * *
A N.S.W. champion of the right sort would
devote his first speech, and his second speech
and his every speech, until this stigma had been
cleared off the N. S. Wales name—to declaring
that the people of N. S. Wales, however much
they have been misrepresented by their politicians
in the past, do not want any special concessions
in the Federation ; that, being the big brother in
the family, so to speak, they don’t want Pa to be
always interfering to give them all the jam and
the cake ; that they are quite as well prepared to
be neighborly and decent as the Tasmanians and
the Queenslanders. He would state, which is the
truth, that even the people of Sydney are not
filled with a ravening greed for special favors and
concessions, but are prepared to stand on their
own chances, like the people of any other city in
the Commonwealth. He would deny with indig-
nation the allegation that for some miserable
extra twopence of trade, to which it has no moral
or legal right, Sydney is prepared to throw bombs
at the temple of the nation’s unity. He would
gibbet as slanderers of N. S. Wales those un-
worthy citizens who, for the sake of some paltry
personal interest, or from sheer stupidity and
rheumy-eyed incapacity for seeing clearly, voice
discontent with Federation, and suggest a mad
attempt at secession.
* * * *
For such a champion there is a fine large honor-
able job. He could hope to get into Parliament
for almost any constituency— The Bulletin re-
fuses to believe that there are more than five
N.S.W. constituencies so disloyal and stupid as
to vote deliberately Anti-Australian when a clear
challenge is uttered. In Parliament he would be
very soon able to get to power, for nothing is
more certain than that the State Frights crowd
—even with all its miserable insectarians and
other noxious allies thrown in—does not represent
N.S.W. opinion, and that “ the other side’ only
wants to be advocated to be successful. Then for
the N.S.W. champion there would be open a life
of glorious usefulness, and when he died in
poverty the people would take up a collection and
bury him decently. But that is a side issue. All
politicians die poor because their pay is so miser-
able, and it is better to die poor and gloriously
than to die poor and a petty whiner and a miser-
able Mrs. Gummidge.
THE OLD, OLD STORY.
Melbourne, Thursday.—The restriction of Chinese
workers, particularly Chinese cabinet-makers, by special
clauses of industrial legislation, is deplored by the
Council of Churches. At its monthly meeting to-day,
the Council passed the following motion
“ iiince God made of one blood all nations, and in
Christ Jesus there is neither Jew nor Gentile, but all are
equal, this Council views with dissatisfaction the proposal
to differentiate between persons on the grounds of race
differences, and interference with the natural human
rights of families, whose heads are domiciled within the
Commonwealth.”
The Council also resolved to obtain an expert to inquire
into the charges levelled against Chinese workers, par-
ticularly those in the cabinet-making trade, of working
for under the legal wage, and more than the statutory
hours.— Daily paper.
It is all so like the Council of Churches—the
gathering of the Scribes and Pharisees who, as
their Lord said, lav heavy burdens upon others
and never dream of giving a personal lift with
these same burdens. No doubt the Council of
Churches is a wholly unconscious hypocrite ; it
has been the rich man’s satellite and parasite for
so very long that the part has become second
nature to it, and it hasn t the least idea that there
is any degradation attached thereto. The bulk
of the churches, sad to say, have always been
pro-nigger. They are not pro-mgger in
the sense of denouncing the system whereby
more than three-fourths of the people of the
British Empire are deprived of the political rights
of free British citizens, and are so deprived simply
because they are black or brown or yellow. That
would constitute an attack on the rich governing
classes of England, pn old British tradition, on
the doings and policy of the Throne and the
aristocracy j and the Council of Churches would
die first. But, so far as being pro-nigger means
the upholding of the right of the employer to
bring cheap colored labor into Australia, so as to
either deprive the white worker of his job, or
compel the white worker to get down to the
nigger’s level in wages and in his method of living
in order to keep his job, the churches are
mostly anti-Australian to the core. It is in
the working man’s districts that the discolored
races take' up their quarters, not in the
localities where the employer and the parson
reside, and, so long as that is the case, the
Churches don’t see why anybody should object.
Also, it is mostly the laborer’s daughter—not the
daughter of the parson or the capitalist—at whom
the Kanaka and the Hindu leer with the leer of
lascivious desire, and the Churches can’t see why
the laborer should object to have his daughter
leered at by Asia or Polynesia. And it isn t
worth the laborer’s while to explain. He would
have to leave off coal-lumping for much longer
than he can afford to get even the first beginnings
of his case into the understanding of the Council
of Churches, which is as utterly out of sympathy
with the masses as if they were beings from a
different planet, so that there is no common
ground from which the explanation can start.
* * * *
“God made of one blood all nations, says the
resolution of the Council of Churches. The state-
ment may be true, but, if the practice of the
Churches is anything to go by it is a lie. -there
are in Australia something like 2400 clerics, not
including the celibate priesthood of the Roman
Catholic Church. There are in the world perhaps
700 000,000 of the better variety of colored races—
the people of China, Japan, India, I ersia, liigypt,
Syria, Burmah, Siam, Arabia, and such like
folk with a capacity for education which makes
them quite distinct from the semi-animal
negro Many of the 2400 clerics are travelled
men who have seen at least something of these
700 000,000 better-class colored people; yet if
there is one cleric in Australia who has taken unto
himself a Chinese, Burmese, Indian, Cingalese,
or even a Persian wife, his address is quite un-
known at this office. And the address of the
parson who has married a Kanaka woman or a ne-
exessis buried in still deeper oblivion. The parsons
who make up the Council of Churches say that
God made all the races of mankind equal and of
one blood, but not one of them marries a colored
lady, even by accident. This enormous and con-
tinuous unanimity can’t be a mere casual hap-
pening. It can only arise from the fact that the
parson doesn’t, when it comes down to absolute
practice, believe a single word of his own theory.
He draws the color line as absolutely as any-
body else when the color line affects himself. He
doesn’t suppose that God made all races of one
blood—not when it becomes a matter of busi-
ness. And even if one crazy parson should here-
upon go off in a fit of despair, and marry a Chinese
or Cingalese woman in order to prove by a dead
lift the sincerity of his class, the proof will be no
further advanced. There should be no dead lift
in the matter. If the preacher person believes m
his own doctrine, it should be as casual and ordi-
nary and unremarkable for the young cleric who
goes on a holiday trip to Asia to come back
with a Jap or Cingalese wife, as for the one who
goes on a European trip to bring back an English or
Scotch or Irish or German bride. And it certainly
isn’t. The reverend brother who came back from
his holiday with a Cingalese wife would be as
great a cause of alarm and amazement to his kind
as the one who came back with an elephant.
There is only one thing which prevents the
Tory and nigger-loving Churches being regarded
with absolute hatred by the mass of the Aus-
tralian people, and that is the fact that they are
regarded with absolute contempt. The thing
that is despised can hardly be hated. The masses
are more intelligent -be Council of Churches
is aware of —far mon .celligent than the Council
itself. They observe that the clerics raise no
protest because the colored brother, who makes
up three-fourths of the population of the iLnipire,
is deprived of his political rights; if he wasnt
so deprived this alleged brother and equal would
seriously inconvenience the governing classes of
England. They know that the white missionary
carefully lives out of smell of his native flock,
though he professes total inability to understand
why the white laborer should object to the Syrian
and the Kanaka and the Chow intruding into the
localities in which poverty compels him to dwell.
They note that the white preacher never, by any
chance or accident, marries the colored sistei
whom he declares to be of the same blood as
himself, though the same preacher can’t see why
the white laborer should object to the Chinese
vegetable person making ad vances to his daughter
at the back door or over the rear fence. They are
fully aware that the Council of Churches is
chiefly concerned about its colored kin when it is a
question of getting the nigger into Australia as a
low-wage laborer, to deprive the white worker
of employment and to swell the profits of the
employer. They have realised long since that in
this matter the Churches are a public enemy—the
enemy of the white race and of the rising Aus-
tralian nation. They are not blind to the fact that
a whole horde of clerics have spent so much time
on the theory that God made the nigger of the
same blood as themselves, that they have had no
leisure to realise the much more obvious fact that
He made the wharf-laborer of the same blood as
the Archbishop of Sydney.
* * * *
In the special instance quoted at the head of
this article the Council of Churches shows its
usual complete lack of logic, its usual utter
lack of sympathy with the people, its usual
hopeless incapacity to understand that there
can be any side to any case except
the side of the Tory and the capitalist;
and this also the masses, who have a reasoning
power which the Council of Churches seems to
have lost, will not fail to note. For the Council
first denounces the proposal to differentiate
between the Chow and the Australian cabinet-
maker, and then decides to appoint an expert to
find out if there is any good reason for the pro-
posed differentiation. It denounces first, and
proposes to inquire afterwards. And it TPP a ’
rently assumes off-hand that the Victorian Chief
Inspector of Factories, who is an expert, and who
has reported over and over again that special
legislation is urgently required to make the China-
man obey the Factory Act, is a wholesale and
persistent liar. It would probably hesitate to
throw such an insult-by-implication at a nigger,
but the Victorian Chief Inspector of Factories
is a mere white man, so he doesn’t matter.
Furthermore, the mass of the community
is well aware that, though the Scripture says
that all races are created of one blood, it does
not say that it is well for alien races to live
together and to intermarry ; in fact, the vast pre-
cautions taken to ensure the racial purity of the
Hebrew people suggest the exact contrary. On
all these matters the Churches, in their haste to
assume that the nigger is always right, and that
the white man—unless he is an affluent lory white
man—i B always wrong, has got out of step with
the nation. Also it keeps out of step with
amazing persistence. If Australia becomes a god-
less community, it will fie because the Churches
have taken its 'God away from it. They have laid
it down —or many of them have —that religion
involves cheap alien labor, which must either
drive the white man out of the industrial field or
compel him to go down to the Asiatic or African
or Polynesian social level in order to stay in it;
and they seem to hold that piety is the natural
concomitant of Chinatown and mixed marriages
and strange smells and racial degradation. In
fact, the Council of Churches makes it a case of
religion v. civilisation. And the mass of the
community chooses civilisation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
James McGowen, ’Bus-Loser.
The saddest figure in N.S.W. politics to-day is
that of Labor-leader McGowen. The opportunity
has come, but the man has not. As regards all
the big questions on which the coming State elec-
tion ought to turn, McGowen is either a person
who feebly says ditto to Carruthers, or a person
who contradicts him so faintly that the voice of
his dissent is hardly heard. There are two im-
portant matters on which a great leader would
fight the political battle, and on both of them
McGowen missed the ’bus so long ago that the
hardest running that a stout, middle-aged boiler-
maker is capable of isn’t likely to bring him again
within gunshot of the vehicle during the rest of
his life. In the first place, the Australian party
wants a leader. It wants someone who will take
the field against the parochialists, and who
will point out straightly and definitely tne mon-
strous lies with which the Sydney Anti-I ederal
party and its press organs are attempting to
create a secession movement. To a patriot and a
man with the fighting instinct this would be con-
genial work. It would also be congenial work to
a man who was no patriot, but a mere astute poli-
tician, with sufficient intelligence to see his adver-
sary’s weak point. Carruthers goes to the
country, in a measure, on a ridiculous platform of
alleged State grievances, and the alleged griev-
ances are bolstered up with fables that are so crude
and gross, and inventions that are so glaring, that
their exposure would be easy. In the Sydney
papers the supporters of Carruthsrs daily assail
the Government and Parliament, and people of
Australia, with vast slanders, and shameless
charges of ill-faith, and wild accusations re
alleged breaches of non-existent agreements and
alleged breakages of imaginary clauses of the Con-
stitution. A leader is to be judged by the land
of people he leads, an.d these individuals
are Carruthers’ followers to a man, and they
expound the same policy that he does. But
James McGowen, middle-aged, stout and ordi-
nary, says practically nothing. Apparently he is
just as parochial as the other person. Apparently
he cares just as little for the honor of his
country as the other fellow. Apparently he
has no more heard that there is such a place
as Australia than the other individual. He
has no enthusiasms and no large outlook. The
results of the last Australian elections showed
that there is in N.S.W. a strong Federal senti-
ment and a strong Australian party. The
yappers about bogus State grievances went
down in an amazing fashion when the
people could find candidates with a strong,
healthy Australian sentiment to vote for.
They would almost certainly go down again
if McGowen and his followers had sense enough
to possess a strong, healthy Australian sentiment,
but the part of the good Australian is left to the
lonely Owe’Sullivan ; and his past financial
riotings and his lamentable Sporting League are
against him. And as regards his other great
opportunity, McGowen misses the ’bus just as
badly. Carruthers goes to the country as the
man who is going to reduce the income-tax, and
to keep on borrowing. The McGowen party
objects to the reduction of the income-tax, and
also proposes to keep on borrowing. If it asked
the people to continue paying income-tax, so that
the loan disease might be abolished, and so that
N.S.W. might pay for its works out of revenue,
and make a begim mg at the reduction of its debts,
there is sufficient healthy anti-borrowing senti-
ment in the State to give the party a
great following. To urge the people to
go on paying income-tax out of mere cussed-
ness only raises the metallic laugh. No doubt
there are plenty of ways in which the
money might be honestly enough spent, but no
country wants a Government that proposes to
absolutely hunt for ways in which money may be
spent. N.S.W. is run by two party machines.
One machine has fallen into the hands of men
who are coarsely, viciously and mendaciously
anti-Australian. The other is run by men who
are dull and small and indifferent. As there
isn’t time to construct a new machine and
obliterate both Carruthers and McGowen, and
as the people with a strong Australian sentiment
are hardly likely to see any value in upsetting
Joseph, who is bad, to make room for James,
who is much the same, the probabilities are that
nothing worth mentioning will happen. That
will be McGowen’s epitaph ; it will be written on
his political tomb that he was the man that
nothing worth mentioning happened to. Also,
the inscription will say: “ Here lies the Loser of
the ’Bus.”
The Cry of a Crow-Eater Teacher.
“ Koala ’’—her wail: —
About a year ago I applied for a position as a pro-
visional teacher in S. Australia. Shortly afterwards I
received an offer of a special school, and as I was anxious
to be at work, I took it. For teaching this school I was to
receive £5 per child per annum, up to 12 children in
average attendance. Out of this I had to pay my board,
which is generally given to such teachers at 10s. pvr
week. I have been able to keep myself, but no more.
First of all I had to get three blank maps at a cost of
about 4s. each. Every school in the State must have
these, and instead of the Department getting them for
the schools and leaving them at the building, each
teacher must get her own and take them with her from
school to school as she is transferred. Then it is neces-
sary to teach geometry. The Department does not
supply the material. I had to buy a blackboard,
compass, and a book on geometry. Nature Study must
be taught, so books of some sort are needed. I got two
of Gillies (3s. 9d.) and a small magnifying glass (Is.).
Geography for the younger children is partly taught
from a new “ Collins Header” (10d.). There are three
manuals of arithmetic which every teacher must have
to teach from (ss. 6d. for the three). I got all these.
Dyes for brush work must be bought. I got
five colors at 6d. a tin. Had to get a Gillies’ history, at
Is. 3d., to teach from. Now it is considered too hard for
the children, so for next exam, we are to have a new
history. Tuning-fork for singing cost Is. Now we have
to make relief maps of the district, etc., on a foundation
of canvas, strongly framed in wood. So far, I’ve only a
makeshift one on calico, as the canvas is expensive. The
material for the relief cost me about Is. 6d. Now I’m
told I absolutely must have a book on teaching, so have
to get “ Colonel Parker’s Talks on Teaching.” I have
not procured this yet, so do not know the price. I ha\e
to pay carriage on all parcels of books, except those
from the Department, on which I only have to pay coach
freight. Other parcels have both rail and coach freight to
be paid. Of course, I get a discount on these books, but
it does not make up for the freight; so I lose on them.
Then I have to keep the school in towels, soap, broom,
dusters, pannikin, and wash bowl, also stamps, papei,
etc., for writing to the Department. In provisional
schools teachers are g'iven £2 a year for these last, but in
a special school the teacher has to find them, although
she has a lower salary.
Until this last month I did not have an average of more
than eleven for the year, so lost at least Bs. 4d. a month.
The boarding accommodation is awful. The first place 1
was at, they objected because I left the window open at
night, although there was no one in the room but me.
Where I am now they also object, but I’ve grown callous,
so take no notice. I have two miles to walk to school,
and while I’m there the family spends its time prying
over my things, trying on my dresses, and wearing my
boots, etc. Verily, a teacher’s life is not a bed of roses,
although I’m not the worst off. Some teachers do not
have more than nine or ten scholars.
+
The Woman Who Doesnt Know.
Some of the tales of life in Freetrade England, as
related by our present visitor, Miss Jessie
Ackkrmann :
Many of the mothers, who are forced through stress of
circumstances to seek employment during the daytime,
hand their infants over to a woman to look after tor a
certain consideration. This woman makes quite a pro-
fession of the care of children, but mars the nobleness o
her occupation by renting the babies out to or„an-
grinders and other similar classes of people. Ihe rate
charged for the use of an infant is usually 3d. per head
day. . . Someof the houses inhabited by the class of poor
alluded to were in a disgraceful condition, not " lt ‘
standing the fact that the tenants to pay rent
averaging between 6s. and 7s. a week. Oases we - a
where a person in each room had to sit up all n, = "t
keep the rats away from the children. The surroundings
were so repulsive that they beggared description.
Imagine four hundred thousand children in the Umtea
Kingdom annually born into unspeakable poverty, ine
33 per cent, who died within 12months were; ra her tc.be
env led than pitied. . . Girls received 6d. for making a
blouse that sold at 40s. A Royal Commission on sweat
ing, which cost £lOO,OOO, sat for two years and filed a
report, but nothing had been done. . . , v e
Miss Ackermann had often been asked-What can be
be done ? What is the solution of the problem ? But she
could not say. ,
That last item is the incredible part of the story,
Miss Ackermann “ could not say. bhe g
up. She is the Woman Who Doesn t Know.
Yet if she left London in a fast steamer l
land her, in about two days, in the capital
country that to a great extent does kn ,
country that has practically abolishe P
It had to break up the old land monopol
it, and Freetrade went under in the s * ru % b
ail severe poverty was abolished. _ 1 £
the bulk of the reformers are trying to abolish
poverty and yet retain land monopo y , . j
man still have 25,000 men s share of the nat
wealth and yet prevent the.other 24999 being
poor; to retain the system which has
landowner to drive the agricultural P P
of about 16 counties off theMand to
for game, and yet to prevent the citie , for(
the places these outcasts naturally , g th(J
being congested. Such mock i Britain
boss hypocrisy of the age. wealthy the
is sufficient to make its people the r ibuted,
world, if it were only more evenly
and other countries have tackled th


problem, and found it not wholly insurmountable.
The land difficulty comes first. Something might
be done there with a big graduated land-tax
which would compel the great British land-
owners to sell their estates in small ]o£s,
or by a wholesale system of compulsory
purchase ; these devices being accompanied by
laws which would rigidly limit the area of country
land which one man could hold, and which, when
the small holder preferred to let his land instead
of personally cultivating it, would give his tenant
the right of compulsory purchase at a moderate
price. That kind of reform would turn
Britain into a country of small farmers, each
owning his own bit of soil, and start the popula-
tion, which is now pouring into the cities, on the
back track to the land. The next essential is a
new tariff and a change in the incidence of taxa-
tion. The Briton, in his anxiety to promote
the foreign commerce which makes great,
bloated seaports like London, took almost
all the duties off imports, and as revenue
was necessary he heaped on himself a load of
direct taxation such as no other country on
earth endures. The landlord and the tax-gatherer
have almost killed agriculture and driven the old
agricultural population into the cities, and the
systematic petting and encouragement of foreign
commerce have bloated one or two seaports out
of all reason. By abolishing the landlord and
making the tax-gatherer deal more with the im-
porter and less with the agriculturist, Britain
could start some of these bloated populations on
the return journey. The High Protection which
this change would involve would create an in-
crease of manufacturing employment, alongside
the increase of agricultural employment. Then
to make sure that the worker benefited by that
increase of employment, Wages Boards could
enact that the girl who now makes the forty-shilling
blouse for 6d. should in future receive at least
3s. And as for the slums in which the sixpenny
girl now lives, such places can be rebuilt, provided
the peer who owns the slums is expropriated, to
begin with. Old-age pensions can provide for the
venerable poor. Alien restriction laws can pre-
vent the influx of a new mass of almost incur-
able poverty. Technical education can prevent
the growth of a new generation of people without
visible lawful means of support. The land-reform
idea Miss AcKERMANNcan find in pretty good work-
ing order in Denmark ; the High Protection and its
results, also the technical education system, can
be studied in Germany ; and, ii the lady wishes to
consider the possibilities of a rebuilt city, Paris is to
a great extent just such a city. Miss Ackermann
can ha,ve a look at the Wages Board system in
Victoria; at the old age pension method in
N.S.W.; at the undesirable immigration restric-
tion idea in Australia generally. Of course, it
may be complained that this policy is gigantic
and incredibly difficult. That may be so, but
that is not the point at issue. Miss Ackermann
doesn t say that the remedy is difficult, but that
she can’t suggest any remedy. She is the Woman
Who Doesn’t Know, and she ought to know. It
wasn’t worth while coming all this Way to tell us
that she Doesn’t Know. We have six State
Upper Houses filled with People Who Don’t
Know.
«• _
Land Laws and the Fruits Thereof.
Maoriland isn t satisfied with reckoning itself
up once every 10 years; it has a midway tally
on its own account, and some of the things it
found out 12 months ago have just been printed
inside the usual blue covers. And a few of them
are very fine things. The prevalence of the little
immigrant who didn t have to pass the Customs
is about the best of these fine things. Consider
the story of the little Maorilander of under five
years:—
•• •• Decrease 3,624
i»yi-ib9b .. .. Increase 455
1896-1901 .. .. Increase 3,147
1901-1906 .. .. Increase 15,939
When Ballance, and McKenzie, and Seddon
arrived with their policy of financial prudence
(sadly diluted since), and anti-big-landlordisin
and the cutting up of big estates, and a land-tax,
the little Maorilander was actually following the
moa and the other birds that have gone. In the first
five years of the new order of things the worst
possible movement in the way of depopulation
was checked ; and since then the gates have been
gradually swung right round. The young Maori-
lander stays nowadays and marries, and Maori-
land gets the best of all immigrants with-
out advertising for them or paying anything
for their passage money. Considering the
growth of the baby population, the propor-
tion of married Maorilander might have been
expected to fall; yet it hasn’t—the same influ-
ences have been at work to stiffen up those
I n . 1874, before the cream of the
gold had been skimmed off in the rickety islands
and just before Vogel had introduced a financial
policy more rickety still, and before the big
landlord was squeezing at his best (or worst), 35
out of every 100 Maoriland females were married.
Gradually the proportion dropped as the landlord
squeezed, until in 1891 it was under 31. In that
year Ballance arrived with his policy of land
settlement and arbitration, and, that policv
having continued without a break, the proportion
has risen steadily, until now it is back very nearly
to the old 35 per 100. The figures prove quite
conclusively that the Maoriland land policy of
compulsory purchase and progressive land-tax,
with something extra for the absentee, not only
attracts population from outside, but has brought
a prosperity which means also a larger increase in
the native-grown population.
4.
No License.
“Num” writes:—
In the interests of temperance, let me raise a word of
warning about the no-license craze. At the outset, I
may say that lam a Prohibitionist. If I could wipe out
the sale, manufacture, and importation of all alcoholic
liquor, except for medicinal purposes, I would do so
to-morrow. But, at the forthcoming N. S. W. referendum
I intend to vote for a continuance of the existing number
of licenses, or, at most, for a reduction, simply because I
ion t want to see a large proportion of the residents of
this State converted into habitual secret drunkards.
I admit frankly that, under Prohibition, there would be
an enormous amount of sly-grog selling. Shanties would
spring up in all directions to cater for the demands of a
community, sprung from five hundred generations of
U ar u ke^ s ’ bufc tlle s, y-grog shanty in an absolutely
1 rohibition land would supply only the demands of those
who craved for drink. On the other hand, the mere
existence of no-license districts in a country where the im-
portation and manufacture of liquor were allowed, would
encourage the moderate drinker within the no-license
district taking the term “moderate drinker” to em-
brace the man who takes one glass a day and the man
who takes 10—to become a rum-soaked ruin. The
no-license advocates are for ever trotting out the
example of Balclutha (M.L.) as an evidence of the
excellent results of no-license. They allege that since
the system has been operative, the convictions for
drunkenness have numbered only one or two a year.
In precisely the same way, Sydney might have plumed
itself that there was no gambling in its boundaries prior
to the passing of the recent Acts, because street betting
was practically non-existent. The gambling went on
inside the tote shoes and two-up schools, just as to-day
the drinking goes on inside the houses of Balclutha.
This is absolutely proved by the statistics of the district,
which show that, since no-license was carried, more
alcohol is brought in than in the days when hotels
flourished. The only difference is that, while the old-time
Balelutha citizen had three glasses at a bar and was
locked up when he reached the street, he now
has ten glasses in his home and sleeps on the
stairs. With no license in Sydney, the same thing
would happen. The man who takes his one glass daily
would buy a keg to get that one glass, and, having it on
the premises, would proceed to empty it at a
rate that would never have been dreamt of
if it had remained under the publican’s counter.
Women, who would not otherwise acquire the taste
for drink, would learn the habit by having it
always handy ; and little Johnny, who would be bounced
out of a pub if he dared to think of a whisky, would go to
the cupboard when nobody was looking, and feel that he
was a real man as he surrounde l his nobbier. As for the
man who likes his five glasses a day, yet contrives to be a
tolerably decent member of society all the same, he
would lay in a barrel as big as a piano, and solemnly
sit throughout the days and nights in joyous sodden-
ness till the undertaker came. No-license—the spotting
of the country with casual Prohibition districts —simply
means wiping out drinking under restrictions in these
districts, and substituting drinking without restrictions.
While drink is made and imported there will be drunken-
ness, but to try and develop temperance by aggravating
that same drunkenness is the most remarkable curative
theory advanced since the days when they used to cure
burns with red-hot irons, and flog lunatics to make them
sane.
The Transcontinental Railway.
The Bulletin receives a letter from an old
and supposedly intelligent pressman well-known
throughout Australia, which letter fills it with
wonderment. The author writes in serious argu-
ment against the transcontinental railway on the
ground that it is impossible to fetch the trade of
Bort Darwin and thereabouts to any South Aus-
tralian or eastern Queensland port, and among
other things he puts forth this :
Three-fourths of the possibility [of settling- the Northern
lermory] depends on means of transit to the natural
ports. And where are they? Down at Port Pirie or
spencer s Gulf or on the coast of Queensland? I say no.
Port Darwin must be the main port of the new Common-
wealth State, with another at a site yet to be fixed on the
Itoper river. Dragging trade south or south-east is just
about as feasible as was the old notion of dragging* the
Barrier ore half-way across Australia to Newcastle.
It seems fair and reasonable to ask this person,
and other persons who write in the same
strain, who ever thought of carrying the trade of
the lerritory— most of the Territory, at all
events—anywhere else than to Darwin, or some
other Northern port? No sensible individual
that this paper ever heard of imagined that the
object of a transcontinental railway was to send
Port Darwin produce for shipment anywhere near
Adelaide, nor was it to send Adelaide produce for
shipment at Port Darwin. And in the same way
the object of the railway from Falmouth, in the
south of England, to Wick, in the north of Scot-
land, is not so that Wick can send all its goods to
be shipped at Falmouth, nor that Falmouth can
send all its goods to be shipped at Wick. Even
the great U.S. lines were not constructed so that
New York, New Orleans, San Francisco,
and Seattle might uselessly swap goods and
put them on board' ship at each other’s
wharves instead of at their own wharves. It
might even be added that the railwav from
London to Liverpool was not built so that each
city might uselessly send its heavy property for
shipment ac the other city. The idea of the Aus-
tralian transcontinental line is the same as the
idea of every other transcontinental line. It will
carry people to the Territory, it having been
proved that the prospects of settling the North
with a dense population, when that population
has to be carried all round Australia by sea and
depends on a long sea voyage for its communica-
tion with the rest of the country, are just about
as good as was the chance of settling British
Columbia when people had to reach it from
Eastern Canada by walking across the Continent,
or had to go by sea round Cape Horn, or across
Panama. Prospective settlers who can afford a
week to visit the North and look at a possible
property in an accessible place, but who can’t
afford two months or so to look at a property in
an inaccessible place, will begin to drift across
when the railway is constructed. Mails, dogs,
bagmen, insurance agents, land-jobbers, globe-
trotters and other hurried produce will also go
that way, and with the habit of going the Territory
will become known and familiar. It is only by it
becoming known and familiar that settlement can
be guided thither. Some perishable produce will
go right across the continent to save time, but
not much. Produce grown along the line will go
north or south, as it pleases. People who can’t
afford to ride by train will find the line handy to
walk on, and it will be used by bullocks to tres-
pass on. There will be stations at long intervals,
and water will have to be found there for the use
of the engines and passengers. Here and there
more water will be found than was anticipated,
and towns will spring up. Prospectors will go
forth and locate new mineral fields. Even a
desperately hard-up prospector will take chances
when there is a railway to fall back upon ; if the
worst kind of luck happens to him, he will get
back illegally concealed in a truck. Murderers
from the interior will be taken by train north or
south to be conveniently and comfortably
hanged, and inland lunatics will be conveyed
thereby to asylums. All this movement will
make people aware of the Territory, and
keep settlement moving that way. It will
change the North from a Robinson Crusoe
island to a part of the mainland. The arrival and
departure of a mail three times or six times a
week ; the sight of the train coming in from what
used to be the foreign land of Australia; the mere
existence of the two visible threads of rail, and
the knowledge that all along them to the big
cities lies a smattering of population, wayside
stations, tanks, goats, policemen, and railway
officials; the further knowledge that for defence
purposes the Territory has, by reason of that rail-
way, become part of Australia, instead of being a
place that is as completely outside any scheme of
Australian military defence as Timbuetoo; the
new temptation that will come upon old Terri-
torians to go forth once in a way and get drunk at
Adelaide or Melbourne, and see the great world
outside—all these things will start the ancient
property along. They will set it going, even as
the railway woke up British Columbia, and the
Washington Territory, and Arizona and Utah.
But as for the idea that the purpose of the line is
Port Darwin’s heavy goods a needless
2400 miles for shipment at Port !Pirie, or vice versa
—well, the man who dreamed of that is a person
of infinite jest, and should get a job at the Tivoli.
Even the railway from Sydney to Melbourne
wasn’t constructed so that New England wool
could be sent to Melbourne for shipment, and
Mallee wheat to Sydney.
♦
The Cheap Clerk.
Regard this advertisement from the Melbourne
Erald of Saturday, July 13 :
QLERK thoroughly competent and trustworthy,
highly recommended, will take small wanes.
Apply Rev. S. J. Hoban, Central Mission, City.
It is a text which calls for the preaching of a
sermon to Methodist S. J. Hoban, parson of a
Church which at one time did a good deal to gain
the thanks of sweated Victorian workmen, but
which has now lost all its dignity and most of
its socal value by embarking on a wild spree of
J uddy intoxication. In this shameful advertise-
ment Hoban identifies himself and his pre-
cious “ Mission ” with the mercenary and greedy
class of employers, the “ State-salary-required ”
breed of vultures, the “ single-men-preferred ”
society, the “ bag-barons” of Ruskin.
Why does the miserable clerk of the Rev.
"'„~? 0 2 AN say that he “will take small
wages . It can’t be because he likes a small
salary better than a large one ; even clerks, who
mostly sue for the favor of the sweater all their
lives, are not built like that. This parson-boomed
clerk 7 is thoroughly competent and highly recom-
mended. He offers himself cheap, disloyally to
his fellows, because in cheapness he sees his best
chance of a job. His disloyalty to the army of
clerks, however, is nothing to the disloyalty of
Ti ®r- AN - to the Founder of his creed. His so-called
Mission ’ has become a touting-agent for the
modern sweater. It is an unutterably mournful
thing when some weak, poverty-distressed man
writes such an advertisement of his own volition ;
when a parson writes it for him, it stamps that
parson s church as the depraved servant of com-
mereial gretid. Parson Edgar once brought honor
to the Methodists by allying them to the anti-s weat-
uig movement. Parson Hoban proclaims him-
self the immediate agent of the sweater. Horrible
is the church variety of charity and of religion
when it begins to breed in a democratic denomiria-
tion, m a democratic community, the clerk “ who
will take small wages.”
+
And 10 per cent, for Modesty.
Carruthers having dropped his proposal to build
something on three legs between a remote suburb
and some scrub, and call it the Sydney-North
Shore bridge, another streak of humor has been
introduced to the matter of the bridge by an
engineer who proposes to do the work by Private
Enterprise. Private Enterprise, represented in
this case by a civil engineer with a solicitor to put
his humor into letter form, proposes, in short, that
it shall take the profits while the State takes the
risks. All it wants is that “your Government
will guarantee 3i per cent, on the cost”; in
other words, the Government is to pay a shade
more than it could itself borrow the money for
if it borrowed the money itsblf it would only
have to pay 3J per cent, at most, and anything it
got over- 3§ per cent, would be its own profit: if
it lets Private Enterprise, C.E., do the work, it
will still have to make itself responsible for 31
per cent., and anything the bridge brings in over
A - per cent, will be somebody else’s profit.
Private Enterprise remarks, upon the subject of
the guarantee, that it expects to make so much
profit that the guarantee will be really quite a
formal matter; but it proposes to take the
guarantee nevertheless. It doesn’t occur to it
that if there is going to be a profit in the business,
the people who guarantee the interest, and there-
fore practically provide the money, might as
well have it. In a burst of generosity,
however, Private Enterprise says that in
oO years the State may take over the bridge
at a price to be ascertained by arbitration plus
the cost of maintenance, if not charged against
the revenue from time to time, and plus the usual
10 per cent. The Bulletin doesn’t believe
Private Enterprise can afford to do it. After the
btate has raised the money to build the bridge
(whioh is wliat the3J per cent, guarantee means),
it hands the concern over to Private Enterprise
to make what it can out of the public which uses
the bridge. _ Private Enterprise takes no risk and
pays no price for that privilege. Then in 30
years Private Enterprise finds out what the bridge
is worth (not to the State which provided the
money to build it, but to the Private Enterprise
which sat on it and took toll for its use); and the
State which provided the money to build it will
be allowed to take possession of it by paying that
price, plus the cost of the paint used upon it, plus
the usual 10 per cent. Presumably the usual 10 per
cent, is a reward for Private Enterprise’s usual
modesty. But really the State can’t take so much
modesty for 10 per cent. Can’t Private Enter-
prise, C.E., suppress its natural feelings and make
it 25 per cent. ?
»
The Melbourne Building Trade.
Ihe disputants in the Melbourne building trade,
who came to a deadlock some seven months ago,
are likely to strike further trouble presently,
owing to the absence of any authority to settle
the terms of employment and enforce its decisions
on employee and employer. Towards the end of
last year the employees and employers, after some
weeks of idleness through a strike or lockout,
agreed to accept the arbitration of Justice Cussen
as to whether the men’s request for a 44-hours
week, or the employers’ offer of slightly increased
wages for 48 hours, or neither, or both, should be
accepted. The arbitrator’s award—leaving the
hoursat4Sand raising wages allround by about l|d.
per hour—was accepted on January 11, and ex-
pired on July 11. While it lasted it was loyally
by both parties, the “union” employees
and the ‘ union ” employers— i.e. , those belonging
to the Buildersand Contractors’Association. But
there were certain non-unionists—both employers
and employees—who did not regard themselves as
bound by the award. Consequently, though the
union builder, paying the stipulated wage, got
the best workmen and the other got the worst,
the latter was, and is, able to tender at a lower
price; and as the lower offer mostly gains the
contract, it follows that the non-union contractor
is getting more than his share of work, to the
detriment of the loyal unionist contractor and his
unionist employees. Since the award was made,
in January, both parties have been endeavoring
to persuade the non-unionists to come into the
respective folds, but without much success ; con-
sequently the unionist employers, seeing work slip-
ping away from them, and being no longer bound
by any agreement, may at any time decide to revert
to the former conditions, which will mean trouble.
Before the award ran out both the union em-
ployees and the union employers made advances
towards a conference ; but it was discovered that
the employers declined to discuss the question of
reducing the hours from 48 to 44, while the em-
ployees saw no use in a conference from which
this question was eliminated. Thereupon all
correspondence ceased, and there is the possi-
bmty of trouble arising any day. Justice Cussen
saw ahead as far as this at the time he inquired
into the matter, wherefore he made a suggestion
which has been studiously ignored—viz., that
some authoritative body should be appointed to
fix the legal hours, wages, terms of employment of
apprentices, and so forth. That body should be a
VVages Board under the Vic. Factories Act, for that
alone would abolish the non-unionist or blackleg
employees and employers, and would force them
to pay and to accept the same wages and hours as
the unionists, thereby putting all on an equal
footing, and giving both union employers and
workmen the fair deal that they do not get at
present. The Bulletin presents this suggestion
principally to the union employees, for, if a strike
or a lockout comes, it is these non-union men of
both sides who will be the cause of their defeat
if they lose, and the cause of much suffering,
bitterness, and pecuniary loss if they win. There
is but one way. to block these non-unionists—by
compulsory arbitration or a Wages Board. And
a Wages Board can be had for the asking.
Melbourne’s Curious Hospital.
“ Suss ” makes a few remarks :
Melbourne Hospital has always been a comic opera
sort of institution. It has a pernicious habit of calling
men wUh fractured skulls drunks, and passing them on
1S ruled . hy a l*'? committee, which
spends half its time in cringing to some potentate or
otner, and its remaining time in squabbling over jobs
which are being worked. In between the two halves of
its time it mismanages the hospital. The resident
medicoes who usher people into the Beyond are raw
£l tne^uo^ Sand whom the Hospital Committee gets
hot and half-cooked from the University at a salary of
nothing* a year. *
. The onl y thing that prevents the hospital from becom-
ing a morgue or a dissecting room is the existence of the
honorary staff. This st iff is the most comic opera show
or the lot ; but that is due to its method of election. It
is elected periodically—outdoor physicians and surgeons
A Prayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If a man dare send a Prayer
Forth to Thee, Almighty Goo-
Up the night’s translucent stair,
Where the planets, silver-shod,
Pace in shining robes of glory,
And the stars
Lift their heads ; where all the hoary
Constellations speed their cars—
Lo ! in humbleness of spirit,
A petition and a vow
Do I send—O Godhead, hear it—
Hear it now !
Not for splendor not for riches
Do I pray, 0 God, to Thee ;
From my soul’s new-hallowed niches
Have I cast idolatry !
I have broken all the idols—*
Images
That I bowed to ere the tidals,
Ere the mighty, swinging seas
Of Thy Purpose and Thy Power
Swept my life of all its fears !
Loud, I ask this simple dower—
Length of years !
Let me live that I may labor—
That mine hands may toil for Thee.
I would wield, 0 God, the sabre
Of the New Democracy !
Ere of death I feel the presage—
Ere my lips
Speak their latest earthly message,
And my soul sinks in eclipse !
I would lift a standard starry
For this people here below ;
Give me strength that flag to carry
Ere I go !
Lord, Thy priests they cringe and palter—
They have made a god of Gain,
And have #e't it on the altar
In Thy consecrated fane !
Yea, Thy laws they have forgotten—
In their eyes
Shines the lust of riches rotten,
And their mouths are filled with lies !
Sleek apostates—l would blast them—
I would smite them hip and thigh ;
From Thy Church, Lord, help me cast them
’Ere I die!
Lo ! they draw a tainted plunder
From the city’s reeking slums ;
I would wake them with the thunder
Of a new Crusader’s drums—
Not with brazen-clanging steeple,
Not with bells,
Would I lead, 0 Lord, Thy people—
I would sweep away the hells
Where Thy children drudge and perish,
Where the ghosts and paupers are ;
Lord, the wealth Thy churches cherish
Stinks afar !
Though the earnings of the harlot
Are the rack-rent of a soul,
From the woman clothed in scarlet
They have drawn a heavy dole !
Yea, Thy priests, O Lord, have battened
On the fee
Of the Magdalene, and fattened
On her shame and agony !
Beetle-like, in ebon raiment,
Thro’ the streets Thy “ servants ” creep;
Selling Heaven, on time-payment,
Very cheap.
Thou for man hast reared a palace
Roofed with clouds and sapphire skies;
Lo, where streams wind thro’ green valleys,
Nature’s shrines all leafy rise !
Gentle winds and treetops bending
Overhead.
Lift a requiem song transcending
For our dear ones lying dead.
Thy command was “Toil in gladness—
Life for ye shall be a feast! ”
But alas ! there entered sadness
With the Priest!
If a man dare send a Prayer
Forth to Thee, Almighty God —
Up the Night’s translucent stair
Where the planets , silver-shod,
Pace in shining robes of glory ;
And the stars
Lift their heads, where all the hoary
Constellations speed their cars —
Lo! in humbleness of spirit,
A petition and a vow
Do I send—O Godhead, hear it—
Hear it now !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Showman’s Moneymaker.—The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
and indoor physicians and surgeons—by the whole body
of governors. A governor is any gentleman; per-
son, bloke, cove or inhabitant who has, up to the day of
election, contributed the sum of one jim, quid, or
sovereign to the coffers of the institution. A legal
decision hath it that anyone who walks into the polling
booth, hands over £l, and gets a receipt, is entitled to
immediately vote. It is plain that any doctor or the
friends of any doctor can, on the afternoon of election
day, by a simple process of distributing subscriptions
amongst dependable folk, obtain a majority limited only
by the length of his purse. The most incompetent quack
in the world, for £3OOO or £4OOO or £5OOO, can make it a
certainty that he will be elected senior surgeon or senior
physician, whichever he chooses, of the Melbourne Hos-
pital. There are no Marquis of Queensberry or any other
sort of rules to govern the election. Nobody can be dis-
qualified for anything short of garrotting the returning
officer. Plumping is allowed, and the buying of votes is
part of the system, the act of incorporation actually
fixing the legal price of a vote at £l.
Of course, the system of election was adopted in order
that the very best medical men might be chosen. To be
on the honorary staff is worth a great deal of income to a
doctor. It gives him exceptional opportunities for
practice. He has t o lecture to embryo medieoes, who
thereby imbibe a profound respect for the members of
the honorary staff, and, when practising themselves, call
them in to consult. mean,big fees. Then
there is the prestige of the job—the prestige of having
been chosen out of all doctordom as the glassiest agate of
the lot. The public does not understand how the agate
is selected, and believes in its apparent glassiness. But
it is plain that the man with the most money, or even the
man with the biggest practice, is not the best man either
as a practitioner or a lecturer, and it is in these two
capacities that an honorary staff candidate has to be
regarded.
What is wanted at the Melbourne Hospital is a modern
method cl selecting honoraries. An electoral college
should be established—not an unwieldy body like the
S resent committee, which consists of nearly 30 members,
ut a handy college of about seven members. These
could be delegates chosen by the University, the hospital
governors or committee, and the Government. This
would provide a board of experts who could select the
honorary medical men with regard to ability only. All
the scandals and iniquities incidental to the present
system of election by bribery and canvass would then
disappear.
But the Melbourne Hospital is the most conservative
institution in Australia. It looks on the elections
as a means of getting extra subscriptions, and is loth to
make any change. Still the community is becoming not
a little scandalised, while the doctors—those of them who
still retain shreds of self-respect—are disgusted, and the
time is ripe for a new system. Thomas Bunt is known to
take a burly sort of interest in hospitals, and it is hoped
that on his return, if he is not at once thrown into ob-
sourity, he will forcibly set things on a fair, straight basis.
“Mexican Silver.”
A DEPUTATION from the Jewellers’ Trade Union,
supported by the Manufacturing Jewellers’ Asso-
ciation, interviewed Victoria’s Acting-Premier
lately, and gave him evidence of the existence of
the same sort of swindle that the Commerce Act
is trying to squelch when practised by the im-
porter. Instances were given of “customs of the
trade ” that really amount to plain fraud, swindle
and steal; of 10-carat gold being branded 15-carat;
of white metal being sold as “ Mexican silver ”
(it might just as honestly be branded Mexican
silk or oysters, for there is no atom of silver about
it); of brass rings being stamped 9-carat; and
of gold sleeve-link shells being stamped 15-
carat and filled with silver solder bought forls. lOd.
per oz. The deputation asked that the whole
matter should be handed over to the Australian
Parliament; but though Davies himself was
agreeable, he recollected that such action must
be agreed to by all the States, and that one State
is bossed by a cantankerous Premier who would
almost rather lose his billet than give the Com-
monwealth a chance to do some good. However,
he opined that the compulsory adoption and
registration of trade marks on the part of all
jewellers, together with the licensing and in-
spection of those individuals, would be of great
service. Doubtless it would; but there is no
necessity for more laws and regulations if
the existing law would only get over its
unhealthy reverence for the dishonest trader.
Take the case of the “Mexican silver”
man. Mexico is a great silver-producing
country, and its silver is the genuine
article of which the “ bob ” is manufactured—
is as genuine in its line as “ Mount Morgan
gold.” So the man who sells something worth
about Id. an ounce as “ Mexican silver ” could be
gaoled for six months on a charge of false pre-
tences, just like any other swindler, if the statutes
would cease to tremble in their boots at the idea
of active interference with a scoundrel because he
keeps a shop. And the man who sells brass stamped
as 9-carat gold, ought to be good for three years
if the law would only move—same as the indivi-
dual who sells a gold brick or a heap of shares in
an imaginary mine. There is no need for more
regulations; what is needed is a plain warrant
and a large, plain bobby, trap, cop, John, or
policeman.
4
Auditing the Ledger.
St. Ledger, the Queensland Senator, ought to
get himself audited and found incorrect. He has
been talking about the tremendous size of the
States’ surpluses, the result largely of the Com-
monwealth refunds; and the people and papers
that are always ready to grab at an excuse for
reducing taxes have jumped at his text that
£3,000,000 a year is being “ wrung out ” of about
4,000,000 people, and that “if Great Britain
exacted a proportionate surplus the Treasurer
would be £30,000,000 to the good.” Senator
Sledger and the whole brood carefully don’t
mention the other fact that if Great
Britain had a proportionate debt it would owe
£2,395,000,000 instead of the £788,990,000 which it
does owe ; and if Britain owed this extra
£1,606,010,000, it mightn’t reckon even £30,000,000
too much to “ wring out ” of its people to help
wipe the burden off. As a matter of fact, though
the British debt is less by £1,606,010,000 than it
would be if it were as big in proportion to popu-
lation as the Australian debt, Britain did “ wring
out” enough in 1906 to reduce it by £7,746,304.
When owing to heavy loan expenditure, the
British debt got up to figures more like our own,
though still a long way from them, the struggle
made by Britain to reduce the burden by
“wringing out” taxes would have horrified
Senator St. Cheque Book. In 1816, the
year after Waterloo, the funded debt was
equal to £900,436,000; twenty years later, when
Victoria arrived, it was down to £788,000,000,
which means that, in those few years, £112,436,000
was “ wrung out ” of the British people, in addi-
tion to the cost of current expenditure at home
and on wars, etc. St. Bill Book had, therefore,
probably best leave Britain out of the case
when he starts to talk about the tax-wringing
capacity of the Commonwealth. A nation that
thinks a debt so good a thing to get rid of that it
h as collected an income-tax of as much as 2s. in
the £ isn’t a good example for a man who wants
to argue as Sledger and his friends evidently
want to.
4
Listen to the voice of Joey Carruthers, as
reported in Sydney Telegraph :
Mr. Carruthers stated that Ministers had no prefer-
ence. “ I do not think,” he said, “ that any of us have
seen Canberra. Mr. Waddell certainly is in favor of
Lyndhurst. But our object is to place before the Federal
Government and Parliament the. whole of the sites which
New South Wales has offered, and at the same time to do
this in an impartial manner.
Once more it should be pointed out to the Aus-
tralian Parliament that Joe isn’t on in this act;
and that it is the business of the Australian
Parliament to select the best site—as it has appa-
rently done—whether Joe offers that site or not.
Above all, it is the duty of the Australian Parlia-
ment to remember that it is the guardian of the
rights and the dignity of the people of
Australia. One of these rights is that of choosing
their own capital—within the limits fixed by the
Constitution —through their elected Federal repre-
sentatives, and Joe isn’t a Federal representative.
Then, supposing the said representatives make a
selection which is in any way not according to the
Constitution, every citizen has the right to apply to
the High Court, and ask it to declare the act
null and void, but Joe isn’t the High Court. In
the whole business Joe has no status save what
he acquires through his own boundless imperti-
nence. And if the Australian Parliament gives
way to the brassy insolence of the JoE-creature,
and lets the people’s rights slip out of its hands
through mere lack of the courage to face Joe’s
clamor, it will be unworthy of its high position.
Australia lost a rare and valuable sort of bene-
factor in David Scott Mitchell, book-lover, who
died last week. Partly by inheritance, partly as
a result of his own efforts, Mitchell had a neat
fortune, as fortunes go in Australia. Also he had,
which was of greater importance, a love of his
native country, a taste in books, and a very
notable sturdiness of purpose. These three
together fitted him for the carrying through of a
unique task. He hoarded up, with the greed of
a miser and the devotion of a saint, all
the books, letters and documents appertaining to
the beginnings of this Commonwealth on which
he could lay his hands. It was work fitter for the
State to undertake, because of the vast expendi-
ture of money and industry which it involved.
But the State neglected the work, and Mitchell
stepped into the breach. His full purse, his
active brain, his stubborn purpose were devoted
with absolute singleness of aim to the one object—
the Mitchell Library. All Australian history to
the present day ishiddenin that library, in its books,
pamphlets, newspapers, playbills, racecards, pic-
tures —its complete record of all the activities of a
young nation in the making. His work finished,
Mitchell gave the collection to the State and
gave with it the bulk of his fortune, in order that
there might be funds always available for further
purchases, should there be anything left to pur-
chase. Then he died, refusing up to the last with
quiet persistence all thanks, all eulogy, all adver-
tisement. He even refused to be interviewed or
to supply his portrait to the papers. He wanted
nothing for his gift except an assurance that it
would be carefully housed. A truly curious
patriot who would take nothing for his great
work, not even huzzahs !
♦
Religion keeps strange company at times. Miss
Jessie Ackermann, now representing the West-
minster Gazette hereabouts, tells of a woman
who worked for 62 years constructing confirma-
tion wreaths for the nice girls who put on white
robes, and make a solemn profession of faith in
the religion which teaches justice and charity,
and are blessed by the nice old bishop-character,
and sent away feeling thatthey have been very near
to the gates of Heaven. The woman received Is. 9d.
a dozen for making these wreaths, and into each
wreath 140 flowers had to be worked. She must
have made about 84 wreaths a week in order to
live on the most meagre principles—436B wreaths
a year—27o,Bl6 wreaths in 62 years of servitude.
And presumably these wreaths were worn by
270,816 Christian girls, who mostly passed on to
be Christian women, and married Christian hus-
bands, and reared Christian families. They wore
them in Heaven only knows how many Christian
churches, in the presence of Heaven only knows
how many Christian congregations, and they were
blessed by Heaven only knows how many nice, old
Christian bishops. But as not one among all that
vast army of Christians cared a darn for the
woman who made the wreaths, she finished up
quite naturally in the workhouse, after 62 years of
semi-starvation.
♦
Slatyer, the Sydney architect who ran against
Spruce Myth last Federal election, is liable to
have some disrespect for the Law, The Sydney
Daily Telegraph, which just at that time had
been preaching that Socialism meant confiscation
and all sorts of horrors, placarded Slatyer
as a Socialist; and Judge Backhouse awarded
him some damages. But the Telegraph appealed
to the Full Court—the same Full Court that
couldn’t trust itself to decide whether Crick is a
gentleman or not—and the Fidl Court set aside
the verdict and ordered Slatyer to pay the
heavy costs of the double proceedings. In
other words, Slatyer is ordered to pay two
lots of costs instead of one because, according
to the Judges of the Full Court, a Judge of
another Court didn’t know his business. Or, in
the alternative, he has to pay two lots of costs
instead of none at all because the Full Court
doesn’t know its business. Either way, Slatyer
is entitled to be an annoyed architect, especially
as he didn’t appoint or choose either lot of judges.
If he had appointed Judge Backhouse, or even
if he had picked Judge Backhouse out of a list
of a dozen Judges, as a visiting team of footballers
picks out an umpire, there might be some justice
in asking him to put up with the consequences.
But when the public appoints the Judge, it would
look a lot more like a fair deal if the public had to
stand the racket.
The A.M.P. Society has just paid £lO2 10s. per
cent, for the privilege of investing £300,000 with
the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works, so
the society is really lending at about £3 18s. per
cent. That means that the tendency for bonuses
must be downwards, because until now the average
interest-earnings of the society were £4 9s. 7d.,
and they used to be much more. The fact is, the
society is evidently getting afraid of the land
mortgages that it used to put the bulk of its
funds into at sor 5J per cent. Land values have
been so forced up, because holders of good
lands monopolise such large areas, that the
A.M.P., with a vast amount of data in hand,
. knows that men can’t rely on making a
living at the prices. Some years ago the men
who control the huge business came to the con-
clusion that in the average well-favored district
£5 per acre was the maximum price that wheat
growing could afford to pay ; yet in many districts
£7 is demanded nowadays. So the A.M.P. has
to shrug its shoulders, pass that sort of
risk, and take one that returns £3 18s. per
cent.; and bonuses suffer. Meantime the men
who suffer most from the reduced bonuses
are, in very many cases, the very ones that kick
hardest against that progressive land-tax which
would bring land to something like its honest
value —the value at which the A.M.P. could again
afford to consider country mortgages in a large
way as gilt-edged security.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “La Mascotte.”
Royal “ The Great Awakening.”
Criterion “ Mr. Hopkinson.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Blanche Arral.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Lady Madcap.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Rapsred Earl.”
Royal “ The Bondman.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Besses o’th’Barn Band.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
The Ward-Willoughby co. reopens at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday, in “ Mr. Hopkin-
son,” which is a comedy rather than a farce, and
abounds in dukes and other personages of great
social burden. Miss Grace Palotta is to be a
Duchess in “Mr. Hopkinson,” and The Bul-
letin would remark that she surely will
look like a Duchess, but it has a sad
memory of the only Duchess it ever saw
at close quarters. She was 65, and took
snuff visibly ; so it refrains. “Mr. Hopkinson,”
according to the judgment of some parts of Aus-
tralia, is the best of the pieces in this co.’s collec-
tion. It will probably be the farewell production
of the Ward-Willoughby combination. Mean-
while “The Squatter’s Daughter” pursues the
hurried and improbable tenor of its way until
Friday night. It isn’t leaving because its possi-
bilities are exhausted even now, but the lease is
up, and the new lessee wants possession, and has
told Mr. Anderson to take his flocks and herds
off the premises so that “Mr. Hopkinson” can
graze in the paddock.
** * *
“Dorothy,” with Lauri to introduce
modern variations, makes room at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) at the end of this week for a revival of
“ La Mascotte.” Apropos those variations, which
the critic always grieves over while the audience
applauds, it is worth recalling that this isn’t the
first time the principal comedian did something to
turn “Dorothy” into “Laurithy.” When the
lady on the stairs says she’s embarrassed, the
hard-of-hearing sheriff’s officer used to ask : “ Oh,
you’ve been backing Paris ! ” To-day there is a
generation which only faintly remembers Paris as
a horse that left a hole in many pockets, so Lauri
in these times asks the lady if she has her leg in
plaster-of-Paris. It isn’t much of a joke ; but
then an established principal comedian’s jokes
needn’t be much better than a Judge’s to rouse
the vacant laugh. “La Mascotte” will come to
many as an even dimmer memory than Paris ; for
the fanciful little opera hasn’t been staged here
by J.O.W. for something like 12 years.
THE ONLY MEANS OF IDENTIFICATION,
OR THE AWFUL EFFECTS OF COAL-
DUST AT ADMIRALTY HOUSE.
The complaint "’as against the Pastoral Finance Asso-
ciation, Ltd., that, from its warehouse next door to
Admiralty House, there issued noise and smoke to such
an extent as to cause a nuisance. When the wind is
from the west, coal-dust permeates the whole of Ad-
miralty House, thickl.y coating carpets, furniture, clothes,
carriages, seats, lawn, shrubs, trees, and flowers, to their
serious injury. —Daily Paper.
“ Allow me to introduce you, my dear. The long
one vjith the damaged knees is Commander
Pumpwotch, of H.M.S. Beetlecrusher, and the
little fellow with the bandy legs is Lieutenant
Gruff, of the same vessel.”
The Irish comedian has to be pretty bad
in order to make a failure of it, and, as Australia
found out some years ago, Michael Nolan isn’t a
bad comedian. He comes back with the old
mixed humor and pathos done up in new dis-
guises ; but the Irish comedian knows better than
to hang too heavy a disguise over the old stage-
Irish humor and pathos. After singing three
songs on Saturday at the Tivoli to an enthusiastic
house, he had to draw on his reserves and circulate
a new edition of “ Conn the Shaughraun.” Alto-
gether, Nolan is going to be a success. Bentley,
the other sort of comedian, made a reappearance
amidst a lot of joyful noise; and the Svengalis
continue their well-mounted piece of elaborate
trickery.
New English Farce and Song Co., led by
Miss Florence Baines, opens at Sydney Palace
next Saturday night in “Miss Lancashire
Limited.” The piece was written for Miss
Baines, who is said to have remarkable
sleight ot tongue with the dialect of the
clog-wearing country where the men used to
have kicking matches; also she is said
to be very handy with her feet in the matter of
clog-dancing. The fun of “Miss Lancashire
Limited ” rests mainly on the situations that
arise from the change of places of an heiress and a
servant girl. The latter floats herself into a com-
pany, and gives away debentures right and left to
tradesfolk and visitors, and the housedog, and
anything alive and friendly that comes along.
* * *- *
After a brief spell in which to give its
ear-drum and its artistic soul a rest from high-
class music, Sydney is bidden again to assemble
at the Town Hall, next Saturday, to welcome
Mrs. Blanche Arral. The charming little French
woman, with her sweet, amiable voice, is already
well known to Sydney; and she should be
especially welcome after a course of German
music that was mostly wrangling and confused
explanation.
To-morrow night will see the last of * ‘ The
Beautiful Fiend,” at Sydney Royal. On Saturday
Miss Hildyard will be seen in a play written by
herself and Russell Vaun, entitled “The Great
Awakening.” This should give the much-boomed
lady a fair chance of showing what she is really
made of. “The Beautiful Fiend ’ didn’t. It
only showed a good-looking lady in very fine
clothes acting an absurdity. The present dramatic
season at the Royal will last but six weeks in all.
Then a new co., with the well-known Harcourt
Beatty and Miss Madge Macintosh at its head,
will take the boards with “ Her Love Against the
World,” which title certainly suggests that she is
“ up against it.”
** * *
Roberto Hazon, Sydney’s greatest con-
ductor, who leaves for Europe shortly, will
be keenly missed. Full of talent and ambi-
tion, he dropped in here about 1887 as the
conductor of Simonsen’s Italian opera co.
Kowalski having resigned from the Philharmonic
in 1889, the committee reached out a large hand
and captured Hazon, and the society has never
looked back since the memorable concerts with
Santley, when Hazon wielded the oratorio baton
in three famous performances of “Elijah.”
** # *
The Besses o’ th’ Barn gave their first
grand uproar (in Melbourne) at the Town Hall
last Saturday, the usual organ recital having
waived its business claim in favor of the brass
band. Critically considered, an evening with
the band is not so improving to the musical taste
of the masses as a couple of hours with the_ city
organist. Nor can one pay the Besses a higher
compliment than in saying their full volume of
brass tone is sometimes suggestive of the organ’s
mellowness. Most of the time the Town Hall
seems the wrong place for an entertainment which
is naturally adapted to the freer atmosphere of
the outside world. The Besses play very
admirably. Some of their items have the value
that is peculiar to brass music. They impress
you at first. To the thousands of ears that have
not previously heard a first-class band the effect
of, say, “The Lost Chord ” comes as a new sensa-
tion, when they get it blown at them. But a long
selection from “Tannhauser” grows monotonous,
no matter how artistic the brazen treatment of the
music which was written for strings. The band
will boom twice a day throughout this week, and
on Monday it moves in the direction of Ballarat
and Geelong.
* m * -»
In trying to think of a not unkind, remark
to make upon “The Ragged Earl,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), this scribe has suddenly
struck the idea that Andrew Mack’s ornate
absurdity in three acts is as distinctively new
to this country as “The Fatal Wedding” was
sixteen months ago. “ The Wedding ” differs from
reasonable domestic melodrama to the same
degree that “The Ragged Earl” differs from,
say, “Dorothy Vernon.” Mack’s production,
described as “ a romance of 18th century Ireland,”
is a travesty of the ordinary picturesque costume
drama, but the impudence of its absurdity may
carry it along. Australia is getting much food
for astonishment from America, and if the public
be not already “full up” of such tough
fare, it may swallow even “ The Ragged
Earl.” The 18th century titled person is heroically
Irish, and frankly anti-English. Owing to his
habit of not exacting rint from his tenants (a
magnanimity quite foreign to the rale Irish lords
of the period), he is very hard up and intensely
popular. Somewhere in the neighborhood lives a
swate colleen named Kathleen, whose perfidious
English stepbrother wishes her to marry a dodder-
ing old English lord with _ a pantomime nose.
Therefore the maiden, disguised as a boy, flees to
the Ragged one’s dilapidated castle for refuge,
and that invincible young man decides to marry
Kathleen himself. After she is restored to the
care of her evil relative and the persecutionsof her
amorous scarecrow, the Earl comes along and
performs prodigies of ingenuity and valor in up-
setting the bridal arrangements. He sings love
songs at inopportune moments, arms himself with
a six-foot sword, disguises himself as the ancient
dodderer (nose and all), and secures his bride in
defiance of probability. It is a laughable night-
mare of a play, performed mainly by Andrew
Mack in his best artificial manner. A tuneful
chorus of 30 voices, a number of horses, an old-
fashioned carriage, and some highly respectable
scenery are features of the wild proceedings.
When it is all over there is nothing left for a
thoughtful observer but to pinch himself to see
whether he’s awake. And to his great surprise
he is.
*# * *
The existing drama at Melb. Royal, which
is a profoundly foolish thing in its pardonable
way, will cease to invite contumely after Friday
night. “The Bondman,” for the first time in
Science and Rheumatic Rings.
Recent scientific investigation of the curative properties
of “ anti-rheumatic ” rings has resulted in a severe shock
to sceptics. It has been found that rings of a special
steel can be made in the form of powerful magnets,
which possess, beyond a doubt, curative powers in a
remarkable degree. This is less surprising when it is
remembered that magnetism is an essential element of
electricity, and the opinions of such men as “ Sir Charles
Locock, M.D., M.R.C.P., Henry Holland, William Fergu-
son, physicians to her late Majesty Queen Victoria, i.
Oppolzer, Chief Physician Imperial Hospital, Vienna, and
of a host of other well-known medical men who adopt such
agencies, carry with them the Hall-mark of science. It
must, however, be conceded that of the thousand and
one so-called “galvanic,” “electrical” and “anti-rheu-
matic ” rings at present manufactured for a few pence,
and retailed chiefly by jewellers for a few shillings, it is
doubtful if any one of them really possess a trace of
“ galvanism,” “ electricity,” or any curative virtue what-
ever. The world is itself a magnet, with magnetic currents
flowing continuously from North to South, permeating
every living thing. Science has long since demonstrated
that'these currents exercise a constant influence upon all
terrestrial matter, and the cur.tive powers of “anti-
rheumatic ” rings apparently exist in proportion to their
capability of increasing the normal flow of these currents
through‘the body. Whilst any ring constructed of
magnetic metal, such as iron, has this power in a slight
degree, the extraordinary efficacy of a ring which w
itself a powerful magnet has only recently been
realised as a result of scientific experiment. Anyone
can at once tell a genuine from a worthless ring. If it us
actively magnetic it ivill pick up or attract, by its o\i n
inherent power, any iron or steel article, e.g., a key,
penknife, etc., while persons of highly nervous tempera-
ment, possessing what is known to science as the “ mag-
netic sense,” are, on putting on a ring, immediately con-
scious of a tingling sensation in the hand and arm, and,
in rare cases, through the whole side of the body.
The construction of this valuable remedy in various
forms and amongst others in the form of rings for finger
wear, has been made the subject of world patents, which
include all methods known to science of constructing
permanent mag'nets in annular shape ; and whilst
medical men were at first amongst the most sceptical ot
believers, a Limited Company has now, with their sup-
port, been formed for the'sole purpose of the manufac-
ture and supply of these rings. This Company, under
the name of “ The Rheumagnetic Ring Company
Limited” (the rings are called “ Rheumagnetic " Rings!
has established its head office in Australia at io-4i
Melville-street, Hobart, Tasmania, whence full particu-
lars of the treatment can be obtained.*


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY,
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Australia, will come to pass on Saturday, and
rumor alleges that Hall Caine’s dramatisation of
his own novel is a powerful play. Seemingly
Bland Holt reckons on large results from “The
Bondman.” He has engaged George Rignold to
come along and assist in the production, and fill
the part of Jason. George Rignold ! The name
has been merely a tradition to a number of young
people who will see Henry V.’s impersonator
for the first time on Saturday night. He has not
acted in Melbourne for some years. He was
commonly supposed to be now retired to the Cold
Country, whence he came. There was even
a dim suspicion that he had gone to the Undis-
covered Country from whose bourne no traveller
returns. Now he emerges suddenly from his
seclusion at Middle Harbor, Sydney, where he
has been chasing the snails off his chrysanthemums,
or something. A revival of George Rignold at
Bland Holt’s theatre is one of those unexpected
events that happen sometimes, and are received
with gladness like a first prize in a raffle. And
the Bland Holt mounting of the Hall Caine
drama is to be stupendous.
* * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the new musical
comedy co. will shortly cease to skip by the light
of “ The Blue Moon.” On Saturday it is to intro-
duce “ Lady Madcap ” to this easy-going country,
and, seeing that the rest of the season is limited to
a fortnight, the Melbourne district must lose no
time in trying the change of bill. The box plan
is fully prepared to receive booking in advance.
Also, the public is exhorted to remember an
ancient maxim concerning the early bird and the
early door.
** * *
Matters at the Opera House are much the
same as they were last week, with two additions.
One of them is Hamilton Hill, an Australian
baritone, who had a fine voice and a painfully
wooden deportment eight years ago, when his
fresh young manly warble procured him an
American engagement. The pleasant voice has
lost some freshness, but in place of the wooden
young Hamilton of yore, who sang with his chin
pressed against his collar, there is a rather festive
Hill, who spreads himself considerably after he
has walked on in a hurry. Another recent arrival
is Carden Wilson, an Australian mimic, whose
“People I Have Met” lacks only one weighty
consideration. It isn’t an imported “turn.” By
the way, an advertisement in the Rickards pro-
gramme states that business manager Fred
Aydon has become the licensee of the Opera
House Bars, and all the bottles on the premises
will henceforth contain Nothing but the Best.
** # *
The world is full of Gibson Girls just now,
and Adelaide Tivoli has captured three of them ;
also the liberal allowance of two A polios.
“ Bonnie Scotland ” has finished running (per
biograph) at the Town Hall, and at the Royal
the mineral wealth of “The Coal King” have made
room for the weeps of “ Two Little Vagabonds,”
with Beatrice Holloway as Dick.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A genuine bush girl seems as hard to depict
on the stage as in a book, and Eugenie Duggan, in “The
Squa,tters Daughter,” looks her part as badly as she acts
it. Imagine a bush girl arriving home immaculate and
smooth-haired after a mad kangaroo gallop ! And she
doesn’t, as a rule, require the assistance of half a dozen
men to get off her horse ; neither does she strike an atti-
tude and dramatically tell the hands how the ’roo was
fought and defeated. Neither does she call a coward a
coe-ward,” or say “lahve” for love. The stage bush
daughter does everything that a bush girl does not do.
That sort never went mustering or kangarooing further
away than Redfern. The blacks with fat legs are also
very unlifelike, and finally the sight of a German sausage
on an out-station sent me home no longer wondering why
a cocky in the gallery had called it “ Blather”—the play,
I mean, not the sausage.
Is Theosophy becoming fashionable again ? The cabled
announcement that Maud McCarthy has renounced her
violin so that she may de-
vote all her time to being a
Theosophist suggests that
Mai atmas, and Karma, and
re-incarnation, and other
queer spooky shadows are
returning to prominence.
Apparently Maud means to
take her Esoteric Buddhism
very seriously, and reckons
it will keep her busy.
A NOVEL APPLICATION.
Mary Nugent Jones sought to recover 255 11s. 7d. from
Margaret Ellen Costello, the executrix of the estate of
the late Patrick Jones.
In June, 1893, the applicant obtained a divorce from
Jones, who was ordered to pay costs, but he had died
without paying them.
0 Death , where is thy sting? O grave, thy victory?
Silas Snell ”: The Irish population of the Common-
wealth seems to find itself very much under a compli-
ment to Andrew Mack for his gracious representations of
sons of Erin. Because his somewhat narrow dramatic
bent induces him to confine his attention to picturesque
Irish characters, he is plied with compliments, fed with
gratuitous dinners, and rewarded with illuminated
addresses, setting forth the quaint idea that Ireland and
the Irish are under a great burden of gratitude to him for
turning - down the conventional stage Hibernian, and
giving the true Irish Irishman. This is pure spoof.
Mack s Irishman is as much a stage convention as any
Boueicaultian creation. Mack’s Paddy, in “ The Way to
Kenniare,” immediately he returns to the “ Ould Sod,”
becomes a true son of Boucicault, and as utterly unlike
any sane Irishman I have ever met as is the broad
travesty of the music-halls. Then every Mack drama has
its Irish villain of the Feeney type—the peculiar, whining,
w’heedling, black-browed scoundrel whom Irishmen
loathe. What has Mack done for the Irishman that
Boucicault did not do?
” : ? ince < B - 18/7/’O7) is so positive
that niliiam Anderson and Frank Reis were not asso-
ciated in producing “ In the Coils of the Serpent ” at
Bendigo, about 10 years ago, perhaps he will accept £1
through the editor of The Bulletin provided he furnishes
proofs to the contrary. If“J.G.” will turn up the files
of the Bendigo Advertiser he can discover that he has
rushed into print rather recklessly. The best thing he
can do is to rush out of print again.
“Rum” (from Maoriland): Having- an ambition to
write theatrical notes for your paper, I hustled round
like a small whirlwind, and collected these facts, all on
the best authority :—(l) That Elbert Orton is engaged to
Julius Knight. (2) That Miss Orton and J. Knight do
not speak to each other off the stage. (3) That Miss
Orton is engaged to some quite insignificant member of
the co., name unknown. (4) That Miss Orton is breaking
her heart because Julius Knight is so disagreeable at
rehearsals. (5) That J. Knight admires Miss Orton more
than any other leading lady he has played with. (6) That
Elbert Orton gets £25 a week. (7) That she doesn’t get
any salary at all, but pays for her position as leading
lady. (8) That Miss Grey gets no salary either. (9) That
both ladies draw £lO a week. (10) That Rupert Julian is
an Auckland fellow who has never been farther than
Sydney. (11) That Rupert Julian is an English actor
making his first appearance in these parts. (12) That
Elbert Orton used to be a governess at Opotiki (M.L.)
(13) That she is English, and a widow. (14) That she is
American, and a widow. (15) That Julius Knight is 40,
55, and 35, also 60 and 23. (16) That these are “ positive
facts.” (There was more, but memory gives out here.)
Melbourne thus far has two sorts of indoor rinks where
the conditions are antagonistic to the sentiment of
skating as an open-air exercise. The atmosphere is lack-
ing at the Glaciarium, as at the South Yarra roller rink.
But a new skating ground, on the lines of the popular
Bondi resort, is to be opened at St. Kilda in a few weeks
time, under the management of young Bernard Quine (an
usher at Her Majesty’s Theatre), who has fixed up a little
syndicate, with one of the Taits as the moving spirit.
The paled enclosure, situated in the “ Dreamland ”
vicinity, will have a granolithic floor and an assorted
stock of skates, including some of the newest roller type.
Given a balmy spring, the St. Kilda Sea-Air Rink should
get a boomsome beginning, anyhow.
In her marriage certificate Edna May is described as
aged 26, which indicates that she must have been an
infant prodigy when she first took on a theatrical career.
It is seven years since the much-boomed beauty jumped
into prominence in London with Musgrove’s “ Belle of
New York” co,, and for some years previously she was a
chorus girl in New York. She had a considerable experi-
ence of married life as the wife of Fred Titus, at one time
a champion racing cyclist. Edna’s real age is probably
nearer 36 than 26, but probably her 22-year-old husband
wouldn’t believe it. The writer saw Edna in London
on two occasions in 1903, and came to the
conclusion that, both as an actress and a
beauty, she is one of the most glaring false alarms
that ever fooled the British public. On the stage in
“ The School Girl,” her acting didn’t justify her rise to
anything beyond the dignity of a seat warmer. Still she
looked as nice as her photos—even nicer, seeing that her
face has in real life more animation. The second time
this scribe saw Edna they met in the crush room of the
Lyric Theatre. At close range, the fair one is a sad
disillusionment. With a good press agent and a good
photographer, it is dead easy to be a beauty actress in
London.
a : 0t another dose of Boucicault in Melbourne,
Andrew, Mack supplying- “ Arrah-na-Pogue” at Her
Majesty s, and I have formed myself into a society for
being dog-weary of this make of Irish play. Was a more
wearisome character than Shaun the Post ever put on the
boards bv a reputable play-maker ? The inhuman good-
ness of Boueicault’s hero as interpreted by Mack is only a
little less irritating than his unmitigated'blarney, broken
with spots of bathos, clotted and unwholesome, barren of
the smallest touch of passion. Never does Shaun become
an actual thing, a living, breathing sinner. He’s a sort
or Irish doll, stuffed with “ purty ” sentiments. His
love-making is the most artificial gammon a nice girl was
ever doomed to suffer under. He is an Irish arcadian
carman, as real as a pottery shepherd after Watteau, and
what anybody can want with him passes understanding.
I weary of Shaun, and Con, and the rest of the tribe.
“Hamer”: My heart goes out in sympathy to Mus-
grove over his troubles with his opera co. I have had
troubles myself ; in fact, 1 was such a small item occa-
?L° na L ly r com P arison with the troubles that I may say
they had me. One occasion was when my leading'lady
had received a notice in the Poverty Flat Gazette
that, she said, made her ill. She didn’t trouble to get a
medical certificate. She just came down to the theatre
and expressed her bitterness of spirit in a volume of scorn
—mostly scorn of me—and had hysterics in the centre of
the stage. As the hysterics seemed permanent, and
the house was filling (or, rather, getting less empty),
I decided that a change of play was necessary. The com-
pany, with the alternative of being owed one night’s
salary less, was mostly willing, but the “old man”
informed me that he was “ an actor, not an acrobat,” and
refused to change his costume. Also, he insisted on
bringing in his “ fattest ” lines from the other piece
in quite inappropriate places. The situation got
more mixed when the leading lady, finding her-
self ignored, rushed on to the stage and announced
with conviction that Heaven would guard her. She
was so annoyed at the idea that the show could go on
without her that members of the company, when they
were off the stage, had to be detailed to watch her
and prevent her running on to enact the heroine of
the postponed piece ; and this further confused matters.
Still as most of the company took advantage of the
general confusion to punch out all the good lines in all
the pieces they knew, the audience seemed pleased ; a
townsman, who professed to be travelled, said it was the
finest performance he had seen since he witnessed
Julius Irving in “ The Bells.”
King Ned is reported to have been much annoyed at
the Lord Chamberlain’s absurd vetoing of Gilbert and
Sullivan’s “Mikado,” what time the little Jap prince was
in London. Presumably it was a seared War Office, or a
syndicate of Anglicised German financiers, that induced
the Lord High Prohibitioner to truckle thusly to the
small, brown stranger.
For anyone who remembers the first Australian pro-
duction of “Dorothy,” at Melbourne Princess’s, with
Leonora Braham in the name part, there will be sadness
in this mention of the fact that Miss Braham has lately
been playing Mother Hunt—an old hag—in a London
production of “Olancarty.”
NOT AT TOP SPEED.
Mr. Carruthers is getting into the habit of using strange
undignified expressions during debate—thus, last even-
ing, “serouchers,” “soppy-headed individuals,” and
“scoundrel” were terms variously applied. He was not
even cross at the time, either; he had no occasion to be.
D.T.
"Isn't it a witty little devil ? But, Lord, that's
nothing; you ought to hear it when it’s
roused! ”
Still another fashion in stage names finds an exponent
in Fanny Dango, younger sister of Letty Lind. The fan-
dango-named lady is to make an Australian start in musi-
cal comedy with “ The Dairymaids.” Are there any more
such names aroundV “Poll Carr” would fit a light-
comedy lady nicely, and “ Tarrant Eile ” wouldn’t be bad
for the adventuress of B. Stormer’s Dramatic Company.
“ U.” : How girls rush anything with a kiss suggestion 1
The allegation that Arrah-na-Pogue’s name has a kiss
meaning always brings along a crop of damsels who were
too young to see the play last time it was revived, and
they arrive to find in it less hug than they expected.
When I start out as a dramatist I intend to make strong
appeal to this demand, especially in the titles. For
instance, “ Tracked by a Kiss ” (detective drama), “ Three
Kisses and a Jest” (farce-comedy), “Kissed in a
Culvert ” (curtain-raiser), “The Kiss Fiend ” (for B. Holt),
“ Kissed to Hades ” (Andersonian), and “ The Conquering
Kiss ” (for dear Julius).
According to telegrams from Maoriland, Musgrove is
working a troubled passage. He and his Germans began
to collide in Auckland. One programme was abandoned,
and the old uncertainty, whereby the announcement of
“ Faust ” made it almost certain that the result would he
“ The Flying Dutchman,” set in once more.
The co. which is at present an adjunct to Tilly Brune’s
play-acting is to have an English player named Beatrice
Irw'in as the tempestuous Tittle s successor. The new
frock-wearer, it is claimed, fulfils her gown-adorning
duties delightfully. She is supposed to be svelte and
sweetly pretty, and has that elastic attribute “an
English reputation.” Nothing very definite is said about
her mumming capabilities.
“ Bill Outback ” : Have sampled every theatrical show
in Sydney during my month’s sojourn in the Big Smoke.
Can you tell me why the first member of the theatrical
orchestra to take his place is invariably the double-bass?
Once the cornet-player nearly broke this weird and won-
derful rule. He poked his head out from underneath the
stage for a moment—then he changed his mind and dis-
appeared. The procedure may be show etiquette. If
there happened to be no double-bass player, which
instrumentalist would be likely to appear first? Please,
reply. The information will cheer me during my wan-
derings West-o’-Darling.
A recent “draw” at London Hippodrome was “Fred
Lindsay, the Australian Stockwhip King.” With a thong
24ft. long, Lindsay cuts a wine bottle in halves; he
captures a fleeing man with it, using it as a lasso ;
and he gently ties the lash in a knot around a
girl’s bare arm (“ unskilful manipulation would re-
sult in the limb being cut clean off,” says the
reassuring advt.). He also skips within the “deadly
coils,” and generally seems to play with the fearsome
length of leather as if it were so much darning wool. At
the same show are “Jackson and MacLaren, Double-
handed Saw Champions of Australia,” who divorce logs
in record time, what time Jackson, who’s also “ Champion
Wood-chopper of the Commonwealth,” isn’t strenuously
obscuring the scenery with chips, amid great applause.
A cynical commentator on Edna May’s wedding and
the well-advertised secrecy of the performance, remarks
that the motor-car which bore the bride to the place of
marriage was “decked with white blossoms, in order to
escape observation.” Owing to Edna’s precautions, she
was chased to the ceremony by a numerous force of news-
paper reporters and camera fiends, and the latter con-
trived to “take” her whilst she was shrinking from
publicity.
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l^d.
• “Adelaide”: Surely Zangwill can claim, in “Merely
W.£ n ". th f ? J °* t far-fetched and mechanical pun
since the days of old Gaiety burlesque. Lancelot is set to
wash his hands, and the landlady to talk about a maid-
servant never heard of before or after, simply so that she
shall say (with a mispronunciation obsolete since Sam
Wellers tune), * She was a dirty wiper ” just as he says
I want a clean towel.” Kingston and Mis* Vaughan
now slur over the atrocity, but the guilt is on the head of
Israel Z. all the same.
The stepmother story was varied in the
case of the wife of Mackgar Lucas, a Collingwood
(Vic.) confectioner hailing from the JEgean Sea.
Mackgar, on the third night after his marriage,
remarked cheerfully to his bride, “Every time I
go near you I see the face of my dead wife,” and
the children of Mackgar would not say “Thank
you” when the supplanter brought in the break-
fast. After six days, the new-made missus went
out to buy some curry-powder, and did not return,
in addition to having no curry for dinner, Mackgar
claimed to have lost £3O, and his flying spouse
was arrested. She described the money as a
wedding present, and was discharged. Australian
maidens should henceforth be careful not to marry
widowed Greeks. Wedded life is made unpleasant
by the presence of a ghostly third party in the
bridal chamber.
‘ ‘ The Gunyah ” : If the law is an ass it is
at least a serious ass. Consider this instance :
The other day Justice Isaacs heard, in Chambers,
a case in which a man was applying for an ex-
tension of time within which his patent could be
sealed. After listening to the desiccated skite of
counsel for nearly a day, the Judge suddenly
became doubtful whether he could hear the case
in Chambers, as the matter was one in which
the public was interested. After lassoing and
perusing various Acts and legal authorities, he
decided to hear the case in open Court within
10 minutes. In the meantime the Court was dis-
robed of its holiday attire and dressed out in its
every-day working togs. The associate, crier, etc.,
were rounded up and yarded, while the Bar
decked itself out in full war paint. The crier
uttered his usual chant, the Court was declared
sitting, and thedoors wereopened to admit the rush
of the General Public. One dog looked in. After
it had gone, the Court started afresh, while
Counsel repeated the same old arguments. In
this way the Law was fully carried out, but how
much extra Costs arose through that false start
only the client knows. The starting gate is much
needed in Court.
William Wilks, M.H.R., is some sort of a
Freetrader, and professes to think that bonuses
do more harm than good.
All the same, when the Bonus
Bill was before the Repre-
sentatives, William came for-
ward with a mild proposal.
He moved that the whole
blessed lot of the bonus money
should be devoted to the encour-
agevnerit of the iron industry
(which exists chiefly in the
N.S.W. electorate of Freetrader
Joe Cook) and the shipbuilding in-
dustry (chiefly found at Mort’s Dock,
Sydney, in Wilks’s own electorate'.
He just reached out for the whole lot for liimsJf
and Cook.
“B.” writes :
Botanist Maiden’s “Life of Joseph Banks ”might in
any case lie heavily on the stomach of N.S.W., hut Joseph
Carruthers’promise to superintend the cooking- threatens
widespread indigestion. Banks has for some years past
been appropriated by a small semi-political party in
N.S.W., which has come to regard him as its own find,
and is determined to rake in the whole proceeds of its
luck. In the circumstances, it would be a fair thing for
the party to work the mine at its own expense, and then
nobody could complain, but it wants a State subsidy for
deep-sinking into Banks. So, having got the manuscript
of the “Life ” together, the party went to Joseph Carru-
thers to induce that financier to impose the cost of pub-
lication on the public funds. And Joseph agreed, pro-
vided he had a finger in the pie. That is no safe-
guard for the public. It is only adding to the number
of cooks, and it is reckoned by competent authorities
that no sausage which was fried by more than four
people ever amounted to much.
“ G. Elb.” complains :—•
The military department is a wonderful institution.
The warriors of Mount Gambier (S.A.) some months ago
forwarded a requisition for the regulation overcoats, but
when General Hoad arrived at the potato town to inspect
them he found that the men had been charging the
blank enemy through a wet season without proper pro-
tection from the rain. However, the central authorities
had made a desperate effort, and the coats travelled in
the same train as the General. But that keen soldier’s
eye detected a grave error—the buttons were of the
wrong pattern, and the slit at the back was an inch too
long, or short. The dry-goods were accordingly re-
turned, and, probably, when S.A.’s thermometer h s
climbed so high that you can only reach the temperature
with a ladder, the heavy garments will arrive at Mr.
Gambier with proper buttons, and torn in the rear to the
legal extent.
Judging from his own graphic Bulletin
yarns, “ Hamer ” has had many royal times with
many assorted brands. But when reading his
hilarious descriptions thereof, there is no doubting
from which brand he draws his inspiration—
D.C.L. does the trick. Such a merry blend of
humor must be helped into being by The Whisky
of The Wise. It is branded D.C.L. on every
joke.*
About some banking people :
T. A. Dibbs the other day finished his 60th year with
the Commercial Bank of Sydney, 40 of the time as general
manager; and the shareholders are going to have his
picture done in oils and hung up in the banking chamber
at the head office. There are two portraits there already
—those of Richard Jones and Edward Knox. The latter,
who was managing director as long ago as 1847, was asso-
ciated with the bank until six years back, as chairman.
Richard Jones, who was chairman for many years, in
between, lived a strenuous life. He was a printer by-
trade, and, coming to Sydney- in 1838, worked for some
years on the Monitor, and then went up to Maitland and
established the Mercury. Afterwards he was Treasurer
in Oowper’s Ministry. As something of a coin-
cidence, the first time he ran for Parliament
he bumped against R. G. Massie, and Massie
defeated him. Later on he helped Massie’s son—H.H.,
the cricketer—into the bank, where in eight years he be-
came an inspector, and is likely to get still higher ; also,
as a side-issue, he married the general manager’s
daughter. It is nearly always a good thing to marry the
general manager’s daughter ; and it is even better when
you are nearly good enough to deserve lier.
Dust-laying Experiment.— A number of
representatives of the railways, tramways, Harbor
Trust, and other Government departments, and of various
municipal councils, were present at a dust-laying experi-
ment on Wednesday, conducted by Messrs. Tyree Ltd.,
with the Tyree Spray. The street selected is one of the
dustiest in Sydney—the thoroughfare running from
Circular Quay to Flood’s wharf. A 40-gallon sprayer was
used. The machine covered 600yds. of road with a fine
coat of tar in 15 minutes, and then covered the same area
with another coat in the next 15 minutes, making 1200yds.
in 30 minutes. The cost of the carbide used was Is. Mr.
Tyree, managing director, explained ifiat for big jobs
larger machines could be used, and still better results
obtained. With tar at 3d. per gallon, and carbide at 2d.
per lb., the cost of spraying is I-10th of a penny per yard
for a thin ccat, and l-sth of a penny for a thick coat,
plus cost of man, horse, and dray. These figures compare
very favorably with the cost of spreading tar in Sydney,
which varies for different work at from 4d. to Bd. per
yard.*
WITH THE GODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I paid my modest shilling at the little window wicket,
And made my upward journey on a winding stair of
stone;
A sombre-faced collector took my somewhat greasy
ticket,
And I found a seat, and waited, with the High Gods, all
alone.
I conned the flimsy programme in a half-light, dim, un-
certain,
And peered through voids abysmal, looking stageward
from the height,
As I waited for the rising of the heavy velvet curtain
That shuts the promised myst’ries of the wedded arts
from sight.
In a sort of dim enchantment did I watch the motle3'
faces
Of the lovers of the Muses —in the gods the love is
strong ;
In the stalls and in the circle they were filling in the
spaces,
And around me ever thicker, ever denser, pressed the
throng.
The lights shot up, and louder rose the hum of conversa-
tion ;
The orchestra came trooping in from regions under-
ground ;
The amphitheatre simmered with a pleasant animation,
While tuning fiddles quavered out their wailing threads
of sound.
And then a hush! The baton for a moment pauses
lifted —
A faint and dying murmur, and the overture begins.
A sound of sea wind stirring ; a melody has drifted,
Like a misty breath of music, from the leading violins !
It was then the spirit took me right away to realms of
splendor;
Right away from sordid shadows that had dogged me
night and day,
Into regions of romances, grand and ancient, fresh and
tender;
Bore me out with wondrous music, took me upward and
away !
By the art of some great master, who had conjured with
a keyboard,
Did the music speak its wonders—dream, and doubt, and
quake with fears;
Wail like wind among the pine-trees, roar like breakers on
the seaboard,
Shake with passion, laugh with pleasure, tremble into
human tears.
As the curtain rose I heard it like a theme behind the
voices ;
I heard it drift to pathos, or to triumph rise and swell
In a storm of mighty melody that riots and rejoices,
Did it touch impassioned summits where apart the High
Gods dwell.
’Twas a tragedy to music, and it moved through all its
phases
With a soul-absorbing action that was ominous with fate.
’Twas a play of human passions, set in pitfalls and in
mazes,
Where love was like a dove held in the vulture claws of
hate!
And beyond it all, like spirits, I could hear the fiddles
moaning ;
I could hear the human sobbing of the cornets, flutes,
and strings,
For the wrongs that have no righting, the deeds past all
atoning,
The Dead Sea fruit of riches, and the hopes with broken
wings.
Then I felt myself borne downward from the heights of
splendid sorrow;
Down the stony stairs, and outward to the real and dingy
street—
Yet I knew T that I had lived, betwixt the sordid day and
morrow,
A whole sublime existence that w'as full of bitter sweet.
What of these, the dingy alleys, and the coarse and ribald
voices—
The details, all unlovely, of the life I knew too well?
I had soared on w’ings of music, as it sorrows or rejoices
To the passions, to Olympus, w’here apart the High Gods
dwell!
VIO.
A.B.C.


DEAFNESS andNOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long- standing or
whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
jDeafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes:—“The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
The Well-Known and Hioiily-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Wavekley, writes : “lam happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. .1 hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
■“EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney,N.S.W.
*/
>£sx>
ds
WILL SECURE
YOU
A GOOD
POSITION
TaKe a Postal Course of Tut
ition in Shorthand, Trpewrit;
ing. BooKKeeping, Commercial;
Arithmetic, Mechanical o«
Electrical Engineering. Archl*
tecture and Building
tion, or Mechanical Drawing.
Stott and 'Hdares.
BUSINESS c COLLEGE,
Moore *Street f Sydney po»»
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
John Henry Whitton pleaded guilty
t’other day to a charge of theft from the ware-
house of his employers, E. W. Mills and Co., of
Wellington, Maoriland. The police report indi-
cated that J.H.W. (who possesses £5OOO apart
from his salary, by the way; also a motor car
and other things) had worked a systematic fraud
on his firm for at least two years, and the Judge
agreed that the evidence established the existence
of such a fraudulent system. Then the Mayor of
Wellington, and the Rev. Joshua Jones, in whose
church Whitton is a vestry man, and about 14
other prominent citizens stepped forward and
gave the prisoner a “character,” i.e., explained
how amazed they were to find he hadn’t got one.
And the Judge, after expressing “the regret and
sorrow he felt in seeing a gentleman of such
standing in such a position,” proceeded to admit
the persecuted one to probation. Now, was this
the precise sort of case, one wonders, that the
Maoriland Probation Act was designed to meet ?
THE ONLY WAY.
“ And do you never think seriously of getting married?"
“And It is the only way I do think of it, and it’s why I don’t,"
Maoriland Tourist Department received a
weird communication the other day. It came
from an individual on the other side of the planet,
He stated that he was a missionary, and he
wanted to know “ how it would do to try and get
a large lot of Bibles, New Testaments, religious
tracts, etc., carried through to your country.”
He evidently took the Maorilanders for heathens
of the worst type. If only he knew that every
second shop in M.L. is a book store, carrying a
large stock of Bibles, and that every second per-
son is either a prohibitionist or a fanatic yelling
for the immediate abolition of the tote !
If Mildura has not convinced all Aus-
tralia that there is a fortune in fruit-growing it
has at least solved one little problem of some im-
portance —and that is the best modus vivendi
’twixt the worker and his beer, until, anyhow, the
State or the municipality takes the liquor busi-
ness in hand. Mildura started on dead Prohibi-
tion lines, and consequently Mildura became
rotten with sly grog. Finally,
to stamp that out, it took the
business into its own hands
and started clubs. There
are three of them now—
the “ Goldtop,” the “Sil-
vertop, ” and the “ Toe-
riggers.” The “Toe-
r iggers’ ” club consists
of the bulk of the small
settlers and the work-
ers of the settlement.
It gets its beer from
Melbourne, keeps it in
a cool cellar, and re-
tails it at 3d. a pint.
It sells nothing that is
not true to brand ; it
pays its manager and
stewards liberal wages ;
it has billiard, card,
reading and writing rooms
for members. There are roaring fires
in the winter, and electric fans and
any quantity of ice in the summer.
The club enforces strict discipline.
If any member becomes offensively
drunk, or is shown to be drinking
to excess, it cuts his supply off for a
month. Its subscription is ss. per
year, and its last half-year’s profit
ran close up to £l7OO. It has a fair
building now, but purposes to go one
better next year. Much depends, no
doubt, upon how such a concern is run.
There have been similar clubs in
Western N.S.W. that have slowly
degenerated into drinking hells —the
decent members have “ pulled out,”
and those remained who simply
wanted their liquor cheap so that they
could get more of it for the money.
The best way to guard against that is
to make the municipality responsible.
Then the boozers couldn’t set them-
selves up in a club of their own. But,
when well-managed, the Mildura device
is a practical bit of co-operation, with some
advantages that even ordinary co-operation hasn’t
got.
* * * *
The pigtailed brother now smuggles opium
into the Common wealth by a very simple process.
Tins half-filled with the drug are dropped over-
board—if possible, on a rising tide—as an incoming
vessel enters the harbor, and the waiting con-
federates either pick them up as they wash ashore
or go out in a boat to meet them. Quite a little
fleet of opium was sighted recently drifting into
Watson’s Bay, and in the race between the
Customs people and a boatload of Chows the
white men got there first. Probably this is only
one of 3G ways in which opium comes in ; in fact,
the Customs have so many suspicions that they
think of having an officer on each Asiatic boat as
a permanent passenger.
A Melbourne coffee palace proprietor was
lately asked by P.M. Dwyer what excuse he had
for putting water in the milk he sold. He had no
excuse whatever, but he was a very indignant
milkseller nevertheless ; and he said he considered
that the inspectors had visited his establishment
under false pretences, because they didn’t tell
him who they were. Dwyer’s reply met the com-
plaint amply : “ There is such a thing as receiving
money under false pretences.” But the milk-and-
water vendor was unabashed : “ I hope your
Worship will deal with the case with the contempt
it deserves. It is a paltry matter, and I should
not be brought here like a criminal.” But this
“criminal” had met the wrong sort of beak:
“The matter is simple enough. Instead of
getting the natural product they asked for, you
give the inspectors an adulterated article. You
are fined £lO, with 265. costs.” The indignant
adulterator didn’t say whether Dwyer, P.M., was
contemptuous enough to suit him. Perhaps he
was. A man who sells one part of water to
every four parts of milk would probably not worry
much about a £lO fine. But he would worry a
good deal about three months’ imprisonment
without the option.
* * * *
There are woods of high mercantile value,
Rare woods of great beauty and price,
And woods of such close grain and hardness
As resists all white ants, rats, and mice.
But the Woods of all woods to be lauded,
(You ail will agreb, I am sure),
Is the Woods to whom mankind’s indebted,
For the oidy Great Peppermint Cure.*
Marriageable young ladies in search of a
home should note that a wood-cutter in the
Bendigo (Vic.) district has a large notice on his
front door, “ Wanted a wife; apply early. As
is only proper, the eailv wife catches the wood-
cutter. There are people, however, who prefer a
late wife to any other variety, but there is no
accounting for tastes.
A STRANGER TO DECEIT.
THE JOHNNIE: “To he quite plain with you,
Miss Pert ”
MISS PERT (gushingly): “ Oh, my dear Mr.
Mugg, I’m sure you couldn’t he otherwise.”
Steadily this poor old world flattens out.
The recent great fall of rock at South Head,
Sydney, is one more item in the process —a very
small item, but enough to serve as a reminder.
Ma State has been robbed again. The sea eats
away the coast. The rains and the rivers wash
down the mountains, and cast them into the great
deep. The Bondi sewer helps to carry solid
matter into the sea. The throwing of ashes,
potato skins, bones, and empty bottles overboard
from ships is a steady throwing of our all-too-
scarce land into the all-too-plentiful ocean. The
sinking of ships hurries on the process. So does
burial at sea. When the land is flattened out
there is enough ocean to cover the whole globe at
least half-a-mile deep, and though half-a-mile of
water may not look much on top of 7000 odd
miles of land, it will be more than enough.
Already the bit of land which once joined Aus-
tralia to Asia is gone. Likewise, the bit which
joined England to France. The North Sea and
the Baltic are both recent encroachments.
Atlantis is a lost continent. The Polynesian
isles are the relics of another. The strait between
Australia and Tasmania is a bite which the sea has
taken out of the land. A time may yet come when
man will try to keep the sea off the last dead-flat
continent, by erecting a barricade of gin cases and
sand bags round the coast, and when that goes the
human race will retire from business, and “ a
shoreless ocean tumble round the globe.”
* * * *
An old identity writes :
Sydney University threatens to become notorious for
its imported eccentricities. It began with a Lieut-Col.
of Royal Engineers, who made himself illustrious by
stating in the public press that the battle-value of good
rifle-shooting is not worth considering. Then it imported
the immortal Jordan, and Anally it brought along
MacMillan Brown, from Maoriland, with a cranky theory
about the evolution of a race of blacks in Australia. Here
it is as the S.M. Herald interprets it: —
“ The Northern Territory cannot be occupied by the
present race of whites, because the violet rays of the sun
have been shown to destroy the nerves. The violet rays
are used by Finsen and others for the eradication of lupus
and other diseases. If the rays are so powerful they will
destroy the nerve-tissue. Therefore, it is not only the
heat, but also the light that makes the white race in the
Northern Territory impossible.”
If that is Prof. Brown’s reasoning, or anything like a fair
summary of it, it sets forth not only that the white race
but also the black is impossible in the Territory, and
more than that, no land animal with a brain and a spinal
cord can live there. Why the robust white man, well-
protected with clothing, should not have more chance of
surviving the action of the alleged “violet rays” than
the weakly and unclothed black, the professor does not
state, nor does he give his authority for the alleged in-
fluence of the violet rays.
And his yarn overlooks the quite surprising fact that
all the time the white man, “ who can’t live in the Terri-
tory,” is living there, and has been doing it for ever so
many years. There may not be many of him, but 4000
healthy white men are as good for purposes of proof as
4,000,000. Moreover, the white man is, and has been for
many years, on each side of the Territory, in Queensland
and Westralia, and north of it in Java ; and he has hung
out for centuries in exactly the same latitudes in South
Africa and South America. And in all these places
he has been under the same sun and in the same kind of
light. Surely a paper or a professor that thinks the sun
shines with a kind of light in the Northern Territory that
is quite different from the kind of light it uses in the same
latitudes in Queensland and Westralia and South Africa
and Bolivia and Peru, doesn’t expect to be taken seriously.
* * * *
Whooping cough is a very dangerous dis-
ease unless treated properly. Statistics show that
there are more deaths from it than from scarlet
fever. You cannot mistake the symptoms—pro-
tracted coughing, worse at night—peculiar sound
or whoop—labored expectoration of mucus—appar-
ent suffocation after coughing. Give Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy at once, repeating the dose
frequently. The quick relief afforded by Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy makes it a favorite with
mothers of small children. It liquefies the tough
mucus, making it easier to expectorate, keeps the
cough loose, and counteracts any tendency toward
pneumonia. This remedy has been used in many
epidemics of whooping cough, and always with
perfect success. There is no danger whatever
from the disease when it is freely given. It
contains nothing injurious, and may be given as
confidently to a baby as to an adult.*
“ Coalopolis ” : Was confronted with the
following horrifying E. News placard in George-
street (22/7/’O7): —
FRIGHTFUL RAILWAY ACCIDENT.
EXCURSION TRAINS IN COLLISION.
MANY KILLED AND INJURED.
AT SYDNEY RAILWAY STATION.
NEARLY A PANIC.
Then I ran, like the fresh, spring antelope, for
the nearest tram going stationwards, and duly
arrived at the scene of carnage. Considering
the alleged extensive death-roll, there were
very few persons about. Looked everywhere,
but saw no sign of bloodshed, so thought
I’d buy a paper and get details. Then I found
that the poster referred to two separate occur-
rences—the one a railway accident in U.S.A.,
the other a comparatively small row, disturbance,
or scrap at Sydney railway station. Discovered,
on close inspection, that the News had salved
what does duty for its conscience by scratching a
thin, black line between “Many Killed and In-
jured ” and “At Sydney Railway Station.”
Would be interested to learn if the News regards
this sort of thing as business or just plain robbery,
* * * <
Melbourne Argus publishes a list of dead
City Churches with details of their fate. The
Independent Church (Thomas O’Dell’s) is now a
tinsmith’s factory. The Presbyterian Church
(Rev J. Ballantyne’s) in the same street, opposite
the Hospital, was vacated in 1874, was for a time
used as the Insolvency Court, and is now the
Masonic Hall. St Enoch’s, Collins-street (Rev.
A. M. Ramsay’s), was sold by the mortgagees, and
converted into an Assembly Hall. The Congrega-
tional Church, Victoria-parade, has become apartof
St. Vincent’s Hospital. Chalmers Church (Adam
Cairns’), on Eastern Hill, is the site of an R.C.
educational institution. St. James’ old cathedral
is now surrounded by massive piles of buildings,
and can only be found by the worshipper who
seeks it with all his heart. Respecting the
Chalmers Church, the sale to the Roman Catholics
was achieved by stratagem. When it was found
that the Church would have to go, the remnant
of the congregation declared that the R.C.’s should
not have the property—Adam Cairns would not
rest in his grave if it were so disposed of, So the
place was sold to an earnest Protestant from
Sydney (he was a colonel among other things)
and he promptly re-sold to Archbishop Carr,
And whether Adam Cairns rests in his grave or
not no man can tell. The grave hasn’t been
opened.
* * • *
The drapery man isn’t the only sweater.
The N.S.W. Bankruptcy Court lately elicited the
fact that the Borough of West Narrabri (the
wealthy Buchanan’s Killarney Estate hangs there-
abouts) gave its combined council clerk, inspector
of nuisances, and maintenance man the sumptuous
salary of thirty whole shillings weekly. Up to a
few months ago, the screw was twelve munificent
shillings more, but the Council became shocked
at the way the money was going out, and the
amount was reduced. The officer went broke —it
is hard to see what more the archangel Gabriel
could have done under like conditions ; and the
official assignee said that the only asset in sight
was “household furniture £3 175.” Seventy-
seven shillings’ worth of household furniture isn’t
much, but when a man with seven young children
is toiling for a crowd of hog-like aldermen at a
remuneration of 30s. a week it is as much as could
be expected.
THE WISE CHILD,
“ You young devil! I saw you twist that pore
cat’s tail."
“O, father! Are you seeing those ’ orrible things
again? Do give up the drink—for mother’s
sake."
Although the Associated Colliers managed
to force the union coal lumpers of Sydney
to agree to work with the blacklegs, no
one is foolish enough to suppose that the empty-
ing out of the dirty water will not be resumed imme-
diately the clean “is available. And the employer
is not wholly to blame for it either. It is one of
the natural results of blacklegging, and as nature
will take its course, the blacklegs must be emptied
out when the strike is over. It is only the fact
that the unionists are the better men that makes
the employers want them back again ; while the
first-class unionist who will return a bigger profit
is available, the employer is not going to he
foolish enough to employ the indifferent blackleg,
and thereby cut down his own profits. So the
non-unionist is petted while the row is on; then
he is tolerated ; then he is glared at; then he is
cold-shouldered ; and, if he hasn’t taken the hint
when that last stage is readied, he is plain sacked,
and goes forth to make a fresh start blacklegging
at some other business.
* * * *
A Melbourne man discovered, the other
day, that if his neighbor’s poultry trespassed on
his garden, he might lawfully destroy the goose,
but not the duck. The law apparently regards
the goose as a rival in some way.
THE DRUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sound of the trumpets was muffled, sobbing
Through eddies of fog that rose and curled —
Down in the mist a drum was throbbing
To the saddest time in the whole wide world.
Down in the roadway we heard the gravel
Crunch ’neath the tramp of pacing men,
The stamp of hoofs and a tossing snaffle,
And then the sob of the drum again.
The grey mist covered them well in the valley ;
Like a level sea its surface showed,
Hiding the heroes of sortie and sally
And that which they carried along the road.
The grieving music that Time has hallowed
Set the pace of the marching men.
The trumpets quavered ; and then there followed
The solemn beat of the drum again.
The sun rose over the mists, and glittered
On windows set on the highest slope ;
Birds through the clear air called and twittered ;
The blue sky spoke of a deathless hope.
The sunlight reddened with sweet persistence
Rimu and punga, wattle and gum.
Was thg rest but a dream ? Away in the distance
Numbing and slow went the sobbing drum.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


RHEUMATISM
Or Neuralgia, Gout, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Lumbago,
Anaemia, Insomnia, Etc.,
ABSOLUTELY CURED BY . , .
MEUMAZNETIC Treatment
(Patented.)
Recent development of Medical Science. Adopted by
Medical Men. If not yet available at your Chemists
write direct for particulars to
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia ), 45-47 Melville Street, Hobart.
ś
A GRAND BOOT!
' I 'HE Best Boot that was ever made at the price.
~~ A fine Box Calf, soft, pliable, wonderfully
durable and stylish boot; it is a marvel of value, and
will easily stand three soles. Goodyear welted—
polishes like patent, and is in all sizes.
Price, 16/6 a pair.
pos g£ffi.
Order
Form
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
I enclose 16/6 for a pair of boots as shown. My size is
(State whether broad, medium or narrow toes.
Name
Address
PEAPES AND CO. ETD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Concerning the picturesque “Big Hole”
swindle, the Australian Star (Sydney) made
a ton of copy out of the case, and at time of
writing had published 10 articles giving the
details of the take-down. Exactly where the
Star obtained all the letters and so forth is
not clear, but it made the case so notorious
that Fraser’s two grown-up sons, who held
rather good positions in Sydney, and were
able to assist their mother a little to support
her eight young children, lost their billets. They
were thrown out on account of their celebrated
father. Rumor has not accused the Star of
having sent the family even the value of the 10
articles published up to date. It is now
generally understood that the detective genius
who reported Fraser as having got between
£BOOO and £lO,OOO out of the swindle had
his leg pulled pretty hard. The cheerful
readiness with which a man will magnify his
misfortunes is one of the worst features of human
vanity. He likes to pose, in Shakspearian style,
as “ a fellow that hath had losses.” Walter Besant
struck the same tendency when he made Mrs.
Bormalack, of the boarding-house, introduce the
miserable elderly junior clerk as Mr. Josephus
Coppin, “who has been unfortunate.” Fraser
seems to have been a charming letter writer, and
contrived to make his dissertations on mining
quite interesting. Apparently he knew his
people fairly well, and they seem by the stuff he
ladled out to them to have been mostly Deformers.
Here are some hunks :
Cripple Hills (sinuous leads) formation has a name in
German which does not seem to have an expression in
English, but which, being interpreted, means a form that,
having first been burned by the earth’s internal fires, and
then disintegrated by the earth’s internal steam, was
finally forced through fissures made by enormous pressure
through the earth’s crust.. .. Mr. Stangar assures us that
everything is quite secure, but some of our company are
very uneasy as to the outlook with regard to Australian
politics generally, and N.S.W. politics in particular. At
this distance it looks certain that your Labor members
could alter the whole face of your statute books in an
afternoon’s sitting. ...A Socialistic Parliament, as the
outcome of your next elections, would shut down every
British-worked mine on the Australian continent. You
must not wonder at the uneasiness which some of ours
feel at the contemplation of such a possibility, and you
must own there is color in the possibility.
This sort of thing tickled the ears of the Anti-
boshers who were in the net, and who were nicely
cleaned out by this Anti-bosh gentleman while
they were being advised to keep a sharp watch
?? £j ie doings of those awful robbers, Jimmy
McGowen and the Labor party,
* * * •
“Vulcan” writes with a shade of irri-
tation :—•
The illuminating thing about “ Itan ” (B. 11/7/’O7) is his
brilliantly susta.ned inaccuracy. I am connected with
members of the Bagmen’s Association, and know many
Democratic sympathisers therein, and, as a whole,
haven t found them more solidly Anti-Sosh than any
other not-directly-interested class. True, bagmen get
sea-travelling concessions-—so do sportsmen, actors,
school teachers, hospital nurses, turf spielers, and other
persons who travel regularly or in quantity. Allegation
that bagmen get special railway reductions is ridiculous.
Without his season ticket, he pays the ordinary fare, and
“Itan” himself can get a yearly ticket for the same
price as the most favored bagman. Also, “ Itan ” may
have sleeping berths at reduced prices by purchasing them
by the dozen, as the Ass. does for its members. Hotel
concessions apply to members and outsiders alike—
regularity and quantity again ! Statement that
the big warehouses will not employ outsiders,” and
that “it is hopeless to trade outside the ranks,”
is pure drivel. Some of the biggest men on the
lines don’t belong to the „Association, and hun-
dreds of others successfully work outside it. Judging by
the fluency of “ Itan’s” remarks, getting “inside” cer-
tainly isn’t “as easy as telling lies,” but the sole condi-
tions of entry are that a candidate must be at least 21
years old, have represented a wholesale house for six
months immediately before application, and be proposed
and seconded by a member. The “exclusive union”
admitted 3-13 new members on these conditions during
the first half of 1907 (Jan.-June report). The Ass. endows
bursaries, scholarships, etc., for members’ children, has
a free mortuary fund (£75 allotment last year), sick and
indigence funds, and old-age pensions for members and
members’widow's, and, naturally isn’t inviting an indis-
criminate rush to share these benefits. That’s w'hy it has
to define a “traveller,” but the definition is "simple
enough.
* * * »
Judkins ought to rejoice over this Papuan
regulation:—
Any native w'ho plays cards for money or money’s worth,
or who gambles in any other way, commits a forbidden
act, and shall be liable as follows For the first offence,
to a fine of not more than £l, or imprisonment with hard
labor for not more than one month. For a second offence,
to a fine of not less than £l, and not more than £3, or
imprisonment with hard labor for not less than one
month, and not more than three months. For a third,
or any subsequent offence, to a fine of not less than £3,
and not more than £5, or imprisonment with hard labor
for not less than three months, and not more than six
months.
It was the holy saw-millers and other native-labor
employers who steered that regulation into the
code ; for Tommy Papua would, as a rule, rather
play euchre under a shady palm than hump tim-
ber or tinned dog any-day. So it is provided that
the fines imposed on “laborers under contract”
may be deducted from their wages, and the size of
the hole that a £5 fine makes in a third-offender’s
annual wages is so big that what is left only makes
a rim round the cavern.
Maoriland at last makes a move to com-
plete its famous Midland Railway—Christchurch
to the West Coast. A tender to construct 5J
miles of tunnel under Arthur’s Pass has been
accepted, and the price is £599,794. The con-
tractors are all Maorilanders. At present, the
railway plods up from Greymouth to Otira,
struggling along for miles in the shingle of a river
bed. Then, after the traveller has filled himself
with victuals at Otira, it is an afternoon’s drive
to bleak, lone, wind-blown Bealey, where yon
shiver through the night. Next day, you take a
header for about six hours down into the
Canterbury Plains, and strike bottom| in time
to catch the Christchurch train. If your vehicle
bounces when it strikes bottom the train
waits till it finishes bouncing. It is a splen-
didly picturesque drive, and even the joy of
being stifled in 5| miles of tunnel isn’t likeiy to
attract the tourist in any large quantities away
from the old coach-track. The route is seen
at its best going from east to west. Then you
take the real big grade—the one where the coach
goes down the wall of the mountain like a fly
going down a hotel —from the top, and the plunge
is wonderful and exhilarating. The coach is said
to usually turn two somersaults going down, but
that is somewhat of an exaggeration.
“Andante”: Be the alleged doubtful
morality of the N.S.W. State school teacher, the
fatherly Department goes even farther than stated
(B. 4/7/’O7). In the case of small country schools,
where the nearest resident may be half-a-mile or
more away, it sometimes happens that there is no
attendance on very wet days. When this hap-
pens the teacher is instructed to forward a report,
stating at what hour he arrived at his post, and at
what hour he left; and, as plain evidence that
the teacher’s unsupported word will not be taken,
the report must be certified by the signatures of
at least two responsible residents.
* * ■* m
The smart Yankee “organising” secretary
of the Victorian Y.M.C. A. is growing monotonous
with his glorious schemes for collecting cash. A
report of his recent catchpenny proceedings at
Bendigo and elsewhere disgusted a number of
Melbourne capitalists who have given handsome
subscriptions privately towards a building fund
that seems to have no end. The Y.M.C.A. is
regarded by many people—especially merchants
and other employers of “genteel” labor—as a
very good cause, provided it keeps the mem-
bers from sinful manipulation of the ledgers, etc.
But it isn’t good enough to justify the eternal
importunities of a begging secretary, who pre-
sumably draws commission on his “orders” in
addition to a fat salary. American methods of
raising Australian money for highly moral pur-
poses are not more deserving than Ada Ward’s
devices for raising a controversy. For that
matter, the method in Ada’s madness is the most
amusing methodism on the market, and The
Bulletin would like to hear her propounding the
theory that no Young Man Christian can be saved
from Sin until he has given it a fair chance to
enchain him.
* * * *
Nothing succeeds like success, and
Angier’s Emulsion is eminently successful in
curing coughs and lung affections. One day’s trial
will convince you of its soothing, cough-allaying,
lung-healing powers. Send 4d. postage for a free
sample bottle. The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.,
7 Barrack Street, Sydney.*
The Melbourne thief has an alert profes-
sional mind. He misses few opportunities. The
other day there was a collision in Elizabeth-street,
and a buggy was wrecked. When the busy helpers
had cleared the horse from the ruins, and while
they were still spraying the damaged owner, a
kindly soul undertook to hold the nag. He
is still holding it; the trouble is that no one seems
to know what county he is holding it in. The
horse left no address ; neither did the man. It is
firmly believed that the buggy would also have
been stolen if it hadn’t been an unsaleable wreck.
** *■■*■
Moved by Dr. Springthorpe’s charges of
gross and continued neglect, Vic. Chief Secretary
Peacock threatens to inquire deeply into the
management of the Bent State’s lunatic asylums.
For a start, he has learnt that attendants at the
big metropolitan asylum at Kew work 74 and 65
hours onalternateweeks, besidesdoingreserveduty
of three hours on each of two nights. Out of this
145 hours a fortnight, however, they get time off
for meals when on duty—viz., half-an-hour for
breakfast, the same for dinner, and 15 minutes for
tea. What a nice, placid, forbearing, nerve-
soothing attendant for the insane that attendant
must be who is just finishing his 13J hours day
and has inside him three bolted meals !
Edward VII. is about to establish a new
decoration for “underground workers.” This
doesn’t mean that the rabbit, or the subterranean
political engineer, or the fellow who burrows
under another man’s job will be decorated. The
statement refers to a medal Edward proposes to
hang on individuals who drag people out of holes.
Soon Edward VII. will have tacked portions of
the alphabet, or metal discs like the thing you
get as a guarantee that your luggage will turn up
at the other end of the journey, on the majority
of his subjects. Even the public servants who
attend to the sewers, if they stick to the business
long enough, are liable to become 1.5.0. (not Inde-
fatigable Sewerage Officer). When the King is not
opening shows and champagne, or trying to pick
the winner, he retires to his office and thinks out
a new decoration, medal, certificate, or button.
Balmain has committed the sublime
stupidity of deciding for an electric lighting
plant of its own, instead of arranging to take its
current from the Central Power House of the
Sydney City Council. While it is a step in the
right direction to substitute electricity for the
mixture delivered through the mains of that big
cuttle-fish, the Australian Gaslight Co., Balmain
should have had a little more sense, and realised
the obvious fact that electricity can be generated
at far less cost in one big central power-house
than in a multiplicity of small scattered plants.
The fatuous policy of erecting seventeen power-
houses where one would do the work arises
partly from municipal vanity. Every petty
suburb wants to have its own works,
with its own staff to bully, and its own
opening ceremony, and its own mayor, tricked
out in a ’possum rug, posing in the limelight.
Also, the policy arises in part from the loan of
the municipal ear to the pushing young men who
represent the importers of electrical machinery.
These bagmen never cease to breathe into the
bowl at the side of the municipal head that it
would be much more satisfactory to be entirely
independent of the city, and that the way to
arrive at that state of disunion and disorganisa-
tion is to buy Jubble’s latest plant. The result
of having all these needless plants to keep up is
that electricity costs Id. a unit more than it need
do. It also means that the suburbs totter under a
needless debt. But by rigidly refusing to have any •
thing to do with Sydney, the suburban alderme .
postpone the day of municipal union and of the .■
own extinction. It is no wonder that Sydney is
the home of such Anti-Federalism as is floating
about. It is itself split up into more than 40
petty municipal hatreds and disorganisations, and
when its aldermen can’t even see the advantages
of a united Sydney, it is no wonder that the class
from which they are drawn doesn’t rise to the
much bigger idea of a united Australia.
* * * *
“ Wang,” from Melbourne :
In this city the boshter and the bonzer are going the
way of all flesh.
Another claimant for push favor has arisen, and routed
the old-timers with great loss.
Now the bloke who is something out of the common is
a blitherer.
Some I have heard called sizzlers, being some relation
to ’Ot Stuff, I presume.
But the blitherer is predominant.
The other day I heard a blime-Bill allude to a rainbow-
apparelled damsel as Hot Coffee.
1 have also heard the frantic football barracker, what
time he waved his striped hanky or banner in the air,
desire his favorite player “ ter bog inter him, Slimy.”
“ Bog into it ” is a first favorite expression here just
now.
I shall now leave off bogging into this paragraph, and!
go to bed.
• * • *
“ Melb.” writes :
The Protestant decrepitude in the inner square mile of
this city is evinced by the revelations about Dr. Bevan’s
church. This, with Dr. Marshall’s and Pastor Carey’s,
forms the trio of fashionable Collins-street churches, all
more or less in the soup. The Anglican cathedral com-
pletes a quartette, all in utterly miserable dependence
on the Sabbath morning trains to fetch them some ghost
or semblance of a congregation. Outsiders did not com-
prehend the true inwardness of Bent’s declaration, a
couple of years ago, when the Sabbatarians worried him,
that he would stop all the Sunday trains. That would
knock away the last props from the above four churches.
Some suburban preachers would be pleased, but the bulk of
the Sabbatarians were staggered at the idea of being taken
at theirword. The prospect of fourgreat churches closing
from complete lack of business broke them right up.
On a recent Sunday morning, Bevan’s church only held
80 people, whereas it seats 1200. It is, perhaps, the
most superb of all the Commonwealth conventicles in its
interior painting- and gilding, and it makes a brave show
outside with its campanile. Contrast this dreariness
with the Homan Catholic prosperity in Melbourne City.
My house isabout in the centre of the quadrilateral formed
by the churches of St. Patrick, St. Francis, St.
Mary and the Sacred Heart. I can reach any one of
them in ten minutes. The average Sunday'morning
attendance in St. Patrick’s is 2000 ; St. Francis’, 1000 ;
St. Mary’s, 1000; and the Sacred Heart, 700.
If Cardinal Moran preached at St. Patrick’s Mass next
Sunday, you might expect 4000, and, with a bigger
attraction, the congregation would rise to 6000. Moderate
people must sympathise with Dr. Bevan. His congrega-
tion wants a Judkins, or something like that—a Punch
and Juddy show. Bevan isn’t actual enough, with mere
Scripture exposition. It is a case of giving Brough and
Boucicault when the clamor is for William Anderson and
Bland Holt. The scholarly Lambley has just had to give
up the Unitarian fight after a decade of it, which is
another case in point.
« • * *
Melbourne seems to be producing a lot of
alleged charitable institutions that bestow a very
little charity for a whole lot of payment. The
other day nasty remarks were made about the-
Macedon Home for Consumptives ; and now it is;
discovered that the Talbot Colony for Epileptics,,
which has 50 beds and several hundred applicants
to start with, is admitting only those who can pay
a weekly sum, while “provision is being made in
the shape of more special accommodation for
applicants who are prepared to pay full fees.”
These full fees are understood to amount to £3 3s.
a week. It would be worth knowing whether the
generous donor of the 160 acres on which the
colony lives, and the smaller, but perhaps equally
generous, subscribers of guineas and half-guineas,
intended their benefactions for those who can
afford three guineas a week, to the exclusion of
sufferers who can scarcely raise as many shillings.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord North cote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
ENIGMA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You are so sweet.
You look at me with your wide, limpid eyes,
And my eyes search in them—as in far skies.
As in far skies my soul can never reach ;
I read in them an untranslated speech.
Sphinx-like, you smile away what my eyes ask,
Until I question, is it all a mask ?
Are you so sweet ?
You are so true.
Your feet stray not in byways damp with moss,
No shadows fling their waverings across
The high, white throning of your maiden state—
A thing serene, unmoved, inviolate.
Yet —sometimes when a reckless word I speak,
Old mem’ries seem to redden on your cheek —
Are you so true ?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
TRE BARD TO HIS LAND LADY
The flower that once was you ,
It blossomed lon£, a£o ;
The woman whom \ Knew
I now no longer Know.
You were a rare perfume,
You were a tender air,
Y°u were a Rose m bloom ,
crown in a garden fair.
Y'ou had. the carriage free
Of E v <b in paradise ,
The lips of |_a!a£e.
y\ndjviorm jjscTs eye.s.
You only I adored;
T° y°u 1 san&. my fays;
Y ou £pve me bed and board _
I £ave you fame and praise.
Island here in the street.
out in the cruel cold:
you are not now the sweet
Woman ] Knew of old .
I will not, in just ra£e,
Curse where i once did bless:
I Pity your old a£e,
And lonesome ugliness.
I TP on Australia’s breast
vJ Y°Dieht i’ll slumber free:
§he is the last and best
Landlady known tome.
V.J.D.


2P >3JS-"
Chief S«c fe^roeK
v IS in Con)n)Awd o(.
\ -ft)e Govern me *»t”
r\ Bill 'fevnend
y lnfawt i-'f c [*•
Protection \cX,
Ih Cowfen'hon, MHeviije
Joined vvi/ft -ttfe "free+Va^e
“IWe
r\|[cw
fth'^
V f.
2\ll / -
I'ioljT - ta+"/ y
~t)« II hV* +o ]>«/
I not' +o /
<* t
\ \KiTI rnore N.
\Wv\ K'<As jV.
\M\\v he'll HVe!"
•. ’ — "bit _ "hnr) »
'but' J> le»>ty of- tlrne -to fi II oof~ —
[74^^ do ! "
J-f
y& The J)ry uh '—" A* Vss! Hofy
A not a
friend ! fVotyjinc
stVA-y SbihsteJs' lo 'ifcr
II f°fl ‘T e
dsfd
— v CaJI TVn^!" ~fi?e Lydy • RigVf~~o-,ltac K!
/ Ch• *iA IS «;»*,
"$€ Cry. i7ow is for rfe
V ’: CU* hittionvf) I
' A Cofr,j>leh J)l&,b't'
l>C€v) found j)oo(<ie
College
t
u
A h y J>rinc if>aj of "
College , who j>r'i4es
%i»»)S«lf °« T>eing u | s
to «l A+e Should gei**
o» "this |
Chl'Vch Ins .
- B 1£ i\!TS
ri^El^ULVi'
"My - HeUn [ j ”
P^Tnot
WoRKIMQ. W
"ThC &on fry f\rty is beginning t©
—— *io nrorc Oood
v Things for* !
(>s*)
FEDERAL AND UNFEDERAL ITEMS.


Coming events east, their Shadows
before them.”
There is to he a large addition
to the Customs Duties on
Jewellery and Gold Watches.
Labor says : Tax the man that
can afford to buy a Gold
Watch.
We suggest buy NOW, and so
save paying the increased
prices.
s
PS
*
GENT’S 18-Ct. GOLD
HUNTING LEVER—
Fully Jewelled —
£l2 12s.
“ F. & R.” WATCHES are the Best the World has produced at Low Prices.
PLAIN FIGURES.
STRICTLY CASH.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
II “ okl I* l s J XS' J ' H ““
23 Hunter Street.
David iStorer vSons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark] IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
BLUE.
Kept by ...
Alvlv MERCHANTS
(Eh STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
.SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Falder It is true that the in uch-adver-
tised gohanua oil is good and penetrating (it eats
leather away), but few people know how to get it
properly. This is how : In the autumn (he is
nice and plump then) shoot your “ go,” preferably
the biggest one you can find. Turn him on liis
back, cut him open and pull out the fat, which
you will find clinging loosely to the intestines,
and looking like a bunch of coarse yellow grapes.
Put this into a sound tin or very thick glass
bottle, and put it in the sun—not on a fire on any
account, as that takes all the strength out of it.
As it melts, dilute it with half its size of turpen-
tine, and put the result in a thick jar or bottle,
and stand it in a cool place till wanted. When
rubbing it in for rheumatism, use a glove or rag,
as the “go” oil has a tendency to penetrate into
the finger bones and make them brittle.
“G-.5.K.”: The country along the stock
route from Pack saddle to Milparinka (N.8.W.)
is full of traces of early Australian explorers. At
Mount Poole, near Milparinka, there are a lot of
places mentioned in Australian annals. The
Mount Poole homestead overlooks Sturt’s Water-
hole (Rocky Glen Dep6t), which is merely a soak
in Evelyn Creek. On the banks of this creek
stands the pyramidal headstone over Surveyor
Poole’s grave. This grave is sheltered by a
tree, on the trunk of which remains the
inscription—“J.P.lB4s”—which was cut by
Poole’s comrades. Mr. Lang, owner of Mount
Poole station, had the existing headstone placed
over the grave. Within a few yards of Poole’s
resting-place, an indentation in the ground marks
the spot where Sturt had his underground room.
About half a mile further away is Rocky Glen.
This glen is particularly beautiful, the precipi-
tous rocks that form the banks of the creek just
there being of most fantastic formation. On the
summit of Mount Poole there remains a large
rocky cairn, several feet square at the base, and
rising to a point. This cairn was built by Sturt’s
men, probably to pass away the time. At the
homestead there is an interesting relic —the side
of one of the boats which the explorers dragged
with them, being under the impression that there
were large water tracts or even an inland sea to
be crossed. This relic now forms part of the
front verandah of the homestead.
* * * *
“ Janor ” writes (this controversy stops
somewhere hereabouts)
Re “Jeff” and the jackass that laughs (B. 27/6/’O7).
The man who obscures the landscape with his chest and
says loudly “ once and for all ” in a Johnsonian voice, is
mostly an advocate, not a witness. Years ago I held the
same opinion as “Jeff ” regarding the kookaburran menu,
but the smiler’s many thefts of fish which I had thrown
carelessly on the river bank while fishing gave me doubts
on the point, for those fish were as dead as they ever
would be. Also they are still dead. Later, I saw scores
of jackasses lying dead on the Morass station (V.) through
feeding on carcases of kangaroo poisoned for the dis-
couragement of dingoes. Not long ago, being plagued
by crows, I made an attempt to poison them by
placing junks of medicated wallaby on the garden
fence, The crow wasn’t taking any, but the jackass
was, and finding two of him stiff in the garden I re-
moved the baits. Therefore lam quite sure that “ Jack ”
doesn’t always kill his own tucker. As to the bird carry-
ing-snakes aloft, as “Jeff” relates, it is strange that
everyone who spins that yarn gives the show away just
as “ Jeff” does by emphasising the extraordinary num-
ber of times the bird drops the reptile. How many times
must a snake fall before it is quite undone? Let “ Jeff ”
put one in his pocket, climb a 100 ft. tree and drop it (not
the tree), and he’ll find that a broom would be re-
quired to gather up the fragments. Once saw a
hunted snake fall down a shaft 110 ft. deep, and descending
shortly afterwards found but a smudge on the shaft-
bottom. The lifting power of birds is but a matter of
wing-area, and in that respect “ Jack ” is a good few
feathers behind the hawk or eagle. Asa matter of fact,
his rising flight is slow and labored. Have filled half-
tame laughers so full of frogs that they couldn’t rise at
all. Therefore, if they ever do lift snakes they must be
dashed small ones. Observation impresses me with the
belief that the jackass has as true an appreciation of the
snake as the human has, and does not laugh too close to
the long, footless sneak. Even then he falls in at times,
for on two occasions I've found full-grown kookaburras
inside of carpet snakes. Come to think of it, there’s a
demnition lot of difference between a snake’s lunch and a
snake-laden airship.
4 * * -Jr
“Jimmie Pannikin”: “G.S.K.” shows
more accuracy in discussing the Afghans’ .adher-
ence to their religious rites than he does when he
discourses about the gates West-o’-Darlinc.
Abdid Sooghee Bhag, Ram Jam Tin and Co. are
whales for the careful
observance of reli-
gious rites. Over
and over again, I
tried to induce
Afghans to be
photographed
with their
camels; but
they almost
invariably
declined to
be snapped,
saying that
their reli-
gion forbade
such a pro-
ceeding.
They did not
mind how often
their camels were
photographed. They
would even caparison the king
camel most gorgeously in order to have
his picture “took” ; but they would not be “in
the picture.” One cute amateur artist at Billv-
cannia successfully snapped some Afghans at
dinner, and again during loading operations. He
could not resist the temptation to show these
photographs to the Asiatics, and thereupon he had
to sprint back to the township to save his hide.
He was never allowed to visit the camel camp
afterwards.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Talk about horse-sense! I
once owned a moke ending in a bob-tail, and with
it he could open anything. He used to back him-
self up to the gate, slip the brief tail in where he
couldn’t get his nose, and up would go the latch.
Then I had to go after him. If the latch were
low down, he would sit down to get at it.
Once I put a heavy iron hoop over a gate, high up
where I thought lie couldn’t get his bit of tail.
He got away, arid when I came upon him, feed-
ing peacefully with his behind turned my way, 1
failed at first to recognise him. He had the hoop
jammed between his joint of tail and his rump.
His tail was, under certain circumstances, the
hardest to lift ever I struck. No boy could raise
it to put the crupper on, but a girl-infant could
hoist that tail to take the crupper off. I got rid
of him to a Chinaman.
FOR HIM.
BEE CUTURIST: "Now, then, boys, come along and help me to move those bee-hives — there's
absolutely no danger."
Inventory taken by a Koroit (Vic.) fanner
of the contents of the stomach of a young cow :
Four pounds of quartz, a quantity of large bones,
numerous pieces of glass of different hades, a number of
fclie brass parts of cartridge-cases, nails, fencing stapies,
brass, lead, sandstone, seashells, clothes buttons, and
plated sleeve-links.
After this, goats, emus, city aldermen, and such-
like trash should retire to a back seat when the
eating prize is being awarded.
THE BILLIARD-PLAYE R TOPHET.-
THE “ ANCHOR ” STROKE.
Years back, when the railway was being
pushed on northwards from Armidale (N.S.W.),
the navvies, as usual, boasted some “scrappers.”
One in particular made himself so famous as a
mixed slogger and drinker that when he died Ids
mates erected a tablet over his grave, using what
had at one time been a publican’s signboard, i t
was daubed over with whitewash, and bore the
simple legend—‘ 1 Sacred to the Memory of John
Smith.” But the bleak winds of the north, and
the winter rains of many years have swept off the
whitewash, and anyone passing Dundee Cemetery
may now make out a weatherworn notification at
a grave head : “ Licensed to sell fermented and
spirituous liquors.”
“ Cross Nibs ” tells a tale of fraud :
“ Lor’blime, ’e is a bonza, there’s no kid.” I was
addressed by the gentleman sitting; alongside of me. He
carried fur upon his coat and a brace of moribund rabbits
in his band. We occupied the rear seat of a tram, and
our tickets permitted a view of the terminus. The fore-
going- remark concerned the tram-conductor. “Y’r
wouldn’t think us two wuz comrades in misforchin wonce,
would ’yer? Well, we wuz. That’s Skaler —’n’ the
toughest bib ov ’ide I’ve travelled with. I ’umped th’
bundle with ’im down th’ Darlin’, ’n’ there wuz no cliarnce
of a perish when ’e wuz with y’r. ’E uster carry three
sets o’ bags f’r tucker, ’n’ always ’ad ’em occupied.
Carryin’ too many glad character bills, faked by ’imself,
nearly eroded ’im wonce. ’E passed one to a jumbuck
grower, ’ummin’ ’im up as a special food boiler, ’n’ scored
a job as wool ’awk’s cook. A bag o’ flour ’n’ a stack ov
vegetables got mucked up, ’n’ a big ginger cook put it all
over ’im ’aid ’n’ ’eavy. Skaler passed ’im th’ lid ov a
camp oven, ’n’ Ginger slumbered as ’e fell.
“After that me ’n’ ’im 'ad a contract ringbarkin’ten
acres ov timber. After a week’s chip scatterin’, ’e went
t’ tli’ boss ’n’ chinned ’im f’r a draw. When ’e came out t'
see our graft, ’e run ’is measurin’ chain over it ’n’ threw
us a couple ov dollars. Next day, me ’n’ Skaler went up
t’ tli’ ’omestead t’ give our axes a feed ov grindstone. We
got back t’ th’ camp at dark, ’n’ in Skater’s pocket wuz
th’old pot’s measurin’ chain. After tea,’e examined ifc
’n’ said it wanted alterin’ t’ suit th’ workin’man. ’E then
nipped off ten feet V fixed t’ ring oil again like a trades-
man. When we settled up with th’ old bloke we gw*
good silver f’r bark we didn’t disturb. As we wue leaviiM’’
’e told us t’call in again about June, as ’e’d'ave frstms
scrub-clearin’ t’ do. Skaler informed ’iin ’e ’ad a little
job ov that sort to attend to at wonce.
“ Game across a bullocky down th' rivers nrarrth after,,
’n’ ’e told us th’ old bloke ’ad been inquirin' about us..
Skaler give ’im th’ leary gaze, ’n’ remarked that ring
barkin’ didn't agree with ’im—made ’im giddy walkin
round trees. Et Ewebulla we called in f’r tucker. V wuz:
shown th’ wood’eap V a seven-pound axe. Skater wired
me t’ keep th’ cook listenin’ t’ a taLe or woe, V then
dodged round th’ back ov th’ kitchen. The bricks came
out ov th’ hack ov th’ oven, ’n’ with ’em a batch of
brownie’n’bread. Skaler reckoned a piece of ’bop-iron
wuz lighter than ’n’ axe b’ ’.uidle when graftin' f’r a crust..
Yes, ’e is dead up t’ date. Y’r see, Vs on a good wicket,
now foot-boardin’ these jiggers- Why, spare me days,
’ere's me street. S’long ! See y’r again some day !!’”
“ -Tanor ” : A bush scene on which I hap-
pened recently would have made a. subject for a
•picture. Said the selector to me: “-You’re just
in time ; come and see if I’ve caught any fish. 1 *
As we scrambled through the scrub, he explained
that one of his calves had died the previous day,
and he had loaded it up with strychnine,, in
hopes of netting a dingo. We emerged suddenly
oil a small, open space, green-carpeted, sunlit,
and embayed in the swirling waters of an elbow
of the creek. It was walled in by a closely-woven
screen of foliage 100 ft. high. In the centre of the
opening lay the torn and mangled calf, and
grouped round it four dingoes and five eagles
stretched stark and lifeless in the shade-barred
sunlight. On the edge of the water a sixth eagle,
with great beak gaping and dulled eyes, sup-
ported himself on widespread grounded wings,
making vicious struggles to rise, and battling with
the death near by. The man on the land chortled
with joy. “ What do you think of that, old
man ?” he whooped. “ Damn it! Why can’t we
all be artists ? ” replied I, with a great regret.
THE CHRISTENIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
On the plains of Tooraneedin, where the rabbits keep on
breedin’,
Where the sheep break through the fences, and the cows
are fierce and wild,
In a farmhouse near the “ river ” (which was flowing
hardly ever),
In the family of Maloney had arrived the seventh child.
There was Pathrick and Honora(’twas her mother’s name
before her),
There was Bridget, Kate, and Edward, and that Murty
rogue as well;
And with Number Seven squealing, old Maloney said,
with feeling—
“ Begobs, ’tis I’m the man desarves to ind his days in
- h 1.
"For ’tis sinful an’ surprisin’ that there’sdivil a baptisin’
Has anj 7 av thim childher iver had from anj 7 praste ;
Faith, if Father Dooley knew ut (him that married me to
rue ut),
Av purgatorial pinance I wud get a fearful taste.
“ Now, I hear that at the station there’s a praste av
reputation—
A jolly bhoy who’d christen thim an’ niver turn a hair ;
Oi’ll sind for him to-morrow ; for ’tis shame to me an’
sorrow
That I’ve niver sought His Riverince all th’ toime that
lie’s been there.”
So Maloney in the morning at the station gave his
warning,
And Father M’lnulty heard his story with a grin ;
“ You muster up the siven and I’ll help them all to Hiven
This evenin’ after sunsit, just as fast as they’ll come in.”
That night the nine Maloneys, with their neighbors and
their cronies,
Sat waiting for the Father, who arrived a little late ;
There were lights and water handy (and maybe a drop of
brandy)
When Fatlier M'lnulty’s trap pulled up beside the gate.
Their thirst they had abated in the hour that they had
waited,
Fora christenin’ needs the comfort of a drop of good
potheen ;
And Maloney’s nose was reddened, and his eyes a trifle
deadened,
But ’twas dark within the parlor, and it couldn’t well be
seen.
Inside Maloney’s kitchen all the kids with fun were
twitchin’,
For to be baptised was something they had never known
before ;
And a list of names was handed to the Father, who com-
manded
The evening’s operations like a general at the war.
They put the blessed candle in a bottle—’twas a scandal,
But no other thing to hold it in the farmhouse could lie
found ;
knd from Murty up to Paddy all were dragged in by then-
daddy—
The Holy Church received them ; and the baby’s turn
came round.
Then behold, there was a scuffling, and a grunting, and a
snuffling, *
And a sudden gust of wind came in and put the candle
out.
“Where the divil is that baby?” “ Och, he’s on the
flagstones, maybe ! ”
And Maloney picked up something. “ Call him James ! ”
they heard him shout.
And the Latin words went racing, while Maloney stood
embracing
The baby ; but he muttered, “By me sowl, he's pretty
big 1 ”
Till Bridget struck a light, and screeched out loud, in
accents frightened,
“ God save us, holy Father ! Ye’re baptisin’ Murty’s pig !”
And the pig it kicked and wriggled, while the spalpeen
Murty giggled
Till Maloney bent above him, and he gripped him bv the
ear.
But says Father Mac.: “Don’t bate him ; faith, ’tis not
yourself should hate him,
For the pig’s as good a Christian as you’ve been this
fourteen year ! ”
Now up at Tooraneedin there’s a pig of Berkshire breedin
Whom people come to gaze at, from districts far and wide ;
They point at him, declaring you can gather from his
bearing
He’s the one and only Christian pig in all the countryside.
VIC.
PRIAM.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents.
• * * *
“ Hamer ” : On that Friday night when
the news of the defeat of Squires had cast a
minor-poet's gloom over Sydney, I met a man
with a broken heart. He was leaning against a
verandah post, moaning softly ; and, thinking lie
was ill, I asked him what the trouble was. He
plaintively begged me to give him a drink.
Hoping to save his life, I carried him into an
adjacent bar. He clutched his liquor firmly, and,
in the voice of one prepared to hear the worst,
asked who had won the tight. I told him. He
swept a glass off the bar, and announced that it
was a lie. Also, he called me a “ stinking fish,”
and said “ Pah ! ” as if he smelt one. He added that
he had met Squires in Pitt-street, and Squires had
assured him that his defeat was an impure fabri-
cation. Then suddenly his fortitude deserted
him, and he leaned his head on my bosom and
wept aloud. I hurriedly suggested another drink,
and he raised bis head and wept into his beer
instead of on to my waistcoat. Then he inquired,
with sobs, what bis mother —presumably Squires’s
mother—would say, and remarked that a mother
was the saving grace of a man’s life. He men-
tioned, as a curious fact, that no man had two
mothers, and said it was a pity, and the world
would be much purer if there were more mothers.
Then, his beer being finished, be again leaned his
head on my bosom. I removed my bosom
hurriedly, and put him in a tram, and the last I
saw of him he was leaning his head on the con-
ductor’s shoulder, and asking who won the fight.
THE CLOVEN HOOF IN THE
BEER.
MAN ( at country hotel bar): “ This
beer ain't fit for a Christian to
drink. ”
LANDLOURD : “ Now, then, you can't
raise the sectarian question litre ”
“Cic”: In Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, among the tunnels and sluicing claims, is a
small spring, the waters of which are so heavily
impregnated with minerals that a piece of wood
deposited in same will, in the course of a few
months —the time required, of course, varying in
proportion to the cubical contents of the hunk of
fuel —become thoroughly petrified. I saw a stone
t’other day in the possession of one of the local
tunnellers, and used by him to grind his razor on.
The grain of the wood was plainly visible. The
miners simply square and plane a piece of tree to
the desired length and thickness, and having
securely tethered it in the spring, go on hunting
gold. Providing the other fellow up the creek
hasn’t commandeered it, the rightful owner, in
a season or two, is possessed of a whet stone that
will force an edge on anything, barring perhaps a
maul.
• * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : The subject was floods
and alleged coaching experiences. Billy chip-
ped in: “ Tork about floods, yorter bin with
me on Urangeline Crick, on the IT ran a run, in the
early ’nineties. Flood ! Be crimes, there wuz a
bloomin’ sea er water fer miles, ’n’ there’s the
’orses up ’n’ down, floppin’, ’n’ reefin’, ’n’ corfin’,
’n’ gruntin’ like the dooce, ’n’ th’ old coach
threatenin’ to go outer bloomin’ sight any minit.
An’ there’s me, carnt see tli’ ’orses arf me time,
’n’ got to flog at where I sees the bubbles, that’s
all. Larsfc I spots a swagman scrooged up on a
bit of a knob, and I lets him and his swag in.
’Bout a mile on we comes to shallerer country,
and I notices the old ship wogglin a bit, ’n’ gits
the swaggie to git out V see what’s up, and
blode if one ’ind wheel ain’t gone! So we
gets a saplin’ and fixes it on fer a drag. ‘We’ll
part ’ere, mate,’ says I. ‘ Blode if I can lug you
and yer bun with that dead wheel.’ And the
swagman sez nothin’ but heaves his swag out,
end-on like, and tork about boggy ! Well, that
there swag bogged that tight the two of us could
har’ly shift it. And when we gits it, the bloomin’
thing comes away with a reg’lar ‘ sock ’ —like a
orse drorin’ his foot out of a bog.”
“Ouss” ! “F.R.” (B. 27/6/’O7) puts in a
plea with bushmen on behalf of the white goshawk,
and so does the writer—a strong plea, loaded with
a charge of No. 6 shot. A pair of these lovely
critters lately took up their residence in a tree
about a mile away from my bush emporium, and
every alternate day for some six weeks they dined
sumptuously on young buff Orpington chicks that
had been hatched under the personal supervision
of this pilgrim and his mate. On off-days these
gentle and harmless birds used to casually drop
in on a neighbor, who lives some two miles down
the creek, and sample the ordinary variety of
chicken stocked there. The sum total of then-
depredations has put two “on the land” en-
thusiasts out of business, and turned one of the
pair into a skilled criminal, as he now “raises”
what fowls he requires by means of an empty
chaff bag. As I write, the skin of the goshawk
indicted hangs on the front verandah of the
shanty, well cured with arsenical soap. 1 want
to see the bird preserved with the above-named
soap. As a general nuisance to bush dwellers he
runs the dingo mighty close on the N.S.W. North
Coast.
* • * *
“The Wearier”: Re. “ Quan ” and his
camel lore (B. 20/6/ 07). I have had something to
do with the walking and humpy bone-mill, and
while I quite agree with the statement that
horses work wide from the camel, I do not believe
that they forget the ugly beast in a short time.
They just couldn’t. The smell of ages is round
the camel, and to disremember it implies a
capacity for forgetting that beats creation. As for
cattle, they don’t charge the beast that hums,
nor do they retreat in a violent hurry when
the guano-ship of the desert gets to windward of
them. Cattle treat the camel with utter con-
tempt, and assume that it is dead. I have seen a
mob of real scrubbers in one yard and a bull-
camel on season in the next, and he hummed, too.
Also, he bubbled, howled, and roared, so that five
horses tied to a rail fully half-a-mile off pulled
away and departed thence with great haste and
sundry saddles and swags. But the micks in the
adjoining yard simply ignored the startling per-
formance. They had front seats and an uninter-
rupted smell of the drama, but they weren’t in-
terested worth a peanut.
* * * «
A bush idyll from “ Mouse ” :
It was the usual concertina-type dance of the Cow
regions. I stood for a minute or two seeking a “ nimble
heifer,” and finally, As the dance ended, I sidled over to my
choice and asked her for the honor of the next. She stared
at me a moment, and then giggled until her girl friend
poked her severely in the lower regions of her blouse and
informed her, in a thiiJling whisper, ‘ ’E wants a darnce.”
Then she straightened up, and told me I’d “ have to ask
her bloke.” Upon my presenting my petition, he replied,
“ Well, yairs ; s’poseyeroan have one,." I had one accord-
ingly, and was about half through, when the lady was
suddenly twisted out of my arms by her ardent suitor,
with “ Let ’er rip, blokey ; ’er old man’s waitin’ ter start
milkin’,”—and behold she was gone! And her parting
utterance to her consort still blooms in my memory:
“ Lawks ! Joe ; yer ought ter feel ’is ’ands. Lorng, thin
fingers; just the sort ter make ther juice fly outer ole
Yallerteats at ’ome.”
“ Walfre ” : “My word, this Glory Halle-
lujah brigade has got a hide,” said a bandsman of
my acquaintance in a tone of disgust. “ You
know we have a job playing for an open-air show
every night, and part of our work consists of a
march along the main street. The Starvation
Army comes into the street to hold its services,
and our band has to pass it on the way to the
show. We marched last night, and this morning
the Salvarmy boss came to my shop and asked
for the bandmaster. I saw him, and he said, very
ungraciously, ‘ Don’t you think you show a great
lack of consideration?’ I said, ‘How?’ He
said, ‘The band ought to cease playing while
they pass our meeting in the street.’ I asked him
did he own the street, and be became very wroth
and said, ‘ You are only a common low heathen,
and an ignorant person.’ I fired up a bit and told
him he was only a common low loafer, and ought
to be made to work for his living. Also I asked
him why he didn't stop the trams running past
his blessed gathering. Likewise I said he ought
to stop making hideous rows in the streets at all
hours, irritating the ears of musically inclined
people who had to pass within range of his meet-
ing. He didn’t like it, and cleared. Oh, yes !
we'll knock off playing for that leather-lunged
cadger when we pass him. We’re more likelv to
stop marching and play all wc know just under
his nose.” And, ruminating on the “ossifer’s”
demand, and wondering who will win the
Ballarat contest, the bandsman went on his way.
“ Sore Feet ” : We recommend, you to use
Handy Corn Cure as the surest and safest method
of removing your corns. Very cleanly and easy
to use, costs 9d. per box. Send stamps to Sunset
Drug Co., Gl2 Harris Street, Sydney.*
CULTURE IN THE SLUMS,
MOTHER: “ You, Muriel Agnes, come in this minute and practise your agates."
“Barb”: Often wonder what effect a
heavy fall of snow would have on Sydneyites, if
they one day woke up to And their city white.
Would perfect strangers go about shaking hands
with each other, and the whole city become
friendly ? Here, where we have snow two or
three times in the winter, a “fall ” has a most
delightful effect. People who haven’t spoken to
you for months come down the road shouting
excitedly at you. The station men —some of
them deadly enemies—crowd round the blazing
log fire in the kitchen, and become cpiite friendly.
The Chinese cook, who would, in ordinary
weather, throw a saucepan at the head of any
man entering his kitchen, positively welcomes
them. Magpies crowd round the door. Little
blue wrens and red-breasts hop into the room in
the most engaging manner. Crows pick at the
skinned rabbit hanging from the verandah beams.
Pee-wits hunt in the snow-clad garden. Young-
sters, usually most respectful, think nothing of
smacking you in the eye with a stinging snowball.
Everyone is sloppy and uncomfortable and in
high good humor.
* ■» * *
“ Herrues ” : After some six years of city
life, I was suddenly stricken with an attack of
b'oodthirstiness, and went forth on a dapple grey
nag, armed with a sporting Snider, to slay wild
bulls on Cairn Station in Otago, Maoriland. There
were four men and a boy in the party, which left
the homestead while the stars were still sinning.
After a most infernal ride of about 12 miles the
cattle were sighted breakfasting on a bluff, at the
bottom of which grew a few gnarled, wind-smitten
trees. The boss sportsman devised the plan of
campaign, and ordered one man and the boy to
make a detour to the tup of the bluff, and by
opening fire stampede the cattle towards where
we would be waiting for them. It was a noble
idea. When the stampeders arrived at the
top of the bluff they opened tire, but the
bulls took no notice. The boy, who was proud
of his surefootedness, offered to climb down
and attack them at close quarters. He did so,
and about an hour later the man returned alone,
and reported that the bulls had the boy treed,
and that he had signalled he was short of food
and water. We decided to relieve the boy by
approaching in loose order, half-moon formation,
and the boss gave vigorous instructions, which he
hoped would prevent any of us shooting men
instead of bulls. Arriving within range, we found
the bulls were all cows. Smothering our liner
feelings, we opened fire, but our fingers were cold
and our nerves upset by the long, rough ride, and
consequently our practice was horrible. Half-a-*
dozen volleys produced no effect, except to scare
the life out of the boy in the tree, who was nearly
shot on several occasions. The cows ran back and
forwards, and finally took shelter among the
timber. Suddenly someone plunked a bullet into
a dun-colored brute. With a snort and a bellow
she flung up her head, and then, elevating her
heels, came right at us. What a scatter there
was ! Not one man stood his ground. The
noise brought out another couple of lady
bulls, and they started after the leader of our
expedition. We all fled up trees, and then, with
awful language, opened fire in every direction.
Seven cows were shot in as m'Hrv minutes, and an
equal number sent scamperivp ff badly wounded.
Then we came down arm congratulated one
another. While we were dining, an impudent
caitiff rode up, and, with curses, demanded what
the devil we meant by shooting his cattle. He
chased us seven miles, and then we dropped him.
Another hour's hard riding brought us to the
boundary fence, and we knew then that we had
strayed right off the Cairn territory on to that of
Kuriwao cattle station.
* * * ■*
There is more than one way to cure a
cough, but the best way is by means of Angier’s
Emulsion, because it not only soothes the lungs
and cures the cough, but also improves digestion
and acts as a soothing tonic to the entire system.
In three sizes, of all chemists.*
“ Drifter It is dangerous to chaff a man
whose chest is full of beer and sentiment when
the emotions of his soul well up into sad maudlin
song. At such a time you may steal his
beer, call him bad names, or kick his dog
and he will forgive you ; but scoff at his
harmony, and you are a remains. We were in the
side dive of a suburban pub one night. Two
rough-looking customers, who had reached the
stage when all.this sad world is a rose-tinted para-
dise, were hanging on to each other in the bar-
solemuly singing, in thick husk} 7 tones, “A
Violet What I. Plucked from Mother’s Grive.”
They were oblivious of all the sordid surround-
ings, and clung manfully to their pewter pots
whilst battling to keep their perpendicular.
Great salt tears rolled down their grimy cheeks,
and splashed heavily into the foaming beer. It
was a picture to melt a heart of stone. Suddenly,
during a particularly pathetic stanza, a fool friend
of mine threw back his head and emitted a long,
mournful dog-howl. Like a flash the singers
turned towards the sound. We saw the glint of
murder in their eyes, and skipped nimbly. Three
seconds later the infuriated vocalists surged round
into the passage. They saw no one, so they
started to tear up the premises. There was a
savage rush, a thud, and for the next two minutes
it seemed as if hell had broken loose and was
kicking the world to death along the pub floor.
I believe the remains of the building fell down
next day. No ! never poke borak at the drunk
who weeps and sings about poor ole mother. It
might cost you your life.
* * * *
The bungling at the first Echuca (Vic.)
election—the one that was declared null and void
—probably took place (judging by the names) at
the following polling places in that electorate :
Yarroweyah, .la member. Mawawn, Kamaroo.ka,
Touanmite, Yabba Yafoba, Waggarandull, Bo-
weya, Burramine, Boosey, Bundalong, Boouia-
noomoonah, Gowangardie, and Warrenbayne.
* * * *
“ Gippsland East ” : A few rabbit notes :
Have shot seventeen rabbits in my green-pea
patch during the last three weeks, and found each
one tube a buck. In the bush I have killed many
more, and examination showed that fully 90 per
cent, were males, the exceptions, generally, being
those caught by dogs. These facts have led me
to the conclusion that the buck rabbit is braver,
fleeter, and more venturesome than the doe. In
this district, if a shooter surprise a dozen rabbits
in a fairly open spot, he will see nine or ten make
for cover and immediately disappear. Two or three,
having first stopped to “knock,” will make for cover,
but before reaching it stop to knock again. These
pauses give opportunity for effective shooting, and
in each case where I have been successful in potting
these guardians I have found them to be bucks.
The bucks, too, are generally first out of the
burrows, and last into them, which accounts for
the high tallies of bucks taken by trappers at the
evening catch at the mouths of burrows, and of
does in the morning. Old rabbit-dogs putting up
rabbits in the open will invariably chase the doe,
and they are always keener on a she-seent, even
though the balance of rabbitness is distinctly on
the side of bucks —so far as the human nose can
tell. Another item is that although, a few years
ago, trappers took dozens of colored rabbits about
here, to-day none but greys are caught. They
have grown as uniform in color as the bandicoots,
and, if more numerous than they were, are
rapidly decreasing in adult size. A four pound
rabbit is now an exception, where a few years ago
it was quite common.
* * * *
Now, if from any sudden chill
A cold your nose should tint,
On no account take anything
For it but Peppermint.
We all are liable to colds,
Or frequently to Cough,
On hand keep Woods’ mighty Cure,
Don’t put this matter off.*
THE UNIVERSAL DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ If all the world were apple-pie
And all the sea were ink,
And all the trees
Were bread and cheese,
What should we have to drink?"
This nursery rhyme of olden time
Gives cause to pause to think
What liquid can
A cautious man
In safety find to drink ?
There’s poison in the whisky flask t
There’s fusel in the beer I
The water tract
At Cataract
Ts curiously queer 1
It’s full of infusoria
(Whatever that may be),
And divers germs
Expressed in terms
Far worse than Greek to me !
The morning milk’s analysis
Would make a person shrink 1
The tea we get,
Though warm and wet,
Is fitter for the sink 1
The coffee's choked with chicory 1
In fact we’re on the brink
Of death from thirst;
For all’s accurst !
There’s nothing tit to drink !
N.S.W,
W. T. GOODGE.


There is the sorrow of the
smoke-stack.
•j '. .*• ' •. ■ vv..
■
ini sect k.id6
Fat At- t°
Bo oouEßi
[SUNIorN
pU ASTERN
the
PtsITINE T° E
use
; soa^ k^s
***** J-URS.S WARfS
Toca’s ■
CHEAP
vvsers
WOMT
VTAMD
(VYA'iHtrtt;
PACO DOC
Gascon V/
cov* woNt
dsf
IS»■
w. /////'/7y jtcTyy/,
And the sorrow of the signs.
And the sorrow of the slushy
streets.
And the sorrow of the narrow and
crooked way which is not made
straight.
And, crowning sorrow, there is this
sort of furious deputation to the
Mayor when any reform is proposed.
THE SORROWS OF SYDNEY.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, iO/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
aOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
(lout. Rheumatism! Rheumatic Gout, tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as tne
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, ana
51- If no 1 obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Bolc Proprietors and Manufacturers
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The War Cry of July 20 publishes a
photo block of old General Booth in Japan,
seated in the centre of a score of dainty Geishas.
The old man, with his long white beard and bell-
topper, looks, in the centre of the small brown
damsels, for all the world like a character in some
musical comedy.
Edward George Wilton, just dead at 82,
in addition to being the most versatile of N.S.W.
country pressmen, deserves to be remembered as
the man who supplied the grammar of the old
Empire. Parkes’s own grammar was like the
winds of heaven, and blew where it listed ; and
his relative didn’t know its own antecedent when
the two met in the street. Henry the Great
always professed to regard Wilton’s repairs as
personal insults, but he allowed them to pass.
He assumed, however, that he did so only out of
a desire to amuse an inferior mind.
THE LATE FRANK MYERS.
Sydney’s new City Coroner, John Leth-
bridge King, is a grandson of N. S. Wales’ third
Governor, Rear-Admiral Philip Parker King.
The Admiral’s wife had been a Miss Lethbridge;
hence that part of the monniker of the man who
will now have the messy job of sitting on the
city’s remains. A. N. Barnett, his predecessor,
is promoted to the job of fining the city’s drunks.
Barnett is having a look-in at all the offices. He
began with the Lands, then went to the Mines,
and later on followed “Rolf Boldrewood” as
Police Magistrate at Albury.
Pedlar Palmer, the English pugilistic has-
been, got a well-deserved five years for killing
with a single blow a drunken train passenger who
persisted in singing when Pedlar told him to stop.
This rotter was for some years the bantam
champion of the world, and made over £50,000 out
of bruising. He spent it in characteristic style,
and when “ Terrible Terry” McGovern ended
his career in one whirling round he hadn't the
proverbial bean left, and his tandem, which was
one of the sights of London streets, went up the
spout. Now Pedlar himself is in the jug.
Journalist Edward George Wilton, who
died at Ryde (N.S.W.) recently, aged 83, was a
son of the late Frederick Charles Wilton, who
was for 30 years stage manager of the Britannia
Theatre, Hoxton, London, locally known as
“the Britanniar’oxton.” Edward founded the
Bathurst Times, Lachlan Observer, and Hill
End Observer, was an old-time manager of the
Wagga Advertiser and Newcastle Herald, a
S.M. Herald reporter, and an Empire man
during Henry Parkes’s proprietorship. He was
an enthusiatic musician, and wrote a short opera
and a couple of plays.
What is suspected of being a genuine cen-
tenarian has turned up in Victoria. A Mount
Noorah man recently took a ’cello, from which he
has been sawing disturbance for a number of years
past, to pieces to see where the noise came from,
and found in it a label bearing the name Nicolo
Amanti, and the date 1624. Further exploration
in the cavernous interior of the monster revealed
an inscription alleging that it had been repaired
by Louis Dandeh, of Versailles, for King Louis
XVI., in 1781. Apparently, like Nero, Louis
’celloed while his kingdom did most horribly
eOmbust.
Andrew Lang, who is quite the most
sporting literary man living, has just discovered
a 15th century treatise in Latin (on the Perfect
Parson) by a German calling himself Albertus
Trottus. Prom which he concludes that Albert
Trott, of Melbourne and Middlesex, is of German
extraction, and ought to be styled “Albrecht.”
“Albert” is a German name, anyway, and was
hardly known in England till the youthful Vic-
toria married a princelet so called, just about the
time the other Victoria first saw Batman on the
Yarra banks.
Mr. Augustus Brown Abraham, barrister-
at-law, whose death was announced recently in
England at the age of 95 years, was the oldest
member of the British Bar. He was born on
August 7, 1812, was called to the Bar at the
Middle Temple (London) in January, 1835, was
admitted to the Victorian Bar in 1853, and was a
leader in Equity until 1862, when he returned to
England. And his name was Brown Abraham,
which was almost as remarkable as if he had been
called Smith Moses.
Died, a few days ago, Mrs. Goddard, an
old resident of Waterfall, near Sydney, the
mother of one-time prominent pugilists Joe and
Herb Goddard, each of whom predeceased her.
It is doubtful if Joe had an equal in modern
pugilism as a natural fighter. He first shaped
(billed as “ The Illawarra line navvy”) in Sydney,
when someone undertook to knock him out in
four rounds and did it. Then Joe opened a small
store, and supplied the navvies engaged in build-
ing the Illawarra railway line. He laid the
foundation of his subsequent fame at Broken Hill,
by defeating Owen Sullivan, Charlie Dunn, and
others, and followed this up with successes in
Sydney and Melbourne over Mick Dooley and
the American Joe Choynski. The younger God-
dard (much better-looking than Joe, and well
built) hadn’t the “devil” of his brother. He
failed more frequently than he succeeded, and
succumbed to consumption while yet a young
man.
John Watsford, the oldest Wesleyan
Methodist minister in Australia, who died at
Kew, Melbourne, on July 24, at the age of
87 years, was born at Parramatta (N.S.W.) on
December 5, 1820, during Governor Macquarie’s
time. Hewasoneofthefirsthalf-dozen day scholars
who went to the King’s School, Parramatta, in
1832. Watsford, senior, was a member of the
firm of Watsford and King, proprietors of the
Globe Tavern, S.E. corner of Market and Castle-
reagh streets, and owners of the line of coaches
which ran in those primitive days between
Sydney and Parramatta. John Watsford was for
two years one of the teachers at King’s School,
and became a Methodist minister in 1843. For
seven or eight years he was in Fiji; then for
three years in Sydney, three in Goulburn, two in
Maitland, six years in South Australia, and the
balance of his time in Melbourne. He thus sin-
shifted over a large area.
From the Oldest Inhabitant :
Mr. E. A. L. Sharpe, police magistrate at Maitland
(N.S.W.), who was born in 1843, retired on the 31st July.
He is a son of Canon Sharpe, for many years located in
Bathurst, and was one of the very few police magistrates
who could boast of being barristers-at-law. He was for
some years at Forbes, and was a terror to duck-shooters
out of season. Once a few of the “ pot shots ” succeeded
in getting a bag in the close season, and sent the duck to
old Levi Vandenberg, the innkeeper, of Court-street, to be
cooked and served up for lunch. Mr. Sharpe heard of the
event, and he also lunched at Vandenberg’s. A hurried
order was issued that the ducks should not be produced
till the legal embodiment was gone. Unfortunately, it
seemed as if he would never go. In fact he lunched more
or less for two hours. It was the record long-distance
lunch of Forbes. The duck men had a half-inclination to
go and feed in the kitchen, but feared lest the magistrate
might come too, so they stood their ground and hun-
gered for half-an-hour. The magistrate was still con-
sidering a chop. They waited another half-hour; the
magistrate was wrestling with a small bit of cheese, and
had been on it for 25 minutes. A smell of burned duck
pervaded the premises. Finally, the party fell
back on the ordinary bill of fare, and found that
everything was off save corned beef. Sharpe saw them
eat the corned beef, and they tried to look as if a cold
remnant of salt-horse was what they had come'for. Also,
he saw them carefully and unobtrusively off the premises,
and as he went out behind them, he stopped in the hall
to sniff inquiringly at the smell of burnt duck ; and
the way he did it made the spine of Levi Vandenberg run
cold. These parties reckoned that they knew then what
was meant by the eye of the law. If it wasn’t the genuine
article they had seen, they considered that- a magistrate’s
eye, looking for two hours at a crowd of illegal duck-
shooters, was a fair substitute.
A. B. POSTLE, CHAMPION
RUNNER.
Three times running the
leadership of the Queensland
Labor party has been followed by
a seat in the Ministry. When
the Morgan Ministry was formed
W. H. Browne, then leader of
the Labor party, got a portfolio.
Upon his death Peter Airey, his
successor as leader, became Home
Secretary. Now George Kerr,
who took Airey’s place as leader,
has become Minister for Rail-
ways. This may inspire Dave Bowman, the new
leader, with a hope of one day becoming Premier.
Kidston, by the way, was never Labor leader,
though he acted once during Browne’s illness.
Found dead near Springfield station, in
the Windorah district (Queensland), Henry Fane
Becher, founder of the Grip (Grafton, N.S.W.).
Like many another man of his craft he deserved
better fortune than came his way.
HIS IDEAL PARADISE.
KANAKA (dying from lung disease): “Hell
hotter than Queensland, Missa?”
PARSON: “ Yes.”
KANAKA ( earnestly) : “ Then , Missa, you teach
me to get there.”
William Timmins, of the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.), lately deceased at the mature age of
98, may be quoted as evidence against the theory
that the Australian is a restless, flitting and un-
settled cuss, a rolling-stone and a will-o’-the-wisp.
William died in sight of the spot on which he was
born, and all the travels of his long life didn’t
extend further than a dozen miles. He never
got the globe-trotting craze, or fled from Pekin to
Paris in a motor-car, like Prince Bearsgrease, of
Italy; and he neglected Antarctic expeditions and
reckless explorations in the interior of Africa. The
wild ass of Persi a remain ed und istu rbed as far as any
pursuit on William’s part was concerned, and he
steadfastly refused to clamber like a fly up the
sides of the Matterhorn, or Kinchinjunga, or
Popocatepetl, or Cotopaxi, or Imhabura, or even
Adam’s Peak. Whale-fishing never attracted
him much, and he hadn’t time to study the art
treasures of the Vatican. He just lived seriously
on the old Hawkesbury, and died there at the age
of 98.
Died at Sydney, the other day, David
Scott Mitchell, Australian book-lover. He was
born in March, 1836. His father was Dr. James
Mitchell, a member of the first N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Council appointed by the British Govern-
ment, and afterwards an M.L.C. under Respon-
sible Government. David Mitchell was one of
the first Sydney University graduates, winning
his B.A. in ’56. He was admitted as a barrister
in 1858, but never practised. He spent his early
life managing the estate inherited from his
father on the Hunter River (N.S.W.). Then he
took to collecting early Australasian art and
literature, and spent half a century and the most
of his fortune in the task. The result is what is
considered the most complete library of Austral-
asian records in existence. There are pictures by
Oscar Brierley, Conrad Martens, Prout, Lycett,
and Chevalier; the original diaries of explorers
Leichhardt, Oxley, Mitchell, Sturt, Govett,
Evans, Bass, and King ; and autograph letters of
Vancouver, Cook, Phillip, King, Hunter, Bligh,
and other early notabilities; valuable MSS.
bearing on the transition stage of the State from
the “System” to Responsible Government; maps,
charts, sketches, books and pamphlets. All this
wealth of historical material becomes, in pursu-
ance of a promise made by Mr. Mitchell in 1898,
the property of N.S.W., together with a money
legacy to keep it in order, and add to it. Mr.
Mitchell’s only condition was that he should
see some evidence that the Government would
house his gift decently before he died, and
Premier Carruthers set about the new building in
Sydney Domain just in time.
Thus the Oldest Inhabitant :
Dr. James Mitchell, father of David Scott Mitchell,
recently deceased, was originally surgeon to the 48th
Regiment, with which corps he saw service in many
lands. In the ’twenties he was attached to the civil
hospital in Macquarie-street. The chief medical officer
then was Dr. James Bowman, who married a daughter of
John Macarthur, and lived in the house on the corner of
King and Macquarie streets, afterwards occupied by
Canon Allwood as “St. Janies’Rectory.” Dr. Mitchell
was plaintiff in a libel action seventy years ago, the
defendant being Dr. John V. Thompson, newly arrived as
Deputy-Inspector-General of Hospitals. The new official
was a martinet, and it was not long before his unpopu-
larity was larger than a herd of elephants. A quarrel
with Mitchell ended in the dismissal of the latter by
Governor Bourke, one of the charges against the sacked
official being that he refused duty at the usual morning
floggings at Hyde Park Barracks. Thompson took the
opportunity of making extracts from the general orders,
which reflected upon Mi tchell, and sent the extracts to the
papers as items of news. The action came before Chief Jus-
tice Dowling : and a jury consisting of J. Brown, J. Barker,
H. H. Bowerman, J. Betts, J. Byrne, VV. Cordeaux, J.
Chalmers, G. Cox, W. Cox, H. Cox, E. Cox, and Dawes.
The Coxes were- all of one family. Attorney-General
Plunkett put in an appearance to ascertain his'position.
Two of the counts concerned libels by a Government
officer in his official capacity; the third was for publica-
tion in the newspapers. Plunkett, after carefully strain-
ing the gnat, decided to officially appear in the two first
charges, but not in the third. Eventually it was agreed
by counsel to proceed on the newspaper publication
alone, and Plunkett withdrew with great dignity from
the scene. Foster and Windeyer appeared for Mitchell;
Roger Therry and William A’Beckett for Thompson. The
father of the lately deceased book-lover came out of the
scrimmage with a verdict of £lOO and costs. If it hadn’t
been that it was a serious offence for an official to refuse
to attend the morning floggings, he might have got more.
One day’s trial will convince you of the
soothing, cough-allaying, lung-healing power of
Angier’s Emulsion. It is pleasant to take and
aids digestion. Send 4d. postage for a free
sample bottle to the Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.,
7 Barrack Street, Sydney.*
ie burly, red-headed, curly-bearded
Bishop of Wangaratta (Vic.) has the reputation
of being the biggest parson and the hardest
hitter in the Anglican Church of Aus-
tralia. Also he holds out the hun-
gnest collection-plate in all the
Commonwealth. It does not
matter what his text is, money
is his invariable subject.
On a recent Sunday he
preached two thunderous
sermons at his Arch-
deacon’s church. His
coming was heralded by
a handbill exhort ng
the congregation to
“ Give liberally. Give
gold if possible. Give
silver if you cannot
give gold. But please
give some special
offering. Ask Goi
to stir up your hearts
and wills to give
freely.” This Bishop
has a salary of £BOO
a year plus a fine
mansion ; but the
greater number of
the congregation to
whom these begging
appeals are ad-
dressed get much
less than £lOO a year.
And some of them
reckon that the Boss
Shepherd is too
ravenous, and that
he should take to
plain brigandage.
The Christchurch
(M.L.) synagogue
has for its president a
most _ comprehensive
man. His name is Percy
Herman, and he is set
down as ticket-seller, aue-
tioneer. money-lender, hotel-keeper, racehorse-
owner, hotel-manager, speculator, etc., etc.
The S. Australian Government is re-
organising its Statistical office—which in recent
years has consisted chiefly of dusty back numbers
and cobwebs. This “ reorganisation ” really
means that a statistical clerk has been employed.
Said clerk is “Jack” Lyons, the once mighty
hitter of Australian Elevens, who has tired of the
weary struggle to accumulate a million on the
Stock Exchange.
Probably the chief breaker-up of the
happy home, and also the unhappy one, in Aus-
tralia these times is ex-champion boxer Laur-
ence Foley, of Sydney. Foley now does busi-
ness on a big scale. He buys the happy home
when it is too old to stand any longer, and de-
molishes the domestic hearth, and sells the
materials. Lately he has been wrecking the one-
time athletic club of bis lamented pupil George
Seale. Probably some humorless Ladies’ League
or other will be told, one of these days, that Mr.
Foley is again breaking up the home, and will
denounce him fiercely without waiting for par-
ticulars.
S.G. HUTTON, the Labor and Anti-Borrowing
Candidate for Gordon (N.S.W.J.
Photo, by Creelman & Co., Sydney.
Some ancient reminiscences :
There lately died in Paris, aged 72, Theodore Tilton,
an American journalist who made a spacious fuss in his day
and generation. Some 35 years ago he was reckoned the
greatest editor in New York, or in the U.S. Likewise he
had wealth and a beautiful wife, and he accused Henry
Ward Beecher, the eloquent and most shrieky preacher,
brother of the “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” lady, of misconduct
with the wife. The row filled America with bi tterness. An
ecclesiastical council found Beecher not guilty; a plain,
secular jury didn’t acquit him —the best he got from it
was a disagreement. The man in the street and the bloke
upon the highway, being unregenerates, took it for
granted that Beecher was guilty. It was difficult to take
an3 r other view of a combustible parson who once com-
menced a sermon by wiping his brow and stating to a vast
congregation, “ It’sdamned hot.” Then he wiped his brow
once more, and again said, “It’s damned hot.” Finally
he explained that he had heard a man use the expression
as he came in, and that a worshipper shouldn’t employ
such language while entering the tabernacle. Theodore
Tilton never amounted to much after his row with
Beecher; he lost his wife and his job, and Beecher’s big
following pursued him with violent animosity. And
Beecher himself was somewhat of a draggled idol for the
rest of his days. He lived' and preached and collected a
big salary for 12 more years, but music-hall songs were
made about him, and swift girls tried to make appoint-
ments with him, and swift men called him “agay dog.
Chambers’ Encyclopaedia, which includes him in the same
volume with the articles headed “ Beetle ” and “ Bilge-
water,” whitewashes him heroically, but to little pur-
pose.


AT
Housekeepers’ Happy Harvest.
RUCTIONS IN THE RAG TRADE.
Horrockses* White Calico.
Usual Reduced
Price to
s. d. s. d.
1,650 pcs. A 1 36in. doz. 4 9 ... 4 4 b
1,700 pcs. B 1 36in. „ 5 6 ... 5 O
200 pcs. 20 36in. Family Medium 0 0 ... 511
180 pcs. 24 36in. Family Medium 7 6 ... 6 9
Crewclson’s White Calico.
Usual Reduced
Price to
s. d. s. d.
300 pcs. GO 36in. Crewdson’s
Family Medium doz. 4 9 ... -4 3
200 pcs. 2 36in. Crewdson’s
Family Medium ... 6 0 ... 5 9
255 pcs. A A 36in. Crewdson’s
Longcloth ... 6 6 ... 511
FAMOUS FABRICS.
Usual Reduced
Price to
s. d. s. d.
145 pcs. SLI 36in. Horrockses’
Madapolam doz. 5 9 ... 5 3
148 pcs. SL2 36in. Horrockses’
Madapolam ... 6 6 ... 5 9
175 pcs. 100 3liin. Crewdson’s
India Longcloth ... 6 9 ... 5 9
110 pcs. Hlo 36in. Silk Finish ... 4 6 ... 3 9
130 pcs. 730 36in. Silk Finish ... 4 6 ... 311
133 pcs. 740 36in. Silk Finish ... 5 0 ..4 3
63 pcs. AH2 36in. Twilled ... 5 6 ... 4 9
Grey Calicoes.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
s. d. s. d.
61 pcs. 22 28in. Domestic, doz. 3 3 ... 211
48 pcs. A 2 32in. Domestic, doz. 4 6 ... 311
73 pcs. 205 36in. Domestic, doz. 5 3 ... 4 6
60 pcs. B 3 35in. Domestic, doz. 5 9 ... 4 11
104 pcs. B 4 40in. Domestic, doz. 6 3 ... 5 6
83 pcs. C 4 40in. Domestic, doz. 6 9 ... 511
73 pcs. El 36in. Wigan doz. 5 6 ... 411
38 pcs. E 4 36in. Wigan doz. 6 9 ... 511
74 pcs. HlO 32in. Mexican, doz. 5 6 ... 411
92 pcs. HlO 36in. Mexican, doz. 6 0 ... 5 3
NOW for NICE NAPERY .
“ What's a Table richly spread
Without a Woman at its head ? ’
UNBLEACHED TABLE DAMASK.
BUY NOW ! DELAYS ARE DANGEROUS!
White Turkish Towels.
Fancy Printed Flannel-
ette for Blouses,
Wrappers. Dressing
Jackets, Children’s
Jackets, etc. —
153 pieces, 28in. each 2s 6d to 9s ... 411
96 „ 28in. „ 12s ... 8 6
Quilts of Quality In Quantity.
“ Tired Limbs and over Busy Thoughts
Inviting Sleep and Soft Forgetfulness.’'’
HONEYCOMB QUILTS.
AN OPEN SECRET.
THE system of Buying for Spot Cash in the Best Harkets of the
World has enabled
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
to cater for the wants of 30,000 customers daily, at prices which are known
all over Australia as
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
That is why the New Palace Emporium is so often called A PARADISE
OF ECONOMY, and why fifteen shillings spent at Anthony Horderns’ will
go as far as a pound elsewhere.
Prosperous times generally make for higher prices, and now that WH EAT
IS UP and WOOL IS DEARER, Cotton has advanced and Silks are in
short supply, Leather is dear and Metals are higher than ever, so it is no
wonder that the English and Continental markets for nearly all the require-
ments of life are on the up-grade, and there is every promise of a still further
increase. Wise Folks whisper that ALTERATIONS in the TARIFF will
not be likely to make anything cheaper, so the reductions set forth in the
following list are sure to be POPULAR WITH THE PEOPLE.
Year in and year out, patrons of the New Palace Emporium, whether
town residents or living in the “ back blocks,” have the pick of three-quarters
of a million pounds’ worth of the world’s choicest commodities at
ANTHONY HORDERNS' FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
For this Sale many thousands of lines have been genuinely reduced in
price, as enumerated in “ The Big Bargain Book,” which will be posted free
on application.
Customers are requested to kindly note that the goods in this Sale List
are offered subject to their being in stock at the time of the receipt of any
orders with which we may be favored.
CUT IN CHEMICALS.
FOR INSIDE AND OUTSIDE APPLICATION.
CURES FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.
Check the,first symptoms; medicines thrown away
When sickness has grown stronger by delay.
Usual Price Reduced to
DEN TRIFICES.
Usual Price Reduced to
s. d. s. d.
20 doz. Wright’s Myrrh Tooth
Soap, tin
3 doz. Wright’s Coal Tar
Tooth Powder, tin
42 doz. Large tins Carbolic
Tooth Powder, tin
6 doz. Kinothol Tooth
Powder, tin
14 doz. Two Bees Aromatic
Tooth Powder, jar
CAMPHOR.
0 9 .0 6§
10 , 0 7i
0 41 2 for 0 6
0 6 ..0 4
0 4| 2foro 6
5601 b. loz. blocks Camphor... Reduced to 4Jd. per
block; ss. 9d. per lb.
asthma cures.
Usual Price Reduced to
. s. d. S. d.
32 doz. Grimault’s Cigarettes,
box 1 41,- ■ 1 1|
10 doz. De Joy’s Cigarettes,
box 2 6 .. 111
6 doz. Warner’s Asthma Cure,
box ••• 211 ... 1 9
5 doz. Datura Tatula Powder,
box ... 2 11 ..2 2
3f doz. Datura Tatula Herb,
box. 2 3 ... 111
The MAJESTIC BICYCLE .
Frame, 22 and 24 inch, finished black enamel,
flush joints, three-plate Crown, oil-retaining
hubs, reversible or fixed handle bars, duck
thumb brake, nickel-plated Westwood steel
rims, Oceanic tyres, rat-trap pedals, com-
plete with inflator, wrench, oiler, and tool
bag During the Bale, £7.
Or, with New Departure Coaster Hub, including
free wheel and back-peddling brake
During the Sale, £8 10s.
Electrical Materials.
ELECTRIC BELLS.
Usual Reduced
Price. to.
Sd s d
60 Iron-Frame Bells, 21,in.
Gongs, slightly damaged 1 3 ... 1 0
100 Wood-case Bells, 2§in.
Church Gongs ... ... 2 9 ... 2 6
ELECTRIC BELL PUSHES, &c.
TELEPHONES AND SUNDRIES.
2 Head and Breast Telephone
Sets, for use in connec-
tion with switch hoards,
or for type-writers .... 52 6 ... 40 0
6 Ericsson Extension Tele-
phones ... ... 37 6 ... 30 0
12 Bipolar Telephone Re-
ceivers ... ... .. 7 6 ... 5 0
9 Compound Bar Magnets,
with bobbins for making
telephone receivers ... 2 6 ... 1 0
Motor Car and Cycle
Sundries.
ACCUMULATORS.
Bidental 10 ampere, 4 volt
Bidental 10 ampere, 4 volt
Bidental 20 ampere, 4 volt
Bidental 40 ampere, 4 volt
VOLTMETERS.
12 Dashboard
SWITCHES
24 E.1.C., 2-way Vulcanite...
10 2 Way Metal Switch
COILS.
6 Trembler Coils ... ...
12 Dry Cell Trembler Coils ...
20 Bassee Michel Non Trem-
bler . ,
MAGNETOS.
2 Sims Bosch High Tension ... £lO £9 15s.
PUMPS.
3 Double-acting Motor Tyre
Pumps ... 275. 6d.
VULCANIZES.
Harvey Frost Tyre Vulcan-
izer, complete with three
Mandrels for Tyres up to
120 m/m, and Steam
Jacket and Tube Ex-
pander £lB
Harvey Frost Car Vuleanizer,
complete with set of Tools
during sale £5 10s.
225. 6d.
£l3 10s.
£5 ss.
Anthony Horderns’ Expertly
Blended Teas.
FAMOUS FOR FLAVOR AND QUALITY.
SPECIAL TEAS FOR DEALERS, HOTEL-
KEEPERS AND LARGE BUYERS.
Ceylon Pekoe Souchong, 201 b. tin, 15s; 501 b.,
|-chest. 33s 4d.
Ceylon Fine Pekoe Souchong, 201 b. tin, 16s 8d ;
501 b., 37s 6d.
Ceylon Choice Pekoe Souchong, 201 b. tin, 20s ;
501 b. 1-chest, 45s 10s.
Ceylon Golden Tipped Broken Orange Pekoe,
201 b. tin, 16s 8d ; 501 b., 1-chest, 37s 6d.
Ceylon Golden Tipped Broken Orange Pekoe,
201 b. tin, 20s; 501 b., i-chest, 45s lOd.
Ceylon Golden Tipped Broken Orange Pekoe,
251 b. tin, 255; 551 b., 1-chest, 645.
BARGAINS FOR BUILDERS.
Top Quality Goods at Bottom Prices.
36 Boseley’s Dust and Draught
Excluders for Doors, 32in. ...
36 Boseley’s Dust and Draught
Excluders for Doors, 36in. ...
40 doz. Bronzed Iron Sash Fast-
eners, Fitch pattern, 10765
doz. ...
100 doz. Bronzed Iron Sash Fas-
teners, Signal pattern, 3071.8.
36 doz. Bronzed 1 ron Sash Fas-
teners, Defiance pattern,
T1174A
50 doz. Electro Brassed Sash
Fasteners, Signal pattern,
3078
40 doz. Bronzed Iron Sash Fas-
teners, Ives pattern, 0504 ...
40 doz. Bronzed Iron Sash Fas-
teners, Defiance pattern,
TIIB4A
24 doz. Nickel-plated Sash Fas-
teners, Fitch pattern, 5944 ...
50 doz. Electro Brass Sash Fas-
teners, Defiance pattern,
KIIB4A ...
24 doz. Antique Copper Finish
Fasteners, Defiance pattern,
ABIIB4A ...
19 doz. Brass Finish Fasteners,
Fitch pattern, 5788 ...
13 doz. Brass Antique Copper
Finish, Fitch pattern, 5788
6 doz. Antique Copper Finish
Fasteners, Defiance pattern,
ABIIB4A ....
20 doz. Brass Secure Locking
Sash Fasteners, 5089
4 doz. Brass Sash Fasteners,
Ives pattern, 234
15 doz. Brass Extra Strong Sash
Fasteners, 5381
12 doz. Brass Extra Strong Sash
Fasteners, China knob, 7207
3 doz. Brass Patent Screw
Attachment, Chinaknob, 5485
50 doz. Japanned Hasps and
Staples, with Screws and,
Bolts, 3085, sin. ... doz.
30 doz. Galvanised Hasps and
Staples, Safety with Screws,
11907, 3|in
50 doz. Galvanised Hasps and
Staples, Safety with Screws,
11906, 4|in
30 doz. Galvanised Hasps and
Staples. Safety with Screws,
11907, s|in. ".
20 doz. Galvanised Hasps and
Staples, Safety with Screws,
1*1907, 6in.
60 sets Brass Rim Furniture,
Mill Edge, No. 326, sin. set
144 sets Brass Rim Furniture,
Mill Edge, No. 326, 6in.
300 sets Brass Rim Furniture,
Mill Edge, No. 326, 7in. ...
144 sets White and Gold China
Rim Furniture, 0/18/381...
72 sets Black and Gold China
Ri m Furhiture, 16/18/381...
36 sets White and Gold China
Latch Furniture, 0/18/381...
36 sets Black and Gold China
Latch Furniture, 16/18/381...
200 sets White and Gold China
Mortise F urniture, 0/18/381...
100 sets Black and Gold China
Mortise Furniture, 16/18/381...
36 sets Wood Mortise Furniture,
each Cocoa and Ebony, 5057
24 sets Wood Mortise Furniture,
with Brass Maltese Cross,
each Oak, Ebony and Cocoa,
3149
144 sets Wood Mortise Furniture,
Reeded, each Oak and Cocoa,
5056
200 pairs White and Gold China
Finger Plates, Round Ends
200 pairs Black and Gold China
Finger Plates, Round Ends
200 pairs Wood Finger Plates,
each Oak and Cocoa, Nos.
1 and 2 ...
200 pairs Steel Finger Plates,
Reeded Ivory, Black Finish,
2040
100 pairs Metal Finger Plates,
Antique Copper Finish, 276
GOODS BOUGHT AT SALE PRICES
CANNOT BE EXCHANGED.
ANTHONY HORDERN <&. SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Many hundreds of people in Australia would
like to hear from the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. of
Canada re the shares offered for sale in this country by
.Munroe and Munroe, of New York, “agents for the
Marconi underwriters of America.” The Marconi W.T.
Co. of Canada exists by virtue of a special Act of the
Dominion farliament, is subsidised by, and is under con-
tract with, the Canadian Government, and may be said
to have had its character for fair dealing guaranteed by the
Government thatgave it life. Nevertheless, a few thousands
of peoplein the Common wealth who hold vouchersf or shares
in the co. are unable, after months of waiting, to get any
definite information as to whether they will ever receive
scrip for their money. The moral responsibility for this
is considerably divided, and at the back of it all stands
the Canadian Government, which has at least a senti-
mental, if not a political, interest in the following state-
ment of bare facts.
About a year ago a voluble Yankee person
named Horace G. Robinson arrived in Melbourne
from New York, with instructions to talk about wireless
telegraphy, give demonstrations of its working, and
induce the public to buy shares (or vouchers for shares)
in the Marconi Co. of Canada. Robinson talked
with great success. Before he left Melbourne, to repeat
his business programme in the other States, he had
received more than £7OOO on account of the shares he
professed to sell. The man’s representations of himself
and his business mission were absolutely honest. He was
Horace Robinson, the accredited representative of
Munroe and Munroe, of New York, who were agents for
the American underwriters of Marconi Co. stock, and
whose undertakings to deliver the scrip had hitherto been
fulfilled. Robinson offered the £1 shares at 255.; and, con-
sidering that they had been below par in Canada, there was
no reason to doubt that the underwriters would be glad
to get quit of 70,000 shares in Australia.
The total number of shares sold in the
Commonwealth has not been stated. Probably
Horace Robinson’s “takings” were not less than
£25,000 ; they have been estimated as high as £60,000.
The money was banked in Melbourne and Sydney
for a while with the Union, and duly drafted to
Munroe and Munroe in New York. The people who
parted with the money were told that the shares
would in due course be forwarded by Munroe and
Munroe to the Union Bank, for distribution among
the voucher-holders. They were hop.ful people at
that time and for months afterwards. But the
scrip is long overdue. Information received, by private
inquirers, from the secretary of the co., gave the
recipients some reason to hope that the delay had been
unavoidable, and the scrip might come to hand not later
than the middle of May. It is now August, but no scrip,
nor any apology for its non-appearance, has reached Mel-
bourne. A few shares are said to have been delivered in
Sydney, but this vague assertion needs confirmation.
The people who paid for scrip would now, presumably,
jump at a chance to get their money back, or even some
of it. Anyhow, they want some sort of satisfaction, and
it should be somebody’s official business to see that they
get it.
* * ■* *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank (Melbourne) from the time when dividends were
resumed :
Dividends on Taken Nominal
Preference from Re-
Profits. Shares. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1901 .. £1634 1 p.c. =£2793 £1159 £11,604
June, 1902 .. 1522 1 „ „ 2793 1271 10,333
Dec., 1902 .. 1959 1 „ „ 2793 834 9,499
June, 1903 .. 21-99 1 „ „ 2793 594 8,905
Dec., 1903 .. 2606 1 „ „ 2793 187 8,718
Added.
June, 1904 .. 2866 1 „ „ 2793 73 8,791
Dec., 1904 .. 2957 1 „ „ 2793 164 8,955
Capital reduced from £909,979 to £195,935 ;
and £BlO7 written off reserves .. .. S4S
June, 1905.. 3395 4 p.c. = 3352 43 891
Dec., 1905 .. 3636 4 „ „ 3352 284 1,175
June, 1906 .. 4369 5 „ „ 4190 179 1,354
Dec., 1906 .. 4816 5 „ „ 4190 626 1,980
June, 1907 .. 5547°Vp!c. U = e 5000 547 2,527
There are three lots of shares —preference, deferred pre-
ference and ordinary. All now get 5 per cent. But for
the deferred preference and ordinary shares it means
very little ; for in 1905, at a final cleaning up, the former
were written down from £2 10s. to ss. and the latter from
£5 to Is. ;at the same time also the pref shares came
down from £2 10s. to £1 10s. The one cheerful feature
about it is that the realisation of the written-down
securities is panning out a shade better than had been
provided for ; so that the special reserve, formed of the
surpluses, and earmarked for the benefit of the deferred
preference and ordinary shares, is mounting up. As
follows :
Profit on
Total Sales Special
Sales. Completed. Reserve.
June, 1905 .. £13,994 £794 £794
Dec., 1905 .. 20,193 1340 2134
June, 1906 .. 33,218 1366 3500
Dec., 1906 .. 52,343 9989 13,489
June, 1907 .. 17,427 2496 15,985
There were, at the end of the half-year after the writing-
down, £316,857 of properties, and the sales have amounted
to £137,175. The special reserve as shown above amounts
to £15,985. But that only includes the'surplus on the
transactions actually completed ; the surplus on sales on
time-payment is not reckoned in until the last pay-
ment is made ; and unfortunately the book value of
the properties absolutely got rid of is not given. The
new business is not progressing very fast, notwith-
standing that the position how looks solid enough. In 12
months the deposits have come back from £358,742 to
£349,664 ; though, mainly on account of the completed
sales, it has been possible to increase the advances (apart
from balances of purchase money, £117,187) from £124,513
to £158,689. The cash position is not strong; cash,
deposit receipts, and other liquid assets represent only
12 per cent, of the debts to the public ; but, as against
that, it has to be remembered that the current account
money amounts to only £12,652. A fairer way of looking
at it is that the shareholders’ interest in the business
amounts to £218,512 ; and that would allow of the whole
of the non-liquid assets being further written down 10s.
6d. in the £ ; so that new business is very well covered.
Because it faced the situation and cleaned up thoroughly
(as far as can be seen), the concern deserves well; but it
will probably not do as well as it deserves until it can
flash more coin and indisputably liquid assets in the eye
of the public.
* * * *
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £48,352 15 p.c. = £51,135 £114,108
Dec., 1901 .. 56,818 15 „ „ 51,918 £4900 119,008
June, 1902.. 49,954 15,, „ 55,045 113,917
Deo 1902.. 61,546 15 ~ „ 56,205 5341 119,258
June, 1903.. 51,703 15 ~ „ 56,250 114,711
Dec. 1903 .. 60,445 15 ~ ~ 56,250 4195 118,906
June, 1904 .. 52,187 15 ~ „ 56,250 114,843
Dec., 1904 .. 61,555 15 ~ ~ 56,250 5305 120,148
June, 1905 .. 53,343 15 ~ ~ 56,818 116,673
Dec., 1905 .. 63,623 15 ~ ~ 59,284 4339 121,012
June, 1906.. 56,237 15 ~ „ 59,971 117,278
Deo., 1906 .. 65,461 15,, „ 59,996 5465 122,743
June, 1907 .. 55,140 15 „ „ 60,000 117,883
To which reserves £232,227 of premium capital and
£10,652 representing meter-renewal reserve may be
added ; and there are also suspense accounts, probably
to a great extent reserves also, amounting to £66,681.
This co.’s accounts are mere skeletons ; the profit and
loss account simply bristles with “etc.,” and “etc.”
covers a multitude of sins. Thus : “Revenue: sale of
gas, etc" ; “ expenditure : manufacture, distribution,
maintenance, etc.”; “miscellaneous charges, interest,
bad debts, etc." The real point to be reached is—What
provision is being made for depreciation, and are there
any hidden reserves? One of the “etc.’s” may cover
outlay in extending the plant, and that would mean a
reserve which the accounts don’t divulge. On the eo.’s
own showing it barely pays its dividend ; there are not
as much reserves shown as there were five and a half
years ago. But the directors don’t seem to be gentlemen
of that sort at all. Chairman George Judah Cohen, for
instance, is chairman also of the Commercial Banking
Co., of Sydney, whose reserves have been increased by
about £40,000 a year. As at December, 1901, the sales of
gas, “ etc.,” were said to be £199,791 ; the profits were said
to be £56,818. Last half-year “ sales of gas, etc.”—the co.
still sells “ etc.”—were £226,991; but the profit was alleged
to be only £55,140. Yet gas is still the old 4s. From
time to time large sums of capital have been got in. At
December, 1896, the capital and reserves were £981,099;
10 years later they were £1,288,882, or £307,783 more.
Yet the fixed investments —buildings, plant, etc.—into
which the capital would almost certainly be put, increased
by only £215,321. That seems to point in the same
direction—to profits being used to write down plant.
The one solid fact that can be laid hold of definitely is
that the disclosed profits for the past 12 months were at
the rate of £lO 7s. 9d. per cent, on capital and reserves
of all kinds as at July Ist, 1906. The State-owned rail-
ways, supplying freight, had a remarkably good year ;
yet for 1906 they only' charged the public enough to show
£4 Bs. 6d. per cent., and for 1905 £3 9s. 3d. per cent.
Certainly the Gas Co. owes in temporary loans, deben-
tures, etc.” (good old “etc.” !), £349,950, and to con-
sumers (deposits) £18,830; but the interest on all this is
deducted from the profits. Counting that in as capital,
the return might be reduced to £9 10s. And even then
we are still left in the dark as to how much profit (if any)
was put into plant, etc., and not disclosed. If there were
any such expenditure the real profits are higher than
that. On the other hand, if there were none, then the
dividend was not justified. Either way, it is an unsatis-
factory balance-sheet. The object plainly is to keep the
public in the dark; and to do that shareholders and in-
vestors have to be kept in the dark too.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne): —
Works Writ-
Charged ten
to He- off stocks, Re-
Profits. Dividends, venue. etc. serves
£ £ £ £ £
June,’ol 53,955 9 p.c. =-38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., ’Ol 56,872 9,, „ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June,’o2 50,212 9 ~ ~38,574 11,643 568,712
Dec., ’O2 50,454 9 „ ~38,574 5,172 5665 569,755
June,’o3 46,776 9 ~ ~38,574 7,573 570,384
Dec., ’O3 52,017 9 „ ~38,574 9,451 2000 572,346
June,’o4 48,971 9 ~ ~38,574 6,901 575,842
Dec., ’O4 51,941 9 „ ~38,574 19,293 1434 568,482
June,’os 52,588 10 „ ~42,860 4,207 3207 570,796
Dec., ’O5 56,565 10 „ ~42,860 4,841 4660 575,000
June,’o6 54,324 10 „ ~42,860 10,672 3101 572,691
Dec., ’O6 60,833 10 „ ~42,860 13,651 4291 572,722
June,’o7 60,733 1 0 „ ~42,860 12,376 5167 573,032
The reserves consist of premium capital £466,535, formal
reserve fund £82,717, meter reserve £20,977, and undivided
profit £2803. Of the amount shown above as written off
for the half-year, £2667 represents the sum charged to
the meter renewal reserve, and £2500 was voted out of
profits to cover the co.’s loss on the hiring and repair of
gas stoves; which latter means that, in order to
encourage people to use gas for domestic fuel, the co.
puts up with a loss of £2500 on hiring out the machines
that consume the fuel. Besides this amount written off,
£29,231 was paid direct out of revenue to cover ordinary
maintenance and repairs. The co.’s share capital (apart
from premiums) is £857,210; the debenture debt is
£848,000. The whole capital is therefore £2,171,745, of
which £2,149,842 has been expended. The net profits for
thehalf-year before payinginterest were £80,617; and that
show's a return at the rate of £7 9s. lid. per cent. For the
corresponding half of 1906 the return on the same net
revenue basis was £6 17s. 9d. per cent. ; for the ditto of
1900, £6 14s. 4d. per cent. This steady but emphatic
increase is largely due to the fact tha additions to works
are being made out of profits instead of being charged to
capital account; in other words, a large reserve is being
accumulated which is not shown as a reserve. In the
past five years the amount thus spent has totalled
£94,167 ; and that means something like £6500 a year
added to the co.’s earnings. Apart, however, from that,
the undertaking is more profitable than it was. At
June, 1902 (five years ago), the return on total capital out-
lay was £6 10s. 7d. per cent. The capital outlay then was
£2,144,363. Add to that the £94,167 since paid for works
out of profit, and the £5479 paid for works out of
capital, and the present return is still at the rate
of £7 3s. 9d. per cent, on the total outlay. Thus the
co. is not only making a large reserve provision not shown
in the reserves, hut the earning power of the whole
undertaking, whether provided out- of capital or revenue,
has advanced just about 10 per cent, in the past five
years. And there is a further advantage for the co. in
sight; for of the £848,000 of debentures £560,000 carrying
the high rate of 5 per cent, fall due 1908-1912. These
debentures are nearly all held outside Australia ; there
has not been a single reported sale of them on the Mel-
bourne Exchange this year. There is therefore a chance
ahead to get rid of some foreign debt, and let Australia
keep the interest. Unfortunately, only £lOO,OOO of the
debentures fall duo next year ; the bulk are dated 1910.
Here, by the way, are some comparisons, with
proportionate increases shown :
June, 1900. June, 1907. Increases.
Gas sales .. .. £129,290 £168,142 30-0 p.c.
Sales of coke, etc. .. 27,121 40,815 50\5 „
Cost of coal .. .. 37,729 54,814 45'3 „
Cost of purifying .. 1,798 1,993 10-9 ~
Manufacturing wages 11,204 13,521 20’7 ~
Management (fees, sal-
aries, charges, etc.) 8,403 10,756 28 - 0 ~
Profits 47,129 60,713 28‘8 „
Observe that the smallest proportionate increases have
been in the wages at the works and the cost of purifying
the gas. This may be explainable—labor-saving devices
may have been introduced, and purification may have
been simplified ; but on the figures the record isn’t one
that the co. has any right to be proud of.
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Contrib. Off. serves.
Nov., 1902 £12,000 £2109 £15,929
May, 1903 10,111 { 1746 14,294
Nov., 1903 11,812 { £2sqq' 1953 19,153
May, 1904 10,450 j } 2077 17,526
Nov., 1904 14,190 2090 19,626
£5OOO share premiums added to reserves 24,626
May, 1905 14,894 “s£} 2797 25,473
Nov., 1905 17,247 {| 0 7 P- 0 C - 3291 26,929
May, 1906 16,918 { 2 3370 27,977
Nov., 1906 21,0863380 33,133
On all shares.
May, 1907 17,234 20 p.c. =£12,500 3690 34,177
All shares (125,000) are now fully paid to £1 each. The
50,000 contributing shares were issued in 1898, and 6s. Bd.
was paid on them. In eight years that 6s. Bd. has
brought in 245. 9d. ; 13s. 4d. of that has been capitalised,
and the balance divided. It has been something gorgeous.
The present dividend on these shares on the amount
actually paid is 60 per cent. Naturally Perth begins to
wonder whether it ought to provide 60 per cent, divi-
dends to a co. which supplies it with a public necessity
like lighting. The city council therefore lately asked
the co. what it would sell out for (the council has the
right to buy, price to be fixed by arbitrators). The
co. said £400,000. The council said something else—a
much shorter word. Also it proceeded to get in an
engineer to prepare plans for an electric-light scheme ;
and there the matter stands. Meantime, however, Perth
has passed on a swag of its shares to the credulous
t’othersider, who only knew what he saw in the balance-
sheet ; while the co., in view of the threatening opposi-
tion, has promptly brought down its charge for electric
light (it supplies both gas and electricity) to a maximum
of 6Jd. and a minimum of 2Jd. per unit. (The mini-
mum charged by the Melbourne municipality is 2d.
for light and Jd. for power.) On the capital and reserves
the net profits for the past year were at the rate of
£2O Bs. percent. The present charges are so high, and
the profits so gorgeous, that, even on the £400,000 asked
by the co., last year’s net profit amounted to £7 16s. per
cent.—that is, after writing about 5 per cent, off capital
in the electric supply department, plus its proportion of
general assets. It looks, then, as though the munici-
pality could afford to pay the £400,000 and still get in-
terest and sinking fund, provided it were content to go
on making- the same charges as the co. But that is no
doubt just what it isn’t prepared to do : if the public has
to pay over 20 per cent, on the actual outlay, it might
just as well pay it to Peter as to Paul. So there are
changes ahead. And the co. may be thankful that its
innings has lasted as long as it has.
* * * •
Sydney Terries, Ltd. :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £5,377 7 per cent. =£4200 £1177 £2,567
Dec., 1901.. 5,268 7 ~ „ 4200 106 S 3,635
June, 1902.. 5,742 7 ~ „ 4200 1542 5,177
Dec., 1902.. 8,010 8 „ „ 5453 2587 7,764
June, 1903.. 7,464 8 „ „ 5600 1864 9,628
Dec., 1903.. 8,702 8 „ „ 5600 3102 12,730
June, 1904.. 10.339 10 „ „ 7000 3339 16,069
Dec., 1904.. 11,499 10 „ „ 7000 4499 20,568
June, 1905.. 11,104 10 „ „ 7000 4104 24,672
Dec., 1905.. 12,986 10 ~ ~ 7000 5986 3C,658
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 10,658
June, 1906.. 12,999 11J „ „ 9000 3t99 14,657
Dec., 1906.. 13,076 10 „ „ 8000 5076 19,733
June, PJO7.. 12,710 10 „ „ 8999 3711 23,444
Going back only seven years, when the first report of the
new co. was issued, the capital was then £l2o,ooo(and that,
by the way, was a £1 for £1 watering). Then £20,000
was called up at par. Then £20,000 was paid up out of
profits. Now the other 40,000 authorised shares have
been issued, but onlv 10s. per share has yet been called
up. This shows the movement in that and other
respects:—
June, June, Dec., June,
1900. 1906. 1906. 1907.
Capital .. £120,000 £160,000 £160,000 £179,986
Creditors .. 2,156 2,450 11,978 2,745
Ships .. 37,324 53,3u8 60,687 66,805
Land, etc. .. 81,024 109,425 120,350 124,486
Litpiid assets .. 8,510 22,374 18,674 23,882
There were 28 of the new shares unapplied for. The
present postion is something like this : A man had, say,
12 shares ; so far as this co. is concerned they cost him
£l2. Then he got two for £2. Tnen two more for
nothing. Now he gets four more (half paid up) for £2.
So for £l6 he has £lB in shares, which bring in 11J per
cent, on his outlay ; and there is £2 yet to be called up.
If it is called up it will no doubt carry 10
per cent. ; but it may be paid up out of pro-
fits. For there is no doubt that all the pro-
fits are not disclosed. In the past 12 months the
Kai-Kai and the Kookooburra have both been built and
launched ; yet the value of ship property has only been
added to by £13,497. The balance of the cost has been ,
paid out of hidden profits. That sort of thing has been
going on all the time. The book-value of the ferries ,
was actually less at December, 1906 (£60,687), (
than it was at December, 1902 (£64,642), though the
Kulgoa, Kareela and Una were meantime added to the
fleet, and the Kai-Kai and Kookooburra partly paid for.
Of course, it is perfectly right to wipe off something for
depreciation ; yet, after all, these ferries are long-livers-*—
witness some of the old Parramatta tubs, for instance.
How long this hugely profitable business is going to last
there is no telling ; the North Shore Bridge is again in
the air, and may get itself built this time ; and if it is,
the co.’s past will be one thing and its future will be an-
other. On its actual capital and apparent reserves
(£203,430) it may still be profitable ; but it is one thing
to be profitable on that basis and another to be ditto on
the £585,000 at which the market capitalises the.concern.
Port Jackson Co-operative Steamship Co.
(Sydney), which has grown affluent with great rapidity
and now wants to alter its form and change the name
under which it has done so well
Written To Re- Re-
Profits Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, ’O3 6 p.c. = £750 £5625 £1,087
Dec., ’O3 £3,996 8 ~ ~ 1000 2800 £196 1,283
June,’o4 7,973 8 „ „ 1000 5268 1,705 2,988
Dec., ’O4 6,407 8 ~ ~ 1000 1063 4,339 7,327
June,’os 11,038 10 ~ „ 1250 8601 1,124 8,451
Dec., ’O5 7,966 10 „ „ 1250 6,716 15,167
June,’o6 8,075 10 „ „ 1250 6,825 21,992
Dec., ’O6 8,609 10 ~ „ 1250 7,369 29,351
Premium on issue of new shares 4,335 33,086
June,’o7 15,718 14 „ „ 2055 13,663 47,349
And yet the skeleton of a profit and loss account pub-
lished contains but the one item—“ Net profit for half-
year, after providing insurances, new steamer, etc.,
£2757.” It is an amazing profit and loss account that
only tells shareholders and the investor what the net
profit is after providing for such a trifleas “ new steamer,
etc.” A comparison of some balance-sheet items will,
however, make things clearer :
Dec., 1906. June, 1907.
Insurance fund .. .. £5,000 £lO,OOO
Plant renewal account .. 21,000 21,000
New steamer account .. nil 8,000
Employers’liability fund .. 400 400
Public risk fund .. .. 400 301
Undivided profit .. .. 2,551 5,308
Total .. .. £29,351 £45,069
The differencebetween these totals (£15,718) represents the
profit for the half-year ; but something has to be written
off that to provide for depreciation. Also most of the
reserves mentioned are not true reserves : they are the
cover for partly-expired risks. How much, then, was
actual profit it is impossible to say ; for instance, nobody
knows what the actual wear and tear on the boats
amounted to. There is no doubt, however, that either
the provision hitherto has been grotesquely inadequate,
or the statement as to the alleged net profit (£2757) is a
joke. The cash position can be ascertained. Six
months ago the co. owed its bankers and other credi-
tors £10,683, and had £1477 of cash, etc., leaving £9206
net; now it has a liquid surplus of £5037, showing an
improvement of £14,243.
Some premiums on new shares are mentioned
above. The present co., when it took over an almost
moribund competitor (it wasn’t very much alive itself)
paid in part with £8745 of 5 per cent, interminable
debentures: and the men who got this first charge on
the profits, this sure 5 per cent., chuckled. Now, how-
ever, they have been glad to accept in payment 3468
shares paid to 255. ; and thus the co. gets rid of a debt of
£8745 at a cost of £4335 of new capital. The other £4335
for the present has to be treated as premium capital
received by the co. (The £75 unaccounted for represents
unredeemed debentures.) Now it is proposed to recon-
struct the co., add the name Manly to the title, and pro-
vide a little scope for present and future “ watering.” It
makes directors nervous in these days to see 14 per cent,
dividends paid (“This Socialistic Labor party, you
know !”), and “ water” is the handiest substance to use
in order to make a fat 20 per cent, masquerade as a
moderate 6 per cent.
ft ■* * *
Deniliquin andMoama Railway Co. (N.S.W.)
Unexplained
Additions Writ-
to Re- ten Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dee., 1901 .. 4106 4 p.c. = 2000 218 38,541
June, 1902 .. 2228 13 4 „ „ 2000 38,782
Dec., 1902 .. 4412 1 4 „ „ 2000 41,195
June, 1903 .. 636 4 „ ~ 2000 59 39,772
Dec., 1903 .. 1392 1 3 „ „ 1500 39,665
June, 1904 .. 691 2£ „ „ 1250 60 39,046
Dee., 1904 .. 2412 2| ~ ~ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905.. 435 1 „ ~ 1250 39,393
Dec., 1905 .. 3615 2§ „ ~ 1250 41,758
June, 1906 .. 1143 2J „ ~ 1250 41,651
Dec., 1906 .. 6515 5 „ ~ 2500 45,666
June, 1907 .. 2190 5 „ ~ 2500 45,356
Through the long drought—which affected its district
very severely—this co. continued to pay a small dividend.
While the State was expected to carry fodder and starvin'g
stock for nothing, Private Enterprise still pointed a
stiff finger at its schedule of rates. There has been a
partial recovery in local conditions since then ; and, as
expenses are less than they were, the net results are
again fairly satisfactory. Here are some details: —
Work- Mainte- Expenses in
Traffic ing Ex- nance, In- Proportion
Receipts. penses. etc. terest. to Receipts.
1902 .. £7587 £2707 £2051 £6OO 35 ‘7 per cent.
1905 .. 4663 194 S 1749 531 41 '8 „
1906 .. 5470 2018 1785 525 36'9 „
1907 .. 6714 2216 1872 435 33'0
Maintenance includes renewals ; even during the drought
and the depression this work was not neglected—the
rates were kept high enough to pay for it, and leave a
bit over. Therefore now, in the present better times,
there are no back repairs to pick up and pay for, as is
the case with almost every State railway system, in con-
nection with which so many concessions were demanded
that something had to be cut out of the expenditure,
wherefore mostly the stitch in time that saves nine was
postponed. This co., besides its share capital of
£lOO,OOO, has £23,500 of debenture capital. It has paid
off £6500 of bonds in the past six months, and, after pay-
ing the present dividend, will still have about £2OOO cash
in hand. The reserves, apart from that, are used in the
business.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Melbourne):—
Written De-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. ficit.
1897 £3,776 Nil £27,000 £2361
1898 4,201 Nil 5,000 3160
1899 6,640 Nil 5,000 1520
Reserves.
1900 11,067 2i per cent. = £3125 2,500 3922
1901 11,963 5" ~ ~ 6250 2,500 7135
1902 7,589 5 „ „ 6250 8474
1903 1,421 Nil 9895
1904 4,255 Nil 8,599 5551
1905 6,263 4 „ „ 5000 1,500 5314
1906 1,498 Nil 2,000 4812
Loss. Deficit.
1907 11,302 Nil 2,396 8886
In view of the Beer Combine of Melbourne, there has
been a cleaning-up here ; and this shows some of the
results. But not all of them. The profit and loss account
charge for bad debts is lumped with the management
charges ; and as apparently advances have been written
down severely, what might possibly have been a small
profit has been turned into a heavy loss. In 1906 the
composite management-bad debts charge amounted to
£6137, and the year before it was £7077. This year it is
£18,520 ; so probably about £11,500 more than usual has
been provided for bad and doubtful debts —which would
account for the whole of the loss and £l9B besides. Still,
such losses have to be provided for sometime ; and if
they come in a lump now' it is only because they haven’t
been gradually provided for hitherto. Some more
details :
1900. 1906. 1907.
Debenture debt .. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Other dbbts to public .. 55,838 29,020 24,104
Breweries, etc 83,569 84,174 82,174
Hotels, etc 107,686 123,984 122,952
Advances, trade debtors .. 58,162 32,255 15,637
Stock and plant .. .. 34,777 14,991 10,300
Cash, etc 6,261 3,428 9,154
This co.’s brewery w'ill be closed under the Combine
scheme ; but the hotels will not be necessarily taken
over, though the Combine holds certain rights of pur-
chase, and meantime the properties may not be sold to
anybody else. The Combine takes over “ the whole
goodwill and business connections and stock-in-trade
and movable plant ” ; and the Castlemaine gets 12 per
cent, of the stock in the new’ co. as payment. These
things, however, are not mentioned in the Castlemaine
directors’report; altogether, in fact, as little as possible
has been said anywhere about the Combine’s arrange-
ments.
* * * *
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu
facturers of foodstuffs :
Added to Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £10,470 2J per cent. =£3648 £6,822 £24,080
1898 .. 3,386 li „ „ 1824 1,562 25,642
1899 .. 6,530 2* „ „ 3648 2,882 28,524
1900 .. 6,359 2| ~ „ 3648 2,711 31,235
1901 .. 7,124 21 „ „ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902 .. 15,883 3| „ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
Loss.
1903 .. 4,097 Nil. 41,024
1904 .. 15,420 Nil. 25,604
Profits.
1905 .. 10,658 Nil. 10,658 36,262
1906 .. 12,140 1J per cent. =£1824 10,316 46,578
1907 .. 12,209 2£ „ „ 3648 8,561 55,139
This co. got into trouble four or five years ago through
the sudden changes in the markets. It bought its raw
products during the drought at high prices, not knowing
how long the drought was going to last; and then the
plentiful harvests came, with their low’ prices, and the
stocks had to be written down. The high prices even while
the drought lasted had cut down the profits ; sb the co.
was hit both W’ays. Now, though the later figures above
look very cheerful indeed, there are similar risks ahead.
The trouble —or part of the trouble—is that the co. is at
the mercy of market fluctuations; and just now’it has
unusually heavy stocks. At April, 1905, they were dowm
for £54,542 ;in 1906, £56,968 ; now, £76,328. And this
increase of nearly £20,000 is for the most part represented
by borrowed money. It was like that before the last
trouble. Between 1901 and 1903 (both inclusive) the
mortgages and overdrafts ran up from £78,270 to £94,293.
Then, by the reduction of stocks and by other means, they
were got down, in 1906, to £50,571. Now, they are up
again to £61,574, in spite of the large profits of the last
year or two. Things may come out ail right; if prices
don’t fall they no doubt will. There is really not enough
capital in the business, and there is too much
paper; the capital is only £145,953, while the
original purchase of freeholds, machinery, etc.,
represented £148,500. That leaves the whole of
the book debts (£30,835), additions made to plant, etc.,
since the original purchase (£31,341), and stock (£76,328),
besides smaller items, to be financed with borrowed
money, and reserves, or on open credit; and it is
dangerous. What provision for depreciation is made it
is impossible to say ; tbe item is shown every year as
additions less allowances for depreciation, so you only
get the net additions; the allowance for depreciation
may be much or little. Also the exact size of the good-
will still included (after 19 years) as an asset is unknown ;
but it apparently amounts to something considerable,
and is one of the reasons why, though the co; started off
gallantly in the boom times with 8 per cent, dividends, it
has not got past 3f per cent, for 12 or 15 years, and its £1
shares are still worth only about 9s. 6d. A few years ago
they were down to 2s.
♦ * * W
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Mar. , Profit. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1900.. £4035 If p.c. = £562 £1336 £2137 £15,750
1901.. 4608 3 ~ ~ 927 3681 19,431
1902.. 7255 3 „ „ 927 6328 25,759
Loss.
1903.. 629 Nil 25,130
Profit.
1904.. 2061 Nil 2061 27,191
1905.. 2018 Nil 2018 29,209
1906.. 3511 2f p.c. = 843 2668 31,877
1907.. 1323 Nil 1323 33,200
But the reserves are purely nominal; a good deal of the
capital looks purely nominal also. For the same reason
a good deal of what is set out as profit is not true profit,
because it includes provision for depreciation. The
actual position last year seems to be that the revenue
was £24,388, and the expenses and repairs charged to
profit and loss were £23,065, leaving £1323; but £729 of
that is represented on the other side by “repairs, re-
placements, and additions ” to furniture account, leaving
£594 ; and that is probably the true profit, except that
nothing is written off out of it to provide for general
depreciation. The capital is £30,913; the mortgage is
£60,000. In 1900 it was £70,000. But, unfortunately,
the interest hasn’t come down along with the principal;
it amounted to £2462 last year, as against only £2082 in


Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
Has
Uncalled Capital - £975.000
Perpetual Deposit
witlx Govt. • 20,000
Reserves • • • 26,500
*1,021,500
As SECURITY for its
Management of Trust Estates
under Wills, Intestacies,
Marriage Settlements, and
Trust Deeds of Every
Description.
2,4, (Si 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
the year when the loan was £lO,OOO bigger. In fact, the
only thing that has come down with a run is the lighting
bill—from £1430 to £lO6O. This dreadful Socialism
again 1 # * , *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co.
(Sydney):— , ~ ,
Bonus Added
to to Be- Ke-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves
Feb., 1899.. 6p.c. = £ll2 £2538 £2,745
„ 1900.. £8,788 6 „ „ 304 4506 £39/8 6,'23
Apr., 1901.. 320 6 „ 855 - -
June, 1902.. 2,689 6„ ~ 1409 - 1280 7,468
„ 1903.. 1,625 6 „ ~1306 319 7,787
„ 1904.. 2,012 6 „ ~1335 677 8,464
„ 1905.. 4,783 6 „ ~1335 1742 1/06 10,170
„ 1906.. 9,526 6 „ ~1335 3183 5008 16,178
„ 1907.. 10,669 7 ~ ~ 1559 4523 4587 19,765
This co., which still finds the cold shoulder of the non-
oo-operative concerns turned upon it, is nevertheless
bearing up very well under the affliction. This time it is
able to return no less than 30 per cent, of the wool-selling
commission to its clients, and that makes up for a good
deal of cold shoulder. Also, by the way, the rebate accounts
for the cold shoulder ; it would no doubt account for a
whole leg, with a heavy boot at the end of it, if it was
thought that that attention would help the co. out at all.
At present, however, judging by these figures, the co.
seems very like staying
1904. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Commissions, etc. ..£11,557 £13,167 £17,944 £20,190
Working Expenses .. 9,444 8,439 8,156 9,204
Expenses p.c. of corns. 81'8 64 T 45'5 45 5
Of course such growth of the commission figures can t
continue. Australia hasn’t left all its years of drought
behind it. But by limiting its dividends and keeping its
expenses well in hand, the co. has been able to build up
a tine reserve fund, which it has used to clear off the
debt from its stores and premises ; so that when the
lean years come it will have no appalling interest bill to
totter under. In 1903 its liabilities were £10,463 in excess
of its liquid assets : now, after providing for the bonus
to clients, the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities is
£1896; and all the new capital that has been got in to
help along this very fine Improvement is £126. There
are probably advantages from the wool-grower’s point of
view which the accounts cannot show ; at any rate, the
existence of a concern of this sort is certain to have
tended towards lower rather than higher charges, quite
apart from the bonus or refund.
* ■* * *
From Mr. A. J. Brierley : “ Generally I agree
with The Bulletin criticisms on those people who evince
a disinclination to invest in Australian industrial con-
cerns—a disinclination which I am certain is becoming
less and less pronounced now that the policy of the
Federation is fixed. But apropos the Oriental Timber
Corporation (B. 18/7/’O7) The Bulletin is barking up the
wrong tree. The duty on dressed timber will enable the
new concern to give employment with a direct wages
sheet of probably £20,000 per annum, and a large indirect
expenditure which will go into the pockets of Australian
workmen instead of those of Norway and Sweden as at
present. The movement is really an exploitation of
foreign raw material, to be worked up into the finished
article by Australians, and will place this country for
once in the same position as that held by foreign coun-
tries in respect to the other industry mentioned by you
—the woollen industry. The facetious remark as to
nosing under the snow and ice shows that you are aware
that it freezes sometimes in the vicinity of Vladivostock ;
but unless the fall of snow in that region approaches the
one mentioned by Baron Munchausen when he tied his
horse’s bridle to the top of a church steeple, the only
tethering post above the snow, it will still be possible to
obtain logs growing eighty to one hundred feet above the
snow line.
“Seriously, however, it is my experience that
there is plenty of capital in Australia waiting for invest-
ment in concerns which have the ‘ right people ’ in charge
of them, and which can show that there is a fair chance of
the capital being safe, and where the promoters have
such faith in their own ventures that they are willing to
share the risk fairly with the capitalist. Many of the
persons seeking money capitalise their brains at such
figures that there is little chance of dividends for the
capitalist, forgetting that the brains are not a realisable
asset when the affair goes into liquidation, and that,
when that time arrives, they take over the brains at
a large depreciation so far as the company’s balance-sheet
is concerned.”
« • * *
Re City Bank of Sydney (B. 25/7/’O7). In the
table showing movements of balance-sheet figures, a
column headed “June, ’O6” should have been headed
“ December,’o6.” In other words, the comparison was
with the figures of six instead of 12 months ago. The
conclusions, however, are not in the least affected.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation was to have held a meeting
in London on Tuesday to get authority to issue 182,000
pref. shares of £1 each. The situation is so desperate
that the new shares are to be offered all the profits until £1
has been paid back per share, and then they are to carry
a 20 per cent, preference, and to share proportionately in
surplus profits beyond that. Present shareholders can
take two of the 'new issue for every five now held.
Naturally, in view of the big bite to which pref. share-
holders are to be entitled, the ordinary shares have
tumbled headlong to 4s. Even as late as December last
they were 38s. It has been a colossal case of self-
deception in spite of obvious facts and repeated warnings.
* * » *
North Extended, Broken Hill, is trying hard
to pick up two things—(l) thecontinuation of the North
mine’s lode ; (2) a little cash to keep the diamond drill
o-oing. After all the development work and prospec ing
that has been done by the present co., the lost-lode
problem remains as much of a problem as ever. The
drill has proved a very useful addition to the equipment
of the Broken Hill manager ; but it has its limitations.
It has been known to go through a lode without the core
showing any trace of .mineral, as the drill may bend and
follow a fault. It is also liable to pass within a foot
of a lode without whistling to the driver to stop. The
North mine is following the lode northward towards the
Victoria shaft, but where it goes after it crosses the
North’s boundary, no man can tell. Perhaps it doesn’t
go anywhere ; for every lode stops at some point or other.
* * * *
Of all the concentrating mills along the
Broken Hill line of lode the one at the Junction
North seems to come in for the severest criticism.
Its alteration has certainly been strung out for a pro-
voking length of time, and the perplexing part of it is
that the management has nothing to gain by pro-
crastination. The presence of large "quantities of rhodo-
nite in Junction North is no doubt to a great extent
responsible for the low grade of its concentrates, as com-
pared with those of the North and South mines. The
hio-h specific gravity of rhodonite renders concentration
difficult, and in the case of the Junction North the
gangue is so heavy that there is only a small working
difference between it and the metallic product. As show-
ins what rhodonite means to a mill not specially adjusted
to deal with it, the South Block’s mill, when a block of
the red terror from the Junction North was put thiough
the ore-breaker to test the strength of the machine pro-
duced a concentrate consisting almost entuelj oi
rhodonite! „
* * * *
The little copper-producing mines of N. S.
Wales, which have to struggle in order to live up to the
reputations given to them during the boom, are begin
ning to groan under the smelting and other charges.
There is the Budgery, for example. A report states that
the principal working shows ore up to 10 per cent. , ana
even that is a long drop from the value of the stuft
found in the enriched area first struck. It is a tuithei
drop to the 6’86 per cent, which the last consignment
was reported to be worth. Still at £9O a tc >"’ J P®*
cent, ore is worth £6 3s. sd. per ton. The actual return
got for the lot was £3 10s. lOd. per ton. After paying
charges off the mine, therefore, the ore for practical pur-
poses w'as worth 3’93 per cent. And that is another neck-
breaking drop.
* * * *
New Hillgrove’s new shaft is down 1258 ft.,
which is below’ the old workings ; a chamber at No. 11
level is nearly completed. A quantity of electrical
machinery, including copper cables and transformers,
has arrived —another sample of the craze for importing
is this idea of bringing copper cables to a copper-producing
country. High-tension electricity (brought from the
o-enerating station, where water-turbines drive dynamos;
will haul the ore and drive the Eleanora and N ew Hillgrove
crushing plants. # #
A discovery of some importance has taken
place six miles west of Yalgogrin (N.S. W.), where a gold-
bearing reef, 3ft. w'ide, has been struck near the surface.
It is on State land, held under special lease by G. Iroy.
A crushing of 15 tons yielded 250 z. The discovery has
given an impetus to prospecting work at Yalgogrin.
Blayney new co. (N.S.W.) is still pumping out
the water, which conies up as green as grass, and it is
saving the copper contents while manager Eiddington and
staff make extensive preparations for a smelting campaign.
Two furnaces are ready, hut the supply of ore on hand is
small. The co. is pushing its custom business, but no doubt
finds it difficult to get ore forwarded or bonded to works
that are not in blast; hence the hurry. Still, without a
mine to fall back upon in case the custom ore fails, the
co. has to take the pretty large risk of a shut-down
before long.
* * * *
Great Cobar new shaft is 15ft. long by 7Jft.
wide, a big hole to sink 1000 ft. deep. It is, for all that,
progressing at the rate of 140 ft. a month. Much is made
of the fact that ore reserves are 1,530,000 tons, or about
eight years’ supply at present rate of extraction. But if
the output is to be doubled (and £lOO,OOO worth of new
plant and machinery is being installed with that object),
it comes down to only four years. As against that, the
bottom levels, .particularly on the northern shoot of ore,
are showing up remarkably well. And at No. 4 level in the
Ohesney is ore worth 2oz. gold per ton ; but how much
there is of it has not been proved.
So far, Melbourne Cope’s Creek—a sluicing
proposition—is the bright star among the N. S. Wales
tin ventures in James Mackay’s Melbourne office. The
Elliott and the Stannum Lode have not had time yet to
get into their stride, perhaps. True, they were born in
November last year, while the Melb. Cope’s Creek was
born in July—only five months before —but the lode pro-
positions call for more preliminaries. The actual capital
put into Cope’s was £6500, and of that £lOOO went to the
vendors ; they also got £5OOO in shares, making the pre-
sent paid-up capital £11,500. In the 12 months, £5500
has been paid in divs., and at the end of June there was
a liquid surplus of £2995. Last half-year, the co. got
£9850 for its tin at a cost of £3725, leaving £6125 profit,
less £464 for depreciation. The ground sluiced yielded
an almost imperceptible shade under 21b. tin to the cubic
yard, and the cost, including management, was B‘43d.
per yard; excluding management, 8 - 02 d. By w .y of
comparing costs of successful dredging and sluicing enter-
prises : tiie No. 1 Tewksbury dredge, working (for gold)
near Bright (Vic.), last half-year worked at l'36d. per yard.
The old Nymagee (N.S.W.), bought a while
back by an English co. from the Great Cobar people, is
bein°- fitted up with a new plant as elaborate as the old
one was ramshackle. B. and W. boilers of 500 h.p., to
drive 20 machine drills and serve an engine capable of
lifting four tons from 2000 ft., are to go in ; and that gives
some idea of the new equipment. Meantime the new
owners are busy underground, and they have already
opened up enough ore to last the furnaces two years.
Nymagee in all its days—and it has seen some good
ol i e g —was never struck by such energy before.
*•*.■**
The record of Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) recently
Dec., ’O5. June, ’O6. Dec., ’O6. June, ’O7.
Tin sold .. £42,'79 £50,023 £48,190 £25,182
Dividends.. 30,000 36,000 27,000 18,000
A bad fall, considering the extraordinary heights at which
tin has stood. The worst has happened during the past
half-year. The dividend list consequently went back from
£27 000 to £18,000; or, to go further into ancient
history, from £36,000 to half that figure. Liquid assets
stick at about £73,000, of which £40,000 is fixed deposit
and £13,000 Treasury bills. The smelting return tells
the tale of the co.’s work. During the six months
52 000 tons of ore were treated, and 232 J tons of tin were
produced. Costs last half-year were ss. l'6d. per ton-
cheap enough for anything. General-manager Kayser
for the first time gives an estimate of the ore in sight: —
Gossan, 83,704 tons; porphyry, 951,330 tons; Queen
lode, 2031 tons; pyritic, 2485 tons; total, 1,039,550.
He works that out at 1,000,000 tons of “crush dirt.” On
the past half-year’s results, there should be about 4460
tons of tin in that; hut there is no proof at all that the
past half-year’s 52,000 tons were an average of the lot.
And there is less ground to expect that the past half-
year’s tin prices will be maintained. To estimate quantity
was not difficult; it would be much harder to estimate
the worth of the ore, and that Kayser has left severely
alone. The mine, however, looks better than it did six
months ago, and the directors think that “ a similar-
output can still be secured without unfairly calling upon
the mine’s resources.” This is a negative way of putting
things, and the Board takes care to point out that the
profits of last half-year have been dependent greatly on
the price of tin. Therefore, it can be quite understood
directors are still on the look out for another mine.
* •» » *
Crown Lyell Copper Co. (Tas.), according to
the balance-sheet dated June 30, has a fixed deposit of
£lOOO. Judging from the thrifty way in which affairs
move nowadays, this will last the best part of a year. No
longer are the co.’s office rents and directors’ fees prizes
to be hankered after, for £23 10s. was all that was cut up
among five men during six months, and £4O represented
office rent and manager’s salary. Petty cash seems to be
absent, or we might look for some escape in that direc-
tion. Indeed, it would be hard to find in the wide world
a £250,000 co. run with so much modesty and so little
expense. The co.’s aim is to pick up the North Lyell ore
body, or wait till it makes into the Grown Lyell's ground.
But the formation sticks to the North Lyell with great
tenacity. The co., however, is doing the most sensible
work it has undertaken—driving along the contact of the
consrlomerates and the schist.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance scrip rose to 95., the
other day, on the strength of a “ bull” cable. Next day
there was a rush to get out, and shares sagged to 7s.
Said cable alleged, among other things, that new develop-
ments in the south end promise a continuance of present
returns ; but if the few dabs of good ore just exposed in
that locality are all the mine has to depend on, it must
be in a worse way than even the most pessimistic of its
critics imagine. When the last estimate of reserves was
made up, the dividend value of the property ran out at
about 2s. 6d. per share. That ought to be a pretty stood
guide.
Ivanhoe east lode cut at 1500 ft. in the Boulder
co.’s north block, is one of the best and biggest joints in
the backbone of Kalgoorlie. It traverses the entire length
of the Ivanhoe lease, and then extends north across
Boulder territory, and south through the Horseshoe.
It is payable for a length of over 300 ft. ; and, like the
Boulder main ore-shoot, it is persistent in depth. Some-
one has said that the Boulder, Ivanhoe and Horseshoe
will be producing gold long after the moss has grown
green over the graves of the other big mines of the field,
and probably time will prove it so.
•* • * *
There is something wrong somewhere. The
recent test crushing from the Callion (W.A.) was reported
to average 16dwt. per ton, whereas the official return
lodged with the local mining registrar works out at only
about half that amount. The management may explain
away the discrepancy ; but unless it is a very special ex-
planation, the incident will add to the suspicion with
which the concern is viewed.
* * * *
The Ivanhoe Junction (W.A.) has taken The
Bullktin’s advice and given it up. The second clean-up
was no better than the first. It is estimated that £l5OO
has been spent since the plant started, at the beginning
of May, and all the co. has to show for it is about £2OO
worth of bullion.
» + * *
A Perth shareholder in the wound-up Bayley’s
Mines, Ltd., is anxious to know how he stands. Some
months ago the leases, machinery and plant were
auctioned. It was alleged that the co. bad never re-
ceived a transfer from its predecessor, Bayley’s Gold
Mines, Ltd. What the aggrieved shareholder particularly
desires to be enlightened on is : (L) Does he hold scrip in
a co. that never possessed any property? (2) Was the
sale legal? (3) Has he any redress against the co. for
keeping him in the dark as to what was going on until
after the sale had taken place? Other Australian share-
holders want to know much the same things.
The forfeiture of the Paringa leases was recom-
mended by the Kalgoorlie mining warden the other day.
As the application was undefended, it is evident that the
co. wants to be relieved of its burden. B.,M.andCo.
had charge of the Paringa group for some time, but
finally gave up in despair. Tributors have since followed
suit. The co.’s best-positioned block adjoins the Brown
Hill on the west and the Associated Northern on the
north. However, position isn’t gold.
* » •* *
The Vivien Co,, one of 8., M. and Co.’s West-
ralian group, the other day issued a statement of
accounts covering the past two years. At the time
the co. was almost on its uppers as regards ready cash ;
but as a profit of £7OO per month is now being earned
from ore-treatment, the next balance-sheet should be
better. During the two years 75,552 tons of ore were
opened up, making (after allowing for 45,055 tons
extracted in the interim) a total reserve of 81,743 tons,
worth 325. per ton. These are the official figures. On
the basis of present output, the reserves are equal to
about two years’ supplies. The co. has been working for
some years, but shareholders have received no return.
* * » *
Queensland Menzies Co. is having a bleak time
with the Goodenough lease, and its hopes about the
value of this show must be gone by now. The manager is
off to Brisbane to confer with the directors, but what
good that is going to do is a mystery. It is interesting
to note that of the 30 odd English and Australian flota-
tions in the Menzies district, only two or three have kept
alive. The rest are dead and buried, or lying around
loose. #
The shoot has “gone poor” in the north
bottom level of the Fingall (W.A.), and it looks as if the
limit of payable ore has been reached at that point.
Further back in the drive the No. 3 winze has now been
sunk 150 feet in ore averaging a shade under 30s. per ton.
There is, however, a blank of about 300 feet between the
two Shoots. Word comes from London that the decision
of the Fingall directors to add a sixpenny bonus to the
half-crown dividend just paid, is in accordance with the
views held and expressed by some members of the Board,
that the management has carried caution too far in
estimating the value of the ore reserves.
• * * *
Boulder No. 1, being satisfied with its sampling
of the St. George, Mount "Magnet (W.A.), exercises its
option, and pays £lO,OOO to get in.
At the safe distance of London, C. A. Moreing,
head of Bewick, Moreing and Co., has had a fling at
Stanley Hunter, the deep-lead geologist on the Victorian
Mines Department staff. Hunter no doubt erred in
saying that you must have 14dwt. to make deep-lead
mining pay, for the Great Southern and the Ohiltern
Valley, the two big Victorian mines, show to the con-
trary. But 8., M. and 00. have not only to prove that
they can make Bdwt. dirt profitable, but also to show
that they have even that much. Of course, if prior
expenditure is not to be counted in, then, with the lead
pretty well drained, Bdwt. ought to cover exes. With the
wash green, and pumping still needed, another 4dwt. may
have to go on to the total. It is idle, then, for Moreing to
tell London that alluvial mining can be carried on for
gdwt. Even Burnt Creek, at Maryborough, the cheapest
worked mine in Victoria, can’t do that; and the little
Cathcart is not putting up a record, though it is in
shallow ground. Moreing’s speech was made at the
meetings of the Consolidated Deep Leads and the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth Trust, where be and Chairman
Gell talked an appalling amount of crudities. There was
the old gabble about borehole prospects, though every-
one on this side knows bow unreliable they are. More-
in", nevertheless, laid it down as axiomatic that where
the’boreholes were richer the wash was richer. There was
talk of appointing a committee to investigate the affairs
of the group. That committee might also find out the
names of the parties who shot out scrip early. Apropos
that the Commonwealth Companies Act should pro-
vide’that all promoting and share-dealing corporations
shall show their shareholdings at regular intervals. With
such concerns in the field, the garden variety of share-
holder needs safeguarding. And publicity is the best
safeguard available. „ » *
New Loch Fyne, Matlock (Vic.), which
“Johnnie” Ripper tried to tempt London with, isn’t
panning out good enough even with Victorian manage-
ment The idea was that the show could be made a
second Alaska-Treadwell—a big dyke formation carrying
a low percentage of gold. But the work, so far, is not
profitable, due to the hardness of the dyke and the low-
ness of the contents. Still, the margin is narrow enough
to tempt further effort.
•*'* + *
The collapse of the market in Catherine Reef
United six months back hit a lot of Victorians harder
than they have cared to admit. Old ex-manager Coakes
was so positive he was on a good wicket that
caution was kicked out of the way, and shares were
taken right and left at above 80s. Since then
they have been back towards 205., Coakes has
gone, and generally things have turned topsy-turvey.
Bend’igonians looked for a rise when the 2300 ft. stone was
developed. But the new manager, Langdon, decided to
try if the shoot worked at 2200 ft. lived up. So
he crosscut east away from the lava at 2100 ft.,
and picked up sft. of gold-bearing stone. Straight-
way shares jumped up 235. ; so if Langdon is
as lucky at 2300 ft., it is certain that Catherines
will spring high again. What looks well in this quarter
is that the winze going down on the lava from 2200 ft.
carriesgold-bearingstoneasfar assinkinghasgone. George
Lansell looked to making heaps of divs. out of the present
level, for he held the paramount interest in the mine.
Now’ his heirs have a chance of proving the old veteran’s
judgment. What makes Catherines such a delicious
gamble is that Williams United, next door, hit upon gold
in the continuation of the same formation south. The
quartz here is 100 ft. wide, and it would not take much
leaven to make such a mass pay thumping divs.
* * * *
The new Mt. Elliott Co. is registered—the
English co. that has taken over the Cloncurry property.
And in J. Bull’s large, expansive way, the co. has been
capitalised at £7so,ooo—for a show which, though rich
and promising, isn’t so far proved to be much more than
a surface deposit. Also the five London directors of this
as vet non-productive concern, besides their £lOOO a year
fees are to have 2£ per cent, of the distributed profits in
any year when 10 per cent, is paid to shareholders. It is
a bad system : it offers a premium to the management to
rip out the rich ore and let development slide ; and that
means booms and bursts.
* * * *
The Chillagoe-Ruddigore, one of the few
Chillagoe (Q.) district mines, outside the big co.’s hold-
ings that have stood the test of time, complains that it
couldn’t do what it should have done last half-year
because the big Chillagoe Co. hadn’t got its Huntingdon-
Heberlein sulphide-roasting plant in commission ; never-
theless it made £5068 profit, on a paid capital of £2757.
E. B. Torpy, the energetic man of those parts, is the little
co.’s' managing director, and he says there should be no
difficulty at all in trebling the output as soon as the
(jhillao-oc Co. can handle the stuff, which is practically all
sulphide, and in one place is as much as 37ft. wide. The
Huntingdon-Heberlein works mentioned ought to be
ready in about a month.
“ Mainsbaft ” : A par in recent Bulletin re
Cannindah (Q.), states Bewick Moreing have started to
shake up things preparatory to taking charge. But 8.,
M. and Co. ljold only 16 per cent, of the stock, having
paid £15,000 for 60,000 shares, and they have no con-
trolling- voice. This is a pity, seeing that Caghindah’s
idea of mine management is on a par with its'finanee—
you remember it issued ail its 300,000 shares to itself and
started life practically without capital. Cannindah has
a big ore body and a toy mill, and its mine management
left even the toy mill short of ore to the extent of 25 per
cent, of its capacity. If 8., M. and Co., or somebody else
used to handling big low-grade propositions in a big pay-
able way could get the control of Cannindah, scrippers
would be better off in a few months than they will ever
be under the old regime.
* * * *
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.),
is not providing big profits ; but an output of 1500 tons
a month is maintained, and as the cost of mining and
crushing is as low as £1 4s. 9d., the co. has a comfortable
credit balance of over £2OOO. No. 2 and No. 3 reefs have
improved lately. No. 3 provides nearly all the stone,
and patches of coarse gold are becoming'more frequent.
* * * *
A correspondent of the New York Mining and
Engineering Journal alleges that at one period of its
history the Boulder Perseverance nearly came to grief
through the carelessness of its controllers. This brings
out Ralph Nichols, who emphatically denies the asser-
tion, but admits (1) that he was in charge of the mine at
the time mentioned, and (2) that he was responsible for
the gaudy report which caused all the mischief, although
the sampling and measurements were not his own. The
fact that this report estimated the reserves at about four
times their actual value does not disconcert him in the
least. In airy fashion he merely sums it up as a mistake,
and points to the annual reports of certain Kalgoorlie
mining cos. to prove that there were others. True ; but
the Perseverance was by far the worst case, as for some
time cream ore was gouged out wholesale, and the skim-
millc stuff was left for posterity to deal with.
* * * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i andling-
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated;
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by VV. & J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* ♦ » *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [D.]
■* * * *
The Insurance India (London) in its Septem-
ber, 1906, issue writes regarding the report for the year
1905 of the Society mentioned “ Taking the report,
throughout we think it indicates that the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society’s prospects were never
brighter than at the present time, and while the results
in the present are excellent, the outlook is still more
encouraging.”* #
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes f urther and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used bv those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* » * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. *
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbbrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
. « * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74,Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras.”* + , *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). * „
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald 11.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers tor
Nvmagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained..
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
m * * T
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Sharp Broker, Canbelego, for thd
latest information on the field.*


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantesd.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PES
G-O TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real g-ood stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagei), Ltd.
foreign stamp importers,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
n
ih*^
K
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS SSSS
Also at Melbourne. SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“A sensation in the American market
recently was the offering of 5000 tons of basic pig
iron from China.” Truly the Yellow Man stirs,
and it isn’t a football stir.
A handful of State Frights in Sydney have
talked secesh from the Commonwealth to such an
extent that they have made the word altogether too
familiar. Harmless old Minister Lee was quite
flabbergasted recently to meet his own chief’s
spectre wandering about loose in northern N.S. W.
A deputation there wanted a railway or some-
thing, and it explained to Lee that if the article
wasn’t forthcoming New England might secede
from N.S.W. at any moment.
THE UNFERTILISING STREAM.
Once the stream of immigration has been diverted to
our shores its volume should steadily increase —Daily
Paper .
P'raps it would be as well to remove the party
with the piece of spouting first, so as to keep
what we get.
What is infant life compared with the
dignity of a suburban alderman ? Recently Mavor
Hughes and the Sydney City Council composed a
piece of milk legislation under which the chalk-
and-water brigade—the old sin which kills
off young children wholesale with its nefarious
wares—would either have to abate the iniquity
of its ways or else argue the point in the
police court. It was proposed that the
milk legislation should apply to Sydney and
suburbs, but the suburban councils have first
to accept it, and the Local Rights alderman is as
mad about Sydney as the State Rights fool is
about Victoria and t Federal encroachments.”
And some of him shakes an empty head with an
air of great wisdom, and fancies that, as the new
idea comes from the City Council, it may be the
first instalment of a Greater Sydney movement
and if that came to pass, where would Alderman
Pumpkin be, and what room would be left for
Alderman Blowhard ?
“Sailor”: The new
Navigation Bill should
stipulate for a winter
load-line, especially for
those ships that run round
the South Coast. It is as
necessary as on the At-
lantic, where it is en-
forced. We get gales that
are as heavy and seas that
are as bad as anywhere in
the world. I speak of
these things from bitter
practical experience. The
late bad weather has been
very hard on us, and 3in.
or 4in. of additional free-
board would have added
greatly to our safety, to
say nothing of our com-
fort. Many of our colliers
are like half-tide rocks in
a heavy sea. We talk
largely of the way workers
are looked after here, but
our sailors—except in
the matter of wages and
hours are worse off than in England, where
accommodation and food are strictly supervised.
There, too, the old ships have to be brought up to
date m such things as ventilation and covering
I VUI ? P| aces - Here I have never seen the
matter touched upon. There are boats on this
coast 20 and 30 years old, that have had nothing
one to them since they first appeared in Aus-
tralian waters. Ihe new ones are not so bad,
naving been built to modern requirements.
Though one can never be dead sure what
he will be a starter for, Crick has made up his
Hi?hfwS a w?I Un f< f, John Norton’s old Surry
Mdls IN. S. W.) A ssembly seat. That is probably
why the holy Bruntnell won’t look that way this
aT 6 ' , Hls " ose is pointed ' towards Dacey’s
Alexandria district, where he will be beaten for
just-about certain.
Labor leader Archibald is very sore over
the action of the Liberal-Labor party in S A in
preferring J. V. O’Loghlin for the Senate vacancy
session 16 i e f eCtl °n by a joint Parliamentary
T’ ™ ktl « ns between Archibald and some
the Ministers, who are supposed to have
SyZtinet ° h °“ e ° f O’L 0 ’ Lo S hJin ’ been
Edward Terry, one-time leader of the
ont n for P p n ent R arty l in N-S.W. Assembly, is
out for Parramatta. A variable item was Terry’s
Independent party. When it gathered at Terry’s
d uner-table it formed a good working majority
of the House but at divisions there was seldom
of y th°e F-tmee r ry ‘‘Tf'n 11 was reminiscent
ot the lan tee force which Colonels Harley and
before Wolt d l tolead a,! a ln - St the A shantees in 73
before Wolseley arrived to clean up. It was a
good-looking native force, and numbered about
bOO on quiet ordinary days. On days when pay
was served out it amounted to about 1000. P On
and t,hfacn7h n H° bodyC « uld be found but Quacca,
and Quacca had some Haoussa blood in him, else
lie would have been missing also.
frilil' 0 /’ '' ° n n °, f my shire-councillor
maWnt !h Casually disclosed to me a way of
making the genus carry out the laws-particularly
flonf | i ru h i atCOU u C iHors habitually disregard or
flout. I had drawn his attention to an illegalexnen-
d p|! r ® . of mr ! n< 7 by a neighboring council. “O,
well, he said, that doesn’t matter. They’re not
supposed to do that,
but the vote can’t be
attacked once the ex-
penditure is made.”
“Then what’s the
good of the Local
Government Act if
you can defy it?”
“ Well, we don’t do
it habitually. But
there is really only
one thing we dare
not do. We must not
borrow money ille-
gally beyond our
powers, that is. If
we did each coun-
cillor would be per-
sonally liable .” That’s
it. He doesn’t care a
hang what he does
or doesn’t do so long
as he isn’t made
“personally liable”
for the conse-
quences. Well, why
not make him per-
sonally liable ?
.There is a good deal to be said for allowing
every candidate for the Senate or Reps, to use
the post-office to send one statement of his poli-
tics to every elector ; but the thing, if done at all
ought to be done openly. Nowadays the tricky
candidate gets there, or thereabouts, but he
crawls up the backstairs to do it, and the Common-
wealth shouldn’t encourage people to crawl up
the backstairs. Just after the Echuca (Vic.)
writ was issued, the Economist was registered at
Melbourne Gr.P.O. as a newspaper; and, under
cover of that registration, Echuca was flooded
with Mrs. Janet’s portrait, an Argos leading
article, and a whoop for Palmer at the rate o'!
20oz. for Id. Now that Palmer’s in, the Econo-
mist will die ; but while it lived it allowed of 1(1
electioneering circulars being sent out for Id.,
whereas if the circulars had been called plain
circulars, and not newspapers, they would have
cost a ha’penny a piece.
Moaning over the Factories and similar
Acts, the Argus, the other day, dished up the
decomposed tarradiddle about the “old and
slow worker, just as if it had discovered some
novelty which it had half a mind to patent.
Anyone who has not been dead the last few years
knows quite well that, in his annual reports for
1901 and 1902, Vic. Chief Inspector of Factories
Ord first doubted, and then denied, the existence
of this alleged aged and gradual worker. Then
in 1905 he openly challenged anyone to produce
an instance of any such person who had been in-
jured by factory legislation ; and not a single Tory
°l Anti-Soshite accepted that challenge. Can’t
the blessed paper invent some new lie, or turn up
Munchausen? There are a lot of people who
know the Argus’s ancestor by name, but have
never read him, and he would ’be something of a
change anyway.
THE BOARDED-OUT INFANT CURSE.
A Bounties Bill, providing- for the expenditure in 15
years of a total sum of £530,000 to encourage the pro-
duction of certain goods, was read a first time. The
principal items mentioned in the schedule were cotton
fibre, mohair, oil materials, rice, rubber, coffee, tobacco’
preserved fish, dates, dried fruits, and combed wools and
tops.— BILL LYNE'S work in the House of Reps.
DOCTOR BILL: "'Buck up, sonny! I’m pre-
paring something that’ll make you strong
enough to feed and look after yourself.
You’ll never grow a strong man by swallow-
ing the stuff that fellow palms off on you.”
After all, the tarradiddle that the Labor
party encourages irreligion and the bursting-up
of the happy home isn’t dead. Miss Disgrace
Watson, the Victorian Anti-Sosh Women’s League
lecturer, still has it in her bag of tricks, and pro-
duced it on July 22nd.
“ Num ” : It is not necessary to go further
than Victoria to find instances of notes issued by
private banks that failed to materialise 20s. in the
£. When the. big smash of 1893 occurred, there were
one or two institutions which paid only 15s. or
17s. 6d. in the £, while others, like Jimmy
Munro’s unspeakable Federal Bank, succeeded in
meeting their note obligations only after theholders
of the paper had, in many instances, disposed of
it to speculators at a loss. Yet the S.M. Herald
doesn’t know of any case in which the note of a
private bank has proved worth less than its face
value in gold. Ye gods !
“ Dingo ” writes :
I notice that the Rev. J. B. Ronald—ex-Federal mem-
ber for Southern Melbourne—has been talking about the
want of gratitude” shown towards him hy the Vic
Labor Leagues, and about his “faithful work and endless
sacrifices ” on their account. Now, it's time that a word
was said on the other side. Rev. Ronald must not forget
that, the Labor Leagues first placed him in Parliament,
and that they cannot see, as plainly as he can the
faithful work and endless sacrifices.” They complain
(and somewhat justly) that as soon as he commenced to
draw his £4OO a year, etc., he took little further interest
m their movements, and almost entirely forsook their
meetings. Rev. J.B.R. does not mention why he
did not stand again for Southern Melbourne—the
seat he occupied up to last election. He must
have been aware that his chance of selection for Mel-
bourne Ports was poor when he stood against Mathews
who was eventually chosen, and who won the seat for
Labor. Mathews had given Sam Mauger a close run
three years before, and was well known right throuoh
the electorate, while Ronald was known in only a part of
it. And, though he found the Labor League rules good
enough for six years, he broke, when it suited him the
rule which prohibits any Laborite contesting a seat for
which another Laborite has been chosen to fio-ht Bv
breaking this rule, Ronald split the Liberal vote’with
Mathews; and it was only the immense strength of
Labor and Protection in this electorate, which 'polled
enough votes to carry Mathews in. So, when “grati-
tude ” is talked of, the boot is on the other foot.
Growler : I want land to make a living
on, so I am writing to ask The Bulletin to open
a subscription list for me, to, get funds to pay
my passage to England, from which place I
feel sure I would be able to settle on land
in Victoria, and might, perhaps, even get it
already growing crop. I have given up all
hope of getting any land while I remain in
V ictoria, but I see that the Bashed Govern-
ment is setting aside areas for settlers from
England, and I want to go to England so
that I can come from England and settle in
my own country.
State Attorney-General Wade, of N.S.W
assures the community, at great length, that there
is no need at all for Senator Neild’s Bill, allowing
for appeal from all parts of Australia to the High
Court in criminal cases ; the system already exist-
ing -in New South Wales being so perfect that an
Appeal Court is quite superfluous. Some people
when they consider such ghastly miscarriages of
justice as happened in the case of Suffield, have
about the perfection of the system in
■ro in i P ass * Wade’s point is that
it IN.S. VV. doesn t need an Appeal Court, then the
other States, which may need it, shouldn’t have
it. In fact if N.S.W. doesn’t require it, he
evidently holds that the rest of Australia shouldn’t
want it.
Thus “Red Tape, junior ” :
Another queer case under the Lands Acts has enn-P
before N.S.W. Full Court. In 1867 the VolunlX Land
Act was passed, and it provided that any person who
served five years with the Volunteers was entitled to
select 50 acres of any land thrown open to conditional
purchase Two brothers named Capel, in the New Eng-
Und d strict, held the necessary land order, and reached
out for 50 acres. The Land Board objected, and so did
the Land Appeal Court, and now the Full Court has
further sat on them, subject to review bv the Hhrh
Court. But the Full Court did not say the Capels were no
entitled to their 50 acres. It blew the brothers out
in a friendly judicial way. Twenty-five Land Acts have
been passed since 1867, said Darley, C. J., with the resmt
that he (Darley) has only a hazy idea if what'a wha
But one thing on which he staked his little bit was, that
the 25 Acts had quite forgotten the 1867 Volunteers’ and
their right to 50 acres was still intact. They were also
liable to ejectment from the 50 acres under certain cir
cumstances, about which the Court was none too clear'
The Loca Land Board had ejected them from this pa":
ticular allotment, though by the statute it had no power
to adjudicate on an application under a Volunteer
order. Still, the Full Court, being only aCourt of Anneal
could not decide whether the Board was right in decid’
ing whatit did decide, when decidedly it fad not the
right to decide anything at all. The Court, therefore
had no jurisdiction, nor did it have anything else tw
was likely to be of the slightest use to the Canels 1 It
couldn’t tell them what to do next, but it dismissed the
appeal with costs, and sort of died away in the distance
So two brothers are still clutching a Volunteer land ordeV
up in bleak New England,
The Austral seasons come and go
In summer’s heat and winter’s snow •
And spring unfolds her fresh green shoots •
And autumn brings her gift of fruits. ’
Each change is fraught with human ills
With coughs and colds and sudden chill’s •
But life is safe, and health is sure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure *
Remarks the clerk-in-charge of the N. S.
Wales Department of Labor and Industry, in his
to Parliament:—
There is a wave of prosperity passing over the whole of
this State, and a reasonable indication that such is the
v a lw#. to be foun(i > n fc he very large increase in the num-
hands employed in the factories, which is all the
more satisfactory from the reason that a very large per-
centageof this increase is male employment.
What a blighting, devastating curse this Federa-
tion is !
The Australian Customs authorities have
decided not to enforce the Commerce Act regula-
tion—which requires foreign-made goods to bear
the name of the country of origin—in the case of
Chinese goods imported by Chinese for their own
use, and not for sale to Europeans. The idea
seems foolish. No doubt the Chow will enthu-
siastically declare that he isn’t going to sell his
imported stuff to Europeans, but the Chow is so
well-known as a law-breaker that he is always
open to suspicion. Anyhow, it is easier to enforce
the Commerce Act regulation than to discover
what becomes of the goods after they get out of
the hands of the Customs, and in any case it
wouldn t hurt the Chow importer to see his
countrymen’s brand upon his goods. A six
months return of the goods imported under this
Customs decision will be interesting; possibly
also the amount will be something 1 surprising.
As one of the small current devices for
baiting the Deakin Government, some member or
other has been rising every day to ask if that
forfeited bond for £25,000 in connection with the
ocean mail contract has been paid yet. This is a
sort of game in which, for very shame, N.S.W.
and Queensland members shouldn’t take a hand!
If the Deakin Government has been a fortnight
or three weeks trying to collect £25,000, the
JN.b.W. State Government has been 48 years try-
ing to collect £49,856 which Queensland owes it,
and hasn t smelt a halfpenny of the money yet,
so Cornstalk Reps, should remember that there
are other inferior debt-collectors in the world.
And if the defunct mail syndicate takes a month
to pay up—well, Queensland has already taken
576 months ; and Queensland Reps, should avoid
as much as possible any references to the painful
subject of paying up.
A humorous incident befell in the Tas-
manian House of Assembly, recently. The last
year’s policy of Premier Jack Evans consisted of
compulsory resumption of large estates, taxation
of land values, and reform of the Council. All
this policy the Council threw down the stairs
with a hefty thud, while the Opposition railed at
Jack and said that he had “arranged for it.”
At this Jack waxed virtuously and sonorously
indignant, and roared that sincerity was his strong
point. He was an absolute whale and complete sea-
serpent for sincerity. This year, Opposition leader
Nicholls openly accused Jack’s Government of
having sent a private letter to each of the Coun-
cillors who voted for throwing out its entire
reform policy, thanking him for the assistance he
had rendered to Ministers. Evans tried to deny
it, faltered, turned purple, and said, “Oh, ves!
The Attorney-General did that; not Ministers,”
whereat even the dullest of his own supporters
grinned. The Attorney is the Broken Prop, who
has been looking very much ashamed of himself
for some time. Now, apparently, ex-master
mariner Evans is also ashamed of him. The facts
indicate that the renowned circular was really a
Ministerial act, but the whole responsibility was
put on to Broken Prop, because he is too mild to
resist.
THE TUNE THE OLD COW DIED OF.
MR. COOK: Then this Bill should not be gone on with
until the tariff schedule was before members.
Mr. Watson declared that Mr. Cook’s speech was quite
in tune with Mr. Reid’s election policy of “ Do nothing.”
There were many articles in the bounty schedule that
could not be dealt with by duty.
“ Wait till the clouds roll by, Joseph .”
Tommy Bent, in London :
The Commonwealth cannot give you one acre of land.
After all the high-falutin’ we have heard about immigra-
tion, it is only the States that can provide any land. The
States are sovereign States. They are not like the pro-
vinces of Canada. These sovereign States will insist on
working out their destiny in such matters in their own
way.
‘‘ The Commonwealth cannot give you one acre of
land ” —that’s just where Thomas talks through
his plug hat. When the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment gets a good progressive land-tax going it
will give the people land quickly enough—or it
will force the pampered land-monopolists of the
“sovereign States,” which are not, and never
were, sovereign, to let the people have land,
which amounts to the same thing. Also, if the
Commonwealth makes haste, it may, within a
year, have about 300,000,000 acres of its own land
in the Northern Territory to offer to immigrants
without asking any permission from the blatant
Premier of the smallest State on the Australian
continent.
THE SUNSHINE SPREADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lam the sunshine spreader—l spread mv gorgeous
plumes ;
I am the glory shedder in common people’s rooms.
Ornate in furs and feathers, with diamonds all ablaze,
’Mid thunder-threatened weathers I bring celestial days.
Among these wretched creatures with stately step I
tread ;
My rouged and powdered features are humbly worshipped.
I take a sudden header in Upper Class intrigue,
lam the sunshine spreader—l am the Ladies’ League.
lam the fair fatiguer—l dazzle day by day,
A silver-backed intriguer who brushes care away.
I talk to each good woman, however rough and rude,
Till she, who seems quite human, drops down with
gratitude.
By washing-tub and boiler, in accents silvery,
I lecture each she-moiler on home-life’s purity.
I am, my dears, the one shine that through existence
roams :
I spread my brilliant sunshine in coarse, plebeian homes.
I am the boon and blessing—no humble house I pass,
For Life is most distressing among the Lower Class.
In three-roomed huts and hovels, where pamphlets I
dispense,
Each ragged creature grovels at my munificence.
I preach the joys of weakness, the gospel of the stromr,
The purity and meekness that should to them belong.
With arrogant devotion, class dykes are piled by me
To stem the sweeping ocean of loud Democracy.
lam the sunshine spreader—l flash my gaudy prism ;
I am the angel shedder of Anti-Socialism.
Industrious promoter of Law and Loyalty,
I castigate the voter who has no time for me.
O’er them I cast our Boss spell, with feather-flaunting
grace,
That drudges learn the gospel of keeping in their place.
I am the glory shedder of Society intrigue—
I am the sunshine spreader—l am the Ladies’ League.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


dsf
“SEND ME YOUR STYLE BOOK.”
A PENNY POST CARD
with the above words on it
WILL BRING YOU
THE CALLAGHAN
STYLE BOOK
CONTAINING 100 ILLUSTRATIONS OF BOOTS & SHOES
By Return Post.
THERE’S PROFIT IN IT FOR YOU !
CALLAGHAN AND SON,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
• •
WEAR
• •
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price,
No. 10 nr
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
dsf
STAGS
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14(6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
■MALTHOID ROOFING-
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.’’— Marcos Aurelius.
P. & B. READY ROOFING is, without doubt, one of the most durable
coverings in the world. MALTHOID is made with the same mineral. We
know of one that stood 16 years of sulphur fumes at Rotorua, New Zealand,
and we have a testimonial which cannot fail to interest all owners of
chemical works.
BOOKLET AND TESTIMONIAL FREE.
tfL, (meMwJL
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & 00. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE BEST 'P
SHILLING BOOK
ROWLANDSON’S SUCCESS
Note what the Sydney Morning Herald says about it
“ ‘ Rowlandson’s Success ’ is really the third issue of ‘ The Commonwealth Annual,” and it has its new
name partly because it is published between seasons, and is therefore not technically an annual, and partly
because a discerning' critic prophesied of it that, if it turned out anything like its predecessors, it would be a
success. This prophesy bids fair to be fulfilled, and certainly the publisher has done all that in him lies to
deserve what proverbially no one can command. There are short stories by such well-known writers as
Steele Rudd, Thomas E. Spencer, H. M. Somer, Ernest Favenc, Charles White, T. B. Clegg, and Ambrose
Pratt, and by others not so well known as they probably will be, if we may judge from the specimens of their
work here, such as Mary E. Leith, 0. D. Websdale, Rhoda Reynolds, and Robert Allan. It is really note-
worthy when one comes to think of it —the number of Australians who can turn out readable stories. Verses
are supplied by, amongst others, Henry Lawson, Roderic Quinn, Louisa Lawson, Grant Hervey, and E. F.
Christie. Lionel Lindsay contributes many of the illustrations, but we have also work by Percy Spence,
A. J. Fischer, Stuart Allan, A. Collingridge, and others. The Rev. Jas. Green, who was special representative
of the Herald at the Indian Coronation Durbar, writes an interesting article on ‘The Holy Ganges.’ Mr.
William A. Crawley talks with much knowledge about ‘The Stage in Australia’; and there are capital papers
on ‘ Hina Sama,’ by Zaida Ben-Yusuf, and on ‘Malay Plays and Players,’ by A. G. Plate and T. Dee.
‘ Rowlandson’s Success ’ is a credit to the publisher, and to all concerned in its production.”
Price, 11-; post free, 1/5. N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George Street, Sydney, and all branches.
sf
dsf
t o h f e t s h% cr . et . good shave
lies in a good lather—a light stroke, and in
the knowledge of how to stroke and a
PLUM RAZOR—
the best Razor in ALL respects ever offered
at the price.
PRICE 10/6 Post Free to any Address in the Commonwealth.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
f 5 st years. ed
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME —They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
COUPON
Thousands of Homes Have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE the valuable
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY*
Therefore, when shopping', say
“GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.”


be
4
o^2
h,6#
c
900
G*
M\»*
UNDER VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
MADAME MASSERAN,
CORSETIERE, of Collin 9 Street, Melbourne,
Begs to inform her clients that she will be at the
HOTEL METROPOLE, SYDNEY,
PROM THE 7th TO THE 15th AUGUST,
Both Days Inclusive.
FACILE PRINCEPS
Buchanan’s
SEMPER IDEM
By Royal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The King,
andH.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
“Black & White” Whisky
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 30, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Is any hat worth 20, or 14, or 12 guineas? A
group of Melbourne milliners —a man and two
women assistants—who are in Sydney with their
new season’s hat-show, would chorus “Yes.”
And to a further query, “Do women pay such
prices?” the (frio would probably reply in an
octave higher: “Yes, else how could we three
afford to stop at one grand hotel and hold our
hat-exhibition at another—to say nothing of
passages for three humans and several hundred
hats, and the leaving of our Melbourne business
for a week or more?” Personally speaking I have
not met a woman who would go as high as
ten guineas for a hat. Some of the smartest and
most artistic dressers in Sydney assert that not if
they had twice Miss Eadith Walker’s money
would they pay more than five guineas for a hat.
Then they qualify the absoluteness of the remark
with—“ For something unique I might be
tempted to seven guineas.” And there seems
then to transpire a claw or two to indicate that
there is a cat in the bag. For something a
shade better than the hat called unique, presum-
ably, they would pay the ten guineas.
In some obscure (woman’s) paper—the Home
Cat possibly—l read that some women will pay
twenty guineas for a hat if.the seller mentions the
price in the hearing of several other women. The
stare with which the buyer and her purchase are
favored has much the same effect on her as enthusi-
astic applause on a public performer.
The Melbourne millinery invasion was an amus-
ing circumstance, from one minor point of view. In
■every unknown woman who went to look at the
models the principals saw a Sydney milliner or
■one of her assistants come to copy them. I was
meditatively gazing at a little white chip-straw
thing, with an enormous blue-Alsatian bow (about
seven yards of wide ribbon, possibly). It was
just the straw, the ribbon, and (I suppose) the
style, and the price of the lot wits four guineas. I
suppose the raw material must have cost more
than 6d. The male petal of the trinity balanced
up to me, smiling the smile of the successful and
expensive dancing-master, and asked “if Madame
had made a selection yet.” He had the face, head
and shoulders of a man who would be of great
value to his side in a football scrum. I had
been in about 30 seconds, and said I hadn’t made
a selection. One garden of hats was all-blue.
Different shades of blue —Nattier, periwinkle,
powder, and those tones you see about —the blue
delphiniums. The trade has specialised them
with cunning names that none but the trade re-
members. And there were purple straws, green
straws, and luxurious hats of black crin, ostrich
feathers standing at attention, so to speak, and
plumes that drooped over the back of the hat and
trailed on to wearer’s neck and shoulder bones;
brick-red, green, and brown feathers in con-
spiracy ; hats that dipped in the brim; and
hats that soared from the rims. One model
was covered with many-colored acacia sprays.
Another was massed with sweet pea.
But the proprietor, bidding a significant and
persistent “Good morning” to a girl who was
hat-gazing, was the choicest exhibit. She is a
very rich Sydney girl, and was finely frocked and
furred. Perhap he mistook her for a milliner ;
perhaps his eighth sense (the born and trained
trader has an eighth sense) told him she was not
a buyer ; anyway, the inflections of his reiterated
“Good mornings,” the decision in his bowings
as he manoeuvred the heiress towards the door,
proved him to be a Napoleon in the art of getting
rid of the Woman who Wouldn’t.
In another ten seconds he had got rid of me
with the like firmness and tenderness.
No matter how hot the coming summer, Sydney-
sidersmay taketheir pleasure iced. The Glaciarium
—an artificially-frozen lake—has been made on
the site of the old Cyclorama, fairly close to Syd-
ney Railway Station. It was officially opened on
Thursday by State Premier Carruthers with a
few words—not an ice-axe—in the presence of
a crowd that was frocked as if for a swell
race meeting. It was the most comprehen-
sively Somebodyish and Anybodyish gathering
of 2000 persons that ever said “Yes” to
an invitation. It included some six or seven
Melbourne girl skaters who had been taught
by the management to cut capers on the
ice, as light and swift as if their skates had wings.
Sydney is mostly mistaken on the question of the
status of these ice-maidens. It thinks they are
paid, professional exponents of cutting ice, and
that they chase the glowing hours with flying
feet at so much per chased hour. But they
merely chanced to come to this smiling State at
the time when the frost set in, and rushed into
the frozen breach like the ardent little
sportswomen they are—for pure love of it.
After the Melbournians had done ringtailed
wonders, some of “those present” put on the
skates. Captain Leslie Wilson and his sister
showed by their, skill that they and ice-skating
are well acquainted. The morning after the
opening, Miss Rawson and several girl friends
went up to the Glaciarium and had a fly round.
A returned Australienne says the Glaciarium is
quite as fine as Princes Court in London. Skating
there, women mostly wear short accordeon-pleated
skirts and blouses.
Blanche Arral, with her wonderful dramatic
soprano and her songbird eyes, will brighten
and enlighten an audience at Sydney Town
Hall next Saturday night with grand opera-
tic selections. The famous “ Shadow Song ”
from “Dinorah,” and the entire mad
scene from “Hamlet,” will be included in
her programme. The brilliant foreigner de-
serves the support of all song-with-style lovers.
Apart from her natural and highly-trained gifts,
the Arral has an abiding personal charm,
and she’s one of the few women who
shake hands in a way that makes you want
to say, “Do it again.” It’s subtle' flattery.
A charming plump face smiles at you, and a hand
which is soft and round and caressing nestles in
your own for a fraction of a minute, and you feel
pleased all over. That’s the Arral shake. Some
otherwise charming women place in your paw a
flabby, cold bit of fish ; othex-s scratch at you with
a nervous sharp claw ; others wrestle with your
hand in Hackenschmidt style. The Blanche
Arral hand-shake suggests a gentle and dainty
compliment; and it’s the typical hand-shake of
the educated Frenchwoman. I don’t know whether
they have shake classes in their schools, but I
think the art must be taught very young.
The just bankrupt de Trafford baronet is elder
brother of the O. E. de Trafford, who visited this
hemisphere with a very smart spouse and a
cricket XI last summer, and while in Sydney put
up at “ Cranbrook.” The reckless one, who owns
to having spent half-a-million on racehorses, has
been famed for years as the possessor of the best
lot of heavy-weight polo ponies and one of the
prettiest wives in London. Why go bankrupt
buying things for mere racehorses when you can
do the job just as neatly buying other things for
a pretty wife? This to any well-x’egulated female
mind must ever remain a dark and insoluble
puzzle.
Roberto Hazon is going away in. two months
time, and Sydney is beginning to ponder as to who
can fill the shoes of melody which will thus be
vacated. By the way, you should see his material
shoes ! Awe-stricken observers say that they are
not made, and, of course, they can’t be born, so
all that can be said is that they just are. One
theory is that they are raised from seed,
A committee of Mosman ladies has arranged
for a conversazione to Dr. and Mrs. Arthur, in
the Mosman Town Hall, on the afternoon of the
13th of August. Mrs. Mayoress (of Mosman)
Leahy, Mrs. Moseley, of Neutral Bay, and Mrs.
D. H. Valentine, of Mosman, are of the execu-
tive. Last-mentioned lady is hon. sec. Admir-
ing supporters of the strenuous, patriotic Richard
Arthur and his clever and well-liked missus will
no doubt come in squadrons to tell Him and Her
that He will be hoisted to the top of the poll.
The Hospice Dance, at the Paddington Town
Hall, was such a phenomenal success—only a
dozen or so souls short of 500 were present —that
only the slow procession of the years will wear the
triumphant smile off the faces of Mrs. Allen
Taylor and Mrs. M. Deery and others of the
executive. Ex. Rawson and daughter were so
pleased with the frisk that he wanted to know why
he hadn’t been asked to all the previous Hospice
hops. And the flattered committee fell down
before him and said “ O king, live for ever,” which
he immediately did.
Arthur Mason, who sat in Wiegand’s capacious
seat at the Sydney organ for six years, has resigned,
immediately after re-appointment, and goes to
London as the representative of the Sydney
Morning Herald. Crowds rolled up to a fare-
well dinner at Baumann’s, when local musicians,
presided over by Signor Hazon, spoke strongly of
Arthur’s ability and energy. The organist was
at one time a clerk in the Education Department,
but there is a suspicion that he was a very poor
clerk, owing to the music that buzzed unceasingly
in his brain. The departing one gave several
organ recitals of a farewell nature to crowded
houses, and the Mayor assumed the perpendicular
at a meeting in the Town Hall, and handed over
a gold watch in the presence of many citizens.
Editor Ward, of Sydney Telegraph, has had a
bad tinje through an ear trouble. The drum of
one of his ears was shifted, the cause of the
trouble removed, and the drum restored. He is
now as good as new.
Mrs. Aliek Gordon (Margaret Thomas) is in a
private hospital. So is Mrs. Deery—Aggie
Thorne. But, for that matter, so are a crowd
of other well-known Sydney-siders, both men
and women. Influenza or appendicitis are
mostly the causes. Airs. Amy Sherwin has the
flu, but she has so far kept out of hospital.
A sapling of one of the families who have made
Maoriland history is in Sydney, and enthusing
spontaneously over the magic of our blue-and-
honey-colored winter, as he rushes through it in
his own gasolene cart. Mr. Percy Buller is at the
Bar in Wellington. All Australasians who have
walked hand in hand with Culture will remember
the writings of his father, the late Walter Buller.
Mrs. George Tallis’ latest and third package
left by the Stork arrived on a Sunday, and, partly
on that account, and partly through the success
of Miss Brune’s “Sunday,” the small girl has
been named after the Sabbath. Many girl babies
are now named after the months of their birth—
especially since Elizabeth of the German Garden
let it be known that she had infants called June
and April. But the days of the week are another
matter. They are not melodious, and suggest
washing, or fasting, or shop shutting. Sunday is
the best of them in the matter of euphony. But
it would be a gloomy thing to grow up and enter
society as Miss Friday Drinkwater.
Southwell and Sykes were having some causerie
at Paling’s. Former (who had just returned from
ALL.): “While I was at Rotorua a Maori girl
fell into one of the springs where her tribe was
boiling potatoes and doing other cooking. She
fell in up to her armpits ! I forget whether
I fainted or buried my head in a sand-drift,
but the next thing I clearly remepiber is her
people wailing around the boiled girl after they
had pulled her out. And, after that, her remark,
‘Don’t weep for me—l am not going to die.’
And she didn’t die. She is recovering.” “It’s
the staying power of the savage,” responded
pianist Sykes, as he patted his lily-of-the-valley
buttonhole. “When I was in England, and
watching the football contest between the All
Blacks and the Englishmen, I saw, and heard, the
collision between the heads of two players. One
was Warbrick, the half-caste Maorilander—a
cousin of Maggie Papakura, and later a guide
at Rotorua. Well, the two men’s heads met like
those of two colliding bulls, and the sound of the
impact turned the people white and sick. It
could be heard—anywhere ! The Englishman
went down like an axed ox, but the Maorilander
stood and looked apologetically at him as he was
carried unconscious from the field, and scratched
his own head as if a canary had tickled him.”
Mrs. Harry Lassetter will be on the outward-
bound list this year. She takes her son to school,
and will live in England while his young idea is
being trained on British principles.
A chummish contributor :
Forty members of a well-known yachting club resolved
the other evening to honor a fellow member, and for that
purpose arranged a dinner. Man’s idea of honoring his
fellow-man lies in the over-feeding of him. On the even-
ing of the dinner the ’phones were hard at it for an hour
or more telling the feeders that the function was off, as
he whom they delighted to honor was dead ! Most of
them wrote messages of condolence to the mourning
relatives, and sat down with their wives to the roast
mutton. But a mistake had been made. The first man
at the other end of telephone number one had received a
message that Mr. Guest would not be able to attend as he
was in bed. That was all ;he isn’t dead yet. A large,
bowl-like ear is sometimes an advantage. It collects
sound well.
Mr. Bertie Pilcher, barrister-at-law and elder
son of the K. 0., has abandoned the pursuit of the
elusive brief in this city, and left with his pretty
wife for Tasmania. In that blest isle (any isle
which is rather dead is understood on the “ de
mortuis ” principle to be blest) he proposes to
start farming and forget such profitless affairs as
Probates and other perks of the junior Bar.
Farming is, in the abstract, an idyllic pursuit
whereat large cheques are pouched monthly by
the simple process of sitting upon a rose-festooned
verandah or fence or other place of the sort, and
narrowly watching the kine browse upon the
mead, and the young crops shoot automatically
through the soil, and the young lamb skip on the
elevation. Hence it appeals to the weary urban
mind with much force. In sooth, it’s a pity it
doesn’t appeal more. There are enough youthful
barristers making the letter “O” per annum at
the overworked law-game in this State to people a
fair-sized agricultural college.
“Miss Lancashire, Limited,” will have the
Rawson Excellencies to her farce with music and
clog-dancing, on the opening at the Palace on
Saturday. Miss Florence Baines, who plays the
name rdle, brought letters of introduction to the
Rawsons. She is a large, golden-haired, and
infantile-complexioned lady, who knows her Lan-
cashire and its clog-wearing, factory-haunting
inhabitants from the pavement up. Singing and
dialect story-telling at various vaudeville houses
in London have been our visitor’s occupation for
some years. Her stories are got first-hand from
the originators. No matter how wretchedly a
Lancashire corpse has lived, it must be buried
with all the pomp and circumstance that its family
can afford. “ The fun’ral was done very poor—
very poor indeed. Not a bite o’ ’am ! My mother
buried four, and all with ’am,” one of Miss
Baines’ townsfolk told her.
One of Miss Baines’ company (it arrives by the
Runic) is Mr. Patrick Evans, who was Du
Maurier’s original of Little Billee. He has altered
scarcely at all, Miss Baines says, from the well-
dressed little dandy with the delicately curved
nose, who fooled and suffered so fascinatingly
through the pages of “Trilby.” Little Billee
plays like a magician on a one-stringed viola,
aged 200 years.
To Miss Baines the late Phil May once ex-
plained the kind of funeral he yearned for —for
himself. The artist and his wife and Miss
Baines and her husband were prowling about
London the night of the late Queen’s funeral, and
May, after decrying dismal processions, declared
that his should be led by a full band playing lively
airs. The bandsmen were to be dressed in red.
Twenty-four ballet girls would follow in short
frocks of scarlet. There would be another band and
another contingent of dancing ballet girls, and
then the hearse. “And me,” continued Phil,
“ sitting up in the coffin smoking a good cigar.”
The new entertainer would have brought out
Miss Kate Vesey—Emily Soldene’s niece—but
the girl’s mother did not smile upon the idea of
the separation.
Mrs. Masseran will materialise at the Hotel
Metropole from the seventh to the fifteenth of
next month. Her intentions are strictly artistic.
She will elongate the dumpy, and etherealise the
adipose, and give contours to the bony, and
generally bring the Sydney figure up to date,
according to the new fashions.
Mr. Robertson Clark, one of the ornaments of
the State Government House, has got back to
Sydney after a trip to Japan.
A Sydneysider, wandering amongst the amber-
and-coffee-skinned races, writes me that at Singa-
pore he ran across a recent visitor of ours—
Biscboff Van Ryck, the man who used to drive
such ripping black horses about Sydney. He was
seeing the King of Siam off to visit a brother
potentate, Edward of England. Van Ryck, who
intends to be back here in October, is an honorary
A.D.C. to the gentleman who reigns over the
country where the blue-eyed cats come from. As
the monarch had engaged the whole of the first-
class accommodation of a huge German mail
steamer, he evidently didn’t run short of staff.
He must have sold an awful lot of eats and white
elephants to raise the money for a trip on that
scale of magnificence. A learned person informs
me that the name of the potentate is Somdetch
Phra Paramindr Maha, but he seems to reign
under the alias of Chulalongkorn I. I hope he
will come back feeling better.
My Brisbane correspondent writes:—
The Chelmsford family has been busy of late, and has
sundry jobs still on hand. On Monday morning those of the
committee of the Exhibition of Women’s Work who were
not down with the flu assembled at Government House,
and after an hour’s good work had their pictures taken.
In the afternoon Lady Chelmsford presided at her third
hospital meeting in six days. That night her lord and
master accompanied her to the thinly patronised Exhi-
bition Hall, and together they handed out the Trinity
College prizes and certificates. Tuesday saw a dinner
party, Wednesday the opening of Parliament, and on
Thursday they gadded off to say the usual nice things at
the Laidley Show. Friday evening saw them at the
Charity Organisation Annual, and Saturday the worn vice-
regal male shadow viewed the final wiping out of Queens-
land by the All Blacks.
This week will include visits to the Deaf, Blind, and
Dumb Institute, Royal Geographical and Cruelty to
Animals meetings, the opening of the Art Societj’s show,
and then the Toowoomba Carnival visit. After that the
fainting wreck of a frail Governor will probably be put to
bed.
Parliament was opened by commission on Tuesday, and
the few womenfolk interested in matters political were
rewarded by a good deal of fun. The Opposition nominee
for the Speaker’s chair had his character read with a
frankness bordering upon intimacy, and the Govern-
ment’s pet fared no better. This searching inquiry was
spared the Labor aspirant—he was merely voted out
right away, and then a conference took place at the table
between Premier and Opposition chief, and a hungering
multitude went to lunch. Speculation ran riot as to the
Speaker to be, and Mesdames Bell and Macartney both
had a following who were ready to lay odds on their hus-
bands’chances. However, when the House reassembled
at 4 o’clock, burly John Leahy, Philp’s erstwhile bos’n,
had a walk-over, and assumed the lace tie and the added
dignity.
Next day, with the usual crowd of battling females
scrummaging for a seat, his Ex. appeared in full Windsor
uniform and read the speech. Of the women on the floor
of the sacred chamber, none looked smarter than Home
Secretary Hawthorne’s bouncing missus, in a heliotrope
silk, the top half exposing a waist of fancy point d’esprit,
and a top-storey picture erection of violet velvet, plumes,
and some wonderful old lace. Subsequent happenings
make it look as if the present Home Sec. will have but a
brief career, and, if this is so, it’s a shame, for both
husband and wife look the position to a nicety—-also, the
new landeau is a revelation.
The Nelson-Bird wedding will take t>lace early in
October.
Feminine interest is at present centred upon the new
A.D.G., Captain Verney, who, in a uniform that is a poem,
looks like a twin brother of the loved and lost Harman.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Misses Boothby, who guide the little May Club the
way it should go, struck a shining novelty in their recent
Lavender and Old Lace ” afternoon. After the weariness
of the Novel Tea and Bird or Beast-Guessing Com-
petition, and the other worn-out events with which the
average hostess vexes the dull ear of her drowsy guest,
the thing was a joyous relief. The promoters scoured
the country in search of any stray persons who might be
concealing old lace about their persons, and altogether a
most costly collection was exhibited. There’s a nice
came-over-with-the-Conqueror and handed-down-for-
generatio-is appearance about the possession of old lace.
The exhibits were mounted on lavender paper, and hung
round the walls of the club rooms. A real live Devon-
shire lace-maker, Miss Hammelt, who happened to be in
Adelaide, was unearthed to give an exhibition of pillow
lace-making ; and the same authority—a demoiselle still in
the long-haired, short-frocked stage—wrote an excellent
little paper on the strange old legends connected with the
earliest patterns of lace. This was read to the assembled
horde by Miss Winifred Scott. I extract one gem—a
quotation from Fuller, who was evidently a wise old
party. “Let it not be condemned for wearing because
it doth neither heat nor hide, seeing it doth adorn.”
Her Ex., accompanied by Miss Clowes, graced the occa-
sion ; also Mrs. Way (who lent some gorgeous lace), Mrs..
Herbert Rymill, Mrs. Bray and her daughter, Mrs..
Duncan, and flocks and herds of other influential folk.
Bargain sales and dances punctuate this landscape, and
all the shes of the city rend each other’s garments by
day and characters by night in the fight for a yard of
ribbon and two yards of man. The exalted and be-shekeled
population rope in all the brass-buttoned young warriors
from the Challengah for their entertainments, and last
week the warrior- retaliated with a return dance or hop
or leap on their gallant tub. Special trains and other
kindly attentions were provided for the guests, and a
double line of bluejackets handed the land-lubbers up
the gangway, and saw that nobody fell into the salt
drink. Supper was a kind of eternal affair, and the
guests wandered in at their own sweet will just as the
spirit moved them. Also, they were all supplied with
hot soup before being sent home through the dank and
dreary midnight.
Elsie Jones, one of our numerous young nightin-
gales, returned to us by the Moldavia on Saturday. She
is a daughter of Mr. T. H. Jones, Mus. Bac, who teaches
the young skylark of the Conservatorium. Also her
mother was one of our finest dramatic sopranos of a few
years back. Miss Jones seems to have captured a good
many leaves from the laurel tree. Of late she has been
touring America and the provinces of Britain with much
success. She is about the first of our little exported
colony of singers to return to us, and, therefore, we are
falling upon her neck by relays, the neck not being a tenth
large enough to hold all of us who want to arrive there.
When the last of us have got off her neck she will have
time to sing us something, we hope.
News that South Oss rifleman, Walter Addison, won
the King’s prize for rifle-shooting at Bisley, set Adelaide
crowing pretty loudly last week. Welivein astateofper-
petual crow now-a-days(hence the term “crow-eater”).
Lieutenant Addison is a son of A. R. Addison, of the
State Legislature, and a native of Orroroo, which town
promptly went en fete at his success. It may not be a
very large place, but it shouted loud enough for Rome
and Babylon combined.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Chiozza Money, English Freetrade M.P.,
proves by pretty conclusive reasoning (in current
Contemporary Review) that 95 per cent, of the
entire wealth of the United Kingdom is owned by
about one-ninth of its population. And Splosh,
M.P., is one of those who assails Protection
because it “tends to create a monopoly of wealth ”!
If the Dalgety (Australia) site for the
Federal capital is defeated, then Australia will
have to thank the York-street Fatman, the State
Frights party, the Daily Telegraph, the Even-
ing News, G. Reid, Carruthers, and—J. C.
Watson. How does the Federal Labor leader
like being in that galley ?
Beauty. —There is no topic interests women more
and no possession they prize more highly than beauty. It
has been so through all the ages, and while human nature
remains unaltered will still he so. Hence the Valaze
Institute established by Mile. Helena Rubinstein here in
Sydney caters to a distinct want—and caters thoroughly.
All the advances in beauty culture made by the great
Complexion Salons of Paris and Vienna are practised at
the Institute, and there is scarce a blemish that mars the
human face divine but Mile. Rubinstein has a treatment
to successfully remedy it. Red noses, double chins,
superfluous hairs, flabbiness, wrinkles, crowsfeet, are but
a few of the unlovelinesses that are permanently removed,
and even the eradication of birth marks and such like
serious blemishes are successfully treated. Ladies should
call into the Valazelnstitute when in town—even a sitting
of face massage had there will result in benefit to one’s
looks. The address is 158 Pitt Street, on the second floor.
Ask to see Mile. Rubinstein herself.*
There is at present on a two months’
holiday visit to Brisbane Lieutenant W. P. Drury,
R.N., a member of the well-known Queensland
Drury family, who. since joining the Orlando in
Melbourne as a cadet 18 years ago, has seen a bit
of fighting, and has carved out a career for him-
self. Besides being a naval lieutenant, he is a
lieutenant-colonel in the Egyptian army, and was
for a time Governor of Fashoda. He was also in
control of Port Soudan, the terminus of the Nile-
Red Sea railway, during the construction of that
line. He is another instance of the Australian
who, going abroad, is valued at his worth, but
who, if he had remained at home, would have had
to play twenty-second fiddle to the imported
genius.
The result of the judging in the “Australia
To-Day £25 Cover Competition ” is now announced.
Many of the large number of competitors showed con-
siderable skill and merit. The winner turned up in
“ Ecnav,” which was, found to represent A. Vance Steel
and R. F. Steel, of The Block, Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne. People who are anxious to see the winning
design will take train to Melbourne, and tram or cab tc
the Metropolitan Gas Co.’s building, and then the lift
will land them at the top floor in which the office of the
Australasian Traveller is situated, far from the mad-
ding crowd’s ignoble yell.
For about the fiftieth time it is declared
by the Imperial War Lords that T. Atkins is
about to be armed with the best rifle in the world.
Curiously enough, there are at present in London
three Australian inventors trying to deal with
the Imperial War people. Two of the inventors
have a patent range-finder, for increasing the
accuracy of heavy-gun shooting, and the third is
offering a new style of rifle, with which it seems
almost impossible to miss. All three have
reported that they have received offers from the
Japanese and the Germans, and will entertain
them if the British Government doesn’t avail
itself of the first chance to buy the secret. The
“Victorian factories” produce some wonderful
men ! (Presumably they are from Victorian fac-
tories —as the Sydney press never mentions the
factories of N.S. W. or any other State.)


OBESITY CURED
PERMANENTLY
without any ill
after effects or
discomfort !
can turn your present Ugly, Unshapely Out-
lines into lines of beauty and grace, giving you —
instead ofyour present cumbrous, ungainly figure
—one that will be neat, trim, and symmetrical.
** IT 99 the absolutely NON-poisoi.uuo, F . C i
„ w take fat-reducer, cures Obesity am
comes uorpulency. The worst cases permanently cured in a few weeks. T
is permanent and lasting 1 . Satisfaction guaranteed. Get full particulars.
and over-
The cure
•SEND A 3d. COIN FOR FREE SAMPLE.
dsf
Enclose a (join to us and let us send you—underdosed cover,
without marks a Free Sample of “ Fatcure” and our book
giving particulars. CALL, if convenient, and let us explain
our method to you. HOURS 9 A.M. TO 6 P.M. DAILY.
THE WATWORTu CO.,
SUITE J, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Entrance also from Market St.
IfELLY SOLID
RUBBER
VEHICLE TYRES
(vow used by the owner of
every vehicle who desires
COMFORTABLE and SILENT
RUNNING. These hard-wearing
Tyres don't chip, but last for
years on a private vehicle. *
NO REPAIRS and NO VIBRATION.
Fitted from n Set and
upwards, according to size and
number of wheels.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
*» + *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Sydney, Zddrtde, Perth. Brlthnne, ChrUtdmrch, R. 2.
UNLOP
ROAD-RAC IN a
TYRES A
9>
M,
O
ROAD
RIDERS
who desire to meet with success
in Road Races must use the Fastest
and Most Reliable Tyres. Our Special
SKIN - SIDED DUNLOP TYRE is
acknowledged to be the Fastest and
Most Successful on the road. We
recommend his Tyre to all
speedmen. Obtainable with
Non. Slipping or Plain
from all Cycle Agents.
DUNLOP RUBBER
ALL STATES S N.Z,
RUft
&
vV-
m
COItCJEXJ
T 'SOMETHING • &VITE -NEW-
‘"JTTLLtJMPL
/3?>.
WORLD
v '^b) .v
mm&g
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 29, 1907.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The Australian girl has her charms chanted
by her brethren, her sisters even, and mere
acquaintances. But her brother is scarcely ever
mentioned. After seeing a number of Him
under favorable circumstances, I think he, too,
should have a pagan of praise. The other
evening, I viewed a masculine reunion for
a few minutes. It was in honor of some expert
amateur athlete, and about 40 cheerful allies
turned up to do him honor. All were in evening-
dress, close shaven, and cleanly shining. They
seemed as happy as children; and some were
beautiful, like faery princelings (aged cynics, and
ugly young ones may sneer, but it’s true !). And
the collection of black-and-white figures round a
sparkling dinner-table was as ornamental as a
fringe of arum lilies round a moonlit pool. They
showed a most interesting diversity of type, and
a most gratifying evenness of general attractive-
ness. There were tall boys with broad shoulders
and brave faces, and small boys with round faces
and sharp tongues. There were boys, black and
sinister as the historic Black Douglas whose race
went down in the end before the foxy red Douglas,
but with smiles like summer sunshine ; and there
were boys with Celtic phantasy written on their
foreheads and local catch-words on their lips.
And there were boys who bore no maps of ancient
countries upon them, and looked real Australian
products. Some looked like jockevs, some
like plough-boys or bank-clerks, and none
looked fools, and all looked virile and
wholesome. One was like a wood-fawn
in a starched shirt; one needed only a goatskin
drape, a reed, and an inspiration to play the role
of sweet Theocritus. And one looked horribly
like George Reid. But they couldn’t all be
beautiful.
Just now a promising doctorling is realising the
seriousness of sins of omission. The youth who
has been a resident in a hospital, wants promo-
tion. His medical qualifications gave him a fair
show, but his limited capacity for amoretting
seems to have put him out of the running A
ward sister reported him for “chucking” proba-
tioner nurses under their dear little chins, or
something of the sort, and now a sub-committee
is appointed to consider his misdemeanors. It is
notable that none of the kissed ones charge the
gay caresser. They seldom do! It is the un-
kissed sister who takes exception to the little
gallantries which the other girls enjoy.
At Melbourne Mansions, David Symes’s ela-
borate flattery, the flatters are subject to as many
restnctions as cheapboardersina religious famly.
Ihe gilded bachelors and grieving grass-widows
were lately warned that they must indulge no
more in vocal exercises and piano-thumping
before the brisk hour of 8 a.m., nor after the
giddy hour of II pm. And on Sundays secular
music is barred. They can’t even sing “There
was I, waiting at the church,” or “ Will de congre-
gation please stand up ? ”
Prof. Laurie lectured prettily upon “The
Meaning of Art to the Trinity Women*s Literary
t >M aSt i Tu f S u- ay ’ i And the learned don said
very little about his subject, and gave the igno-
minious lay-worn an the impression that he was
talking down to the corseted sex from an
immensely high altitude. By the way, the Trinity
girls commence to justify the unstaid phrase I’ve
used. I hey are no longer the greenery-yallery
gals of yester-year, with dank fringes and pre-
Kaphaehte contours of face and figure. They are
developing into as comely a coterie as a comic-
opera chorus, with pneumonia blouses and Gibson
bangs under then- gowns and mortar-boards.
After the Professor had concluded, Dame Archer
presided over a neat supper in the Hostel dining-
room. Altogether Trinity Hostel festivities go
way towards reconciling one to the
Learned Girl. Her digestion is good, and she
health 8 t 0 StUdy the cultivation of positively rude
hpSb" U iT ?r /j L ’ Pur y es family, of which the
2l h i f S f d r’ daughter of Mr. Wm. Green,
e urns to Australia from the Respectable Coun-
ty. 1 ? an incoming liner. It is going to pitch its
tent m Melbourne for good then. Since their mar-
riage, .six years ago or thereabouts, the Purveses
w* U l r) M aVe < vv s lfc in London, where they played
hospitable providence and other pleasant parts in
the Anglo-Australian comedy. Mrs. Purvesissaid
to have improved in looks, and to have
STi theh r abltof wearing becoming frocks of
t / aS p lon after next By the way, another
pretty Green daughter threatens to enter matri-
mony with a very desirable partner.
In a hushed whisper comes the news of a blas<s
Sydney bachelor s engagement to an Australian
stage charmer in Fogtown. For years the wary one
paid nicely-considered attention to all the comely
dames and damsels of his acquaintance, though
1 f l i t Q e r fcain S d i a specml adoration for the lime-
iight lass. But it was a tentative form of worship
until the damsel got up steam for London and his
mother rushed into matrimony. One departure
or the other made him ill, and then sent him
scurrying over the ocean wave after health and
his touring happiness. Now he’s caught it, and
returns presently with his bride.
Miss Eugenia Stone has been the guest of the
ex-Senatonal A. P. Matheson clan at Maidenhead,
where the Westralians live in a quaint bungalow
what time they’re not gadding about the Scotch
end of England. Sundry smart little suppers and
other varieties of spree were given in the lady’s
honor, and congratulations and compliments were
the order of her hour.
“Tryphena” from London:
The pair of Denmark royalties have added to the pomp
and circumstance of the festive June. At Covent
Garden Opera a royal equerry dropped dead, and
was solemnly carried out as' the double flank of
Maiesties, ignorant of the tragedy, gaily processed in. The
show of neck and gem and gold braid was more absorbing
than the execution of Caruso’s opulent top C. And at
Olympia, the most superb mob of thoroughbreds that
ever four-stepped on the green globe were of second
importance to the pageant presented of four crowned
heads and a collection of half and quarter crowns, with a
gross of small change in the form of equerries and
guardians of the Royal Shoelace and attendants of the
Grand Sneeze.
But the Crowned Heads min us the great world’s grovel
or the colossal Bodyguard would be very humdrum,
ordinary mortals. King Ned, now looking ten years
ahead of the camera editions, and more sleek of beard and
thinner in the jowl than I imagined him, is simple in
manner and just German enough in speech to suggest a
common or garden foreigner of long residence in this
land. His gentle spouse is an artistic person with Age
strenuously discountenanced, and a long look of sweet
resigned patience (as is often the attribute of the deaf)
in her faintly colored face. “There are, after all,” says
Oscar Wilde, “ but two types of woman—the plain and
the colored.” The Queen is the colored.
t The Denmark couple are long and grave and elderly.
No dolly-dye about the she-rojalty—her thatch is
frankly grey. So is her rather wistful old face. The
King of Denmark reminds me of the Talbottle. He
doesn’t resemble his Royal sister of this throne in the
least.
. Tommy Bent has been accorded a dinner and recep-
tion by some officials and others at the Trocadero. Lady
Brassev, whitened and thinned by the intervening years,
was there with her husband, the Faller-off. He looked
astonishingly spry. Falling-off must be a healthy habit.
The Sydenham Clarkes were also there. Lady Clarke’s
pleasure at meeting' Toorak and Collins-street East again
bore a genuine ring. Of the footlighting chick Dame
Clarke was able to chat with a glad smile. Countess
Darnley had got her elongated self up in flowering silk
(popular ice-cream tones of pink and white) with lots of
diamonds frescoing her tall top. I noticed also Mrs.
Robert Harper, Mrs. Dunbar-Hooper, Mrs. Henry Butler,
Mrs. Spencer Brunton, Mrs. J. Tait, and Mrs. E. Keep.
At that sort of show you must come late and withdraw
earty, if you would be reckoned rushed and in strong
request. To dally is to write yourself down a social frost.
A snug little club in this noisy, nerve-racking centre is
that of the Women Writers. It’s just off the Strand, a
cosily-furnished establishment. On the committee is one
Melbourne girl—Miss Quinlan, daughter of the Victorian
judge, who died nearly two decades ago. Miss Quinlan
drifted to the Big Smoke several years since, arid is
working a paying literary reef on the magazines here.
She’s an aesthetic blonde with a most charming manner,
and an eye bright with imagination’s fire. All the Vic-
torians are emploiing a profitable “ J ” nib hereabouts.
Miss Elms looks bright and keeps busy. Sophie Osmond
is turning out with mechanical regularitv the Dook
and Governess brand of romance, and lurid tales of high
life, and hyperbolical yarns of Counts and factory belles
for the popular fireside journals. She laughs good-
naturedly over the ease with which her money is earned.
She knows she can do far better things, but wonders if
she should let go her hold of the tail of the devil she knows
when the tail of the devil she doesn’t know mav be too
slippery to be grasped. Some devils (alas!) wear their
tails buttered.
For dress styles here you don’t go to Ascot, or Covent
Garden, or the Savoy. You look to the stage. In every
show—from the classy comedy and musical farce to the
second-rate halls—the garbing of the women is an
immense factor. I’ve seen seventeen shows of all kinds,
and the superb dresses on each stage have dazzled me no
end. “The Merry Widow” alone has dozens of the
noblest fashion-plates.
The clever Pounds children (at present the
smaller. one is really not more than an ounce) have
a standing engagement for an item or two in the
short, sharp programme of the Chicago tea-gossip-
and-music frivols o’ Tuesdays. They shine
together in mimicry of scraps from Harcourt
Beatty and Nellie Stewart plays, and they have
the voices to the veriest shade.
West, of the moustaches, and his Brescians and
moving pictures have great houses here every
night. It’s such a fascinating programme for
Edwin and Angelina. There is the congenial
darkness of the pictures and the encouraging
sentimentalism of the musical interludes. Ange-
lina finds it a good hot-house in which to en-
courage the growth of Love’s young dream.
The usually sedate Joe Gunn—clever private
secretary to the Eairbairn Brothers—is turning
hand-springs just now in celebration of his newly-
made matrimonial engagement. The lady in his
case is Miss Renecke—the smart “ Girl from
Jay’s,” who came out for the frilliest Melbourne
froeking store, to tell them just how they set a
plume in a London hat. Evidently she set the
feather in her own hat with killing effect.
Widow Braham is cutting her year of mourning
off with a sharp snip on exactly its last day. The
memory of her former husband was much too
tragic to be treasured. 80 she weds a venerable
and wealthy suitor, who carefully nurses a shadow
of departed youth.
James Nevin Tait, of the numerous Tait
family, has entered into the preliminary of
matrimonial bondage, with Miss Bess Norris—
the black-eyed little painter of miniatures who
has made some name in London.
After a number of false starts, Doris Madden—
the serious young cousin of the vice-regals—made
a belated departure on last week’s mail boat. It
seems that the musical young lady of the studious
spectacles has finally decided to be a pupil of
Carreno when that artiste returns to Berlin.
Goathlands—one time the festive abode of the
McEacharns—has been turned by Drs. Spring-
thorpe and Maudsley into a private hospital
for nervy, brain-strain folk.
There is a mild clawing in Kew about the in-
vitations for the recent dance of the matrons.
There were nearly a dozen matron hostesses, and
the ball circ’ed in the Recreation Hall (which
has the smoothest floor and the most cosy-cornery
gardens in Melbourne). Although the there*
abouts offer much scope for the wander-
ing moon-gazer and the sitter-out, the hall
itself is very small, and each hostess had
her invitation list considerably chopped up.
Many scores of names had perforce to be
dropped into the waters of oblivion, and the
resultant wails and scratchings are turning the
district into a furious cattery. The question of
how many cats make five is in a fair way towards
solution. The dance, by the way, was largely
regimental and gold-laced. Mrs. Commander
lickell led the Dames, of whom pretty little Mrs.
Geoffrey (Age) Syme was the most youthful.
Talking of dances—the Pinschof daughters make
ready for a big frivol at Studley Hall in the near
anon.
Lieutenant Stephens, one of the most adored of
the officahs of the Katoomba during a fleet visit a
year or so ago, is coming back again. He is to be
stationed in Australia for some time on the
Pyramus. Unfortunately the giddy young man
is attached—firmly attached, and to a widow !
Pretty, buxom widow Buscombe of Westralia.
By the way, three of the Katoomba officers col-
lected Australian girls to share their joys and
sorrows and revenue and breakfast chop. Jolly
tan-faced Lieutenant Glasspoole annexed the
daughter of the Toorak McNealeys, and Surgeon
Lavertine married Ethel Gunn, the handsome
and petted beauty girl adored as lead in most
private theatricals. Mrs. Glasspoole and Mrs.
Lavertine dwell in cosy little contiguous flats at
Devonport, where their sailor husbands are sta-
tioned on the warship Theseus. The Lavertine
doctor man has just been gazetted Senior Staff
Surgeon.
Many St. Kilda girls play hockey, but in various
clubs. Now the enthusiastic seasiders want to
form an exclusive club of their very own, and one
excited player—proposed as captain—rushes
round to she-friends beating up recruits. The
new-chums catch the enthusiasm when they hear
of the fancy costume for the hockeyiste— very short
skirt and shirt of squirrel grey, knee-high tan boots,
and grey cap in blocked wool. The first wet
blanket on the enthusiasm aforementioned comes
with information about the practise rule—seven
to eight every morning ! Br-r-r-r ! Second draw-
back is the sight of the prospective captain’s
dissipated-looking nose. The girleen’s natural
profile is classic; but just now two hig bumpy
bruises add variety to the lines. “Oh, a mere
nothing 1 . Betty Crewe flung her hockey stick
into theair in a transport at our last win, and it
hit me.” (A hockey stick only weighs about 281 b.
or 301 b.) “But don’t worry. We’ve made
another new rule —JVo one must get excited if they
have a win ! ” Simplicity itself.
But the hockey club girls are the jolliest
fellows. Short skirts, blocked wool caps (in vivid
colors), startling complexions, and a tempestuous
rush. That’s a hockey club on the move.
Little Mrs. Harbinson—the wealthy and quiet
wife of the Hibernian doctor—has just battered
a law case to death, and made her opponents
pay the funeral expenses. It had to do with the
huge question of her marriage settlement. She
was a Laidlavv of the big Heidelberg family
before she annexed the sociable little medical
person. The settlement tied up her portion of
the Laidlaw properties, letting her enjoy the fat
income, but giving her no other control. With
her own beautiful eye she saw a loophole in the
deed, and has come triumphantly out of the case,
despite vigorous opposition from the trustees, her
father, her sister, and lawyer Trenchard. And
doesn’t she just congratulate herself 1
The last memories of an interesting family will
be scattered this week by the salesman’s hammer,
when the late Mrs. Loureiro’s possessions are
auctioned. Those who knew the woman and
her house have pleasant recollections of both.
Her personality was full of charm. The tragic
circumstances of her last years made her end a
very pathetic one.
. Archbishop Clarke goes a-voyaging to England
in February, or thereabouts. He’ll be abroad
until December, and takes his missus .and portion
of his family. The Prelate takes almost as many
months’ leave in a single year as the beatific Bevan
cleric, and, like that venerable performer, does it
on full pay. Archdeacon Hindley, the Irish
gentleman who objects to his country achieving
Home Rule, will play under-study to“ Dr. Clarke,
and administer the tender slap of confirmation to
the juniors of the diocese.
The other Archbishop goes to Rome anon
to interview Pope Pius, and takes Ireland as a
holiday stage in his itinerary. Before he departs
his flock is going to get him “done” in marble,
if funds permit; if not, in some more perishable
and cheaper stuff.
The purple-jerseyed Canadian lacrosse bovshad
a great old game with the green-clad Australians,
on Saturday afternoon,_ and the grand-stand
crowd was as frilly as if it were an English Test-
match and spring weather. There was tem-
pestuous delight when the Australians (who are
comparative novices) beat the Canadians at their
own pet game by two goals.
The famous “Besses o’ th’ Barn” were blown
down Coll ins-street from the Express, on Satur-
day, by the force of 600 extended cheeks and
every scrap of trumpet brass that could be col-
lected to do honor and advt. to the visitors.
The vibration made a minor earthquake;
one almost expected the buildings to totter!
It was an extraordinary crowd that filled the
Town Hall for the concert in the evening.
Band-haunting faces are faces that seem to belong
to the open air—to the band-blown sands of
favorite bay beaches. There was the extremely
swagger element also, led by the just-returned
Northcote lady, and a row of mayoresses or so ;
and the lacrosse boys made an exceedingly correct
line of black and white dinner dress along one
balcony, with nary a girl to break the even pattern
of shirtfront.
It’s easily believed by “ bachelor girls ” in Mel-
bourne that crimes great or little can be com-
mitted in this town without any police inter-
ference. A lass living in a city fiat makes bitter
plaint that on more than one oocasion. when she
and two or three flat-mates were walking to ur
from the theatre at night, they have ' been
most insolently accosted by civilians who
were sprawling at street corners, conversing
with the neighborhood’s custodians of order.
In each case the constable made no attempt
to restrain his pal’s impertinence, and, when
remonstrated with, contented himself with
declaring that the unchivalrous animal was “a
gentleman, and only joking.” A dozen such
trivial but significant examples of police in-
difference to the public’s comfort and security
could be cited. Some have been submitted to the
Commissioner, who replies with an indiscreet
silence.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
A. <Sb F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE Q.UEEN.
Ilotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
r|ir offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Sheet,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When the mail left, the United States papers
were full of frantic remarks on the downfall of gentleman
bruiser Ollagen-O’Brien. When the cable announced
his defeat by Tommy Burns it made some vague refer-
ences to a “ double cross.” Before entering the ring, and
while O’Brien was sitting in his corner fastening on his
gloves, Burns notified the referee that in order to get the
O’Brien into the ring he (Burns) had to agree to be
beaten—to “lay down,” as the Yankees sav. He an-
nounced that he intended to lay O’Brien down and was
fighting to win. He refrained from shocking Btien
with the news, but immediately Burns got going _ and
landed one on the napper, O Bnen understood. There is
a soul-affinity, a mental telepathy, between pugs
that lets them know when the other fellow is out
And O’Brien understood. He was in a hole, f behe\ii g
that Burns would keep to the arrangement, O linen had
omitted to train for an all-in scrap, and was qmte ut able
to stand up to his beefy antagonist. So he fled from
before his face, and the crowd reared on its hind legs and
hissed and cursed. O’Brien told it to ti e
went on racing for safety. As long as he
hiding he didn’t care a hang for public opinion. Burns
stood in the middle of the ring and holies eel to him,
beo-ffingr him “ to be a man and take his jTuel.
merely galloped further into a place of safety. In spite
of lack of condition, lower weight, inferior fighting
,lower, funk, and all the rest of it on the part of OBrien
Burns failed to utterly knock him out, and wept with
rage. However, the referee decided in his favor, and
Burns was cheered up somewhat. The referee also
announced that the fight was a double cross, and declared
all bets off.
Then O’Brien’s reputation, which had been look-
ing seamy for some time, suddenly cracked right np. y
the time the exposure was over, it seemed that O Brier
had never fought a genuine fight since he became a
front-ranker. They were all fakes, ni wluc li
backed himself to win, and paid the other f rf. l ®'
more than he would make out of the fight even it he
won it, to lose. Now they propose to remove his name
from the record book, and wipe the slate clean. A
O’Brien smiles cynically. “ 1 can take my
I’ll frankly admit I never went into the game for honor
or glory, or anything but the cash. And Ive got the
cash. I’m the richest prizefighter in the woild, and
nothing else matters. That’s all! ”
* * * *
“Old ’Un” : Saw Bob Fitzsimmons at Foley’s
old White Horse gymnasium, in George-street, Sydney,
20 or more years ago, when he seemed quite dead.
Asthma had a strong grip of him. In his cor "6r, a fter
each round, he was a painful spectacle—gasping and
often on the verge of suffocation. It looked extreme
cruelty to allow the man to continue, but the call upon
the respiratory organs provided the cure. Twelve
months subsequently the trouble had almost disap-
peared. a »
Sydney will soon have a new racecourse—much
more complete than most others of its kind—on the Cooper
estate, south of Zetland. The situation is a great deal
handier to the city than that of any other suburban track.
Already £14,000 has been absorbed by the venture, and
£lO,OOO more, in £1 shares, is being raised to finish tne
work.
* * *
Though A.J.C. Epsom Handicap is fully two
months off, “books ” generally,andl the “ specking of a
little money, have made Maorilander Pink Un a com-
paratively warm favorite. Possibly, conflicting reports
concerning the nag are responsible. First it was
announced he had been bought by his present owners for
£l6OO. Sometime later various sporting scribes pubfisnea
that Pink ’Un was transferred to “Mr. Rankin, of
Sydney,” for £6OO, but no one appeared to know Mr.
Rankin, of Sydney.” Then the public was further
enlightened : the animal hadn’t been sold a second time,
and those who paid £l6OO for him still held possession.
Pink ’Un’s best achievement (a particularly B°°“ in
M.L. was winning the Metropolitan Handicap, at Welling-
ton (8.11 up), in 1.14 J.
* * • *
The publication of the weights for the Cups
and other spring handicaps has brought forth a thirty-
second edition of J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet and
Athletic Rfecord. There are 247 pages of information,
horsey and otherwise, in Miller’s pamphlet. Ihe most
interesting, for all admirers’ of Australia’s most remark-
able gee-gee, are pages 122 and 123, which set forth the
performances of Proceeder. The onetime buggy-horse,
entered again for the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, has
run 100 races, winning 23 of them. May Ring has won ->
races in 87 tries.
*** . *
The South American can give some of the Aus-
tralians points in the management of races. Wherever
horse-racing is established in the leg-of-mutton continent
there is also the tote, and where two horses from the
same stable, no matter in whose names they are run,
start in the same race they are counted as one gee-gee on
the tote, and cannot be backed singly.
« * * *
“ H.G.” : There has been much denunciation of
vicious football in Melbourne recently, but all lovers of
true, sport should hail with glee the present tendency
towards stoush and laying out. Vicious football mean
clean football. Twelve years ago, when Victorian foot-
ball reached its zenith, it was the customary thing,
whenever a visiting team won a match, for the barrackers
of the home team to follow them, ten thousand strong,
peltino- their cabs with road metal; while every umpire
who knew his business used to carry a disguise to
enable him to escape with his life after the match.
Those were the palmy days of Melbourne football.
There was no professionalism worthy of the name,
and if suspicions of stiff running had ever entered the
head of anybody, he would only have needed to witness a
match to be convinced of his error. In every contest
willingness was the mainspring, and frequently the free
fights between the players were augmented by barrackers
lumping the fences and joining in ; while the lady
friends of the gladiators were wont to wait in the
pavilion with hat pins and puncture the legs of their
opponents as they came in. Then football became
'••entlemanly. The bookmaker stepped in, and two nice
well-behaved sets of young men went through a, number of
pre-arranged evolutions without any nasty spiteful work
or violence. The number of goals and behinds to be
kicked could be forecasted by those in the know with
actuarial accuracy. Barracking threatened to become a
lost art. There was no partisan feeling, and the South
barracker who met two Fitzroy barrackers in a lonely
street could pass them without fear of molestation.
Football became moribund : for years it lay like the
sleeping beauty. Then, by dint of hard work on the part
of some of the old-time enthusiasts, it was once more
••■alvanised into activity, and to-day, with profes-
sionalism controlled, if not stamped out, and the book-
maker entirely eliminated, it is itself again as a game.
,'* » *
The Council of South Melbourne, which has
some small say in the matter, lately asked for informa-
tion as to the management of Albert Park. It acquired
little, but what it did get threw considerable light on the
anxiety of certain well-to-do cliques to grab a slice of the
people’s property whenever they get the chance. The
boating clubs that row over the lagoon where the suicides
have to sit down to be drowned, pay from £3 3s. to £o os.
a vear for their shed sites. Thirteen junior football
clubs 49 ditto cricket clubs—two of them made up of.
ladies —and one hockey and one hurling club pay £1 Is.
a year each. These all play in the open, and must either
o-et out of the way of the casual meanderer, or knock him
nver and so if they pay but little, they get little
f n return. But South Melb. and St. Hilda Cricket
Clubs pay only£2s a year each for the exclusive use of
grounds that frequently during the winter bring them in
Wirt adav. The bowling clubs are different. They in-
quire onl’v * diminutive paddock; yet the Middle Park
Bowling ‘Club gets nearly half-ah-acre alongside the
station for £f. per annum, while the St. Hilda Club has the
use of a trifle more for £lO a year. Just across the road,
where the private landlord dwells, the same slice of the
earth would cost about £lOO a year, and as fast as the
club improved the paddock the landlord would raise the
rent-
“H.A.”: **F.C.” writes interestingly (B. 18/7/’O7)
about the finances of Melbourne football cluus, and their
connection with the cricket clubs that control the
grounds. “F. 0." knows a little about the matter, but
his remarks show the danger of a little knowledge. His
statement as to the division of profits is correct. But he
is astounded that the cricket clubs which “do nothing
and take no risk ” should get the largest share, and there
he makes his first big mistake. Except playing the actual
game the cricket clubs do everything, and take exactly
one-third of the risk. They provide and equip the
"round, keep it in order, supply dressing-room accom-
modation, water, light, etc., undertake the entire
management of all football matches (a matter involving
the organisation and supervision of a staff of 30 to 50 men
for big games), and attend to the whole business end of
the affair generally, involving an amount of work which
would surprise an outsider. Then “ F.C.” wonders what
the cricket clubs do with their money. All the money
made bv the cricket clubs in this manner goes towards
improving the grounds and making them fit to accommo-
date big crowds. Before this season St. Kilda had prac-
ticallv no revenue from football. South Melbourne has
splendidly improved its ground. Fitzroy has recently
built a fine new grandstand (to accommodate football
patrons), and made other improvements. East. Melbourne
has used the money to drag itself out of the nnre of debt
into which the club fell years ago. Melbourne—well the
M.C.C. has so big a revenue that it is impossible to
trace where its football money goes to. These are the
only grounds on which the cricket clubs get a share. At
Carlton and Collingw >od, the third share goes to a
ground committee, and the cricket elubsget nothing. On
all League grounds but St. Kilda the attendances are
checked by turnstiles, and no dispute is possible. It
is very evident from “F.C.’s” arguments that he
has not the remotest idea of the expense of
running’ a ground, and forgets that there are such
things as caretakers’ and assistants’ wages, rates and
taxes of different kinds running all the year round,
repairs, improvements, and alterations. I have no doubt
that a seat on the committee of one of the big metro-
politan cricket clubs for a season would be an eye-opener
for “F.C.” Finally, “F.C.” is “struck with amaze-
ment at the moderation of the football clubs in not
demanding full control of the grounds and treating the
cricket clubs as interlopers, who may graciously be per-
mitted to use the turf a month or two in the summer.
Well, if the football clubs are foolish enough not to
know when they are well off, they will start ‘ demand-
ing,” and go on' “demanding” till they are blue in the
face, hut the cricket clubs control the grounds—and that
ends it. , ,
Adelaide’s big school match—St. Peter’s r. Prince
Alfred—gave another example of the possibilities which
make the Australian code of football popular. There is
always scoring going on, or just going to happen, or just
ought to have happened but didn’t(grannnarcopyrighted),
and spectators love it accordingly. When S.A. last
played Victoria in Melbourne—the return match is due
in Adelaide next Saturday—S.A. scored 14 goals nine
behinds, and won by one point! The “college match
in Adelaide was a very similar event. The losing side
made a desperate effort in the last quarter, arid I mice
Alfred only got home by seven goals five behmds to six
and 10—a single point again.
* • • *
The governing bodies of Vic. football have, been
moved to action by the outcry against “ vicious ” play.
Week before last the League passed out a Melbourne club
’bailer for the rest of the season for striking an opponent.
The Wednesday League handed a similar sentence to a
South Melbournite for a like offence. The Association
went one better, and disqualified for life an ill-regulated
Port player who was adjudged guilty of “using threaten-
ing and obscene language and assaulting” an opponent.
Senior footballers are evidently persons of importance in
Melbourne. The Investigation Committee of the Ass.
had no sooner recommended this player’s disqualification
than his friends rolled up, hired the Port town
hall persuaded the local mayor, sundry councillors,
and’ politicians Sangster and Matthews on to
the platform, and passed a resolution asking
the Association “ not to go into the evidence or judge
the case, but merely to give the player justice. Ihe
Association, at its usual weekly meeting next day, ignored
this remarkable resolution, and, after hearing the accused
player’s advocates—the two Port delegates—endorsed the
recommendation ; wherefore the obstreperous young man
may presently be expected to seek some other sphere of
usefulness for his muscles. The Vic. Junior Association
this week inquires into an allegation that an insidious
elbow-jab bv a Footscra.v Junior player met with a retort
in the shape of a blow in the mouth so violent that five
stitches had to be inserted ; and the Queenschff Bench
is asked to adjudicate on a discussion between a
Oueenscliff ’bailer, and a military ditto, where again a
suro-eon had to repair the under-dog in the fight. As
usual, the good young men of the Metropolitan Churches
Association shine in fighting the bad fight that leadeth
to destruction. When Heidelberg' St. John s met
Brougham-street Methodists, on July 13, the barrackers
took a hand, and several willing fights w r ere only stopped
by the arrival of the police, who tore the combatants
apart. Numerous; players were laid out, but these
Christians were not quite hopeless—they only hooted
the umpire. South Australian barrackei s went one worse,
and “booted” him. Hahndorf and Mt. Barker (S.A.) clubs
had stumbled through a turbulent and unseemly scrnn-
mage, at the Mount, on July 13, till the last quarter,
when the former equalised the scores by kicking what
the goal umpire said was a goal. He had hardly time to
raise his flags before he was rushed, pummelled, and
kicked on the ground. Some of the players tried to
succor him, but Mt. Barker was on the warpath, and a
o-eneral attack was made on the Hahndorf men, who only
escaped, per van, to the accompaniment of showers of
stones and bushels of epithets.
* * *
The final deposit of £2OO in connection with
the Towns-Webb sculling match for the championship of
the world is due. Both men are in excellent
health, and training steadily. That double-scml facing
boat propelled by George Towns and Fogwell, is develop-
ing great speed powers in the champion-by-suceession.
Present appearances indicate that after he has rowed
Webb, Charles Towns will be a champion in reality. At
present it is hard to say what he is.
“Pick” : The Creswick (Vic.) v. Dean cricket
match, referred to by “ Blister ” (B. U/7/’O7), was not a
record In 1888 the Long Reach C. C., playing against
Towrang. near Goulburn (N.S.W.), scored one run in its
first innings. The solitary run was made by a casual
stranger who had joined in, the Long Reach team having
arrived on the ground one man short.
• * * •
Humanitarians should note for reference at the
comin" election the following list of members of N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly. It contains the names and electo-
rates of those who voted to legalise gambling at coursing
matches for fear the inhuman, brutish and degrading
“sport ” should die out for want of gambling. The clause
was passed solely in the interests of a few.bookmakers
who bet at coursing matches, and a few ruffians who have
a vested interest in the cruel business, and who make a
useless living by supplying the grounds and the hares.
Ti„n ' Pnrowa Brine*, Raleigh.
Burgess, Burrangong. Charlton, Northumberland.
Collins, The Namoi. 1 '
Tinumoc Hamden. Edden, Kshibfln.
Fell, Lane Cove. I } lin »’ Hunter *
Orange. Gillies, Maitland.
Hall Hawkesbury. Hollis, Newtown.
Tones Gwydir. Levy, Darlinghurst.
MacDonell! Cobar. SrYbfvde ’^
uroohnn Darlin o, Millard, 01\de.
Mmer Monaro Morton, Allowrie.
Moxham, Parramatta. Nicholson, Wollongong.
O’Conor, Sherbrooke Scobie, Murray.
Trefle Castlereagli. Young, Gloucester
McLaurin, Albury. . Reynoldson, Denil.quin.
Perry J., Liverpool Plains.
The most regrettable feature of this matter is that so
many members of the Labor party voted for cruelty
and gambling. The Labor party denies that it is the
creature of Bung and Christian Moses ; but, considering
that so much of it votes for them every time, the result
is the same as.if it had been nobbled.
* * * *
“ V.”: Tattersall gets along all right without
the assistance of the post office and Tasmania prospers
on an “unearned increment” that would go into the
coffers of the other States, were it not for’the i h ' llst ''iL
in the Parliaments. There are between 25 and 30
saltations now successfully carried out eyei j
by Tattersall, and to these the public contributes half a
million sterling. The owners of Tattersall now diude
between ■ £30,000 and £40,000 a year after paying all
expenses.
(Continued on page 2C.)
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) iviU be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name ana
address must appear on MSS. No liability is un er-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
PH - Have rejected “Kismet.” Can’t tell
why we rejected “ Kismet.” Can’t tell why we reject
hundreds of things except that they aren’t good enough
Haven’t time to measure up the innumerable thing a
isn’t good enough, and decide exactly where, how and
whv it isn’t good enough. If, whenever you saw a dog-
kennel, and knew that it wasn’t a palace, you stopped to
sum up all the points on which it wasn’t a palace, you
would be standing before dog-kennels all day 10ug....
J.K. : Latest information is for 1905. That.year n 3sl9^®®* el ®
called. Their total tonnage was 4,118,490 tons. Retur
doesn’t differentiate between steamers nd sal ve ?'
sels W B.A. : “ Stain lias only a small, faint pretti
ness to recommend it....D.H.W. : “ When the Wains are
Wide” only arouses the dull reflection that. * J*\y es
alwavs wide if there’s enough of it Massa. res,
“U B. Lancaster” is a lady, and when Morley
Roberts “suspects her of youth, he is right.for once.
Which must be a refreshing change for Morlej Robert.....
Glen Waga : Question of the possibility °* n V n * I?*
has often been argued. The general verdict is that the
fox is untameable... .Puzzled : Well, for one reason, The
Bulletin made the lamentable mistake °f tanking that
Kennedy was quite safe at Echuca. It was a huge erior, but
nobody on the staff has been in that d‘ S trict lately, and
we didn’t know it was a lunatic asylum - Ejayem - Metie
too erratic Araemo : Good yarn, spoilt bj bad vers..
Tripod: Absolutely the most unpoetical poem we
ever struck... .R.B. : Neither new nor striking... .Doia
« ; Heiected with some hesitation. They all have merit,
but the handling is somewhat unskilful. Try again, and
pay more attention to detail Cham: Style too pon-
derous for the subject. You bray upon a bombardon
where vou should tootle on a clarionet .D T.M 100
much repetition and digression Armida Would have
been a dainty little thing but for such bad rhymes
as “ flower ” and “ more,” “grace and peace, etc....
M.E.C. : None of them any g00d... .Russell Bond:
Impossible to say, you have not shown much promise, so
f , n . a i| g.n, : Sorrv, it is still too long-winded and
nroVv Block 2 : Ingenious in its way, but desperately
uninteresting... -Dolly V. : Cut out and post to Bulletin
accountant, with date of. issue... P.J.H. .
fierce desire to review S.M. Herald’s literary reviews- •
Sallad and others : We don’t want any moie: Eled "
r,resent Birkeley : Well, we have read things that
St feel!nore enthusiastic. -J.C.D. :^otbaHßems
declined at top of our voice Ken R. . Iro and Con
doesn’t say anything new-. The “ Pro ” is too prolonged
for its merit and the “Con” isn t concise enough....
Dion • “ Phrvne ” comes nearer the mark than anything
else you have sent of late, but judging from the sudden
way' V it diverges into the third-rate here and there
you must shoot at the Muse with a bent gun.
Victor Melb. : “Gums” too tame.... J.H.b.. Dei
Moriuntur” only fitted for an atheist publication
C McK : All true enough, but the screed would need re-
e-Utino- Will Crawford : Ranges from tolerable to very
had H.B.K. : vour “ song” is too stiff and unwieldy to
deserve the name... .Cosmo: You concede t 0 us only
the right to insert this poem in one issue, and without
alterations.” Comfort yourself—it wont be inserted in
urn/ issue ' .Nym :We admire your perseverance, but
you don’t seem to be able to hit the mark with verse .
Cvril V - Your persistence, also, deserves bettei luck,
and nearly struck it this turn... .Danton : You never
come to the point indicated in your title... .Omrah .
Style painfully hurried and breathless. Take time. If
you’ve* really got anything to say, you are certain to
overtake it' * Rosie B. : A very creditable attempt
for a beginner. Take more pains with your metre,
and vou will “arrive.” .... H.W.H. : You have
absolutely no idea of how to write verse
Maritana : Too obviously the work of a tyro Swift
We don’t like the pietistic twang of it... .G.B. .inane
and trivial.... A.P.J.W. :It has no poetical quality....
Charles E. : Rather pretty, but too conventional in tone
and treatment.... Pop: Has a hu#rous flavor, but is
otherwise of no account Ivor G. . Graceful, but in-
clined to be feeble.. ..Charles S. G. : “The Coward .
came near the mark. Not much in the other....»
Not quite devoid of merit. . ..Jaques : Humor rather
strained and far-fetched Prodigal: The bad rhymes
would have killed it in any case Adlih : A good story,
rather feebly told. But, if you are a beginner, there s
promise in it... .C..J.D. : Has some rude strength, but the
workmanship is indifferent Nora R. : Gut of our line.
Should suit a boys’ publication Taffy : The trail of the
tyro is over it all Karamadau : Thanks for printed
matter re misery in the Scottish Highlands .... Dee .
Hard to sav. Current pars are used at once. General
pars, which may be used at any time, are sometimes a
long while getting into print... .C.E.8.: You take too
loti" - to tell that you blushed when you found that the
florTii was bad... .T.V.T. (Pakenham, Vic.): You take
well over 000 words to explain that on one occasion a
tiger snake (which you subsequently slew) did not stop
when you placed your hat in front of it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
J R.C. i Not anywhere near the mark. Stampsof other
States are of no'value for return unless sent 1005 e .....
Iviaora : It was waste of money to register those sketches.
Nobody would have stolen them M. : Picture of gin
with false teeth slung round her neck declined... .V.r. .
Very sketchy, and London Punch exhausted that joke
about the person with a black roof to his mouth ages
ag0.... F. W.D. : A failure.... J.Y.A. : Two bad drawings
oTie poor gag, one poor old gag.
By a curious oversight on the part of I rovidenee
circumstance has been allowed to order things so that
when a man meets with an accident and has to spend
money on doctors and nurses, chemists and other neces-
sary evils, his income generally decreases just when it is
most wanted. Providence not having fixed things to meet
the case,man has to take a hand himself. The South British
Fire and Marine Insurance 00., of Maoriland, conies along
with an up-to-date Accident and Sickness Insurance
system. This, to a large extent, rectifies the oversight on
the part of Providence. Death by railway accident is
specially provided for, the compensation ranging over
three classes at .4500. £lOOO, and £2OOO. Death by any
other form of accident is also provided for. But the
great advantage of a policy is that it provides a regular
income for people who are for the time totally disabled,
not only by accidents but by certain specified fashionable
diseases, such as appendicitis, pluerisy, Pj ieun 1 ' o ?'‘J’
diabetes, and 13 others, equally pleasant, though less
popular. Total and permanent blindness, and permanent,
general paralysis that are not due fco accKlent, s are also
provided for, the three figures being £5OO, £250, and £l2.j.
And all these advantages are to be obtained for premiums
ranging from two to ten guineas per annum. The bouth
British is a solid concern, and has been so well managed
that its reserves have been built up to a sum times
greater than its capital. A good concern to do business
with ! *
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., (Sydney) report
re wool Our catalogue comprised 997 bales, consisting
chiefly of Queensland clips. Considering the quantity,
the selection was a good one for the time of .war. There
was a representative attendance of buyers. The market,
however, was somewhat irregular, good greasy and
scoured ruling from par to 5 per cent, lower as compared
with last month’s rates, while faulty scoured showed a
decline of fully 5 per cent. By auction and privately we
sold 862 bales.*


dsfds
fsf
d
FOR AUGUST
Has half-a-dozen Pictures good enough for Framing.
A Hundred Pictures good enough to look at many times.
IT IS FULL OF HUMOR, WIT,
ROMANCE, FANCY.
Permeated with AUSTRALIANISM
Will fill all your AUGUST Leisure with Pleasure.
The BEST SHILLING’S-WORTH
Ever Published Anywhere.
read ...
J. C. Watson on THE NORTHERN TERRITORY.
The N.S. Wales Bar—a brilliant Personal Sketch with
most Amusing Caricatures.
Frank Myers on Dr. Lang.
Rhodes Scholar MacCallum on Oxford University.
Dr. J. B. Nash on The Anatomy of a Piano Player.
Note the Stories by ...
EDWARD DYSON GRACE PALOTTA
RODERIC QUINN MILTON MACGREGOR
And Many Others.
CONTENTS.
A Norman Lindsay Book Illustration -
John Dunmore Lang—(with Portrait) -
Triolet
-(with Photographs of the best Australian
Frank Morton
Norman Lindsay
- Frontispiece
By Frank Myers
- “ Leontine Scott ”
The Story of Richard Lavender—(with Norman Lindsay Illustrations)
Foderic Quinn
The Poet’s Day A Crawford
Oxford to an Australian—(with Photographic Illustrations) - M. L. MacCallum
Petticoats—(lllustrations by Alek Sass) - - * - - Dorothy Frances McCrae
The Fake that Wasn’t—(lllustrations by Alek Sass) - - - Milton Macgregor
Pan and the Automobile—(Decoration by D. 11. Souter) -
Tommy Topbough—(a Koala Series)
An Australian Artist at Work
John Burns—(with Portrait by Percy Spence)
Made in Australia
The Art of the Year-
London, 1907) -
Varnishing Day in the Paris Salons -
At Juliet’s Tomb—(Decorations by Hans Heysen)
A Woman’s Way—(lllustrated by D. H. Souter) -
Night in England—Verse
Studies in Natural History—(lllustrations by D. H. Souter)
IHE New South Wales Bar— (with Photographs and Caricatures by E. S. Scarvell)
“ Locust ”
Prima Donna Assoluta ......... D. H. Souter
J. D.
work
Fitz Gerald
F.W.
Paris and
B. E. Minns
Henri Verne
K. Crawford
Grace Palotta
Arthur H. Adams
P. C. Cole
J. C. Watson, M.P.
f. F. Archibald
- Essex Evans
Two Battlers and a Bear—(lllustrations by “ Hop ”) ... Edward Dyson
Prize Announcements
The Australian Goat at Work and Play
Our Empty North
Editorial
The Genesis of “The Bulletin”
To Alfred Deakin
The Secrets of a Prime Minister—(3) The Great Conversion Loan
For the Public Good— (a) Thimble-rigging; (b) “Eureka,” a Consumption “Cure”
and its Advertisements ; (c) The Sweater and Society .....
Answers to Correspondents
The Jackeroo is Sent to Bring in the Horses ..... Douglas Fry
The Way Out — (Decoration by Alek Sass) ...... . . s.S.
The Prisoner ........... Enid Derham
The Muses—(with Decorations by B. E. Minns, Frank Mahony and D. H. Souter)
Victor Daley
Life and Letters—
-349
353
354
362
363
369
370
376
378
380
382
384
386
394
399
400
403
404
406
412
413
418
419
420
427
430
433
434
439
444
445
446
447 j
448
A Review of Australian Fiction
Humor from “ Who’s Who ”
Notes from Paris ...
Mimes and Music—
The Anatomy of a Piano Player
Femininism in the Theatre
Frohman and Some Facts
Fate—(with Decorations by D. H. Souter)
The Judicious Thief
- Arthur A. D. Bayldon 4CI
- - - J.B.D. 454
- Louis Blin 456
- J. B. Nash 458
- “ Stargazer ” 461
Eugenia Stone 462
- Bernard O’Dowd 463
- - * xxxiv.
== Britisb=flus(ralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £| per year,
in advance, all over the world.
• Australians visiting London are cordially
ni vited to visit the Reading Room where files
ol all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Lritish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
o fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR - -
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The Standard Remedy which haa outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S ETE OINTMENT.
In use since 1598.
, , CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambetli Road, London, Eng.
m.y
(jjREENEJ^
fi
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 3i7« Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener,Birmingham.’
$
NTS
Collison&Co.
I ' PATENTB and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS” j=l Whisky.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
By Royal
Warrant to
sfds
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
When the King
of England
Wants to see a show they bring the show
to the Castle, and he hears it in his pri-
vate theatre.
In this country we’re all kings so far
as having our own private show is con-
cerned. We simply buy a Talking Machine
and listen to the latest popular song or
anything else in the line of n, asic—that’s
easy.
WE ARE WHOLESALERS FOR
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS.
Call and hear them, or write for particulars.
EDISON GEM PHONOGRAPH, £2 10s.
EDISON STANDARD PHONOGRAPH, £5.
EDISON HOME PHONOGRAPH, £7 %
a
i
IN.OOOD
COMPANY
LARGEST STOCK OP RECORDS IN
THE STATE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGS TO-DAY.
On and after August 15th, EDISON RECORDS
will be reduced to 1/6.
OTHER RECORDS, //- and 1/3.
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Importers of Phono-
graphs and Records,
393 QEORQE STREET,
FACING}
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring-this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the followin'"-
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. ..£3 15 o
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual !
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £ll2 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. £5 15 0
i Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. £2 15 0
L 2 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price’,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. ... • ~ .. ..£0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
nade payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
ny address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of introduction predisposes
one in favour of the bearer, so advertU.
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount of
praise will insure its success-therefore
- I give you a bottle of my remedy, to try,
before purchasing any; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, and I.
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Fits yet discovered. I have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World.
A safe remedy—approved by the
Medical Profession.
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum St, Bloomsbury, London,
England.
Send !/• for parcel postage to the Colonies.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is.; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and ” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
’ Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide. Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
, tt:. the (Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
FOTHERCIU- & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Bbkwkkt and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
„ i I, mmm mi— 1 1■■Hi'ii iirrm
The latest race between Messrs. Davies and
Relph for the speed supremacy of Port Jackson, and, ini -
dentally, that of Australia, on Saturday, proved clearly
that two Fairbanks engines can just about '" a , n , ln
long race to beat one Invincible. Of course, if the fepre
sentative of the foreign engine thought it worth while
taking such a fearful trip as Saturday’s to demonstrate
that —well, it is his own hearse. When the I " vl " clb ®
beat the Fairbanks, four weeks earlier, the owner ot tne
Fairbanks had a whole volume of excuses to make, ana
the only reason he didn’t give, while protesting he hdn t
want to make excuses, was that the InvinciMe was the
faster boat. But, apparently, when the sting of defeat
had left him he realised that all this sort of talk was mere
guff, for, instead of bringing exactly the same boat into
the deciding contest, he installed an extra engine, and
brought it into the race with exactly double the power.
The engines were coupled up tandem, and even with
double the power Davies, apparently, didn t feel too
sure about downing his rival, and got into the
press the morning of the race with a sort of half
excuse, tending to explain the situation in case
anything went wrong, and the double-poweied boat
should get beaten. This action has caused much com-
ment, although the Motor Boat Club decided that, as it
was a best-and-best race, Davies was within his rights.
All the same, general opinion as far as this scribe can
gauge it, is that it wasn’t good sport. Certainly it was a
full and unreserved admission that the boat, as formerly
powered, had no possible hope, bar accidents, with the
Australian flyer. It was an awkward position Davies
having to either submit to certain defeat or frankly ad-
mit that it takes two Fairbanks to down an Invincible,
and of the two uncomfortable horns of the dilemma he
chose the latter.
* * » *
The race was exciting. An ugly nor’-easter
blew the water into great heaps, and left yawning
ravines in the track of the two boats. That was bad
enough, but racing through the Heads was as fine an
assortment of white horses as ever came out of the south
Pacific. They fell on the boats as they climbed, the
watery hills and rushed down into holes through which
the bottom of the Harbor could be seen momentarily.
Both craft behaved splendidly, and tore on at full
tepeed, regardless of consequences. Once, just as
the Invincible sprang through the top of a kopje ot
foam, a great curler running cross ways crashed down on
the stern, which was tilted skywards with the pro-
peller racing in the air, and nearly stove it in. The speed
at which the boat was running broke the force ot the
blow, else there would have been no more Invincible.
One blade of the propeller was twisted and another
cracked, and the whole mechanism was badly strained.
Rushing round the buoy Relph jammed bis helm hard
over forgetful for the moment that his boat was halt
full ’of water which, as the vessel heeled to the
turn rushed to the side and forced it down. lor
the second time in a few minutes Relph and his
assistant looked into the face of David Jones ; but Relph
reversed his wheel in a flash, brought the boat up attain,
and swung wide. The race was lost, however, and the
championship had passed from the green boat. Relph
ran to the finish, and started in the second heat, but that
blow between the Heads had finished the Invincible for
that day. First, the shaft bracket broke, then one blade
of the propeller flew off, and, with a wobbling shaft and
bne of the remaining blades of the propeller twisted, the
Invincible crawled back to the starting - point.
As a matter of sober judgment, Relph was foolish
to race the Fairbanks under the conditions. Davies chal-
lenged Invincible on the ground that his alleged 16-20 h.p.
boat had not had a fair chance to prove what it could do.
then instead of showing what it could do, he brought
along’ a practically new boat of double power. This
question of power badly requires settling. Although
Fairbanks is advertised to have run as a 30-40 h.p., there
is more than a suspicion that the power shown on Satur-
flap was somewhere about 78. Anyhow, nobody this
writer knows takes seriously the statement that Fairbanks
is only 30-40 h.p. If it is, on Saturday’s running it holds
a world’s record. If Mort’s Dock retains the judgment
that made it what it is, it will let Relph loose on the con-
struction of a racing boat pure and simple, built specially
to |hold the speed supremacy of the Harbor for an
Australian engine. Admitting that racing boats cost
money, in the interests of the industry it is necessary
that the supremacy of Australian waters should be held
by an all-Australian boat. And Mort s Dock has the best
plant and the best man to build that boat.
* * * «
The Queenslanders put up a great struggle
against the All Blacks in the return match at Brisbane on
Saturday, but the Maoriland back machine, combined
with the finesse of the black-clad gentlemen behind the
scrum, was too much for the Bananalanders. The
islanders took possession of the leather, and got about the
best backs on earth going full speed. The victors had
scored 17 points before Queensland broke its ice, and then
the war-waste began to tell, and, with two men short,
Maoriland was flung back on its goal line, and Queens-
land notched 11 points in short order. But it is doubtful
if the Queensland score would have reached double
figures but for the All Blacks being short-handed. The
home forwards played a sterling game with dogged pluck,
but the Maoriland rogue elephants juggled the leather
out of their hands, and let loose the prancing backs.
The result, was that when Queensland did get a show the
leewav was too much to make up in the time, and the
o-anie ended in favor of Maoriland by 17 points to 11.
» * * *
The chief difference between the Australian
and the Maoriland Rugbyite is that the former has some
idea:of fairness, while the Maorilander seems to be dead
to every feeling but a great and terrible thirst for points.
When an Australian Rugbyite finds himself off-side he
usually stops playing till he has regained the right posi-
tion—the Maorilander doesn’t. First of all he deliberately
gets off-side, and when he has managed that he plays on
till the referee whistles him down. And with the whole
forward and middle divisions of the team working on
those lines the referee has no chance, unless he likes to
take the unpleasant step of ordering a man off the
o-rbund after repeated warnings have failed to keep him
in place. But if Australia is to meet Maoriland on equal
terms in the Rugby paddock, that umpire has to be
found; and, further, the teams to meet the invaders will
have to be chosen earlier and made to practise together,
with special attention to the training of the scrum halves.
But that referee is the most necessary item.
* * * *
The Rugby competition resumed in Sydney on
Saturday, and, judging by the crowds that stood afar off
with the wind whistling round their nobility, the game
o-rows inore popular every week—as a spectacle, at any
rate. The interest of the day was centred on the
struggle between Glebe and South Sydney, at Sydney
Cricket Ground. The Glebe brought its absolutely best
team into the field, and attacked strenuously from the
kick off. South was equally willing, and, aided
by the breeze, drove the butchers back and com-
pelled them to force twice. Glebe came away
again, and one man, breaking through, careered at
a' o-iddy pace for the Southern’s goal. The full back
brought him down in great style, but had there been any-
one to pass to !! 1 South broke away from the scrum,
hemmed the Reds in on their own line, and struggled
vainly to get across. Glebe got the leather, brought off
a passing rush, and scored the first try amid tremendous
uproar. • After another exciting struggle South Sydney
equalised the score, and the half-time whistle brought a
breathing spell. With the wind behind them Glebe
raged like the heathen in David’s psalm, but only managed
to kick a goal. On the other hand, South only managed to
secure a try, and Glebe stood victorious on the stricken
field with 11 points to nine. This placed G! she at the head
of the competitir i list, with 16 points. Eastern Suburbs
was also out in all its might, with Messenger raging
as of old, and Western Suburbs, though struggling
-•amely, was pushed right over on to its back, trodden on,
and beaten by 29 points to six. A few minutes after St.
George started against University at the Urn. Oval, the
former began to get a dark suspicion that it was up
against the All Blacks. The Uni. men were very fast, and
the unfortunate Saints found the oval a regular Coliseum,
where they were butchered to the tune of 26 to ml. lhis
made Eastern Suburbs, South Sydney and University
dead level in the competition with 15 points each, just
one behind Glebe. Newtown and North Sydney put up
a wretcln-i exhibition, in which Newtown proved top
scruffier, with 10 points to six. Sydney had the bye.
The League (Austral rules) matches were post-
poned c .1 Saturday last to allow players and barracke-rs
to ro’lup to the match between N.S.W. and South Mel-
bourne at Sydney Agricultural Ground. It wm a . gr-at
game, and South Melbourne scored a well-deserved w,„
by the comparatively narrow margin (in the Australian
game) of 10 points, having piled up 70 to N.S.W. s 60.
The bustling nor’-east wind spoiled the kicking, which is
so fine a feature of the Australian game. A rather
numerous crowd accepted the Leagues invitation to
come along and see if the national game is not as
interesting as Rugby or Association. However, to
return to the struggle. N.S.W. made some great on-
slaughts, but the South Melbourne backs marked in an
astounding manner, and sent it back again. At one time
the Cornstalks were leading by a point, and the
N.S.W. tail obliterated the landscape. But South
came away again, and at quarter time it was level
pegging, with 14 points each. In the second quarter
N.sTw. handled the ball very badly, while the
visitors worked with the easy precision of a linotype, and
in spite of the head wind were practically the attacking
side right through the quarter. So well did they do it,
too, that the bell found them leading by 34 to 19. In the
next quarter, with the wind behind them, the visitors
carried disaster right home to the Cornstalks and ended
up with 61 points to N.S.W. s 40. Then the N.S.W. men
started a desperate struggle to make up the leeway of 21
points in the final quarter. South put up a great defence,
rushing the ball into N.S.W. territory over and over
again, and keeping the home team cn the defensive.
Meanwhile time was running out, and their tremendou.
efforts were beginning to tell on the Melbourne men.
while the Cornstalks, with the wind behind them,
struggled more furiously than ever. Just a few minutes
before the bell-ring, South Melbourne’s strength gave out,
and with a whoop the Walers fell on them, rushed the
ball into their territory, and reduced the Bad to 10. They
had victory almost in their hands when the bell sounded
their requiem, and the exhausted Melbourne team
staggered off the field victorious by 70 to 60. But it was
a very close thing. m # ,
In the Sydney Soccer struggle for the Rawson
Cup, Pyrmont still leads, and now has 21 competition
points to Glebe’s 18. Balmain, Roselle, and Ultimo—l 6,
14, and 14 respectively—follow. Petersham and Navy are
eight and five respectively.
By downing Petersham, with three goals to nil,
Pvrmont again secures the premiership. Even should a
miracle happen, and the Navy beat it next week, it will
still head the list, so the matter is practically settled.
G!«be met Rozelle, and for a time it looked as though
the butchers would have all their work cut out
to maintain their position, but) the Rozelle defence
was pierced at last, and half-time saw Glebe
leading by one to nil. The second half saw Rozelle take
a hand at pressing, and Glebe had several narrow escapes.
But soon it penned the Rozelles round their own goal and
commenced artillery practice. One shot got into the net,
and the game was over. Play continued for some time,
but both sides were worn out. Out at Leichhardt, Ultimo
placed several dark horses on the field, and shook up
Balmain in a startling manner. But the Balmainers
defence was sound, and when the attack weakened they
followed uo and scored the only goal of the game.
* * • *
Though the Vic. Football League suspended its
premiership matches to give the Canadian iacrossers a
show for a gate, the Association was less generous, and,
though its inter-State contest at Adelaide took away the
best of its players, it still poked round after the stray
local sprat by running on with its premiership games.
The only one that drew a decent attendance was the
Richmoiid-Williamstown discussion, where some 12,000
ill-regulated barrackers urged their respective teams to
deeds of violence. Their advice was hardly needed, any-
how, as was shown by the temporary laying-out of three
plav’frs—including Richmond’s captain who sustained a
most uncomely kick over the eye. The result once
again exemplified the value of tactics and system.
Williamstown scored freely with a wind that blew from
goal to goal, but could only notch one behind
against the wind; Richmond, playing the concerted
short-kick game against the wind, scored four goals four
behinds, and the result was 68 points to 53. The other
games resulted as anticipated. West downed Ports by 65
to 34; Essendon walked over Prahran by 51 to 29 ; and
Footscray made a painful exhibition of the unmention-
able team that cannot win a game. During the week the
Association mapped out a neat little scheme of district
football, in which a bare 12 months’ residence is to
qualify ; but as the League monopolises the chief metro-
politan districts, and as its matches draw three spectators
to the Association’s one, the scheme will probably before
long be for sale cheap.
* * * *
The casualness of the average footballer about
reached high-water mark in Melbourne, the ocher day,
when the Railways United Club played the Carlton
Trades. The discussion progressed more or less amicably
till three-quarter time, with the Railways winning hands
down, when someone discovered that they were playing
19 men, no less. Then the odd man was discharged from
duty, and that team’s score wiped off the sheet.
The Football League’s generosity in suspending
all local matches promised a fine crowd for the first inter-
national lacrosse match in Melbourne, in spite of dusty,
windy, rain-threatening weather; yet the 20,000 who sat
and stood around the M.C.C. ground were typical rather
of a cricket than a football crowd. There was no induce-
ment to stand up and crush forward, yelling one’s lungs
out the while ; and no one sits throughout a football
match—unless a lusty woman with a stout brolly happens
to be planted immediately in the rear, and it’s ten-to-one
she’ll stand and wave her gingham promiscuously like-
wise. Nevertheless the ’crossers gave a pretty, and at
times exciting, show. A few players shone out above
their mates, notably Campbell, MacDonald and Grace
for Canada, and Delves, Hughes and Bryning for
Australia. The scores at quarter-time were: Canada,
one goal ; Australia, nil. At half-time the Kan-
garoo was top dog by three goals to one, and stayed
so to the end, winning by five goals to three. It is not
easy to account for the Canucks’ defeat. They are short,
stocky men, of the British type, and the long, lean men
in the green and gold ran away from them time after
time. The stocky men should have lasted their oppo-
nents out —yet they were palpably tired at the finish ;
their captain averring that the terrific pace wore them
out. Nevertheless, they played with a coolness that
declined to be bustled about anything ; and their passing
and stick work generally was a trifle superior to that of
the Australians. Perhaps undue confidence in that
superiority and implicit reliance on their defence
led to their undoing—that and the one weak
feature of their play, their lack of persistence.
Having turned the ball from their goal, they
seemed quite content to let the others get it and to
rely on that impregnable phalanx of defenders to turn
it away again. The Australians vainly tried for one
quarter to break through—then their captain saw the
weak spot, and after that the day was his. Time after
time the Canucks were allowed to pass the ball down the
ground and try to shoot it through. Delves turned it
off, but then, instead of letting the Canadians pick it up
and shoot again, he whipped it up like lightning, tossed
it on to Graham or Mann, then to Humphries, to Taylor,
to Bryning, back and forth till a chance came to shoot-
all this with a speed that gave the visitors no chance to
re-erect that stonewall that had baffled the Aus-
tralians at first. To Delves is due a Urge slicei ofl the
credit of the victory, for 13 not only defended almost as
capably as Arens (of Canada), but he immediately changed
the scene of play, and made it possible fc . his mates to
score, which the other didn’t. As to whether this team
would be called first-class in the Dominion, cannot
say; but his memory goes back to his boyhood s a y ,
when he watched the Redskins, from the countrj of the
Great Lakes, playing the Whites in Nova ■-'otia, v. •
Island, and elsewhere ; and he remembers also the play
of the copper-colored team that made a holy show of the
clubs of the Cold Country in ’B3, and his idea is that
those lean brown men showed as great facility with tneir
crosses as our present visitors, and superior speed.
* * # *
The victory of Brookes and Wilding, by which
they won the lawn tennis championship of tt 3 world and
the Davis Cup, is the more interesting to lot'al tennisitM
because the nextchaltenge for the honors mustbe decided
either in the Commonwealth or Maonland. Wilding, wno
played with Brookes, is at present a resident
Northern Hemisphere, and played only on his birthplace
qualification—he is a Maorilander. Tennis in Australia is
not a pastime of the very wealthy, and lack of money
prevented an absolute Australian representative going to
partner Brookes. Should the next match be played here,
Maoriland may want to be represented, seeing that its
rep. helped to win the cup. Brookes is expected out,
but Wilding is doubtful. His absence will not make
much difference, as Brookes and Dunlop (Vic.)i are a much
more successful combination in Doubles than Brookes and
Wilding. N.S.W. tennis people would much like to see
their champion, Horace Rice, pitted against Brookes.
Cabled that a crowd of Londoners had a burst
of anger because the wicket at Lords’ ground was tc > wet
for play. Having paid entrance money for an entertain-
ment which didn’t happen, they demanded the return of
their cash, and finally they “took it out” of the.wicket.
As the result of the damage to the. turf, Maclaren, the
Lancashire captain, refused to continue the game next
day. Of course, the howlers had a genuine grievance
against the management, which took their money under
false pretences. Cricket managers are the only gate-
money showmen who consider themselves entitled to
“bilk ” the public. A theatrical boss refunds the money
received on account of a show which is postponed or can-
celled, and Heaven only knows why the autocratic rule
of “ takings-keepings ” has become an established swindle
at cricket grounds.
*■***.
The insincerity and inconsistency of the anti-
betting law, and the partial enforcement of it by the police
and post-office authorities, is perhaps rather m ore glaring
in Victoria than in the other States. For instance, a
Melbourne agency for Tatt’s Sweep was lately prosecuted
and fined heavily, which was at least consistent with the
post-office boycott of Tatt’s in Tasmania. The address
formerly known as Wren’s City Tattersall’s Club is also
black listed at the G.P.0., and any letters posted to it
are duly confiscated. Advertising - bookmakers, if they
be unlicensed, are subject to prosecution, and, for that
matter, the mere newspaper announcement of a licensed
bookie being addressable at the Victorian Club is
seemingly tabooed —for the present. Meanwhile, the
Postal Department permits Jack Wren (taking a notorious
instance) to have private letter boxes at the G.P.O. Wren s
cards, stating that “ Melbourne” is a sufficient address, are
spread abroad, together with lists of betting prices on
forthcoming big events. The absurdity of permitting
G.P.O. private letter boxes to Wren (and, presumably, to
other well-known “books”), whilst the deli very of letters to
Tattersall is strictly prohibited, is not more palpable than
the utter dishonesty of this Government assistance of
the Gambling Evil. Again, the mere fact that these bet-
tino- lists bear no printer’s name is a matter for police
action ; but the wife of many a Melbourne policeman may
find the unlawful bit of paper in her husband’s pocket, if
she goes through his uniform when he is snoring the
sleep of the unjust. Common sense cries out for a fair
settlement upon a solid basis of the old, old question of
Gambling Control. For common sense, which favors
Tatt’s and a licensed totalisator, above all other outlets
for the inevitable Evil Spirit, finds the Law, the Police
and the Postal Department conspiring to leave undone
the things that ought to be done, and do the things that
the public in general doesn’t approve of.
* * * *
Theodore Andrea Cook discourses fluently on
the subjection of the neddy in his latest book, “ Eclipse
and O’Kelly.” Cook maintains that there is no record of
any horse having been ridden before 10008. C., so evidently
he attaches little importance to the song of Moses (about
1430 8.C.) re the overthrow of the Egyptian horsemen ;
but he points out that chariots have been traced back
almost 2000 years before that. The horse was originally
a much smaller animal than he is at present, and suitable
for driving- long before he was big and strong enough to
ride. Cook places the height of the earliest known rid-
ing horses at barely 14 hands. Although the Babylonians
drove horses according to their own records 1500 years
B C., the first jockey was the Greek who rode in the
Olympic Games 648 B.C. Of course, this is evidence that
men rode horses previous to his appearance. By 359 B.C.
the mode had grown in favor immensely, and a man on
horseback appeared on the coins of Philip 11. of Macedon.
When Caesar arrived in Britain he found the natives had
subjugated the horse, or rather pony, and drove him in
harness, and a coin of Cymbeline’s reign shows the
animal to have been a miniature edition ofthe Shire,
Clydesdale and Suffolk breeds of to-day. The emperor
Severus improved the stock by importing southern
horses, which were kept at Netherby, in Yorkshire - .
When the age of heavy armor came along it brought with
it a demand for heavy horses, and the result was an ele-
phantine brute much more fit to haul a plough than
carry a man. * * *
The Adelaide Racing Club has a record entry
of 297 nominations for its two-days Grand National
meeting. The previous record was 292 in 1898, and the
numbers have been far lower lately. The G. N. Steeple,
however, has the unusually small entry of 15.
* * * *
Sydney ponydom was very much ruffled during
the past week. Ascot and Kensington seized on al
Wednesdays (excepting one) up to December 4, ignoring
Rosebery Park as if it never existed, and Rosebery Park
naturally kicked hard and persistently, and threatened
an appeal to the newly-created (in accordance with the
Gaming Act) Advisory Board. This course might have
brought trouble to all three squabbling bodies, for it is
an open secret that the Board has little, if any, sympa-
thy with pony racing ; but the difficulty was overcome
on Monday, and all is quiet for the time being. A
peculiarity of this latest wrangle is that Kensington and
Ascot were combined against Rosebery Park, while in
that lengthy and fairly-recent disturbance which forced
special legislation for pony racing, Kensington and Rose-
bery Park were shaking fists at Ascot.
N.S.T7. Cyclists’ Association is desperately
anxious to amalgamate with the League of Wheelmen,
which it was founded to destroy. So far, its advances
have been met with sniffs, and it is now struggling to
work up an agitation in the hope of subjugating the
League as Joshua did Jericho—by making a great noise.
The truth of the matter is that the Ass. is in a bad way.
Financially, it is generally understood to be about broke,
and the best of its members are applying to the League
for re-instatement; so unless amalgamation comes, and
comes quickly, there will be no Ass. left. Of course, if
the League were foolish enough to agree to the proposal,
it would have to take back all the crooks and purse-
cutters it has biffed out during the last three years of
strenuous fighting, and start the good work all over
again. Which would be suicidal. The brutal truth is
that the Ass. is dying, and hopes to get a fresh lease of
life by fastening like a parasite on to the League. And
parasites are deadly. 4 , ,
The man who has decided to give up the idle
life and take to some form of manly exercise should
invest in Spalding’s Athletic Library, which not only
instructs the novice in the finer points of his game, but
o-ives him the history of it, the names of mighty cham-
pions, past and present, and the names of those who pro-
mise to be champions. Every game and pastime has its
separate number, and the work throw 3 a great light on
the subject, no matter which subject it may be. The
latest arrivals are the cricket and lawn tennis numbers,
and all enthusiasts of either game should procure copies.
* * * *
“ S.s.” : The officials of the Vic. Amateur
Athletic Ass. running the amateur boxing competition
are a quaint crew of sportsmen, who would make excel-
lent Sunday-school superintendents. One condition they
insisted on very noisily, and with an elderly and skittish
show of virtue, was that the boxers must go into the ring
wearing each a guernsey or sweater in addition to the
usual trunks, and must box in this grotesque garment.
The result was that the arm movements of the men were
ridiculously handicapped, and the display was poor. The
idea that athletes performing before an audience of men
would be guilty of gross depravity in showing the upper
half of them, is worthy of the nice-nasty type of elderly
lady with her eye glued to a keyhole. But the said
dainty officials forgot to insist on the wrestlers wearing
overcoats or tin armor, and thecompetitors in this branch
came out in the usual lone and scanty tog.
A horror that is peculiarly Amurkan is the
boxing woman, a type of female who gets her poses illus-
trated in the sporting papers over an announcement that
she is anxious to meet something her own weight.
Whether these contests ever take place, writer knoweth
not, but so far he has had the good luck to escape drop-
ping on an account of one. But women’s boxing matches
may be among the list of Amurkan luxuries that are
never mentioned in polite society, and which are re-
served specially for millionaires and oil, steel and pork
potentates.
* * * *
Billy Cooper, featherweight, of Sydney, jour-
neyed to Melbourne, where he was an unknown, to meet
Frank Thorn, of Westralia, and Billy demonstrated, in bis
first round with strong, block.v, and clever Frank, that
he had sadlv over-estimated his ability. The Westralian
simply swarmed all over the Sydneysider, hitting him
how, when, and where he pleased. Before two minutes
were used up Cooper was ditto. He was taking every-
thing and giving nothing. In the second round Cooper
was down twice, and neglecting to get. up in time on the
second occasion, the 'bus went away without him. Thorn
could account for ten a day of the like of Cooper, and
would probably be content with a reduction in purses on
taking a quantity.
* * * *
Cabled that Barney Wrenolds is returning from
the U.S.A. immediately, leaving William Squires in the
land of hope and glory. What William intends to do has
not been officially announced, but The Bulletin learns
from a private source, more or less unreliable, that the
Australian champion has announced that he will stay in
the States till he has learned the Yankee method of
scrapping, and then once more proceed to climb the
ladder that leads to fame and dollars by the simple
process of killing a few “ suckers” and taking on the next
best man after each fight. Bruising, if well managed, is
a lucrative game in the States, and William does not
yearn to go back to the mine. Anyhow, there is no
reason why he should. Even the loser’s end of that gate
was a substantial sum, and when he left Australia Squires
was supposed to have the best part of £2OOO in his clothes.
He wasn’t searched, but that was the estimate.
“A 6 ” says : _ .
The announcement that Dick, M.L.A., Premier
Joseph’s honorary assistant (at a decent screw per year)
at the Treasury, will not again contest the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) electorate, has started the rumors again that
Carruthers is nursing for him a seat on the Public Service
Board-after the elections. The Cabinet is agreed that it
Billy Dick is to be provided with a salary, it is far better
that the taxpayer at large should find it than that the
Cabinet members should subscribe. for Billy. It was be-
cause of this levy, which made David Storey as mad as six
hatters, that David and Joseph fell out. If Dickgoeson the
Board, Saunders, who was supposed to be a certainty ior
the vacancy caused by Barling’s retirement, is to
get a brand new job at the Treasury-Financial
Adviser to the Government, or something like that.
Saunders, who is one of the strongest men in the Sen ice,
has seriously annoyed a large sec lion of I t, bv th aim os t
studied air of indifference with whichi he didn t listen to
1100 appeals recently heard against the Board s regr
ing, and if he were shunted in fa vor , of Dck th ® fl jL
would be hailed with joy. This and other yarns are fly ng
about ever since Dick’s retirement from Newcastle w
announced. But his seat was shaky-very shakv-and
his withdrawal may have nothing else behind it. iniati.-
expects something from Joe there is no moral doubt, ana
the billet of Financial Adviser has to be kept warm fo
Tim Coghlan. ,
The importing craze again ! Premier Pen
has engaged Chas. H. Merz, who electnhed cer-
tain Tvneside (Eng.) lines for the North-Easter
Railway 00., to report on the electrification ot
the Melbourne suburban system, and set going
the transformation of the St. Kilda and
lines. Yet Engineer Bradford, who tailt aa«
runs the Brighton-St. Kilda electric line, has ah
ready gone over most of the ground tha M
will cover, and the first year r s results of _ the
Brighton line show that Bradford knew what b
was saying. His estimated annual expe
came within 1 per cent, of the actual %uie-
the evidence of his work he is as good a man
could begot; he knows the local conditions a
the traffic possibilities ; and he is already
State’s service and available. Also he, like >
has the advantage of being imported, but then
has been here a while, and the Bashe
ment has forgotten his importation, an
he’s a dreadful common Australian.
INDIGESTION.
“Digestion is the Process op the Assimila-
tion op Pood, Whereby the Body is
Nourished.”
■ Indigestion, or dyspepsia, invariably arises
from improperly prepared food, hasty eating,
over-indulgence, fatigue, and exhaustion during
the hot weather, breathing foul air, excessive
brain work, and more frequently from cares and
worry, which exhaust the nervous force and
weaken the organs of digestion. Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills are not simply a purgative
which forces the food out of the body, depriving
the stomach of its nourishment and thus starving
the system ; they contain the essential properties
that are temporarily lacking in the stomach
through weakness, and complete the digestion
and assimilation, and so restore the functions of
the digestive organs by obtaining the maximum
of nutriment from the food, which sustains the
body and assures good health.
“Twelve months ago,” writes Mrs. Benjamin
Spooner, Glen Innes, N.S.W., “ I was induced
by a friend to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
as I was suffering severely from indigestion and
bilious headaches. I had already tried various
remedies without any apparent results, so 1
followed my friend’s advice and bought two
bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They
gave me great relief. After a short course of
these pills the headaches left me, and I lost all
traces of the symptoms of indigestion.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a. perfect
blood purifier, and a sure remedy for biliousness,
constipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils, and for female ailments.’'


KUGELMANN’S
V
Si
©
&
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition,
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal., Oct. Barrel about
24 inches, Weight BJlb.
Price,
57/6
James Martin and Co.,
161 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly
fines*
Before
Capillarine
The
Moustache-
Grower !
ONE jar of Capillarine will show you what it
can do. It will go a long way towards
producing a full-grown moustache. It has a
wonderful sale, and has been on the market
for 20 years.
Posted Free to Any Address in the Commonwealth 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 25 years.
fdsf
better
And you "~ -
not only feel
safe, but you ARE safe " -
on a machine fitted with the
Eadie Coaster Hub
A slight backward pressure of the pedal
is all that is needed to bring the brake
into operation, and the absolute efficiency
of this brake is such as to inspire that
feeling of supreme confidence, which
alone ensures an un-alloyed enjoyment
No emergency can present itself to which
it is not equal.
Write to-day for latest Art Booklet.
Dept. A
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ld.
4 Stock Exchange
Buildings,
Collins Street,
Melbourne
dfs
WORKS : REDDITCH, ENG.
To Water Jacket Foremen
and Machine Miners.
WANTED Oil or about 7th SEPTEM
BEK next,
Throe Water Jacket Foremen.
Also a Number of
Machine Miners.
For further particulars, apply
nymagee copper limited,
NYMAGEE, NEW SOUTH WALES.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/« and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Het*schell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says :—“ The prince of living
Astrologers. ”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R.. HERSCHELL (.of London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
Missing; Friends.
WANTED News of ISAAC FINCHER,
by trade Carpenter, who left Derby,
England, about the year 1874, Son of Sergeant
ISAAC EINCHER. Sister SELINA asks.
X EO RICH, of Krotoschin (last heard of
from Yass, N.S.W.), or anyone knowing
his address, is requested to write to the under-
signed, who has money in hand for him.
H. S. PIEREMONT,
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Government Advertisement.
TENDERS will be received by the Deputy
Postmaster-General, Sydney, until noon,
on Monday, the 19 th proximo, for the performance
of a large number of Mail Services. For full
particulars see Commonwealth Gazette, of the
6th instant.
AUSTIN CHAPMAN,
. . Postmaster-General.
STECK PIANOS.
If you are considering the purchase of
a piano* and will but compare the
STECK with any other instrument you
have in mind as being of fine quality,
you will quickly learn the reason for
the enthusiasm of musicians over the
wonderful merits of the STECK.
The individuality of this Piano, so far as it can be described
in words, consists of a certain richness and mellowness of tone
—a sympathetic, singing voice, as distinguished from those
pianos characterised chiefly for brilliancy, but lacking in the
deeper and subtler qualities which art demands. Wherever
there are musicians of true culture, professional or amateur,
this piano is known for its enduring qualities, its generous
singing tone, its beautiful harmonious soul.
When the Grand Nibelungen Orchestra, at Beyreuth, desired to
tender Richard Wagner a special token of their affection, it was a
STECK PIANO that was selected for the gift. Wagner placed the
STECK PIANO in the first rank, his opinion being shared by his
friend Frank Liszt:
“ The fine STECK PIANO which / have obtained is
everywhere acknowledged to be excellent. My
great friend, Frank Liszt, expressed the liveliest
satisfaction after he had played upon it.
“(Sgd.) RICHARD WAGNER.’ 1
The STECK PIANO is manufactured by the PIANOLA CO., in
the largest piano-producing factories in the world, making last year
a little over 16,000 instruments. The prices range from £5B to £l2O.
We should be glad if you will call and see the STECK, ®r, failing
that, write for Catalogue “P.”
THE PIANOLA C 0„ 357 george-st., Sydney.
Propy. Ltd.
Branches at 185 Collins-St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen-St., Brisbane ; 38 KingWilliam-St., Adelaide.
The other day the steamer Den of Airlie
arrived at Port Adelaide, and, according to the
plans, it was to be followed at monthly intervals
by the Oro, Errol, and other vessels of the same
line. It was, in fact, going to be a new Anglo-
Australian cargo service, independent of the
English shipping ring. The people behind it were
big and powerful—they control the Mogul and
Plate lines—and they fixed up offices in many
places, and got promises of much support. But
then the ring got to work, and the support gradu-
ally faded away, until eventually even the first
steamer of the new line had to sneak off empty
to the Baltic and take in a timber cargo. That
ended the new line, it is understood. The ship-
ping ring has triumphed—the same ring that
Australia has to depend upon to carry its pro-
ducts to Europe in order to pay its great interest
bill. But still the idea of a Commonwealth ship-
ping service is socialism, and treason, and other
horrible things.
Continental
£3
£
£
HERKOMER TROPHY AGAIN
WON ON CONTINENTALS.
For the third year in succession, Continental Tyres
have won the Herkomer Trophy contest, the result this
year showing \6 out of the first 20 cars home to be shod
with Continental Tyres*
KAISER’S CUP SUCCESSES.
Two out of the three cups presented by H*I.M. the
German Emperor have been won on Continental Tyres,
and this year the 2nd, 3rd and 4th cars were fitted with
Continentals*
R.


A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ’’ LEVER, 255.
All Guaranteed.
TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail sarvice guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete ip Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, ..£7
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l6.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, 80s,
40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
cnoa
aiios
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar.
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
85s. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS..
These illustrations reveal some of the very
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonus and
£2
dsf
£2
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2.
SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£3
s
£5
or Sapphires, £3.
AH Diamonds, £5.
fA. SAUNDERS.
18-« t. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£lO
fds
£l2/10
Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald Centre
£l2 10s. >
k. SAUNDERS. ~
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£B/10
fds
ś
£l2/10
or Sapphires £8 10s.
Diamonds £l2 10s.
SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
iiiiljiill
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-et. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
SOs, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
Keyless
Lever,
20/-.
/
s
a.bittkdbm
IfIKDON IEVIIL
«B»ai 12 BIDHXX
N
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-et. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
□B
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s. £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to £oo
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
X7/10s
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st-,
Railway Station, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


dsf
dsf
Write tor Price List
and Catalogues
to the Sole Agents,
LIPP PIANOS.
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability.
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free.
MELBOURNEs
ALLAN & CO. PROP., Ltd.
't
276-8 Collins Street.
SYDNEY s
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd
» . ». ■.
338 George Streets
STOMACH TROUBLES EASILY REMOVED
THE
LONDON LANCET
says :
“It is now recognised as a
valuable addition to natural
aperient medicines.”
HOWTO STIMULATE THE LIVER AND PROMOTE DIGESTION.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the digestive processes so perfectly that errors of diet are neutralised
thereby. It enables you to eat heartily without the dread of overfulness, flatulency, or acidity.
People of sedentary occupation require-periodical stimulation of the liver, which plays a most important
part in digestion. The bile should be discharged into the intestine to mix with the food from the
stomach, otherwise constipation will be very pronounced. Perfect digestion means perfect action of
the stomach, liver, arid bowels. Kutnow’s Powder acts concurrently on each of these forces of
digestion; hence its value in ensuring regularity. Another point of merit is its beneficial cleansing
properties ; a dose of Kutnow’s Powder cleanses the Stomach, rouses the Liver, frees the bile, and sets
the machinery in perfect working order.
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
says :
i
i
“It is gentle, effervescent,
and is a very efficient and
agreeable aperient.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane,
“ Highfield, Southampton.
"Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publish-
ing my testimony concerning the excellent properties
of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it
years ago. In my case it has proved to be an agree-
able and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and
kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain
or discomfort, and regulating generally the whole
organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD
The Genuine and Original Kutnow's Powder
can be had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile
signature, “ S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER
A POPULAR NOVELIST
WRITES :
“ 31, Gatton-road, Bristol,
“ August 14th, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —For a considerable period I suffered
from severe headache and mental depression, no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary occupation as a
novelist, but I now always fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent, which never fails
to afford instant and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efficacious remedy, and I do not
wonder at its enormous sale.—Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
WELL-KNOWN
BARONESS
WRITES :
“Albion House, Send-hill,
Gibraltar South,
“12th Jan., 1906.
“The Baroness vonGausauge
begs to inform Messrs. Kut-
now that she is entirely satis-
fied with their excellent Kut-
now’s Powder, and has recom-
mended the same to many of
her friends.” ' - •
REV. E. LANCASTER
WRITES :
“ The Parsonage, Tsomo, Transkei, Cape Colony,
“January 22nd, 1906.
“Sirs, —I am most pleased and perfectly satisfied with
the results of using Kutnow’s Powder, and shall in future
never be without it. My little children, too, have also bene-
fited by using it, and, being so pleasant to the taste, they
quite enjoy it.—l remain, yours faithfully,
' - ' * “-(Rev.) EDGAR LANCASTER.’'
NURSE BOGLE
WRITES :
“37, Hill Top Mount, Leeds,
“ Yorkshire.
“Dear Sirs, —Before I ever heard of Kutnow’s Powder I
suffered horribly with biliousness and indigestion, but since
taking the Powder regularly I can eat anything and enjoy it.
I have tried several medicines, but they have all proved
useless.—Yours faithfully,
, “(Nurse) JANET BOGLE.”
BRITISH
VICE-CONSUL
WRITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate,
Tarragona,
March 12, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using
Kutnow’s Powder, and find
same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised,
to do. —I remain, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES,
“ British Vice-Consul.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH.
2-8


HE (speaking) . " Well, my dear, a booK may satisfy you, but give
me a Pipe of VICE-REGAL MIXTURE! ”
#,


GB9Bo.—Fine Diamond Ring, 18-ct. Gold,
£6/5/-. Larger, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO/10/-.
ORDER BY MAIL-,
H 613. —18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Ring, £2/10/-
Write for Free Size
Card.
161.—Two Diamonds, Three Rubies,
18-ct. Gold, £3/10/-.
Brandies in Australia
18-Ct. Gold, Two Diamonds and Three
Rubies or Sapphires, £3/10/-,
Sydney
F1443.—18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Diamonds, £l7/10/-.
Melbourne
E7458. —Tw0 Diamonds, Three Rubies,
18-ct. Gold, £l/12/6.
Brisbane
18-cfc. Gold and Throe Di unonds,
£3.
Perth
F332T. —18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3/10/-.
Correspondence
Invited.
H 29."
i HIW
il.—lB-c:t. Gold, and Five
Diamonds, £22/10/-
Jbtetuart ©auusori &€",
Strand Corner, George
Gold Medal Jewellery
Our display of Gold Jewellery at the Christchurch (New
Zealand) Exhibition, just closed, was awarded the Gold
Medal, and in addition we secured a gold medal for our
Silver and Silver-plated Goods—a gold medal for our
Watches, and a further gold medal for Collective Display.
Our enormous turnover in our Eight Australasian Stores
places us in a position to supply reliable goods at the
most advantageous prices to you.
18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Opals, £3/10/-.
■
18-ct. Gold Band Ring, £2.
Others, 21/-, 25/-, 80/-.
m
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal
Gent’s Ring-, £4.
18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Opal Ring, £2/10/-.
G 5298. —Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £lO/10/-.
f :■
5H
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Ring, £5O.
18-<t Gold and Kin
Oa.net Gent’s Rinu,
£3.
18-ct. Gold, Red, White,
u'.d Blue Ring. Diamond*
Rubies, Sapphires,
£6/10/-.
18-et. Gold, One Green
i id One Yellow Sapphi e,
£4/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, and Fine
Diamond Gent’s Ring,
£4O.
F 718.—18-ct. Gold,
Gem Set, Five Row
Ring, £7/7/-.
H 641. 18-ct. Gold, Diamond Cluster
Ring-, £7/10/-.
London House, 19 to 21
Hatton Garden.
174.—Four Diamonds, Three Sapphires,
18-ct. Gold, £7/10/-.
Special Rooms for Australasian
Visitors to London.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal Lady’s
Ring, £2.
Descriptive Booklet Free, es«
plaining' advantages of above.
G3589.—18et. Gold, Diamonds, Sipphir
and Pearl, £B/10/-.
Write our Nearest >Sto
G7358.—18-ct. Gold, Diamond, Sapphire,
and Pearl Ring-, £3/5/-.
Quality our First Consideration
18-ct. Gold, Pearl, Ruby, and
Diamonds, £4/10/-.
Money Back if we Fail to Please
18-ct. Gold, Diamond, and Ruby-
Ring, £B/10/-.
171 A.— 18-ct. Gold, Five
Fine Opals, £2/10/-.
178. - Wedding Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £l/1/-
Heavier ones at £1 /5/-,
£l/10/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
8-ct. Gold Diamond Band
Ring's, #6/10/-, £4/10/-,
£3/10/-.
84890.—18-ct. Gold Ru!
and Diamond Ring-,
£3/10/-.
G 5195. Fine Diamond
and Rubv Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, £ll/10/-.
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Ring, £3O.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Op;
Gent.’s Ring, £4/10/-.
18-ct. Gold and One
Yellow and One Green
Sapphire, £3/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, Opal and
Two Yellow Sapphires,
£5/10/-.
G 9
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Gent.’s Ring,
£l4O.
IS-ct. Gold, Pearl and
Diamond Ring, £5.
F9278.—18-ct. Gold Ring. Half-hoop of
Diamonds and Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2/10/-.
ORDER BY MAIL*
Fs32B.—Three Sapphires or Rubies, and
Four Diamonds, 18-ct. Gold, £5/10/-.
Illustrated Catalogues
Free.
18-ct. Gold, and Five Pearl*,
£2/10/-.
Brandies in N.Z.
18-ct. Gold, Diamond, and Two
Emeralds, £2/6/-.
AucKland
m
18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Diamonds, £l6/10/-.
Wellington
G 5393. —18-ct. (<pld, Diamonds and
Peridots, £B/8/-.
Christchurch
G2792.-—lB-ot. Uuld, Diamonds and
. Emeralds, £3/3/-.
Dunedin,
F 9355. —Three-Stone Diamond Ring’,
18-ct. Gold, £2/10/-.
Jewellery Repairs
Done Well.
181.—Fine Diamond and Sapphire
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £7/10/-.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY,
It will interest sufferers to kildW
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, lias been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoida
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takißg them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even theii
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene*
rally one dose is quite effective.
) Frootoids are immensely more vain*
able than an ordinary aperient, in fed
far that they not only act as an ape*
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog*
giug them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene*
ficial effects of Frootoids are evideiit
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take w T lien any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been pi-oved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid./ on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and iil
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will bo
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/0, to W. G. Heame, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, © storekeepers, and © whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Ilearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. Branch Office :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
SYDWBY.
sfd
Your name, initials, etc., on
all articles purchased from our
large stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em-
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver and
Electro-plated Goods. We are
late of N.Z. Ex. so give us a call.
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade, George and King Sts., Sydney.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c - bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand I**- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
////
Warn
i I
!i !
Hill
!j
a MU Win
HIM
i/li
‘lsmil
1
n • YV'’i ■A'-v^y-■■■..•■■>•.-Aw'.V^
r EDISON |
0010 MOWO£D
RECORDS I
EDISON fi\
SOLD HOULDED I
RECORDS VJ
r EDISON |
60 LO nQUID£D\
RECORDS I
sfd
ďfs
EDISON ,
Goto rtOCtDED
iRECOROS I
( EDISON ,
coto noutoEi)
t RECORDS
' EDISON
GOLD MOULDED \
RECORDS 1
(EDISON i
6010 MOULDED
RECQROS I
I EDISON
50 U) MOULDED
(recowis
When you Buy
a Ph©fiograph
or Records
make absolutely certain that you get the Genuine Edison.
You can always tell these by. Mr. Edison's signature,
which is printed on each—like this
That signature is a guarantee to you that the Edison
productions are the very best possible.
Ask us to send you copies of our latest booklets and
the name of your nearest dealer, who will be pleased to
play you the selections you like—Free of Charge.
BETTER WRITE NOW.
National Phonograph Co.
o/ Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. 8., 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'EDISON
SOLD MOI/IDfD
RECORDS
'EDISON
GOLD noutofo
.RECORDS
'EDISON
GOLD MOULDED
RECORDS
' EDISON .
SOLO nOOLOED
RECORDS I
r EDISON j
MLB MIMED
RECORDS I
’ EDISON
GOLD MOULDED
RECORDS
' EDISON |
60L0 MOKIfIfD I
, RECORDS I
' EDISON
GOLD nOULDED
.RECORDS
EDISON (
GOLD ftOl/LOED
.RECORDS
EDISON ,
GOLD MOULDED
RECORDS 1
' EDISON ,
SOLD tIOUIDED
RECORDS
EDISON
60 LO MOULDED
.RECORDS
fds
XX M. c.
Knew club
IfCARTRIBCiES
NEW Club Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
f
onsultHEßß RASSMUSSEN,
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous. Skin and Blood Diseases and all Specific Complaints of Men and Women No
Mercury. Cures Guaranteed. ADD DISEASES OF WOMEN CURED.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Pile Powders. r Powders, e/-; Liver and Kidney Pills, 1/-
ALFA LINE
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility
Strengthen the Spine, Brain & Nerves
They secure the Return of \outhful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish Self-Confidence and Prevent
Melancholia, Despondency and Despair, Boxes, 6/• & 12/- Courses,23 6, Special Powerful Double Courses 43/6
VARICOCELE, PILES, RHEUMATISM, STRICTURE, GRAVEL CURED
"DT AATi TITQT? A CJTTC! No matter of how long 1 standing, Cured
JjJuUUU JjADIIiiiDJjD by ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS, 12/-, 24/. & 44/-
J
N
Oatine
Here is a face cream that will keep
your complexion soft, clear and
beautiful right through the hot
Australian summer.
It is Oatine, the great English face cream,
made from pure healing oats and free from
dangerous animal fats and mineral salts.
Oatine remsves from the pores of the skin
the dust and grime, which soap and water
cannot reach, and leaves the skin clear and
soft as satin.
It prevents freckles, sun-burn, cracking and
drying of the skin, and enables the careful
woman to preserve the charm of a good com-
plexion, however trying the climate. It does
not grow hair.
For men's use after shaving it is an ideal
soothing cream. Price 1/9 per dainty jar,
or a larger size, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
To he obtained at all chemists ja.nd
stores throughout Australia. Get a
jar to-day.
Are you
bald? Is
your scalp!
tight ?
There’s the
reason.
When your scalp tightens, your
hair falls out because your scalp
is Unable to nourish it.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
acts the same as nature. It
gently nourishes, and stimulates
the scalp tissues and gives them
strength to grow strong, thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry's.
Use Reuter’s Soap for the Shampoo
sfd
Cure
Drunkards
Proof Positive!
MORE HOMES MADE HAPPY !
MORE TESTIMONY !
MORE GRATITUDE!
Further Conclusive Testimony as to
THE MIGHTY WORK
EUCRASY IS DOING.
Sample free for Writing
Recollect that every Letter has been sent
quite Voluntarily and Without any Request
on our part. What it has done in these
Cases it will do in others.
EUCRASY
is doing a great Human sing, Reclaiming,
and Reforming W>. k throughout Aus-
tralia. One of its Most Valuable Features
is that it is Tasteless and Odorless, and
can be administered with or (secretly)
without the knowledge of the sufferer.
It is imperative to note that—
EUCRASY DIFFERS FROM ALL
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
Townsville (Q.), March 21/’O7.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I am sorry I have not written before to
state the result of the case I have been treating, but I
have been too happy in the great blessing which has be-
fallen, me. My was the patient to whom I gave the
powders, quite unknown to him, of course. At one time
•tl, seemed hopeless, being in the bar all day, as he was, in
the very midst of temptation ; but 1 kept in the bar with
him myself as much as possible, and did not let him stay
in it any more than I could possibly help, and I am now
thankful to see him constantly turn away from the spirit
bottles with a shudder. T have about a dozen powders
left. I shall recommend Eucrasy to anyone I know
troubled like I was.—Believe me to be, yours sincerely
grateful, (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE.
If vou mention this paper, a Sample
of EUCRASY and BOOKLET of IN-
STRUCTIONS will be sent you sealed.
Enclose 6d. stamps for postage. This is a genuine offer.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.


I
FOR THE
HANDS AND
COMPLEXION
.iS*
MEDICINAL
and
i°iLe>
LgRICE 25 CENTS
0 .l>i
\fX 5
Util
*ul\
<b;;x
r ll»> < 1/1
Uifflo
<oßaau
M
S?Ss
fpf!
i li
ui
This Lady’s Beaded
Evening Shoe
for
18/6
ďsf
This is one of the finest Evening Shoes we’ve ever
had to offer you. The insole is padded so that per-
fect rest for the foot is ensured. The beading is very
chaste, whilst the shoe is perfectly finished in every
detail; very light in make, yet staunch.
Price, 18/6. Posted in Victoria, 9d. extra ; to
other States, 1/2 extra.
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price It can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glace Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering.
Price, 14-16. Posted in Victoria, 1/- extra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahan,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
110,000
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry ts
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to bo
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2 6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
THE
HttdßE.
THE
X
The “FLITE”
is a Tyre of the very
Highest Grade, guaran-
teed for 12 Months,
possessing remarkable
flexibility and wearing
properties.
The "DADDY”
is guaranteed for 6
Months, but it will
compare favorably
with the best class
tyres on the market.
Ask your Dealer for
“FLITE” or “DADDY.”
Barnet Ginsncs
85 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
%
s/
A WISH :
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6d.
Bulletin
from “The
» Office.
A NEW DEPARTURE
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
(CONCENTRATED)
NON-ALCOHOLIC
26
BOTTLE
26
BOTTLE
Responding to the urgent requests of many sufferers, the proprietors have
decided to introduce a concentrated, non-alcoholic form of jalu able medicine,
Warner’s Safe Cure, under the title of Warners Safe Cure ('COII-
” The price of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is 2s. 6d. per
battle is oneJourth the size of the ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure,
but it contains the same number of doses, the dose being also one-fourth, namely,
a teaspoonful instead of a tablespoonful. The medicinal value is the same in each
case, the medicinal contents of a ss. bottle of Warners Safe Cure being con-
centrated into a 2s. 6d. bottle of Warners Safe Cure (Concentrated).
So well known are the beneficial effects of Warner’s Safe Cure in all cases of
kidney and liver disease, and complaints arising from the retention in the system
of uric and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick headache
that the introduction of the 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated)
cannot be regarded otherwise than as a public boon.
Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is sold by all Chemists an(l
will be sent, carriage paid, on receipt of price, by H. H. Warner and Co. L ted,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
The Imported Mischief-Maker.
The return of W. M. Hughes, M.P., from
London (where he so successfully represented
Australian seamen’s interests at the Navigation
Conference) was marked by the prompt settle-
ment of the Sydney coal-lumpers’ strike, which
had threatened to paralyse the port of Sydney
and put a serious check to the growing prosperity
of Australia. That strike suggests that an ad-
dition should be made to the list of imported evils.
Unto the rabbit, the fox, the thistle, the unsober
“Christmas Goose Club,” the habit of saying
“ blanky,” the stinkwort, sectarianism, phthisis,
and titular distinctions, should be joined the
imported British labor leader, who in our
climate has a tendency to become a dangerous
nuisance. The first British Labor leader was
probably imported into Australia for the same
reason as the rabbit. It was not that there was
any special reason for either. The native kan-
garoo was quite fit for the job of eating all the
grass that the sheep did not want. The local
Labor leader was capable of managing things so
that trades-unions and labor bodies generally got to
a height of influence and prestige not equalled
anywhere else in the world. But somebody felt
lonesome, and couldn’t say “haw” comfortably
without seeing an occasional lop-eared rabbit in
his paddo—we mean meadow. So Bunny
came. Somebody else felt lonesome without
a Trafalgar Square atmosphere of disfranchised
workmen listening dismally to vociferous orators
talking vainly against the existing order of things.
So Tom Mann came. In England, Bunny was all
right. In England, probably, Tom Mann was all
right. In Australia, they are both pests. This
coal-lumpers’ strike in Sydney was from beginning
to end an artificial trouble run by imported labor
leaders for the purpose of advertising their ideas
of “ industrial war ” and “ revolutionary trades-
unionism.” There was no real dispute between
employers and employed. So soon as Hughes,
M.P., got back from England with his common-
sense, the whole trouble vanished. Had the im-
ported labor leaders had another month’s undis-
turbed possession of the field, they would probably
have involved the wharf-laborers and possibly the
coal-miners, and the country would then have
drifted fast towards another Maritime Strike. It
is not necessary to convict Tom Mann and his
type of an intention to work to that end. Proba-
bly it is rather a case of “not knowing.” But
that doesn’t make the nuisance less. Could not
British Labor leaders be stopped at the Customs ?
Ruskin.
“ 0.K.” writes : A while ago a Bulletin woman-
writer uttered a cry of aesthetic pain at the publica-
tion of “ Penny Buskins ” for the People. The
works of that one-time exclusive author, she said,
were being profaned by penny publication. But
whereas the name of Ruskin is commonly identi-
fied, thusfar, with books on Art, his future fame
(if he is to achieve it) will be founded on those
writings which he particularly intended for the
instruction of the public that wants good
literature in the cheapest possible form.
Ruskin’s essays in some cases were written as
letters to “a working cork-cutter of Sunder-
land,” whilst Great Britain was in a state of
Reform Bill agitation. As an advanced
thinker on political and social subjects he is to-
day more esteemed by his readers than when he
first put his thoughts into print. The test of time
proved him to be eminently worthy to have his
50-vear-old letters republished as penny pam-
phlets for the toiling millions. Ruskin wrote of
many things other than the fine arts, and what-
ever he wrote had wisdom in it. To those hard-
shell supporters of Great Britain’s policy, who
snort at The Bulletin’s “scurrilous abuse” of
Britain’s Brave Brown Allies, the study of Rus-
kin’s “Time and Tide” may be cordially com-
mended. Hear what the honest democratic man
of culture has to say in Letter V.: —
A company of Japanese jugglers has come over to
exhibit in London (Feb., 1867). There has long been an
increasing interest in Japanese art, which has been very
harmful to many of our own painters, and I greatly
desired to see what these people were, and what they
did. Well, I have seen Blondin, and various English and
French circus work, but never yet anything that sur-
prised me as did one of these men’s exercises on a sus-
pended pole. Its special characteristic was a close ap-
proximation to the action and power of the monkey ;
even to the prehensile power in the feet; so that I asked
a sculptor friend who sat in front of me whether he
thought such a grasp could he acquired by practice, or
indicated difference in race. He said he thought it
might be got by practice Then there was some
fairly good sleight-of-hand juggling of little interest ;
ending with a dance by the juggler, first as an animal
and then as a goblin. Now, there was this great differ-
ance between the Japanese masks and our common pan-
tomime masks for beasts and demons—that our English
masks are only stupidly and loathsomely ugly, by exag-
gerations of feature, or defects of feature. But the
Japanese masks (like the frequent monsters of Japanese
art) were inventively frightful, like fearful dreams ;
and whatever power it is that acts on human minds,
enabling them to invent such, appears to me not
only to deserve the term “demoniacal,” but to be logi-
cally capable of no other definition. The impression,
therefore, produced upon me by the whole scene, was
that of being in the presence of human creatures of a
partially inferior race, but not without great human
gentleness, domestic affection, and ingenious intellect,
who were, nevertheless, as a nation, afflicted by an evil
spirit, and driven by it to recreate themselves in achiev-
ing, or beholding the achievement, through years of prac-
tice, of a certain correspondence with the nature of the
lower animals.
And hear him on another subject which is of
topical interest: —
No religion that ever was preached on this earth of
God’s founding ever proclaimed any salvation to sellers
of bad goods. . . . You cannot make punishment too
stern for subtle knavery. For light weights and false
measure, or for proved adulteration, or dishonest manu-
facture of article, the penalty should be simply confisca-
tion of goods, and sending out of the country.
Let us have plenty of Ruskin at a penny.
Australia cannot deport the manufacturers of the
wickedest goods which this country consumes, but
it could at least confiscate the adulterated stuff
they consign to the fat Foreign-traders who im-
pede the advance of native industry.
Victoria’s new Senator, Russell, makes a
good start: —
I don’t want to be recognised as a mere barracker for
my State. I want to assist in developing the whole of
Australia. I am an Australian Protectionist—not a
revenue tariffist. I want to see two-thirds of the
£50,000,000 of imports that now come into Australia
manufactured in Australia by white people, earning
decent wages. In what State the goods are manufac-
tured I do not care, so long as they are produced in
Australia.
In the whole British empire there is now,
according to the Spectator (London), only one
firm that manufactures revolvers. All the rest
of the trade has gone to Protectionist countries.
Possibly a time will come when Freetrade Britain
will import all its weapons and ammunition, for
the rifle industry is also fading; and then the
Australian factory at Lithgow may get a chance
under the Federal tariff to supply Bull, our
father, with the guns that defend old England’s
shore.


One Hundred and Eighteenth Half-Yearly Report of the
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
-LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the
Head Banking House, George-street, Sydney, on Friday, 19th July, 1907.
THE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
1 30th June, 1907, and present the following Report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued
interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and providing for land ami income taxes and
bad and doubtful debts, amounts to £97 659 19 2
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To Payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of lOpercent. per annum £50,000 0 0
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund 20 000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit ” ’’ 27 659 19 2
97,659 19 2
At an Extraordinary Genera] Meeting, held on the 19th April, and subsequently confirmed at another Extra-
ordmary General Meeting on the 10th May last, it was decided to increase the Paid-up Capital of the Hank from
£1,000,000 to £1,250,000, by the creation of 20,000 new shares to be allotted to the Shareholders at a premium of
±2 10s. per share, and to be paid for in four quarterly instalments, with the option of paying up in full on °9th June
. This Meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the Articles of Asso-
ciation of the Honorable F. T. HUMPHERY, M.L.C., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite
notice that he is a candidate for the office. It also rests with the Meeting to appoint Auditors for the ensuing vear
During the half-year a Branch has been established at Woodstock, in this State.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
Dr,
Cr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including London Brunch to 30th June by Cable,
To Capital..
~ Reserve Fund
„ Reserve Capital
.£1,250,000 0 0
1,172,713 2 6
.. 1,250,000 0 0
£3.672.713 2 6
~ Capital Paid-up ..£1,213,565 12
~ Reserve Fund .. 1,172,713 2
~ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
~ Deposits and other liabilities ..
~ Profit and Loss Account ..
-£2,386,278 15 0
. 558,328 0 0
. 1,047,073 1 6
14,851,561 6 9
105,050 2 3
£18,984,291 5 6
By Coin and bullion in
hand £3,454,689 0 3
„ Cash at Bankers .. 147,308 5 2
„ Money at short call
in London .. ... 897,400 0 0
„ British Consols and
Government Securities 2,094,550 0 0
„ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. .. 65,90 V 0 0
„ Bills receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 1,915,255 16 7
~ Notes and bills of
other hanks .. .. 59,993 0 10
£8,605,097 2 10
„ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank 9,875,819 2 8
„ Bank premises, furniture, etc. .. 467,375 0 0
£18,943,291 5 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. .. ... £7,'390 3 ]
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum .. .. 50,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 20,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year .. .. ' .. .. 27,659 19 2
£105,050 2 3
By amount undivided from last half-year £25,860 4 7
~ Profit for half-year ended 30th June,
1907 79,189 17 8
£105,050 2 3
RESERVE FUND.
1907—June 30th .. .. ... .. .. .. £1 172 713 2 6
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account .. ’ 20,000 0 0
£1,192,713 2 6
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
ha Yt ** amined t,le bills - compared the balances, and counted’the coin in’ the Head
B ® of ™E COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, Limited, and have compared the returns ol
the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance-sheet.
W. L. DOCKER, 1
Th . ~ . , J . E. S. CAPE, j-Auditors,
lhe following resolutions were carried unanimously :
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated amono-
the Proprietors. &
the Honorable F. T. Humphery, M.L.C., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
<i riuY .u Ga P 6 ’ Y' s 2‘’ ~, nd Hixson, Esq., be appointed Auditors for the ensuing year. ”
Ihat the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the
Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.” - '
f . ~ , T. A. DIBBS, General Manae , er
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr. G. J. Cohen, said
} had fche pl easureof presenting our last Half-yearly Balance-sheet to you I was able to reporta verv
substantial expansion of the Bank s business, and it will be gratifying to you that the Statement now placed before
you shows still further improvement. 1 uie
..... Hiose of 12 months ago, our figures show a very satisfactory increase. The total figures have
expanded £l,434,ooo—made up on the debit side by increases under the following headings :
Capital .. .. .. .. .. £213,565
92,713
66,000
1,280,000
10,560
Reserve fund ..
Notes in circulation ..
Deposits and other liabilities ..
.... ~ . Profit and loss account.. .. .. .. 10,560
Vhile there has been a shrinkage of £208,745 in Bills in Circulation, but this is always a fluctuating item.
, other side there has been a decrease of £1,019,000 in money at short call in London, which is more than
c nipensated for by increases in com and cash at bankers of £566,000, Government Securities £465 000 and sundrv
other items amounting to £284,000, which, summed up, give an increase in our Liquid Assets of £297 000.
hoo v' 6 P ro P° l ‘t' lon °f liquid assets to our total liabilities to the public is well maintained at 10s. sd. in the £ There
, s , atlsfa » lncrease of *1.180,000 in our lendings under the heading of Bills discounted and
all debts due to the bank. The Reserve Fund now stands at £1,192,000? uiscouncea ana
As I stated to you at the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on the 19th of April last “the
thThank ? e tlr K 6 *? ad arrlved when they wer e warranted to still further increase the strength of
generally’. b S f the large busiliess we are now doing, and the great confidence reposed in us by the public
~ , Tbe Proposal made then to the shareholders, and confirmed at the subsequent meeting of 10th May last provided
, tba ?; by «sue of new shares further Capital to extent of £250,000 should be called up in four equal qVarte’rhMnst.al
with p’artSiTaUon fn profits 6 Horn fst Shareholders the °P tion of «P in full on that date,
[ ~a m now in a position to inform you that the Shareholders so largely availed themselves of this option that
actually over 85 per cent, of the whole £250,000 was paid up on 29th ultimo, with a similar proportion of the
Addition to Reserves derived from the premium on the new Shares. ** 11 e
On the 7th inst. our General Manager, Mr. T. A. Dibbs, completed his Diamond Jubilee of 60 years’ service in the
” a T PP°' nted , as a J nn>°r Clerk in July, 1847. On the 20th March last he attained his 40th year as
General Manager. In these circumstances, I propose on this occasion to give you some particulars of the past
history of the Bank and its great progress during this period. particulars ot the past
1. The Shareholders who, in 1848, when the Bank was incorporated during Sir Edward Knox’s management
numbered 160, have all passed away. The only surviving officer of that date is your GeneralSger
O s?®. who a PP°. lnfced Mr. Dibbs General Manager in 1867, are all deceased. k '
3. Of the 6-5 officers now in the Bank, no less than 606 were appointed by the various Boards of Direc-
tn! p econim en d ation. Only 20 members of the Staff, including himself, now remain
of those in the Bank when he took charge in 1867.
4. The total amount of Dividends paid to the Shareholders during the management of
Dibbs is .. .. .. ~ .. ~ ~ lt oQi ooa o q
The total amount paid previous to this being only ' 703!989 14 8
Making a total of £5 rw sio 17
nnirl sinnp f.ho j : _ _* * . V u
6.
upwards of 17 per cent.
6. The Reserve Funds in 1867 amounted to SlB x x
They are now 1,240373 1 8
showing that the large sum of .. .. .. £1 122 555 0 7
has been added to the Reserves during his 40 years’ management. i should like to emphasise the
fact that during this long period the average annual addition to the Reserves amounted to £2B 000.
To have done this, and so to have built up the strength of the Bank to its'present position,’ are
evidences of careful and prudent management, and must be highly satisfactory to the Shareholders.
7. It is worthy of notice that the totals of the Balance-sheet in 1867 were £2 393 000
In the detailed accounts now presented to you, you will observe they are .. .. .. 18,948^000
showing the large increase of .. .. .. £i r kkk non
8. The number of Branches in March, 1867, was .. .. .. .. 7. 7. ’ 37
whilst, including the Branch in London, we have now .. .. .. .. * 7. 7 162
Showing an increase of .. .. 12 5
Most of the early Branches \yere opened personally by Mr. Dibbs in the pioneering days, when the facility
for travelling on railways with the luxury of sleeping cars was unknown.
9. The Coin and Cash Balances, including British Consols, Government Debentures, etc., are now £8 605 000
In 1867 the total was ’ 329 000
Exhibiting the substantial increase of.. .. £g 276 000
I have now to move the adoption of the Report and the Statements of Accounts, and that the same be printed
and circulated among the Shareholders, and in doing so I can state that this Balance-sheet is the strongest with the
largest totals of any I have had the pleasure of presenting to you, and I congratulate the Shareholders on the position
of the Bank, which has shared in the general prosperity of the State. (Applause.)
SPECIAL RESOLUTION.
Mr. E. W. Knox moved the following resolution: —
“ That the Directors be requested to procure a portrait of Mr. T. A. Dibbs, to be hung in the Banking Room as a
remembrance of his long and successful term of office as General Manager, and that a service of plate be
presented to Mr. Dibbs in commemoration of the completion of the sixtieth year of his employment by th
Bank.” (Applause.) e
Mr. Knox said : In proposing the resolution which I have just read, I would first say that I submit this not as
one who has on several occasions served on the Board, not as a shareholder and customer of nearly forty years’
standing, but as the son of the man who appointed Mr. Dibbs as junior officer, and who for more than half a century
was himself intimately connected with the development of the business which is the pride of all of us.
As Mr. Dibbs entered the Bank three months after I was born—two or three hundred yards from here—l cannot
claim to have known him during the whole term of his service, but I was not very old when I began to hear my
ather speaking of his ability and his interest in the work, and I know that he never afterwards ceased tn held
highest opinion of your General Manager or to recognise the great services he had rendered to the Rant h ° ld the
Now it is proposed that his Portrait shall be placed alongside those of the other two men who weJlo'd i ,
you in building up the Commercial Bank-Riehard Jones and Edward Knox Tad,a d , ° tong tor
single-minded service and the unceasing work which have earned for him the esteem and the e-rat Ft-% fcl ) °u n Si the
holders. I feel sure that there will be no voice of dissent in regard to such f propo^lX to t P ±t»t- h ® e '
Dibbs of a memento of what is almost a unique record of work in one employ, that for fonF FeaFF of'>\ t 0 F Ir ‘
had to bear the great strain of the administration of a business such as this. (Applause V 6 a 8
The Hon H. C. Dangar : I have the greatest pleasure in seconding the resolution so ablv and ,u OQ ,i„ . .
you by my friend Mr. Knox. It seems to be hardly necessary to put this to the Meeting as I feel
with your entire approval. When I listen to the wonderful history of the Bank’s prooress and d • , e , efc
Dibbs s management, I feel that, in the ordinary language of the day, a “record d ” nn 8' Mr -
this resolution for a double reason. It is proposed that we present ourselves with Mr IMbbs’s Portrait*’to* he"
with the existing portraits of the late Mr. Richard Jones and the late Sir Edward Knox and further that mF nihh?
be asked to receive a memento of his distinguished services. I trust that the nortmit will 5 i r r ‘
his career, but will serve to remind the younger Officers of the Bank to “go aFd do hkewLe ” * a reC ° rd ° f
been F 8
and he is stiu at work - 1 am — that b-n
, 'l'he Chairman, Mr. G. «J. Cohen, said that he had much pleasure in suhmirhino* Wrtft Li .• ,
doing so he heartily endorsed all that had been uttered by the previous speakers He been
Management of the Bank for the last twenty-three vears, and during all that time he i;i l ,n l,i m th , Board of
air - ,o a6toll andthe " ,o *« B “ k -» 3th *‘ h »
The resolution was carried with acclamation.
Mr. Dibbs, who was received with long and sustained annlansn oald- „
resolution, so elequently proposed by Mr. Knox, and second ecfbv Mr ’flano-ir a,rman atld Gentlemen,—This
Our worthy Chairman has told you of the success of the Bank during the past fortv vet ™tFf o ™ pi^e *-'l b -\’ sur P rise -
the Bank, but 1 feel prouder of my Officers. I need not comment on 0f c ° l,rse 1 feel P roud of
themselves. Of course it will please my wife andfamily and my friends to have this acknmvlpd aS Sald ‘ FaCtS Speak for
me-nothingcould please me better than to have my portrait hungside bv side " L 7S* T nOW ffivin £
whom I have worked so long, and to whom I owe so much—the Tate v 6 portraits of the two men with
I never can forget Mr. Kf.ox-,’who, was my OrsC m"and R M t ??? x T “ d c he , ate Richard Jones,
treasure the remarks of my old friends, Mr. Knox, and Mr Dam-ar and Mr n? standing here to-day. I
who spoke in such complimentary terms. Without the support’of the rirpVnt G ( °*- r est J share,lolders )>
and their predecessors, and the loyal assistance of a zealous a efficient staff hi.Q nd W ’ S f e £ 0a !r, d of Dl| ectors,
be what it is to-day-and I fully recognise this fact, and regard ita pleasure to w °L the B - ank would not
I feel that I cannot say more than that I sincerely thank you for the kmd mannF. in the 'l e circl ™stancceB.
this day. (Hearty applause.) * i tne Klncl nianner ln which you have received me
NEW SOUTH WALES PATRIOTIC FUND
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
FOR THE YEAR 1906=1907.
Presented to and adopted by the GENERAL COMMITTEE on WEDNESDAY, 17th JULY, 1907.
DURING the year the following meetings have been held • Annual Meet;™ of in
, RRttee, and six Meetings of the Executive Committee * 1 Meetln £ of General Com-
r~ —i* 7 • W iixoctiiigs nave oeen neu
mittee and six Meetings of the Executive Committee
one Snsed J a P< >l ‘ catioM b »™ b <*>" received, to three of which relief was granted, and
side™ I ,SralK l r lionSfor '' , " rlherrel ief'’( s on>e on more than one occasion) have been con-
in;is?L™”d^d'^!iJd Fu ” d sinoe its in " ptio "*»-
Amount disbursed in Relief to 30th June, 1906
” »> «> July, 1906, to 29th June, 1907 '*
ano vumumt™ Legieir to nave to record the death of Sir John See TT P TW P , ..
gati„ T g h ; p pS»'; COm "" l ‘ e ‘ lmve a|?ain 10 th “ t «“ onthorities generally for assistance in invest!-
d y ‘-f by
as required under Bv-law No. 8 ’ 0U ’ and 011 lba a d°Ption will be published
Sydney, New South Wales,
29th June, 1907.
AUGUSTUS F. ROBINSON,
Chairman of Executive Committee.
NEW SOUTH WALES PATRIOTIC FUND,
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Dr ‘ from Ist July, 1906, to 30th June, 1907. Cr.
RECEIPTS.
1906.
July Ist.
To Balance brought forward
1907.
June 30th.
To Interest Fixed Deposits and
Current Accounts
£ s. d.
2,326 12 3
738 19 4
£3,065 11 7
1907.
June 30th.
To Balance brought
down 2,366 18 5
~ Amount of Fixed
Deposits held by the
Bank of New South
Wales 20,500 0 0
£22,866 18 5
DISBURSEMENTS.
1907.
June 30th. £ s , ( j_
By Relief Account (per
minutes) 574 6 3
„ Less cheque 30/3/’O5
re-deposited 60 0 0
» Salaries 150 0 0
~ Medical lees ... 1 11 6
~ Advertising, Station-
ery and Stamps ... 32 15 5
~ Bank Fees 10 0
~ Balance Current Account
£ s. d.
514 6 3
15111 6
32 15 5
2,366 18 5
£3,065 11 7
Sydney, 30th June, 1907.
T. A. DIBBS, 1™ 4
LEWIS P. BAIN/ Trustees -
We have examined the Books of Account and Vouchers (and wirh r
Sydney, 6th July, 1907. DAVID FELL & 00., F.C.A.A., Auditors.
Hypnotism
Reader, wliy not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
ds
■^6
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN.
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ds
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
STEMS for Indent Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it mig-ht be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George St., Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems


No. 3 F.P.K., --plate
£4 7s. 6d.
These Cameras are hand-
somely finished in grained
leather with nickel mount-
ings, and are perfect in
every respect. They are
adapted to all photo-
graphic uses, and with
THE FASHIONABLE
WEDDING PRESENT
Just now is one of the MODERN KODAKS, complete in Solid Leather carrying case.
&
k
mm*
°p"-
t'Z
"Vii
w/.
■
- .
-i. ■ ■ • ■
i..: ' ■
Eitherthe N 0.3 F.P.K.,a quarter-
plate Camera for Films or Plates,
or the No. 3a F.P.K., taking
pictures of the popular Post
Card size.
ordinary care will last a life-time. Hence their value as a gift
Bridegroom.
Bride
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR KODAK LTD . ;
Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
375 and 377 George Street, Sydney.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. *
"The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. a*
No. 3a F.P.K., Post Card
£5 s s.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
TheTewksbury Consolidated. Gold Dredging
Company, Limited., (T ° be RegistereA)
CAPITAL, £66,500 IN 66,500 SHARES AT £1 EACH.
32,300 Shares, fully paid up, are to be handed to the Vendors in part payment for the properties described below.
34 200 Shares are offered for sale on the following terms : 10s. per share cash on application, and 10s. per share
cash on allotment, of which sum £33,200 in cash is to be paid to the vendors, leaving £lOOO
in hand.
66,500 Shares.
NOTE.—Of the 34,200 Shares offered for sale 20,000 have already been applied for by the Shareholders in the original Companies.
Provisional Directors :
Hon. Dr. J. B. NASH, M.L.C., Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Dr. C. P. B. CLUBBE, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
R. C. DIXSON, 100 The Strand, Sydney.
CHAS. MARKELL, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
P. W. TEWKSBURY, Bright, Victoria.
Bankers :
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, Sydney and Bright (Vic.).
Secretary pro tem. s
E. H. SULLY (of Kent, Brierley & Sully), 50 The Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
Brokers:
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A. WARREN CLARK, Tuckett Chambers, Collins Street, Melbourne.
This Company is being'formed to consolidate and take over as a going concern, as from July Ist, 1907, the Assets,
except cash and gold in hand, of the Tewksbury, Tewksbury Freehold, Eurobin and Freeburgh Gold Dredging Com-
panies, including five dredges and all dredging rights over 1000 acres of auriferous land, on which the dredges are
working in the valley of the Ovens River, near Bright, Victoria.
All preliminary legal, flotation, and advertising expenses and brokerage will be met by the vendors, leaving the
new Company the'profits clear as from the Ist July, 1907.
The Company will be tfividend-paying at once, as there are four dredges already working, and the fifth will be
under steam by the end of the year.
The dredges are modern plants, in first-class working order, and the whole of the land is very suitable for
dredging.
Three of the dredges have been at work for an average period of fifteen months, and in that time have earned a
profit; of 60 per cent, on the capital invested in them. . . , ~ . ,
On the basis of the work already done, it is expected that during the ensuing sixteen years the ground under
offer will yield over 125,000 ounces of gold, worth more than £500,000. Neatly half of this amount (or according to
the calculations made, £233,660) is expected to be profit, giving an average of £14,115 per annum, equal to 21 per
Cen *The statements °o't BMk « «*** I***.
BnK ih e proposition is not of a speculative nature, but is regarded as a sound investment which will return sub-
stantial and regular dividends.
All shares are fully paid up, and there is no liability attaching to them.
Th e*! h are hold ers° in 6 th e < ori gfn a? Companies, to whom cash is payable by the Vendors, have the option of taking
shares in the new Company in lieu of cash, and some of the largest holders have already expressed their intention
° f a The^hole e oTfhe%ripe h rties P he°rei'n described were originally taken up by Mr. P W. Tewksbury, who personally
prospected them, and! after satisfying himself that they were payable propositions formed Companies to work same
He is also the promoter of the well-known Ovens Valley Company, and now controls no less than seven dredges, and
has a record of never having floated a “ duffer ”or “ wild cat.” His Tewksbury dredge holds the record for Vic-
toria for one week’s yield, viz. .-—133 ounces for 120 hours’ work. The Freehold No. 2 secured 101 ounces for a
similar period Mr. Tewksbury’s personal energy, enterprise, and foresight are alone responsible for his immense
success At the present time he holds the Managing Directorship of all the Companies herein described and which
it is proposed to amalgamate, and is willing to retain the same position in the Consolidated Company, if so desired,
so chat all dredging operations will continue to be under his personal supervision.
The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
Bright, Ist July, 1907.
I hereby certify that the weight of gold received
from the Tewksbury Gold Dredging Company, No Lia-
bility, from Bth May, 1905, to 30th June, 1907, was: —
34000 z. lldwt. Value, £13,864 10s. Hd.
For the National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
C. H. A. Davies, Manager.
The above Company has paid dividends amounting to
17s. 6d. in the & for 23 months, and a further dividend
of Is. has just been declared, bringing total to 18s. 6d.
The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
Bright, Ist July, 1907.
I hereby certifv that the weight, of gold received from
the Tewksbury Freehold Gold Dredging Company, No
Liability, from 12th March, 1906, to 30th June, 1907,
was 35800 z. 7dwt. lOgr. Value, £14,459 16s. 4d.
For the National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
C. H. A. Davies, Manager.
Of the above amount £7421 was profit.
The Eurobin Dredge has been working for 8 weeks only, during which time it has won gold to the value of £<Bo.
The Freeburgh Dredge is not yet completed, but will be under steam before the end of the year.
Copies of the Prospectus, which is
the National Bank of Australasia t
issued in
hroughout
hook form and contains full particulars and photographs of the properties and dredges, may be obtained at any branch of
} Victoria and New South Wales, or from the Brokers, and from Messrs. Kent, Brierley and Sully, 100 ihe strand, feyclney.


n
•Vi
Every Drop Means
A New Hair ! «-|
Tiat Bald Spot!
Got any down there ?
Now, nake sure aboi: it.
Yes l
Then there’s still life in
those tiny hair bulbs.
Don’t let that life die.
Use “CAPILLA” HAIR TONIC.
It will infuse renewed life
and vigor into those dor-
mant hair bulbs —-will give
them power to produce
better hair—stronger hair.
£lOOO
or a Head of Hair !
That’s my offer: if
“CAPILLA” fails to
make every particle of
that “down” grow into
strong and healthy hair,
I will give you £lOOO
to allay your disappoint-
ment.
Now, if you want to get
your lost hair back send
direct to me for a full
course (15/- Six Bottles).
Postage, 2/6 extra; Inter-
state 4/2.
BUT Write me now!
ALL CHEMISTS—
-1/6 and 2/6 Bottle.
W. O. RICHARDS,
Savings Bank Chambers,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Posted —2/- and 3/3 Bottle.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
for that “ Bald Spot.”
How Deaf People
Are Made to Hear!
A Device that is Scientific, Simple, Direct,
and Restores Hearing in Even the
Oldest Person—Comfortable,
and Perfect Fitting.
Ever See a Pair of ELEGTRIGONS ?
They fit comfortably in the Ears.
Thb Electricons are to weak hearing what spec-
tacles are to weak sight.
Because they are sound magnifiers, just as glasses are
sight magnifiers.
They rest the Ear Nerves by taking the strain off them
—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds. They can be
put into the ears, or taken out in a minute, just as com-
fortably as spectacles can be put on and off.
MAY BE WORN AT ANY TIME.
THE PROOF
is in our book, which
contains letters from
people whose hearing
was brought back by their use. BOOK FREE. Send
for it to-day.
L R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“TTRIOA”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ly i ness and kindred ailments, i A
win
' !!!'„: .
iHimiiiiiimiuiinmmiimiii
L.
F* These rings are scientifically
made from specially prepared
metals with four zinc and three copper
coils foi ming a complete battery.
The natural moisture of the finger
connects the coils, causing a gentle
current of Electricity to circulate
throughout the whole body, which dis-
solves the uric acid crystals.
Prices, Post Free.—White Metal, 2/-;
Silver, 3/6; Gold filled. 3/-, 5/- and 7/6;
SEND FOR SIZE CARD POST FREE,
DUNKLINQ, The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET., MELBOURNE.
does
cure,
j Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
leases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return paid if
Wright s flthef Canadian
_ 'sciatica,
roublesf iOr course,' this
many failures,
have been only
, in which the refund
was claimed. Ifyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
yjiffey
[bpC/done
matter
threfe instances in,
be™
YOU AND
ME
tIMMIUm
p
CROZINE
BLACKING
a liquid blacking for boots and shoes
which is easily applied, and readily pro-
duces the most desired deep, brilliant
black—a black which is not removed bv
dampness, nor effaced by mud or dust.
It lasts better than any other, and helps
the boots to wear, softening and preserv-
ing the leather. The superior cleanli-
ness and elegance of a Crozine shine
recommend it to fastidious people.
80LD AT BOOT STORES THE WORLD OVER
ASK FOR THE GENUINE HAUTHAWAY’S
Made only by C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS. Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd., London, England
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/iS. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
for
Banquets and
Private Balls
x£“°“ ftble
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
perm mently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4/6
and 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS '.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROPRIETARY LTD., SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
HI H U:
BITTERS
Are You
low spirited
and suffering
from the ex-
cesses of
youth? If so,
Sulphur Bit-
ters will cure
you.
Is your Urine thick,
ropy, cloudy, or high-
colored? Don’t wait I
Your KIDNEYS are
being ruined. Use
Sulphur Bitters.
One bottle of Sul-
phur Bitters will do
you more good than
all the Latin pres-
criptions of drugs and mineral poi-
sons which will remain in your sys-
tem, destroy your bones, and make
you a poor, weak, and broken down
invalid. No person can remain long
sick who uses Sulphur Bitters. If |
YOUR DAUGHTER’S FACE
is covered with ugly sores, and fest-
ering Pimples, give her Sulphur
Bitters. Ladies in delicate health,
who are all run down, should use
Sulphur Bitters. None better.
Try Sulphur Bit-
ters TO-NIGHT,
and you will sleep
well and feel better
for it.
Sulphur Bitters
will make your blood
pure, rich and strong
and your flesh hard, j
Get a bottle now.
Are You
nervous and
fretty, or in
DELICATE
health? Sul-
phur Bitters
will make a
new person
of you.
Medicator, *lze
!TC
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
W h y
cough ;
Take
BALSAM OF ANISEED
"A
0
.^USAMo^
E M
A*-*'
Tin* wonderful Remedy has stood the test for 80 years as the one Safe and Reliable Remedy tor
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
and all THROAT AND LUNG TROUBLES.
It affords Immediate relief and a speedy cure. Read the following proof of its efficacy—
L V SH / rite3 fro “ Stixwold Vicarage, HorncastleFor the past twelve years I have
T i f “ ySe f ’ glVing a 'J ay ’ and ‘ecommenctingr your Balsam. I should not be
f nr , d had * ieye f k . no ' vn 11 to f ail - „ Whenever X have a cough I use it in preference to
ai yDoing else, and again and again it has cured me.
Bronchitfs ha s proved itself to be the ®°st effectual remedy for Coughs. Colds,
Dreventivefrim A . cold “‘PPed in the bud has often saved a life, and there is no surer or safer
Should 1 hsnnAntth consequences of a neglected cold than a few doses of this excellent prepara-
*iOn. it should be one of the first aids kept in the house. — The Gentleman’s Journal. 1
Of all Chemists and Stores. Observe the Trade Mark on the outer wrapper
Proprietors :-THOS. POWELL, Ltd., BLACKFRIARS, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland—
ELLIOT BROS., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, & Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.— 1 ►
" 1 do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."— D*. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY* Invaluable to every Mother of a family*


Amusements.
ON THE FROZEN LAKE
.. AT THE ..
GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY,
EVERY NIGHT. SPECIAL EXHIBITION OF FANCY
SKATING by PROF. LANGLEY and PUPIL.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
Morning, Afternoon, Evening,
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
ADMISSION, 2s. SKATES, 6d.
CHILDREN, Is. SKATES, 6d.
SEASON RATES ON APPLICATION.
EXPERT TEACH ERS. CO URTEOUS ATTEND A NTS
THE “AUSTRALIA” ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM,
GEORGE STREET WEST, OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
Telephone 474 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of DOROTHY.
SATURDAY NEXT (for Twelve Nights only), Revival of
Andran’s Famous Comic Opera,
LA MASCOTTE,
interpreted bv the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A BEAUTIFUL FIEND.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3,
MISS MAUD HILDYARD,
in the Magnificent Production,
THE GREAT AWAKENING
By Maud HiHyard and Russell Vaun.
Prices 3s, 2s &Is; Is extra for booking - . Box Plan at El vy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Direction of .. .. EDWIN GEACH.
Sole Managers : George Willoughby and Hugh Ward.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3,
A Veritable Banquet of Laughter promised by the
WILLOUGHBY and WARD LONDON COMEDY 00.,
Including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, in
MR. HOPKINSON.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
T IVOU THEATRE, SYDNEY'
1 Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Remarkable Success of THE SYENGALIS.
Most Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AGNES HAZEL.
Reappearance of GEORGE BENTLEY.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Vocalist and Comedian.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
Miss EILEEN LYONS. ERNEST FITTS.
M. SAM LE MERT. MASTER ADRIAN AMADIO.
IRVING SAYLES. MARJORIE BRAY.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
HAMILTON HILL, Australian Baritone.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
PEARL HELLMRICH, Serio Comic.
JARVIS & CAMPBELL, Eccentric Jugglers.
TECHOVV’S PERFORMING CATS.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
Plan at Allan’s. S 3" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, the Popular Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK in
THE RAGGED EARL.
A ROMANCE OF 18th CENTURY ENGLAND.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, FRIDAY, AUGUST 2
Last Two Nights of THE COTTON KING.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE BONDMAN.
RE-APPEARANCE OF GEORGE RIGNOLD.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Bruriton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, FRIDAY, AUGUST, 2,
Last Two Performances of THE BLUE MOON.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
LADY MADCAP.
REMEMBER LAST TWO WEEKS OF SEASON.
Box Plan at Allan’s. UST" USUAL PRICES.
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and Bth, 9th, 10th AUGUST,
At 3 p.m. and at 8 p.m.
A FURORE IN EVERY COUNTRY.
A FURORE IN EVERY COUNTRY.
THE ROYAL
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND,
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND,
CHAMPION BAND OF THE WORLD.
Established Nearly 150 Years.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
COMPLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EACH
CONCERT.
THE BOX PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Intending- patrons are strongly advised to book early
and save disappointment.
55., 35., 2s. F. S. STETSON, Manager.
G. D. PORTUS, Touring Manager.
yHE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
BAL MASQUE,
BAL MASQUE,
ON THURSDAY, Bth AUGUST, at 8 p.m.
A GRAND FANCY AND EVENING DRESS
BAL MASQUE
WILL BE HELD ON THE ICE.
Admission, 2s ; Reserved Chairs, Is extra; Skates, Is.
REAL ICE SKATING,
THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s ; SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION, Is ; SKATES, 6d.
Monthly Tickets at Reduced Rates.
Tenders.
BOROUGH OF YOUNG.
SHOW WEEK
9th to 14th September, 1907, inclusive.
TENDERS will be received up to 1 p.m. on
Thursday, Bth August, 1907, from persons
desirous of renting the Town Hall, for the period,
subject to rules governing same. A deposit of
10 per cent, of amount tendered to accompany
each tender. Successful tenderer to lodge balance
of amount together with 1.0 per cent, deposit
against damage within seven days from date of
acceptance, failing which the 10 per cent, deposit
will be forfeited.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Any further information can be
obtained from the undersigned.
T. C. WRIGHT,
Acting Council Clerk.
Town Hall, Young.
July 25th, 1907.
Auction Sale.
TUESDAY, 20th AUGUST, 1907.
THE
BLACKALL ESTATE,
QUEENSLAND.
Highly Important Sale of Famous
Blackall Range Country.
All Superior Dense Soft Wood Vine Scrub.
Splendidly Watered. 70in. regular and reliable Rainfall.
Fronting the North Coast Railway Line between
Enmundi and Cooroy, extending back to the
Maroochv River, 78 miles from Brisbane. 2,000
acres Freehold subdivided into 17 farms.
MAURICE AND JOHNSON,
of GRAFTON (N.S.W.) and BRISBANE (Q.),
have received instructions to sell by Public
Auction, at Eumundi, N.C. Line, Queensland,
on Tuesday, 20th August, at 2 p.m. Lots Ito 17,
all carefully designed and survey just completed.
Areas from 80 to 156 acres, all rich volcanic soil,
and containing beautiful, permanent and running
water. ALL IDEAL DAIRYING COUNTRY,
and capable of producing splendid Sugar Cane
and other crops.
The situation being on the eastern extension of
the Blackall Range country, right on the Railway
Line, adjacent to Railway Stations, Township
handy to all Markets, and within three hours by
railway from Brisbane, renders this sale an excel-
lent opportunity to those in search of good, solid
investments enhancing in value, or intending
settlers to secure beautiful Virgin Farms. The
climate is considered one of the most genial of the
Australian Coastal Districts, with no extremes of
heat or cold.
TERMS.
One-third deposit, balance may extend over
7 years. Interest 5 per cent. Immediate
possession. The Auctioneers will be pleased to
supply Lithos and all information upon appli-
cation to either Grafton or Brisbane Offices.
Brisbane Office Address: Union Trustee Build-
ings, corner of George and Queen Streets.
NOTE.—Sale will be held at Eumundi town
(near the Estate) on Tuesday after Brisbane Show.
If you have not heard a .
Columbia CRAPH-o-phone
you do not know to what perfection the
art of sound reproduction has been
brought.
COLUMBIA . .
GRAPH-o-phones
are made in both Cylinder and Disc
Styles, and range in price from . . .
15/- to £35
Columbia Records
uiyi
CO
Columbia Records
fit all makes of
Talking Machines.
lOin. New Process Disc Records .. 3/- each.
12in. „ „ „ .. 5/- „
Cold Moulded Cylinder Records .. 1/6 „
„ „ Half-foot Records 2/6 „
Catalogues “ B” and interesting literature
free on application.
SPEAKS FOR
ITSELF.
dsf
dsf
COLUMBIA PHONCRAPH CO. GEN’L.,
Dealers Everywhere. 255 CLARENCE
Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in
the World—Wholesale and Retail,
STREET, SYDNEY.
“0.T.” £,lOO “O-T.”
The Great
Australian
Drink.
Reward.
PUBLIC NOTICE
The Premier
Winter
Beverage.
The extraordinary success of “0.T.” in
every State of the Commonwealth has
brought into the market more than the
ordinary number of imitations—the pro-
ducts of unscrupulous traders, who seek to
take advantage of the wide publicity given
to the popular beverage, and to hoodwink
the public in their endeavour to pass off an
inferior beverage as the genuine “0.T.”
These counterfeit preparations contain
none of those pure, health-giving in-
gredients that have made “ 0.T.” so popular,
and the trader who gives you one of those
so-called “just as good” substitutes does
so in order to swell his profits at your
expense. The proprietors of “ 0.T.” offer a
REWARD OF £lOO
for information leading to the conviction of
any persons wilfully misrepresenting or
selling an inferior beverage as “ 0.T.”
You know what you want—don’t let the
trader choose for you.
Residents in country districts are par-
ticularly warned against the many un-
scrupulous imitations of “ 0.T.” that are
on the market. The genuine “ 0.T.” hottle
has a Red Chillie label, and carries the
manufacturer’s name and address. No other
beverage has the same strength, the same
health-giving properties, the same delicate
flavor as “ 0.T.”
THE COUNTRY HOUSE DRINK.
One bottle of “0.T.” will make from
twenty to thirty good drinks, and mixed
with either water, soda, lemonade, spirits,
or wine, it gives a delicious, palatable
beverage for all occasions. Keep a bottle
in the house, and if guests drop in unex-
pectedly, you have a delicious drink ready
for them at a minute’s notice. If such un-
welcome guests as Indigestion, Influenza,
Chills, or Colds call, you have a very
effective remedy —but insist firmly on
J. DIXON & CO.’S “ 0.T.”
MANUFACTURED
J J)|XON CO
•9
HIGH STREET, PRAHRAN, MELB.
Sydney Agents: ORME, KEIGWIN & CO.
To the Sick
to the
Suffering,
to
Anybody
with
any
111.
We
will
give
you
a
Free
Trial
Treatment
CALL
or
WRITE
TO-DAY.
Here ; s a Cure
FOR YOU
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
WE have a cure for organic disease, for special cases, and for general ill'
health ; we believe it will cure you, and we offer this to you in the
form of free-trial treatment in solemn faith and absolute belief that it will
STOP DISEASE and make you well.
WILL YOU LET US PROVE IT ?
Our treatment cures not partly, but absolutely, Rheumatism,
Kidney troubles, Bladder troubles, Stomach and Bowel troubles, Nerve
Weakness, Piles, Catarrh, Bronchitis, Weak Lungs, Asthma, Chronic
Coughs, Nervousness, all Female troubles, Lumbago, Skin Disease,
Impure Blood, Decline, LIQUOR AND DRUG HABITS, etc., RUPTURE BY
ENTIRELY NEW PROCESS; NO OPERATION OR TRUSS.
If you are rich, that means nothing to us ; if you are poor, we do not bar
you. Our treatment is offered to the public for the reason that it is time in
the prrctice of medicine that the poor and rich should share and share alike
in their right to health and happiness. UNDER THIS GREAT FREE-
TRIAL OFFER THERE IS NO CLASS DISTINCTION, NO FAVORITISM,
NO DISCRIMINATION.
THE PROOF OF OUR CURE IS FREE.
Heed the warning Nature is giving you in the form of pain and suffer-
ing ;do not become a physical wreck. Call or write while there is yet time
for you to take advantage of our great free-trial offer, and reap the benefits
of our advice and treatment.
When you write to us just state briefly in your own words and in your
own way what your trouble is. Let us know how you are and how you feel.
Tell us plainly, and we will give you the remedies Free, and without any
conditions of any kind to hamper you in getting well.
Send your name and address and a brief statement of how you are, "and
we will do our part, and the treatment will do its part if you will give it the
fair trial it deserves.
IT WILL RESTORE YOU.
If you cannot call, write at once to the Physician-in-Chief.
r ■
DELMAR MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
35 Bligh St.
( 2 H D SrSr)
Sydney.
Dr. George Walsh.
Xohe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, ICd.
“ Chibur ” : A parade of the metropolitan
troops of Queensland was arranged for the 26th
July, but was cancelled owing to the football
match! .It is to be hoped that a time will come
when it will be the leather-kicking match that
will be postponed in such cases.
The importers have struck a new idea, and
are filling the credulous old S.M. Herald up
with it. Every day there are paragraphs setting
out that goods are really imported as soon as they
have reached their port of destination, so in case
of an increase of duties they “should be permitted
to enter the Commonwealth at the old rates, the
increase to apply to subsequent arrivals only.”
Then, having hammered that in for a few days,
the further interesting suggestion is made that
the goods are really imported as soon as the ship
that brings them has touched Fremantle. But
why stop there? Why not say they’re imported
as soon as the Australian Calico Jimmy has sent
off his order to the foreigner? Or if Calico
James can swear that he had decided to send an
order, why shouldn’t that count, too ? Calico
James’ struggle to dodge ninepenn’orth of duty is
too pathetic, and is liable to tie the Customs
Department into knots if it listens to him. The
universal practice by which goods are imported
when the import duty is paid ought to be good
enough for any Department that doesn’t want to
get itself in a tangle.
W. J. Ferguson, who used to be one of
the bright members of the N.S.W. Labor party,
and had hopes once of being its leader, turned up
the other day as a candidate for the Carruthers
nomination at Botany. Still Ferguson hasn’t
fallen as far as he might have done—he didn’t
get the nomination. The local leagues preferred
an alderman.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13a. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Queensland national j)ank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.289 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock. £43.435) .. 55.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
Tbe Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLI NS*"sTREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walf,s :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eu( Ze a|an(l -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDiNG, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,213,565 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,192,713 2 6
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,656,278 15 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon, R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager arid Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
1111 IT En insurance
UNI I EU CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS* SYDNEY*
CAPITAL - £300,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
RODS
For Locating MINES,—
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 stamps.
Edw. NORTON, 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
FAOT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA .. .. ... ... 27th AUGUST.
PRINZ WALOEMAR .. ... 24th SEPT.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LI 11 IT KD. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
t*MILTIADES .. lA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug-. 10
MORAVIAN .. j A. Simpson .. I Noon. Sept. 13
»MARATHON „| N. Allan .. .. I Noon. Oct. 11
* Twin Screw. t Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. „ From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
sd
PLYMOUTH & LOUDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to sail about 7th AUGUST.
MEDIC, to sail about 6th SEPT.
AFRIO, PERSIO and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ITork, &c. . . 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
- ■ Wri
CRUISES. '%
AND
THE ISLANDS,
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jkssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadb,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Th e trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
*0
// *
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL ... £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
fDont de piete 0. C*>*>
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Voig'tlander’s
Binoculars.
s
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
YOICTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ Wbat Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE TO EUROPE,
£/ Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, ii to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rrHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Tf'INEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEEN'S-
LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A DAY. Telephone 174.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP C(L
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Anglian, Wednesday,
August 7, at 10 a. m. '
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Chi rns.
S.S. Marloo, August 3.
S.S. Yongala, August 10.
next and Cheapest lloute to Hold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
sei vices subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.,' LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling- at MELBOURNE, ADE-
FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows •
Steamer
Com
mander
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT ..
ARMAND
BEHIC
OCEANIEN ..
NERA ..
Combe
Guionnet ..
Magnan ..
Schmitz ..
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON
(via Melbourne)
Calling at DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Fine Steamer,
“ WAIPARA,”
9500 Tons A. G. McGIBBON, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
on 19th SEPTEMBER.
Has Excellent Accommodation for Saloon Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins, on the upper deck situated amidships.
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewai dess carried.
Fares—Durban, £2O ;
Capetown, £22 10s. / London, £45.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F.H.S. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND. Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, August 3.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m,, SATURDAY,
August 10.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 17.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
BRISBANE A
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 3.
KONOOWARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, August 6.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, August 10.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanston-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
I Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.


STRANGE
PREDICTIONS
Planetary Professor Foretells
Events, and Quickly Reads the
Lives of People, though Thou-
sands of Miles Away.
Sends Letters to the Rich and Poor
Alike, in which he advises them about
BUSINESS, MARRIAGE, SPECULATION,
LOVE AFFAIRS, WEALTH, ETC.
Offers Readings to all who write and
send Date of Birth, Sex, Married or
Single, with 1/- to cover cost of
postage, etc.
IN his office in Melbourne, surrounded by
Charts and Dials of strange design, Prof.
Henri De Astro studies daily over the lives
of men and women who have written him for
advice on affairs of business, love, speculation,
travel, marriage, health, and the important
events of life. The following letter gives an
idea of
MR. DE ASTRO’S ABILITY.
My Advice Brought Money.
Brisbane.
I am proud to tell you that I have profited greatly
by following-the advice contained in my Horoscope.
I had about given up taking a journey, but when you
advised it so strongly, I reconsidered and took the
journey, passed my examinations, and am now in a
position to earn from £2O to £25 per month. I would
not take £lO for the advice you gave me.
I believe every young person starting in life should
by all means secure a Horoscope from you. Nothing
I ever received has given me such power to control
conditions and circumstances as your Horoscope.
Wishing you every success, I am, yours truly,
B. H. RANDALL.
THE accuracy of recent predictions made by
this eminent Astrologer has caused many
of his friends to believe that he possesses
a supernatural power, but he modestly asserts
that his predictions are due alone to a scien-
tific understanding of natural laws. The many
thankful letters Prof. De Astro has received
from people who have benefited by his advice
furnish ample proof that he is sincere in his
work and has a kindly feeling towards
humanity.
Readers of The Bulletin can obtain a
Reading by addressing a letter to Prof. De
Astro, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Simply
say you wish a Reading of your Life, stating
your birth date, sex, and whether married
or single, enclosing Is. Stamps or Postal Note
to pay postage etc., and the Reading will
be promptly sent.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Rlair’c GOUT AND
JJla.ll RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail. T)|
They Always Cure. EL lllu
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
śdf
THE BALLET GIRL
sd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.O.s SYDNEY.
sd
A
%
7,
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
rTTYHE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
I plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When ha,s done these
thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POIbONb, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debilitv can exist in a body charged with Electric Life ; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, “o Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs wfriile you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adiusted in a minute and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With 1
you can “mint direct to the ™t affected. You can get tl.e full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders
head or any otir part of your body. It has_a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for rt wh.ch puts ,t
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as <£.l m many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help vourself. It is full of tilings that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep, 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R, CORCORAN
The McLaughlin co.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
i
sďs
dsf
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as 11 run-down 11 or 14 out of sorts. Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints. Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
4>
ahd OINTMENT
TMMENSE SUCCESS
FROOTOIDS
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, IHDICESTION & CONSTIPATION.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
mm/inrins nroof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
Pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-
Ufipners are nnsfstocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, ami so encouragg
business in your own distinct? If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No* 5, First Floor* Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.


<N
□
d
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
• • •
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS,
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS' SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH, AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of Influenza and Bronchitis, and for
ten years was suffering with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had medical attendance, arid tried various
medicines recommended, hut without success until, on my daughter’s recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, with the result that it completely cured me, and I am perfectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL, l'l6 Shields Street, Flemington, Melbourne.
DRY HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hacking cough on my chest that used
to trouble me terribly at night time. I was told,it,was a touch, of Bronchitis. I tried different sort’s of medicine,
which took no effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure in informing you, relieved me at
once. It has completely cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on vour medicine for a thorough and
immediate cure.—l remain, yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS, Modewarre, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—My daughter, 12 years of age, had a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one
bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been
wonderful.—Yours, etc., J. BATSON, Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma
since. I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL, Smeaton, Victoria.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send me by return post one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which
please find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced
to have a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose, and improved immediately. I like to always
have some on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to
make use of what I have written. This is not the first time it has done me good.—Yours truly,"
G. R. HOOK, “ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE.
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have been very ill with Influenza and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this statement
by publishing it for the benefit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE, Reedy Creek, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of j’our wonderful Bronchitis Cure. _ I can say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form, it completely cured me, and now in the winter months, if I at all
contract a cold on the chest, it gives me instant relief. I have also proved its efficacy with members of my family,
whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir, you are
deserving of the best thanks of the community for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable medicine.—l
remain, gratefully yours, W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in quickly
curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medicine for
chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received.—l ain,
Dear Sir, yours faithfully,
D. BEATTY, Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Last winter, my youngest son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest,
had a dry, distressing, hacking cough, which troubled the poor little fellow very badly at night-time. I tried many
so-called panaceas without any appreciable effect. But, after using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
I am pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely
disappeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending your magical medicine to my friends. Believe me to
be, yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES, “Lilliesea,” Union Street, Windsor, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED. A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several
occasions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard
of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my
bed, but I commenced taking it at once and gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots of medicine you
sent have effected a complete cure, for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR, Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
SUFFOCATING DRY COUGH FOR TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescriptions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the fifth
dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, sir, yours most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT, Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ SUFFERER
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.—l remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY, Bethanga, Victoria.
OF lIVIITATIONSI Tlie great success of HEABNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HE A RISE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has.. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE —Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, Is. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE,— -Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No, 5 f First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney,
A
*
o
m
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
$ eager’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“ Hamer ” : Something is happening to
Syria in Redfern (Sydney). That locality,
which is so much Syria that an R.C. church
in the neighborhood has its dedication re-
peated in Syrian characters, is becoming full
of empty shops. Syria is migrating. The
hope is that it is moving out of Australia, but
that is, possibly, too good to be true. Still, it
may be that the recent iniquitous legislation
against the importation of shoddy is spoiling the
Syrian’s business. A Chinaman, pointing to
the closed gambling dens in the Chows’ part of the
city, told me recently that tyrannical legislation
was driving capital out of the country.
“M. Macgregor ” on color :
Professor Macmillan Brown, of Maoriland, has given it
as his opinion that the Australian is turning black, and
he is deservedly a scoffed-at man in consequence. All
the same, it is likely that the future Australian will show
a marked differentiation of color from the average
European. The Jew of Palestine, who is racially identical
with the Syrian who carries his pack through the country
districts of Australia, is many degrees darker than
the Jew from England, or Germany, • or Russia ;
yet the latter has had less than a thousand years
in which to divest himself of his tawniness. And it
is much easier to take on color than to lose it. The sun-
bather acquires his deep-brown tint in a week or two, yet
he often retains much of it when the next season starts ;
and, in addition, the Australian is generally an individual
who courts the sunlight, whereas the Oriental shuns it.
The first thing the Hindu does when he can afford it
is to buy an umbrella, to shelter his head from the
rays that the Australian delights to bask in.
Dago, but the man whose skin is brown on the surface is
an Australian every time. The visitor to London can
pick out his compatriots even before he hears them speak.
It is odds on, if you meet a brown man in Fleet-street,
and ask him if he’s an Australian, his face will brighten
and he’ll ariswer “ Yair.” The future Australian will be
brown ; but, as for being black, that is another question,
The true Arab has lived in the North of Africa longer
than history can record, but he is no blacker than the
Sydney youth after a summer on the sands of Bondi,
The Caucasian seems to have a maximum color point
beyond which the sun rays have no effect.
Something of the vastness of Westralia
,~.»,c , ~ , .. ,
can be realised from the fact that it has still
(June 30, 1906) 459.485,158 acres of country
-w* .«,«»<! io«e.
waiting for somebody to try to make a living off
•, a nr i 450 485 158 aeries nbrmt 717 QOO
«• f ™ _ T 3ut 717,900
square miles , into which vast area of unoccupied
country you could drop Germany, Greece, the
Netherlands, Denmark, Italy, and Portugal, if
they weren’t glued down too tight to be taken up
;lIK } dropped down anywhere, and after that there
~ . t n , -r, •
would still be plenty of room eft for Great Britain
sit. down in the sand with Japan, and note
what its yellow ally is like at close quarters.


ďsf
sfd
sdf
I^3:
>I/VD GET THE BREATH of THE PINE
FORESTS INTO YOUR CHEST AND LUNGS.
“TVT EVER start on a long train journey without a box of Peps. The risk of chill, and contact with people who
Il| may be suffering from highly-infectious chest and lung complaints, is very dangerous when the ever-present
“draughts” in a train make your lungs susceptible.
When you go to a concert, public meeting, or to a ball or the theatre in thin attire, take Peps with you.
They will ward off chill and rid you of the evil results of breathing foul air. Remember that in a crowded room
the air you breathe is polluted with the carbonic gas exhaled by all present.
Keep a box of Peps by your bedside, and that nasty cough which keeps you awake at night will be promptly
got rid of. That significant morning cough, which speaks of deep-seated lung trouble, is best treated with the
pure pine essences in Peps.
Peps should never be absent from the nursery. They will save the careful mother many an anxious hour,
and bring ease and rest to little sufferers from whooping-cough or croup.
Take a box of Peps to business with you, for nothing is more annoying than a persistent cough in business
hours. In the factory or workshop a handy box of Peps will prove the best safeguard against sore throat and the
never-absent dangers of dust and infection.
Keep Peps always handy wherever you are, for one never knows what perilous infection of consumption,
influenza, colds, laryngitis, or sore throat may be carried about by the people you are constantly coming in
contact with.
lun<
With a handy box of Peps you are endowed with the rich breath of the pine forest—Nature’s true
-h ealer.
PEPS are a sure, safe, and pleasant remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Huskiness, Sore or Relaxed Throat, Laryngitis Croup
Cuinsy, Loss of Voice, Asthma, that Hacking Cough, Children’s Colds, Tightness of the Chest, Bronchial Colds, Smoker’s Throat, Influenza’
and other throat, chest, and lung troubles. PEPS are an excellent safeguard against the dangers of pleurisy and pneumonia. Singers and
speakers will find them excellent for strengthening the throat and voice.
• •
FREE
• •
This Coupon entitles the sender
to a FREE SAMPLE of PEPS.
Cut it out and send it, also enclose
Id. stamp, for return postage, to
The Peps Pastille Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney, when your sample
will be mailed at once. All letters
must bear full postage.
. SAMPLE .
"A Pine Forest
v in Every Home’
sfd
For all
Throat ana Chest Ailments.
Ask Your Chemist
or Storekeeper for PEPS.
Price 1/6 and 3/- per box,
packed in dainty metal
boxes, or they may be ob-
tained for same prices (post
free) direct from The Peps
Pastille Co., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
N.S.W. Grocers’ Association has discovered
that monopoly is a bad thing. Just now the retail grocer
has a monopoly of the discredit attached to a prosecution
for selling impure foodstuffs. He has also a monopoly of
the bad advertisement, and for the first time in "the
history of the Ass. he has objected violently. He wants
the discredit distributed equally between the wholesaler
and the manufacturer, and himself left out in the cold.
Although the wholesaler at present pays all the fines, the
retailer finds that the advertisement is a killing one. He
maintains, with solid horse-sense, that it is easier for the
wholesaler to analyse his stock than for the struggling
retailer to do so. In all probability the wholesaler will
wantto pass the advertisement along to the manufacturer,
but as that disreputable person is largely domiciled
abroad, and beyond the reach of the local courts, the
public will not derive much satisfaction if he is left to
bear the brunt alone. Even his bad advertisement is
easily overcome—the news of the prosecution does not
circulate very widely. Of course, if Australia did practi-
cally all its own manufacturing-, and had its manufacturer
here where the police could get at him, they would
naturally go for him, and not for the mere retailer.
Therefore, all retail grocers should cry out for 100 per
cent. Protection, so that the manufacturer will be here.
* » • •
“Victim ” : Cast a casual curse at the Barrios
Diamond Co., which for some three years has been selling
mock jewellery (on a sliding scale) to many people in
Melbourne. The “ Barriosities,” glittering under a tricky
arrangement of electric light, were originally sold at 245.
or £1 per brooch, ring, shirt stud, or what not, on the
understanding that they were rather high-class imita-
tions of precious stones with honestly-gilt settings. As
time went on the shop—shifting from one side of
Swanston-street to t’other—offered the same old class of
goods at a diminishing price. The 20s. fell to 125., then
to Bs., then to 45., then 25., and now the remnant of the
stock is being cleared out at a “bob” per article,
which appears to be about fair value, on an
average. Jones buys for one shilling a dupli-
cate of, say, a mock diamond stud which cost
Brown twenty times the price, three years ago.
But whilst Jones is congratulating himself on liis
comparative bargain purchase, he is likely to be had
with the offer of an alleged “ 16-carat gold-shell watch-
chain, filled with rolled gold,” which is “ warranted ” to
preserve its genuine appearance for half a lifetime. A
test of one of these chains reveals it as brass, gold-
washed. Its ordinary retail price, at Brummagem-g-oods
houses, is half-a-crown. And in selling this at ten
shillings to-day the “ Barrios ” shopkeeper states—truth-
fully, no doubt—that his original price for it was £2.
The vaguely-worded “ guarantee ” given with these extra-
special two-and-sixpenny watch-chains, now reduced
from £2 to ten shillings, should bring the proceedings
within the reach of the Law, but the game of legal pro-
ceedings is not worth the candle.
* * * •
Dr. Macdonald, the “white” sugar enthusiast,
has been letting in a little light on the monopolistic
Colonial Sugar Co. According to him, the co. pays
£8 10s. per ton for the raw material at the refinery,
spends another 30s. on the refining, and sells the finished
product at £26. And only a few weeks back the glut-
tonous co. advanced sugar another 10s. per ton, “ owing
to the advance in the price of cane.”
* * * •
Experiments in growing cigar leaf tobacco,
made by Teitzel Bros., of Bowen (Q.), under the guidance
of Queensland Government Expert Neville, have come
out all right so far. From about an acre and a quarter,
a ton and a half has been harvested, and if it is worth the
alleged Bd. to lid. per lb., there is money in the business.
Hitherto the trouble with tobacco growers has been that
the prices have rarely, if ever, come up to expectations ;
as with opals when the gouger finds the buyer, there has
always been something shocking the matter with the
stuff. Still, the Teitzels intend planting a larger area,
and other farmers thereabouts intend giving up growing
maize, potatoes, and tomatoes to go in for the cultiva-
tion of the combustible stuff that made Dowie call out
“ stinkpot.”
* * * •
European manufacturers of shoddy explosives
used to be troubled by the failure of their rubbish to
pass the Abel test—the only generally recognised test of
the safety and stability of blowing-up substances. They
discovered, however, that the addition of a little mercury
bichloride—as little as one part in 200,000 —enabled the
low-grade explosive to pass the test, which rests
on the application of heat. Dr. Dupre, the most
eminent European analyst of explosives, could find
no perfectly satisfactory method of discovering the
fraud till he fell back on a spectroscopic device, and even
that fails to reveal how much of the adulterant is present.
The Chief Inspector of Explosives in England lately
informed the Government Analysts at Brisbane and
Adelaide that shipments of adulterated explosives were
on their way. The shipments were stopped, and upon
examination by the spectroscopic method, were found to
be shoddy. Both Australian analysts thereupon set to
work to discover a chemical method of discerning the
mercury, and both succeeded. By Henderson’s method
Henderson is the Brisbane analyst—the presence of such
a small quantity as one part in 1,000,000 can be dis-
cerned. This is another proof that, in almost any branch
of research or industry, the Australian can hold his own.
“ Hassan ” : An extraordinary species of trades-
man called at our house yesterday. His line was a new
corn-cure—“ perfec’ly ’armless.” To prove this, he ate
half a cake with simulated relish. He informed me that
a parson’s wife in Balmain had cured all her corns with it
in one night—hundreds of corns, thousands of corns—
speech failed him as he thought of the multitudinous
corns of the parson’s wife at Balmain, and he waved his
arms helplessly. We learned also that upon one occasion
a “gentleman” insisted upon him (the tradesman)
personally applying the remedy to the toe of the
lady of the house. “Naow, that was a nice thing
to ask, wasn’t it, sir?” Here he blushed. This stuff
would also cure warts. That was how he discovered it.
As a boy he played with frogs—result, warts all over his
body. Now he hadn’t one—he invited the servant girl to
search him. She refused with much indignation. I
asked him would it cure bankruptcy, and when he said
it wouldn’t I let the dog loose, and be dashed round to
the gate with halt a cake of his invention in his mouth,
and desperation in his eye. The dog ate one of the pack-
ages he shed as he ran, and seemed rather to enjoy it.
ihe steamer Ferret, which is still dancing
round the coast, came to Australian waters under
peculiar circumstances 26 years ago. It arrived
at Hobson’s Bay in 1881 under the name of the India,
but was promptly identified as the same old Ferret—a
vessel stolen in Scotland the previous year. The enter-
prising ship-lifters had chartered the steamer at Glasgow
for a yachting cruise in the Mediterranean, and had for-
gotten to take it back again. Instead of going to the
Mediterranean, the picnickers steered for the Cape, thence
to Mauritius, thence to Melbourne. Suspicions were
aroused in Melbourne, with the result that the bogus
owners were arrested for petty larceny of the Great
Eastern, or something. The vessel was not sent
back to Scotland, but was sold here. The Ferret
is now 36 years old, and is owned by the Adelaide
Steamship Co. For many years it was in the South
Australian Gulf trade, but has lately been on the Wes-
tralian coast, plodding between Albany and Esperance.
* * * * .
I he high price of copper has started a new in-
dustry in England—stealing telegraph wire. Some of
the heavy wires run about 2001 b. to the mile, and
thus a few hundred yards are worth sundry drinks. The
thieves have to work in exposed positions, but along
canal sides and in quiet country places there is a steady
cutting and carting away.
* * * *
“ Dejected ” : The other day I went into a shop
in Adelaide to order a suit of clothes. The boss of the
establishment put before my gaze about a dozen rolls of
different alleged all-wool tweeds—Scotch, English and
sundries. I asked him to show me some Australian
tweeds, and he replied briefly, “ Don’t stock’em. Can’t
sell’em. No good.” When I inquired why they were
no good, he told me, after some hesitation, that they were
all wool. I replied that I wanted all wool, and that he had
just been boasting that the imported stuff he showed me
was all wool. Then he struggled hard in his mind for a
feasible narrative, and at last he got it. “Oh, yes,” he
said, “ but you see they get the pick of the world’s wool
in England, and the Australian wool isn’t so good.”
Asked him where the better wool came from, and he
waved his hands vaguely and said, “Oh, all sorts of
places.”
* * • *
“Bondite”: On the La Perouse tram, the
other day, I ran across an aged fisherman who ought to
be a Standard Oil Trust, or something of the sort. He
was Anti-Sosh personified-the spirit of sturdy indivi-
dualism and all the daily paper virtues condensed into
about nine-stone-two of stringy manhood. Also, the odor
of the basket he bore was sufficient to gain him admission
into the caucuses of commerce. He sat in one corner of
a tram, smoking vigorously. I was the only other occu-
pant of the car until reaching Kensington, when a party
of elegantly-caparisoned youths hopped on board. One
drew out a gold cigarette-case and offered it to his
pals. “No, old fellah, try one of mine,” said the
second. “ No, one of mine,” protested the third,
Eventually they effected a general exchange of
cigarettes that seemed satisfactory to all, and then
found that they hadn’t a match among them. They
appealed to me. I was in the same predicament. They
asked the driver. He turned out to be president
of an anti-cigarette league. They asked the aged
fisherman. “Mebbe I have, an’ mebbe I haven’t,”
observed the astute financier, dragging a dirty box from
his pocket. “ It’s this way, gents,” he continued. “No
offence, but business is business. I’m sellin’ these ’ere
matches. I’m takin’one o’them cigarettes from each o’
you gents fur three matches. No fear,” he added, as the
nearest proffered a cigarette. “If it’s all the same ter
yous, I’ll take the three at onst. I’m not sayin’ anythin’,
yer know ; but you might give the rest a light, an’
where’d I be? The three at onst. Thank yer, gents,
Kin I do anything in the fish line with yer ter-day ? ”
**. * *
“Hassan”: How’s this for meanness? A
Sydney society woman, whom I could name but won’t,
secured an eider-down quilt “on appro.” at a big draper’s
shop. She sent it back two months later, saying it
wouldn’t do, and the collapsed assistant struggled feebly
as they loosened his collar. His last words were : “ It’s
the limit 1 ” I think it was.
*** * •
Man proposes, Moses forecloses,
* * * *
When you get a parcel of goods “on appro”
is is just as well to see if the tradesman has acci-
dntally dropped a figure or two on to the paper
wrapping. Some English wool people sent a parcel
to possible buyers, and there were figures on the
paper—figures representing several pence under what
the wool was said to be worth. The buyers promptly
wired acceptance at the price quoted on the package,
The wool people said there wasn’t any price on the pack-
age ; but, when the buyers produced the paper with the
figures on it, the Judge found for them ; and the Brad-
ford Chamber of Commerce is mad about it, because the
wool people say that they wrapped the sample up in any
old paper, and that the figures just happened to
be on the old paper. Possibly an Australian Court
wouldn’t necessarily follow what a Judge at Leicester
did ; still, if you get a parcel of diamonds “ on appro,”
and “ 2d.” happens to be marked on the paper, it would
be worth sending a wire stating that you will take the
lot—just on spec, so to speak,
* * * *
“Dux” from the North Island: I have been
overwhelmed by the flood-tide of weird expectancy. A
Maori, after pressing his nose against the shop window
for a considerable time, entered and delivered himself
thus: “You got te spect’le to suit all sights, pboss?”
I said I had, and invited him into my parlor, as the spider
did to the fly that proved to be a wasp. His case, a
simple one of presbyopia, was soon corrected, and a
satisfied customer lit out for “ te pah,” while I put £1 in
the till. It was good business, something like 1000 per
cent., and I shouted myself to the play that night. But
the end was not yet. Next morning the warrior, now
filled with a violent anger, burst into the shop, with quite
a tribe of dusky ones ; and all demanded with much
gesticulation, “Why you sellem te spect’le to suit all
sights?” “ Why, what’s the matter?” I shouted back at
them. “ You te prurry rogue ! We fetcliem te polishman
prurry quick,” they shrieked. “What the adjective
blank’s wrong with you? Has the blanky tribe gone
mad?” I bawled. “Me tellem you what te matter
prurry quick,” spoke the warrior. “You sellum te
spect’le to suit all sights, yes. Te spect’le orlri’to me,
yes. Te spect’le no tarn goot to Hinemoa ; no tarn goot
to Hape; no tam goot to Tohara, te pig chief; no tarn
goot to all te Maori, no”; and with vehement threaten-
ing—“ You givem te quid back prurry quick. Wefetch’etn
te polishman. Berrar look out! ” There were too many
ot them, and they looked like breaking the stock. I
wearily handed over 19s. and a Boer war medal, receiving
ln return a dilapidated pair of spectacles which had
evidently been tried on by the whole tribe. You can’t
reason Maorn
.* m ,
The Jap is a strenuous trader all right, T other
day, at Frisco, while the Health people were fumigating
some packing cases in a vessel’s hold, they heard the
cargo break out into fits of sneezing. They had hfever
heard silk and lacquerwork sneeze just like that before,
so they investigated, and found that the shipment con-
sisted of Japanese Tottie disguised as about 14 different
sorts of merchandise.
**. * *
“ Thataroa ” : There is a scandalous boom in
land in Maoriland just now, prices reaching £4O per acre,
mostly through “ the cow ” ; and a Government grader
goes out of his way to say the figures are justified by
butter prices. Butter prices, perhaps; but what about
the price of human life?
THE IVANHOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thousand pounder’s beating
Thrills through and through the camps,
The hills around repeating
This thunder of the stamps.
Like hearts of giants breaking,
The pistons grunt and sigh,
The stormy music making
A miner’s battle-cry.
'Tis like the roaring ocean,
With wave and tide allow—
This sound and force and motion,
Upon the Ivauhoe.
The belts and shafts are singing,
As tireless runs the gear,
And strident tones are ringing
Upon the atmosphere.
“ Shake up that damned condenser 1 ”
We mustn’t stop, you know,
Or a thousand horse-power’s loafing,
Upon the Ivanhoe.
Out, in, and round about here,
It’s clang, and crash, and din ;
We tear the metal out here,
And cram the forest in.
A gale upon the surface,
A hurricane below,
It’s no place for the nervous—
This roaring Ivanhoe.
We risk our lives for clobber,
And sorts of tucker. We
Provide the swell and jobber
With gold for gay Paree.
Would but some burly statesman
Bid these Usurpers go,
'Twould pay our country’s debts, man ;
This gold from Ivanhoe.
The thousand pounder’s beating
Thrills through and through the camps,
The hills around repeating
This thunder of the stamps,
Like hearts of giants breaking,
The pistons grunt and sigh,
The stormy music making
A miner’s battle-cry.
’Tis like the roaring ocean,
With wave and tide allow,
This constant roar and motion,
Upon the Ivanhoe.
WESTRAMA.
M. J. CALLANAN.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE —•
sfd
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
ail parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
n- -1
n - ' """ ' " ' r " ' '
iptUtUgß" ' "Eium ■■■■" 11 111 111 mlO
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
ďsf
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14s
CAN
T
B
BEAT
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes—
4in., 7/0 ea.; sin., 9/0 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of. Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ƒds
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR «PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heftameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into payings more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ipF" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
■ ♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS £k*. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy lspost. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
FOR^
BOSISTOS
“PARROT 1
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
AND REFUSE I
\sußSTiwnsJ
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
* LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
COAGrULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘ LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth atrial.
LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
DYSON’S “Faet’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
fds
PRIZES value £l5OO.
• IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £5OO.
SErtRS? 1 3S 3S
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
Trades Hall, Sydney.
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
WE ARE ON THE "SPOT
withCRYSTAIATE BIUIARD BALLS
V//,,
m
ilk
The ■
Only-
SubsTifufe
for •
Ivory
ALCOC/f & C?ptyM
£55 •
£l/ZAB£Tfis7
Mei,a.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms —
-422 GEORGE STREET
s
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORD?
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
fds
REFERENDUM
UmmmousElectm
of the
Celebrated
ThePremierPipe
of the World
Obtainable from alt Tobacconists
FOR WINTER!
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the safest
and most comfortable form of clothing. We recom-
mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
but for those who prefer wool next the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
in Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. C. E. Borciigrbvink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to rea,ch the
South Pole, writes:—“Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing' proved most excellent during the time X
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George aftd Pitt Streets).


The Hon. A. Hicks, J.P.,
M.L.C., the ex-May or of
Eaglehawk, Vic., says
that Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs,
Colds, and Consumption
cured him of a severe
cough and cold in a re-
markably short time.
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 t»' 101-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tint Bulletin.] [5
fds
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Gap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee*
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopsecia (loss of
hair) stated that if a moans could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), witnout
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on, wnen
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remarked that the Cap would
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Board.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap will he sent, post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
EST. 1847 d « J
At f cocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Bask,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For pains in the region of tne
Kidney*, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there Is pain apply
Allcock's Plaster.
For Rheumatism or Pains in
Shoulders, hlbowsorelsewhere,
or fur Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
and for Aching Feet, Plaster
should be cut size and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
i -
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc.
Established 1752,
An Order for a Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU know not, lady, what you will,
Or what an eerie throng
I have to summon to fulfil
Your order for a song.
They heard you in the outer waste,
And, throbbing with desire
To press their claims on me, they haste
In coracles of fire.
You do not know their ardent pleas,
These strange poetic norms,
To leave their filmy destinies
And incarnate in forms.
They’ve waited through the ages, some,
They’ve knocked at every door
The bards have shown, but deaf or dumb
Have all men seemed before.
And some had been half-heard, but yearn
In riper ears to say
What seers were then too young to learn,
Or too alarmed to weigh.
And all the dreams you yearn to sing,
But somehow fail to voice.
Leave you anon and to me spring
To influence my choice.
So norms from you and norms from me
Their wedding rites rehearse,
And lead their children silently
To cradle in a verse.
Around the door of mind they veer,
Its threshold ’neath, above;
And there are misty wraiths of Fear,
And golden clouds of Love.
For Poets (that all strive to be
Who view the Vision Real)
Are but the doors ajar they see
Through which they yearn to steal.
The worlds they live in have, like ours,
Their life and land and sea,
Imagination’s blue-rimmed towers,
And vales of reverie;
Germ-thoughts in races group themselves,
In dim migrations go;
Faint fairy duties war with elves
Of sin in embryo.
So, while your order flutters to
My chambers of the mind.
These things that are to be throng through,
Their human robes to find.
They bribe the wayside grassy blades
Their wishes to suggest;
I note their tiny ambuscades
In smile, in heaving breast.
Yea, some employ such subtle wiles
To prove to me their worth,
They launch my boat on eerie Niles
And row me from the earth,
Till larger continents we find,
And stars that woo me, burn
Above their land of “ Absent Mind,”
By the world of “ No-Return” :
Till we alone are real, and all
The stormy facts of day
Into Illusion’s chasm fall,
A rainbow o’er its spray ;
Till so my boatmen’s ichors surge
Through being and through thought
(’Tis here, they say, with God we merge)
That Earth becomes as nought.
But then, with instantaneous skill,
Down earth-ward currents strong
They row me, lady, to fulfil
Your order for a song.
VIO.
BERNARD O'DOWD.
The Night Hawks’ Retreat,
A MELBOURNE “CAFE DE NUIT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the theatre lights are out, the
clocks have struck 12, and the last
train is not lost, but gone before ; when
the chic cafes, restaurants, and oyster saloons are
closed ; when the last glass has been drained and
the last butt tossed away ; when, in his club room,
the dude removes his skin-tight trousers, and the
respectable ratepayer is already snoring in his
suburban villa—then, when the moon looks down
on the lonely river, and the deserted streets glitter
under the electric lights, the prowlers of the night
come into their own.
Melbourne is not a late city. Like London, it
“douses the glim” somewhere about midnight.
Berlin and Vienna and New York keep moving
always; and in Paris, at the Montmartre “cafes
de nuit,” Bohemia drinks bock, smokes, cake-
walks, and abolishes the Symbolists till six in the
morning.
But we be busy folk, slaves of the day’s work.
All things revolve in the light o’ the sun. Except
some stately John and some late and delaying
drunk, hardly an alien soul can be seen poaching
on the night-hawks’ preserves.
“ What about supper?” observes the Mystic.
The motion is put and carried. We leave the
Hall of Dialectics.
“Isn’t the night lovely?” exclaims a Damosel
of the Crayon. “ Why do people ever go to bed?”
After midnight the city sleeps. Through the
luminous mist buildings rise huge and mysterious;
all harsh outlines are softened by the magic of
night. The bridge is strangely etched against the
violet sky. Yellow lights twinkle; the river
flows sullenly beneath. The long, deserted streets,
marked like a chessboard, stretch into the romantic
darkness.
No pushes are about; lately they have kept to
the suburbs. A tall “cop” stands under a verandah
watching a house opposite ; perhaps it is a two-up
school he means to raid. A cabby passes, whip
in hand, following a prospective fare, said fare
being a youtig man who seems to have considerable
philosophic doubt both as to where he is ar.d
where he wants to go. In the shadow of a door-
way an old battered derelict lies sleeping. Three
bedraggled women shout drunkenly at the corner.
In the middle of the road a swaggie, with bluey and
billy, stares hopelessly around. He is bushed.
“ Hang the coffee-stall! Let’s go to Guido’s,”
remarks the Busy Journalist. “That’s the only
place for supper. ”
The Red-Headed Sport relates two of his
youthful adventures at this famous hash-house.
The company is impressed.
A glittering window starts out in the darkness.
This is the Night Hawks’ Retreat, a highly
popular all-night restaurant. We find the place
in full swing. Guido accords us a joyous welcome.
The fire blazes; pots and pans rattle; steaks are
being grilled, eggs boiled, sausages fried ; cus-
tomers bawl their orders. The interesting pro-
prietor, a short, powerfully-built, tawny-skinned,
humorous Dago, leans over the counter and shouts,
“ All-aright, give er bloke-a er chance.”
Even in the back rooms set apart for the more
distinguished visitors a pungent odor of cooking
thickens the already tobacco-clouded air. The
Crayon Damosel is interested.
Big brown stains splatter the sawdust floor and
the flyblown kalsomined walls. Deal bars, form-
ing a kind of shutter, block the window in order
to protect the glass from missiles that passionate
patrons fling at one another promiscuously.
It is a hot, steamy night. Lazy blowflies crawl
round the walls, and drop casually from the ceil-
ing into the hot food. On the swab, with its
stuffing oozing out, curious cockroaches lie in
ambush. A battered kerosene tin serves as a
scrap bucket.
Round the room there are prints and oleographs
of prize fighters and Dago generals. Over the
mantelpiece is a marvellous battle scene between
the Greeks and Turks, a modern Marathon in
which the Hellenes appear like gaudy dolls from
a Noah’s Ark. Placards bear the legends that
“All meals must be paid for on delivery,” and
“Gents are requested not to spit.”
Guido carts round the dishes. How the plates
clatter and the patrons bellow ! It is a revel of
sausages fried in fat, steak and chips, bacon and
eggs, tripe and onions, fried mullet —all hot from
the kitchen, and washed down with chicory for
coffee, tannin for tea, and flour for cocoa.
And what a wondrous crowd gorges round these
deal ta.bles —men and women, old and young, of
all nationalities seemingly and of many classes !
That absurdly fat man, with cheeks puffed out
like a bladder, is a German bassoon player. The
dandy-colored coon opposite, toying with a bunch
of tripe, is a professional pug.
Among the crowd we have a Yankee morphia
maniac—a highly educated man, once manager
of a big business, but now a derelict, all brought
about by the drug. Every hour or so he injects
the poison into his system, till his neck and arms
and throat are but one mass of ghastly punctures.
A brace of spielers add spice to the company.
One is Benno the Bird. Benno wears a silver
watch chain with horseshoe locket attached,
sharp-pointed jockey boots, and a red, white and
blue buttonhole ; he sports a gaudy-colored
“neck wi]ie ” flung round his throat; and he
tilts his “lid” far to the back of his head in order
to display the lovely hair, well oiled and arranged
according to some strict geometrical design, de-
corating his low, sloping forehead.
A few unfortunate women, some merely girls,
shout and curse with their blokes.
Bookies, touts, jockeys, journalists, gamblers,
J’s.P., barristers, doctors—members of all the
professions and none—call at one time or another
at Guido’s when they are having a night out.
Nothing astonishes Guido. A man of the
world, he has the same smile for the violinist as
for the pavement artist; the same for the pug as
for the heavy tragedian. ’
A wonderful man, this Guido. A Greek, he
has been to most countries on the map; he has
tried many trades, from running a brewery round
Spencer’s Gulf and pearl-fishing at Torres Straits,
to cutting scrub in Gippsland and running a hash
house in Melbourne. He has been over 20 years
in Australia, and has always had money. He is
a man who could pick up coins in Collins-street.
Guido is afraid of nothing that walks. Under
stress of circumstances, he fired out a middle-
weight wrestler. The wrestler was a little the
worse for liquor, ’tis true, yet it was a daring feat
long remembered by his clients.
And Guido is a philosopher.
“My son ’e wos—a ” he begins.
There is a disturbance in front. Guido cocks
his ears and sallies forth to suppress the riot.
“ Himmelkreuzdonnerwetter,” observes the
Teutonic musician. It sounded like a ’Frisco
’quake. A blowfly had committed suicide in his
stew —that was all.
During the disturbance a “ mixed double ” rise
and ask Guido, in matter-of-fact tones, to keep
their steak hot.
“We’ll be back in ten minutes,” says the lady.
Guido continues. “ I not believe in ze educa-
zion. Make my son too dam-a lazy. I put ’im in
three shoppa. ’E knock-a round, never do a
tappa. Zey go bung, bung. I bought ’im er
nice-a little-a farm with ze pig and poultry an’ ze
duck; ’e play ze football all daylonga; ze pig
alia die ; Sacramento Christi, maledetto, ’e costa
me two-a ’undreda quid. ’E ’ad ze educazion. I
kick ’im out, give ’im ze shoota, eh ? ’E drive
a cab-a now. ’E’ll come-a back. Dad es ’is best-a
friend. I should-a smile.”
Our Mystic contends that a supper should be
composed as a complete whole, all details being
chastened and subdued to preserve the general
harmony. No dish should stand out in bold
relief. It should be a thread, the necessary com-
plement to what preceded it, and the gracious in-
troduction to what is to follow. The Red-Headed
Sport is too busy making good with the Crayon
Damosel to heed this subtlety, and the Busy
Journalist tries to talk Homeric Greek to Guido.
“Righto ” —Guido rushes to attend to clamorous
customers.
“This bloomin’flounder orter git ther old ige
pension,” says a disgusted lady in puce.
“Say, Guido,” breaks in the Yank, “these
oysters are game. They’re small, but full o’
fight.”
“ Yon big vat you call de blowfly, qgh, ’e swim
inter de soup, ” —this from the disciple of Wagner
—“vat is dat is wrong mit decatch-flies ? ”
All the crowd chyaels Guido. That’s what he’s
there for, but his genial beam never leaves his
classic dial.
A scramble takes places in t,he corner be-
tween two of the push. Beer talks, and Dirty
Sam reckons he’s another Squires. Guido grabs
Sam by the scruff of the neck, shakes him, and
then empties the “coming champion” out into
the wide, wide world.
“ What can I do-a for you ? ” inquires the chef,
looking round pleasantly before returning to the
eternal frying-pan.
It is time to go.
Outside there is a strong smell of yeast in the
air. The bakers are at work. Smoke rises from
some cool-storage factories. A cock crows shrilly,
heralding the dawn. A tall policeman trudges
slowly past. Carts laden with fruit and vege-
tables rumble towards the market.
“ Good-night, Guido.”
The Mystic pays. He always does. That’s the
sort of mystic we appreciate. The Busy Jour-
nalist has cut out the Red-Headed Sport. The
Damosel Artistique likes variety,
“And ’ow was-a the sand mullet?” beams
Guido.
“ We had the sand,” says the Sport; “ we’ll get
the mullet next time.”
Guido leans over the counter resignedly,
It will soon be dawn. One feels already the
keenness of the morning air. Soon the night-
hawks will slink off to their dens. Red morn
scatters them. Night-hawks are a sorry sight in
the glad light of the sun.
LOUIS ESSON.


LIFE OR DEATH.
Keep the Kidneys Healthy
and you Will Live to a Good
Old Age Neglecft Them and
Suffering and Death must
Soon Follow.
“ Every
"Picture
Tells a
Story?
UK:
r.
A
V
a
SSv
Weak Kidneys, Bladder and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lame Back, Gravel, Bright's
Disease, Diabetes, and nearly all the Ills of Men
and Women can be traced to the Kidneys,
A SYDNEY MAN
OWES HIS LIFE TO DOAN’S PILLS.
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain, Sydney, says :—“I used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a
miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors at different times, but
their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad that I would have to
be carried home on a cart, if an attack came on when working in the street.
Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one of these bad attacks
came on. My wife says she thought that I would never live through some
of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting.
My secretions were very bad, I could never bend my back or move at all
when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines,
and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was of no use, they did not
benefit me. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and procured this remedy. I only took one box and was cured. When I
finished them I started work, and have worked ever since. It is heavy
work lam doing, but it does not affect me. These pills cured me after
years of suffering, and the relief was almost instantaneous.”
Mrs. Smith says, eight years later : “My husband has had wonderful
health since he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam convinced that
he owes his life to this remedy. He takes a dose of the pills now and
again, just as a precaution, and because he thinks the kidneys need a tonic
sometimes. He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 219 per box (six boxes, 15/3), or will be posted
on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney.
dfs
mmm
WTO
ECZEMA CURED.
Mr. H. Watson, 3 Alfred Street,
Annandale, Sydney, says:—“A couple
of years ago I had Eczema break out
very badly on my chest. It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India,
where I had gone with horses. I had
fever badly in India, and the Eczema
seemed to be the result of this sickness,
It was very’ severe, and spread rapidly,
until I was in such a state that the pain
and irritation nearly drove me mad.
When I went to bed at night my suffer-
ings were worse, and it was nearly morn-
ing before I could get to sleep. A man
I know advised me to get Doan’s Oint-
ment, saying that he had heard of great
results by using this preparation. I
thought it a good idea, and obtained
a pot. The first application was cooling,
and the second soothed the itch, and
after that I got along splendidly. Every
time I applied the ointment there was a
marked improvement, until I was quite
cured. Within a month from the first
time I used the ointment not one trace
of the ailment remained. Doan’s Oint-
ment is a splendid preparation for
Eczema, skin irritation, to take inflam-
mation from the skin, and to heal.
Four years later Mr. Watson says .
“ It is a long time since Doan s Ointment
cured me of Eczema, and I am pleased to
say that the cure is permanent. lam
quite free of this dreadful complaint, and
have been during the past four years.
The most obstinate of all skin diseases
—Eczema —is permanently cured by the
great skin remedy, Doan’s Ointmen .
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or wi
be posted on receipt of price by I oster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN S.
Bulotu.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TO a happy, heathen haven,
By warm, azure waters laven,
Where the sea and sky are blended
in the Pathway of the Sun,
With his earth’s probation over,
Does the brown man’s soul turn rover,
In pursuit of the reward his earthly pilgrimage
has won.
’Tis a guerdon worth securing ;
Ceaseless happiness ensuring,
Hope’s supernal dreams’ fulfilment, full fruition
of desires;
Life repeating earth’s successes,
While avoiding all its messes,
Life for ever and for ever as the liver’s will
requires.
Free from jealousies and fighting,
For all wrong must find its righting
In that clear, sane understanding that the gods
alone supply;
And as all are gods, and clever,
Peace amongst them reigns forever,
In this realm of loving-kindness, where the
blossoms never die.
Every wished-for boon surrounding,
Here they dwell in luck abounding;
Here they learn at last that rapture which no
mortals ever know;
And, ambrosially nourished,
Thrive as never men have flourished,
As they lave, and drink elation, where the Living
Waters flow.
While loved music’s soothings joy them,
Rhythmic strains that never cloy them,
No harps’ twanging, but the harmonies their
mortal senses knew ;
They can hear their conch-shells blowing,
And their vibrant lalis going,
And their bamboo flutes still tootling as they
always used to do.
To Bulotu find admittance,
On their debt of Nature’s quittance,
All things moving, all things growing, without
query or rebate;
Lasting life they share together,
Man and beast, and fish and feather,
Tree and shrub, and fruit and flower,i n an ama-
ranthine state.
And I like the legend greatly,
It appeals to me innately,
For I’m almost half a heathen, and I always loved
the sea ;
But I’m fretting in a city,
In a frenzy of self-pity,
And I’m weary, very weary, of what Fate has
done for me.
For a “ southerly ” is blowing,
Sydney’s very worst moods showing,
And my head is aching sadly with the streets’ in-
cessant roar;
And I’m longing, oh, so keenly !
Just to sail away serenely.
Just to sail away a-searching for some surf-besil-
vered shore;
Such as circles far Bulotu,
That the dead Kanakas go to;
Such as sparkles ever whitely round these Islands
of the Blest;
Luring islands, all-enthralling.
Which keep calling, calling, calling,
Till the hearer drops his burdens, and departs to
seek their rest.
And the winds are never bitter
Where the greeny-golden glitter
Of bewitching, glad Bulotu stars its silken
summer sea;
In its sweet sun, shining brightly,
All the days glide past so lightly,
That Eternity is Dream time, as Eternity should
be.
So I too would cross the portals
Of the gleeful brown immortals
If they’d only let me enter, if my way there I
could see;
’Tis a decent sort of heaven,
With a lump of earthly leaven,
And I hope that a Bulotu may be waiting yet for
me.
’Twould be pleasant to be thinking,
When my sands of time were sinking,
And old Charon cried a summons, most insist-
ently, for me,
He might waft me in his wherry,
Not across his Stygian ferry,
But away to fair Bulotu, through the lustrous
Coral Sea.
N.S.W.
TALAPEKAU.
Two Rounds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JORKINS leaped to his feet with a howl
of rage, and whirled one fat fist past
Johnson’s nose, gleaming with perspira-
tion in the half-darkness.
“ Stop him ! ” shrieked Johnson as he fled over
two chairs. “ Stop him —the coward ! ”
Three shadowy forms, shouting with excitement,
surged up in Jorkins’ path, and bore him back
against the dining-room wall.
“Let me at him!” gasped Jorkins, making
swimming motions among the encircling tide of
lodgers. “Let me—at him ! ”
Instantly there was a babel of excited voices.
“No—no !”
“Stop him ! ”
“ What did he say ? ”
“ Who started it ? ”
“ No, he didn’t! ”
“ Well, you shut up ! ”
There was a sudden shrieking and scuffling on
the stairs, and the partially-clothed landlady
burst in with her hair streaming and a comb
clutched in her right hand. She looked like
Ophelia before the battle of Waterloo.
“Oh !” she sobbed ; “oh ! oh-h! oh-h-h !”
Jorkins struggled ponderously, like a stage
prisoner in the hands of the torturers.
“ Madam !” he gasped, _“ I swear to you ”
The landlady shrieked like a cockatoo. “No,
no ! I can’t bear it.”
“ But, madam ”
The landlady collapsed on top of Jones, and,
clinging to his head, wept unreasonably down the
back of his neck.
Above the tumult and the shouting Jorkins
yelled: “He’’(gasp) “he called me’’(gasp) “a
fat actor J”
Johnson leaped on top of the sof<» nd aid,
“ So von are ! ”
“Let me—at him ! ” groaned Jorkins, in a fat,
terrible voice.
Then Nailer, the undertaker’s accountant, got
up on a chair and said solemnly, “For God’s sake
don’t let us have a scandal! ”
!” from the landlady.
“We,” continued Nailer, “must do the thing
decently!” (His easy professional manner sent
shudders down our spines. Johnson’s feverish
nose looked like a tombstone on a wet night.)
“Henry,” he resumed, “will bringdown the
gloves, and we will go out to the back and settle
this thing like gentlemen. We must do it
decently.”
Then the crowd of us surged out the back door
and deployed into the yard.
Henry fled upstairs and returned bearing a set
of Boz. boxing-gloves, which he threw dramati-
cally in the centre of the grass patch.
Nailer appointed himself referee, and detailed
the two tea-travellers to act as seconds to Jorkins.
Henry and myself acted in a like capacity for
Johnson. Milton, the bad-debt collector, was
time-keeper, and Hobson, the remittance man,
ten-seconds check.
At the direction of Nailer —Nailer had a genius
for organisation—the two combatants took off
their coats and vests, and Hobson brought out the
dinner-gong.
Then the seconds put the gloves on their
respective men, and Nailer explained that the
grass plot was to be regarded as the ring, and that
hitting “ in holts ” would not Vie allowed.
At the conclusion of his speech, he turned to
Milton and said ‘ ‘ Right! ” Milton, with a solemn
expression, hit the gong a resounding bang, and
the two principals rushed and fell on each other’s
necks. Then they hammered each other’s back-
bones until they were out of breath.
“ Break ! ” yelled the referee, pushing them off.
They came apart, panting and staring.
Nailer stepped back and bawled “Box on !”
Johnson lurched forward, joggled his gloves in
front of him, and suddenly hit. By the grace of
Heaven, the blow caught Jorkins fairly on the
nose, and sent him staggering back into his cor-
ner, where he collapsed, with a snort, on his chair.
There was a round of applause, and Johnson,
following up, sparred at the empty air in front of
the gasping Jorkins.
“ One,” shouted Hobson “ two three —
four”
Jorkins’ seconds —the tea-travellers—tried to
rouse him to a sense of his duty by shouting “ Get
up ! ” and pulled the chair from underneath him.
Jorkins fell on the grass, scrambled to his feet,
and punched one of the tea-travellers in the
stomach.
As he turned, Johnson again seized the oppor-
tunity to hit him on the nose.
Jorkins fell to the ground with blood stream-
ing down his countenance, and said angrily,
“ Coward ! ”
“No foul !” yelled the energetic Nailer, keep-
ing Johnson off with one hand.
The tea-travellers, who were not well versed in
the etiquette of the ring, rushed at Jorkins,
dragged him, protesting, to his feet, and hurled
him in the direction of Johnson.
Jorkins swung his right as he stumbled forward,
and clouted Nailer heavily on the ear.
Nailer kicked him into the arms of the exhausted
Johnson, who punched him feebly on the nose and
fell on him.
Jorkins said, in a muffled voice, “ It’s a damned
conspiracy ! ”
Then the gong went, and the seconds disen-
tangled their men and led them to their corners.
The referee lectured Jorkins while the tea-
travellers were mopping the gore off, and warned
him to be more careful.
Jorkins sat with his mouth hanging open, and
glared wildly at the triumphant Johnson, who
was being fanned by Henry and myself.
Bang ! The gong went, and Jorkins rose with
fury in his eye and ran heavily at our man.
Johnson lashed out at Jorkins’ nose and
missed.
Jorkins snorted indignantly and punched
wildly at Johnson’s head. Both hits landed on
the face. Then he stopped to consider where
he’d hit Johnson next, and Johnson, with his
last atom of strength, drove in a faded left and
jobbed him on the nose.
Then they threw their arms round each other’s
neck and panted over each other’s shoulder.
“Break ! ” yelled Nailer.
Jorkins looked at him with a dull, fishy eye,
and hissed “ Go t’ hell ! ”
Nailer jumped in and wrenched them apart.
“Box on !” he shouted.
They circled round each other, making weird,
tired motions with their hands and keeping well
out of reach.
One of the tea-travellers said, “Don’t forget,
Jorkins, he called you a fat actor ! ”
Jorkins responded to the goad by swiping
wearily at Johnson’s head.
The blow caught Johnson on the ear and upset
him on the grass in a curious position. He looked
as if he had started to stand on his head, but had
stopped midway to recollect where he had left his
umbrella.
“ One—two—three four—five—six seven—
eight”
Johnson rose with a dreary expression, and
surged towards the vengeful Jorkins.
The tea-travellers yelled to Jorkins to finish.
Jorkins edged in, sparring nervously, and met
a miracle. What malignant fate guided John-
son’s blind hit will never be known, but the fact
remains that his glove again landed with a dull
sound on Jorkins’ nose.
Jorkins, half-dazed, dropped his hands and
snorted like an elephant.
Johnson took careful aim, and clouted him
methodically on the same old spot.
It was too much for Jorkins. With a frenzied
howl, he. lifted his foot and basely kicked John-
son. Then he leaped into the air and fell on him.
“I’ve won !” he muttered, as we dragged him
off the prostrate form. “I’ve killed him ! ”
Johnson opened one eye, and whispered “Fat
actor ! ”
Nailer pushed Jorkins off, and tried to explain
that the fight was over, and that it wasn’t the
right thing to kick a man when he was down.
“But,” protested Jorkins, “he called me a
fat actor ! ”
Nailer took him by the arm and said, very
earnestly, “ Well, aren't you a fat actor ? ”
Everybody shouted, “Yes, of course he’s a fat
actor ! ”
There was a pause, during which Jorkins ground
his teeth. Then someone said in a severe voice,
“ And serve him darned well right—that’s all he
deserves to be ! ”
I never saw a man so enraged by a chance
remark as Jorkins was by that observation. For
five minutes he waved his hands, and heaved
remarks at us that would have been worth six
months in any court. Then he tramped inside to
the weeping landlady, and got her to wash the
blood off him. Three weeks after that he married
her, and we all left and continued on our way to
the dogs in various other hash mansions.
KODAK.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
;;
?
y
ilflW
»t!0»
m
“My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits., In later years these
were more frequent, and her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
here in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to give it a trial,
and the result was marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
“I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully.” — John P.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland.
“P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla—“AYEß’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
Strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by OR. J. C. AYEK & HO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
FRE,
COLORED *
A Hid .Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing- the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
S'
fe 0N W fcl
Co., 8.K.,
dsf
••A • •
Serviette
Ring'
makes an inexpensive and appropriate
present.
We/have quite the nicest range of
patterns obtainable in Australia, and the
design illustrated here, in British Silver-
plate, will cost 4/6; or, you may have a
similar pattern in Sterling Silver at 8/6,
post free.
Other styles ranging in price from 1/-
upwards, will be found illustrated in the
big “A. & C.” catalogue, and we ! will gladly
send you a copy post free on request.
We pay the postage on anything
purchased here, and guarantee you satis-
faction or your money back.
- — ~ ! — ■■
Angus & Coote
(“ The Store where Quality Counts ”),
George Street, Corner Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
dsf
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours! without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name jar
(UIIDY
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RI CORO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the'world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne; F. H. Paulding: & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than. TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address ; HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure ‘of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, whiclf has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. \
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. 6d. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d.; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. 6d. ; The Southern Garland 4s. 6d.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of Australian
books.
Do You Know
that more than half the sickness in the world, especially of
women, is caused by constipation? It can be prevented if
BEECH AM’S PILLS are taken whenever nature calls for
assistance. Comfort and happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
THE HANDY HOME REMEDY.
There’s no secret about the value of Bee cham’S Pills as a
family medicine. Thousands of families always keep a box
handy—and it is the first resort in case of sickness appearing,
being the “stitch in time” which prevents further trouble, and
possibly serious illness. If you have not got a box of
BEECHAM’S PILLS in the house, get one now, you never know
how soon it may be needed. A dose taken wnen ailments. arise
will soon right the wrong and restore you to health and vigour.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/li (56 pills ) «S 219 (168 pills).
If You wisH to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your . . .
Rabbit sKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
»■■■' ' ' TO—'
HILL, CLARK <U CO.,
SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
SBBi PILLS BMM
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Qout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGOESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; hound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
\X7ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 ; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-.' In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lates' improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. I£ you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
MEN
NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &•>.
Consulting Physician in aii Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Mervcus and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women,and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copv will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This fnagnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to tnose so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ever been published.
P 3? P F A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
■ Srm CCa giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE,
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elml&y House,"
151 EBizabeth-st
___ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


TO KEEP YOU WARM
dsf
AND DRY
USE OUR—
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30 /-, 42/-.
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
66
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
—-
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by comnressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ON£ WORKING PART — Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS: UJ £ I I CBUIDRIERF 506 LITTLE COLLIMS ST., MELBOURNE
-»»• Gfc L.cifarnacikt| And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“ PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle - 11-
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
dsf
sf
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
d
TAKEN
HOT
WITH
LEMON
AT
BEDTIME
CURES
COLDS.
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
Low Price. High Efficiency. Every Pomp Guaranteed.
FOR . . .
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
f. .v y
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service.
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Cla*ence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
tjvlUnv Agents: BEVAN & EDWARDS PROP., Meltxwrne; SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
Ltd.
B
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c,
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
w
'
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Rope£
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
sfdfs
STOCK,
STATION WORK
Write
TELE!
for our FREE BOOK on
LEPHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
Silvertown Telegraph Works Coy.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“CAM” Brand Forged Steel Shoes & Dies
Guaranteed to give Entire Satisfaction.
♦
THEY ALWAYS BRING REPEAT ORDERS—THE BEST RECOMMENDATION.
W REFERENCES CAN BE GIVEN TO MANY MILLS USING THEM.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
