

DEWAR’ S
FOR
WHISKY
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
m — m .
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
&
W ll l ll'ffi ■ ■ l ' • 1:
1 , ;• aajt r. utit "j
IfflliM
mmm
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
i IJL _
Sole Agents
..FOR. .
Broadbent’s
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
As used throughout /lustra/asm in the leading
WOOLSCOURS, LAUNDRIES, MEAT WORKS, &c., &C.
SEMD FOR ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUES.
Wff-'i
PIONEER
.
LEATHER
S E, LT IMG
EVERY. SELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
4
0*
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
"Take it back.
I must have-
HAMS ®
BACON.
linolite
(LINE O' LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, advertise-
ments, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current. ,
Sole Agents for Australia?
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
-6L
u
RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH
& GO. LTD., SYDNEY
Charge for
Reduced to
Selling
2 per
Wool
cent .
PROMPT
RETURNS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
'
LL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TiTH OUR BANKERS
k
ķ
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
JURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Loconotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesco
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
: -
'■Ft
ĸ
I
I
As supplied to the ‘ P. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers.
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
s
£>
Trade Mark.
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark.
PE £
a
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists' Supplies, &«., &c
(Wholesale and Retail).
I
1
A
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
New edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post fres.
4FLIDON SPA.
/ AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW 1
J THAT SPARKLES IN THE LILY CUP. f
GOLLIN
&
CO
■I
• -7
The Bulletin
Yd 28.—N0. 1424.]
[Thursday, May 30, 1907.
Registered at the General Post. Office* Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Black, Sweated Industry, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Barton, The Doy : In Health and Accident, 3s, post 4(1
KinzbrUnper, Alternating Current Machinery, 6s6d p (id
I ernyo, Modern American Lathe Practice, 14s. post 9d '
Kershaw, Fuel, Water and Has, 9s (id, postaire 8d
Standage, Agglutents of all Kinds, 7s (id, posted
M lies, Builders of the Body, Is 9d, post 4d.
Weir, Modern History of Europe 6s post m '
FRESH
THE
A
WORLD
3y CARL SNYDER, author of “ New Con-
eeption of Science,” 11s, postage 9c*.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for influenza. Bronchitis,
Asthma, and ail Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption .
AIM IDEAL REMEDY,
G.ttUDSO/V.
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OB OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR. HUDSON’S-Take no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/©,
May betaken daily by old and young'. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
hood, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the Sole
Manufacturer, 0. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. [I.
THE RED PAGE
THE AMBRECAN NOVEL
IrilHE American novel © usually perfumed
1 soap, packed in a purple box,
and tied up with puce ribbons. In-
variably it has a frontispiece of a long
and haughty girl—the real American girl is
plump and pleasingly dumpy—and the letter-
press runs like a little creek through a paddock
of decorations. There is lots of girl and little
story, and it happily solves the weddinf-
present difficulty. It looks so nice on the
present table, and subsequently will serve
to decorate the drawing-room. It is a shock
to find that the other sort of novel comes out
of America, though even one of these has the
inevitable frontispiece.
The critic recommending a novel to a busy
man was met by the query: “Is it about
people who don’t work?” The critic ad-
mitted that it was ; and the busy man de-
clined to read it. His theory was that people
who did not work had too much time to
dunk about themselves. The lives of society
Irones were unnatural lives, occupied in
ieveloping the emotions at the expense of
he cliaricter. They had nothing else to do
mt to coddle their emotions ; the tragedies
hat come to these people could not be real
ragedies, because these were not real people.
ais idea was that the need of working for
11 existence restored the balance of mental
tealth to humanity ; the worker had no time
or what used to be called the vapors.
While not admitting the validity of this
heory, the critic feels a certain impatience
men asked seriously to consider the over-
mphasised emotions of society drones.
Ins, it is admitted, does not show the large
ueranee demanded of the literary critic
ut the personal distaste remains. And'
aking allowance for that' distaste, The
ightmg Chance, by Robert W. Cham-
ms (Constable), fails to hold the
itic as did that author’s earlier work,
i historical romance, such is The Maids
J arndise, and The Maid at Arms,
lumbers was facile, graphic, full-blooded,
bust lde remains one of the most
iliglitful satires in modern fiction ; but it
is m his earlier works, such as The Kina
lellow , that his imagination madly ran
>t, giving us that delicious weird shudder
lose secret was known to Poe. Chambers
“ s lo ®£ lm hrsfc freshness ;he has turned
mi imagination arid romance to modern
tnerican life. It is a good story, but its
ckground ? He pictures a society which
cins to have acclimatised all the snobbery
d inanity of the worst phases of English
untry life ; the originality of these Ameri-
cans seems to have exhausted itself when
they provided their elaborate country-houses
with elevators. In The Fighting Chance
there is much talk of dog and horse and
pheasant, of Bridge and motor, and the
women seem as hard and selfish as the
American woman can be. And as easily
shocked, -he heroine confronts the man
whose money she has promised to marry.
.. “Y hat do yo« want of me?” she said.,
rlivli r are WU'Ufrrymg me for? Because,
riuided, we are likely to cut small figures in our
tin-trumpet world ? Because, united, we can
dominate the brainless? Is there any other
.Showing his teeth in that twitching snicker that
contracted the muscles of his upper lip; “Chil-
dren ! he Said, looking at her.
She turned scarlet to her hair ; the deliberate
g.ossness stunned her. Confused, she stood con-
nf°whi?u T\ d r° und i er a retorfc the coarseness
ot which she had never dreamed him capable.
1 mean what I say,” he repeated calmly. “A
man cares for two things : his fortune, and the
heirs to it. If you don’t know that, you have
bhnitly ■’* n ° W ’ ‘‘ 1 told you a P lain truth very
‘' l V ,ld , not s P eak j anger, humiliation,
siicime, held her tongue-tied.
Anger humiliation, shame—at the mention
-d possible children ! The mock-modesty of
America ! Its sickening trail is over all its
magazines. But behind pruderies like this
we find a good and exciting plot, based upon
heredity. The hero has to fight a predispo-
sition towards drunkenness ; from her femi-
nine ancestors the heroine inherited a disposi-
tion to “play up” with the covenances. The
problem is, should these two mate ? Cham-
bers furnishes an exciting solution. It is a
good work-a-day, modern novel, of the class
-T Z.
The other American novel, Friday the
Thirteenth, by Thos. W. Lawson (Heine-
mann) depicts another unlovely side of the
modern'American. Lawson is the notorious
author of Frenzied Finance, the series of
articles that revealed to the United States
the existence of the power, unknown since
the tune of Napoleon, callously exercised bv
the multi-millionaires of Wall-street. Now
Lawson carries his picturesque pen into the
domains of fiction—and it is pretty poor
notion. It is a story of stock gambling, and
will be read with avidity—in Wall-street.
It tells in spasms the story of a man who
gambles in millions to save the honor of a
mil s father, the girl abetting his endeavors.
Here is the girl, in Lawson’s frenzied
phrases :
I am Judge Lee Sand’s oldest daughter,” said
the sweetest voice I had ever heard, one of those
mellow, rippling voices that start the imagination
on a chase for a mocking-bird, only to bring it up
at the pool beneath the brook-fall in quest of the
harp of moss and watercresses that sends a
bubbling cadence into its eddies and swirls. Per-
haps it was the Southern accent that nibbled off
e corners and edges of certain words and
languidly let others mist themselves together,
.iat gave it its luscious penetration—however
at may be, it was the most no-yesterday-no-to-
morrow voice I had heard.
Then two pages of detailed description,
from which we may pick out “the square,
lull jaw, and “ the coral curve of the lips.”
Hut these people, like those of Chambers,
are curious beings. The men—these financial
giants of America—have not even the
emotional reserve of a bank clerk. The
tears roll down their cheeks, their eyes
flash sparks, their nostrils vibrate, their
great chests are convulsed with sobs, they
weep uncontrollably; they are always
laving emotional outbursts f} even in pri-
vate life, while on the floor of the stock
exchange they become as wild beasts. And
as Hob gambles for her father’s reputation,
the girl says, “ God bless you,” and prays.
With a hoarse cry, he threw his arms around
her and crushed her to his breast. The sacred-
truder 80606 “ ade me feel Jike an in ‘
It is all rather too frenzied for us : F 4.
THE BLOKE WE ARE TO BE
We may supplement the picture of the
Australian of the Future, sketched for us last
week, by the glimpses afforded us in the un-
successiul accounts of that somewhat elusive
and contradictory bloke.
Of these essays the thoughtful and original
contribution of “Tantalus” deserves first men-
eomneriri Sta f, ed ’ he himself from the
' h , y ® x ? tlle limit of space
allowed.. As to Asiatic immigration, he points
out that deep down, silently and surely, a
movement is taking place among the workmen of
c^ untrles for redress of industrial and
social grievances. Although the rulers may be
prepared for an aggressive policy, the discontent
of the wprkers will cause them to hesitate If
however, a large invasion of Eastern people does
take place, the effect on the future race of Aus-
tralians will be noticed in the physical features
of the people, rather than in their mental and
moral peculiarities. The future will develop“ 2
international man, who will possess moral and
mental qualities common to all races of men”
“Tlw*W> l T 8 e l eononiic conditions that
Tantalus looks for the modifying influences
of the Australian character. “The tendency of
modern industry everywhere is towards
growth and final triumph of large-scale industry
In Australia this tendency may already be noticed
in the sugar and tobacco industries. The overflow
b«hl' merlC!l^ CaP i lta W j ll, 111 tlle near future, pro-
bably provide a large fund for the development of
Australian resources, and will greatly hasten
matters on to the concentration stage. This con
centration of industry in the hands of a few will
lead to a movement for the complete ownership
and control of all industry by the actual pro
ducers themselves. . . . The knowledge that their
fellow-men m other parts of the world are engaged
n the self-same struggle as they themselves fre
will create among Australian workmen a strong
international spirit. The Australian of th!
future will be the most thorough-goin°- of inter-
nationalists, because he will have behind him little
or no remembrances of national prejudices.”
Long and democratic management of his own
foT l *hT m° nS Wll have , the Australia
for the management of the more complicate
machine Society. So the cynical strain in th
interest 1 of ‘ arac:t , er .will '-lisappear, because th
interest of the individual will be merged in th
interests of society at large. “ Love of
will be strengthened; for, by means of giganti
schemes of irrigation and water conservation th
u-sh will loose its awful melancholy and mania
wdl belifted PO f Wer - .i The spirit o£ "felaSoTy
will be felt by P6 ° ple 5 thejo y of livin
W. Brenta also takes too much space pr
concludes that “The original tendency of th *
Australian character will'remain, in obedience to
ffi I ven 3 H' am l C law . tbat a movement once started in
given direction will remain moving in thatdireetion
. . . Ihe topography of the country will divide hin
into two leading types. The mountains, from the
i Victoria, along the ranges through New
South \\ ales and Queensland, will be the dividing
line. In the watershed of the Ri verina he vvill be
_n agriculturist, and when not a drop of the water
from the great rivers of the Ri verina reaeheT the
sea he will be one of the greatest irrigators Jhe
world has seen—not even excepting him of the
Nile,-or of the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates
of ancient days ; for with his irrigation will so
;' l ) n / ln hand engineering, and the science of agn-
tr I •f' ( j' el,ce b . ein g method, the Central Aus-
tralian will be cautious, far sighted, with the kind
of imagination which Tyndal specialises by calling
scientihc winch is distinct, and yet not apart from
that of the poets, which is emotional. Inde-
pendent of the rainfall in the main, his food sup-
ply, and that of the country as a whole, will be
assured ; and with the assurance of his bodily wel-
fare will come health, and its concomitant self
confidence. On the coasts he will be more
restless, more passionate and inventive- Tnr
fa/bfo 16 h- Wlll • P , end u P° n the sporadic; ’ rain-
fall for his agriculture His cities will
remarkable for labor-saving devices of every
description, the direct result of his industrial
legislation, which will make all kinds of lE
expensive, and the Australian is one of the
most inventive men in the world. . . . To an out-
side view there will be a great sameness in him,
the sameness which a large number of machines
presents—external, not real; for he will be highly
disciplined, socially and militarily; not from
above, but from himself; the self-submitting unit
in a highly-orgiinised whole ; and something to be
reckoned with in the future of the world. If the
stars in their courses permit his existence and
development for five hundred years, and tempers
both with self-restraint, he will be one of the
world s models, if not one of its masters.”
Ajiothbr of those who exceed the space-limit,
William H. Elsum, has some interesting things
to say. In his opinion, the future Australian will
be a sport—“his predilections running, say,
in the direction of flash flying-machines.”
U'vmg to the influence of our sun, “the type,
while less impulsive and prone to impetuous emo-
tions than the Easterns (blood and heredity
eternally ensuring, through all, the basic differ-
ences between the races), shall be careless and free
as the wastrel adventurers of the South of Europe.
« blended with and in manifold ways
attected by inevitably large accessions of Oriental
peoples to his shores, the type shall evince a deal
of the Easterns’ fatalism.”
Fred Davison is firm in the belief that, if the
luture holds a race catastrophe, the Australian
will not accept mixture, but will preferably be
obliterated. This much he trusts the man of the
tuture. He sees in the coming of the Japanese
just the healthy and necessary danger that will
make a man of him —wide-awake and self-reliant.”
So the Australian of the future will be “six feet
high and white right through.”
R.B.H.’ steps outside his strict limits to
prophesy. He suggests the possibility of this
continent undergoing a natural process of
improvement—a gradual climatic change that will
bring plentiful rains. “ The historical spirit has
come with Federation. The birth of the historic
sense is one of the undoubted though unwritten
blessings of the Constitution. Australia has in a
dim but still certain way found its Ego.” The
continent will mould its white racial accessions to
the Australian type; but, judging from the
analogy of Britain, the type will not be unified for
centuries. “The pearlfisher of the far north will
not have many mutual topics of conversation with
the apple-grower of the far south.” But they will
all be white men, and Australians, physically
resembling the best type of the yeoman English.
-Many of the essayists linger over little things ;
they lack the historic sweep, the inspired generalisa-
tmn. And itisnotahvaysnecessaryfor anessaytobe
dull. 100 much space is devoted by John B. Casti-
eau to Australia’s past. “ Ahead of Australia is an
inevitable baptism of fire.” Castieau’s prophecies
include “the nationalism of sport, and a
nationalised medical profession.” "Race pride will
take the place of race suicide ” ; and the Australian
woman will be “as ready and able to dig a trench
and take up a gun, as to cook a dinner and nurse
a baby.
A well-argued plea on behalf of the probable
Americanising of the Australian is furnished by
lnarom. “ Right through the Commonwealth
you will find a strong tendency to all American
methods and systems.... The present tendency of
the Australian is higher education. Look around
you to-day, you will find our young men going via
Frisco way to the States, fora higher, commercial,
mechanical, and electrical education. The elder
brothers went to England.”
“ Probably the greatest influence in the evolu-
tion of. the Australian man,” says “E.C.” “will be
ono nbrt lS f r^ n i, w °m an - •• • The Australian of
AJO,OOO A.D. will assuredly be a type self-reliant,
retaining the indomitable courage of his English
forefathers, cautious in counsel (dearly bought by
the experience of centuries), ready and brave in
action, thinking thoughts big enough to fill the
vast spaces between his cities; he will prove to
his hostile contemporaries as dangerous as a fired
rocket without a stick.”
JK
Louis Esson becomes poetic. The Australian of
the future will live in an earthly Paradise.
bweethearts will gaily picnic in thegullies. . . .
In the cool porticoes of marble cities the youth
will discuss Plato and the weather, the building
xr n' 6 airship, the mural decorations of the
Hall of bong—all such topics being matters of
moment to the citizen of the New Republic.”
“Mars” finds a solution of the closer settle-
ment problem m the prophecy that Asiatic settle-
ments in the northern part of the continent will
gradually drive in the Australians upon the
centres of population. The death-struggle that
will ensue will be “ Australia’s ladder to nation-
hood.
J. Courtney kindly solves the Federal capital
for us. It appears that in 1921 the whole
of JN.b. W. became “ Austral ’’-the capital of the
Commonwealth. “ The Federation took over all
assets and liabilities. No man, woman or child
was injured—all benefited. The N.S.W. people
considered their status had been raised by becoming
residents of the Federal capital instead of the
State. The other States felt proud of their
l ederation possessing the greatest capital the
world had ever seen. The place of the Ma State
had been taken by 1 Bonzaland ’—the Northern
State*” 17 ’ Wh ’ ch bad been P roela )med a separate
Nearly essay sent in treats, and treats seri-
ously, the Japanese question. “Seaweed’’finds the
greatest enemy of the future Australian to be the
social reformer, who would, if unchecked, make
the race too meek to argue the race-question with
the Japanese squadron. “ Could the first great
teacher of Christianity have foreseen that His
gospel ot equity, purity and charity was capable
ot acceptance by any nation to the degree reached
in Australia, and that the retention of such prin-
ciples depended upon the preservation of the
existing type, and exclusion of races of contrary
principles, it is doubtful if the application of
love thy neighbor as thyself’ would, be made
by the great reformer where the ihevitable result
would he the expansion of heathenism and its
attending horrors, and the extinction of a cmo
white people.”
“ F.C.” is brief and to the point. We quote his
delightful essay in fuLI “ Briefly, the question
to be answered is, ‘ What sort of a bloke will the
Australian of, say, 20,000 A.D. lie?’ the
northern parts of the country he will be a mo
grel, compounded of the squat, yellow Chow, t
lithe black-and-tan islander and Malayan, andt
weedy dark-skin from India, Syria, AfghaniRta
&c. What sort of a tongue, or how many dialec
he will speak, Heaven may know, but it is doub
ful. In the South the Australian bloke will
mostly brown, with brief nose,-'almond eyes
abbreviated figure, and no principles or co
science. Here and there will be seen a white or
yellow strain, but it will be regarded as a sign o
inferiority—especially the whitey-brown blent
He will be a commercial man, primarily and
instinct, but he will als* indulge in manufaotur
and a trifle of agriculture, though the ‘ back I ion
of the country ’ will mostly bear a yellow ting
He will be despised and hated and feared bv 1
neighbors and his rivals, but he will hold tl
country for himself and his breed until that Ion
day comes when, like a foetid cesspit, a sink o
corruption, he will disintegrate through iiatura
decomposition.”
Gerald Allhusen (M.L.), like others, thinks th
the influence of environment will triumph over tl
influence of racial accessions from overseas. “ Tl
Socialistic element will always prove strong enoug
to carry out the policy of a White Australia—wit
the help of England. Once the connecting link
broken the yellow races will demand the Ope
Door for trade and immigration alike. Toth
there can be but one ending, and the Australia o
the future will be a nation of Chows and Jap
The Australian of to-day will melt before tl
inroad of yellow men as the aborigines are hieltin
before the Anarlo-Saxon race. ”
Walter H. Monckton,-looking back from 1950
A.D., tells us how it happened, and what strue
us. Great Britain, invaded by Germany, san
into a second-rate power ; and China, then a grea
power, followed the line of least resistance, am
descended on the Northern Territory. As ha'
our field-guns were in England being relinec
Australia was helpless. Australian credit, strainec
by an immense load of money, borrowed in time
of peace, failed in national bankruptcy, and
stream of yellow immigration rapidly filled th
Northern Territory. Germany and the Rnitei
States, divided by. a dispute over Brazil, refusec
to assist Australia, neither power caring to ris
its navy, so far from its base, against Japan, wh
guaranteed China against the intervention o
European powers. So (in 1950)
“ The island of Tasmania proved to be the pric
of Japanese Support, and it has been found to b
an ideal colony for them. Their well-equippec
naval station in the Derwent acts as a guarante
to China against outside interference when sh
makes a fresh move against the remaining Aus
tralian States. The armed resistance of the Tas
manians was of the feeblest description. Withou
artillery or aid from Australia effective resistanc
was impossible, but owing to the mountainou
character of the island, some of the hardy country
men maintained a bushranging guerilla war, whid
served as an admirable excuse to the Japanese fo
deporting the remnant of the white population
after which the revolt was quickly suppressed
and at the present tilne the white race in Tasinanii
is practically extinct. Like the Maories of New
Zealand, or our own aborigines, we can see plainly
that as an Australian race we also are doomed to
extinction. It is possible that in years to come
our conquerors may develop a fresh type under
new conditions of climate, and the change from a
servile into a conquering race ; but there dan be
little reasonable doubt that the Australian of the
future will belong to that great yellow race,
who. have flooded into northern Australia* and
who a,re even now seeking fresh causes of quarrel
to drive us further south, owing to the constant
pressure of an ever-increasing emigration ”
However, Robert Winger, who takes ~ lot of
things for granted, presents us with an original
variation in prophecies—a German-Jap alliance.
The Australian of the future will be of two dis-
tinct races, of rather sub-races, the German
predominating in the South-East, and the
-Japanese in the North-West; the frontier line
dividing the two races or nations at that date
beginning at the eastern end of the Great Aus-
tralian Bight, and ending about Rockhampton.
The starting of the events that will lead to this
result will begin most probably near the end of
the present Anglo-Jap Alliance when Japan
and Germany form a secret alliance, having for its
object the partition of the British possessions in
the Southern Hemisphere. The numerous Ger-
man invader will gradually, absorb the far less
plentiful invaded ; and in 1950 all white Austra-
lians under middle age will speak German and
understand English; and in the year 2000 all white
Australians will speak German, and be members
of a great German-speaking republic. . . . And
the Jap? After flourishing amazingly in the
-North for 50 years or so, he degenerates rapidly
under prosperity, as most Orientals do, and being
extensively crossed with the Kanaka, Ohow,
Malay, &c., loses his nationality and fighting
qualities, and can’t organise himself against the
white Australian from the South-East, who keeps
gradually encroaching, and pushing him further
north, until he finally annexes him altogether,
and leaves the White Australian with a colored
problem more difficult than the nigger problem
in America to-day. They can easily control him,
but can’t ignore him,”
<t But let us close on the happier note supplied by
“ Lausanne.” “ Our medical men will so improve
the human form that the Creator will be hardly
able to recognise His own handiwork. In.fact, He
will probably instigate a law-suit in the Federal
High Court for infringement of patent rights.”
—4
I he descent of the English novel. Heineiyann
now announces 4s. novels, Blackwood’s have got
to 3s. 6 d., and Sisley, Chatto, and Routledge hare
dropped to half-a-crown.


OUT THIS WEEK.
SEND EOR ONE.
m
£
A
f
LASS
QUe
m
*9
<
1000 Illustrated Pages Posted Free on Application
QUALITY IS ECONOMY.
F. LASSETTER & Co. Ltd., The Universal Providers
of Noted Good Values, Greater CHeapside, vSYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM , &c. '
Consign to : —
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
S YDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXFE i£TS, who pay special-attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
size4g
ns ii i
TH?
FOB
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
The Finest Dressing.
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 8 96, High Holhorn, London, w.c. )
WATCHES GIVEN AWAY I!
NO MONEY REQUIRED.
We will present you with an INGrERSOLL KEYLESS WATCH in exchange for
One Pound’s worth of
PETER’S,
NESTLE’S or
KOHLER’S
Chocolate
Wrappers
or Labels.
Which can be collected Anywhere and Everywhere. Any sizes of these Brands will be accepted.
We Give you the Following Start towards your First Watsh.
£3" CUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT, enclose it with 15/- worth of Labels or Wrappers,
and your Name and address, and a Watch will be sent by Return of Post.
ANY FURTHER PARTICULARS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM
Jas. Henderson & Sons, Haymarket, Sydney
FREE!
MAKE BIG MOMEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &e., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with*Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Etcctine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
&ioo
a WeeK
Given
Away
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Bed a T b Mv of SPIRITS.
cC
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Amprape ~ BOOKS.
ķ
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide, by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana; Piping Hot;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
eaeh. Ventriloquism Made East, Is.
Up-.to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialoguf. Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining, Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise: Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. Tub Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Kreutzer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of the Romish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art Studies. 5 parts, 10s. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates* engravings, 7sGd posted. Savitio, genuine,
Is. MiDvvivKs’HANDßOOK,92illus.,2s6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Lover's Letter
Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning Calcula-
tor, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid,
Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hv Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .33 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
k
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
MAKES tiis SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
&
V*-
&
0
&
fLCS
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirel? removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES, m Makers : M. BEETHAM & SON, Clieltcniiam, England.
Agents-Elliott Bros.) Sydney; Felton, Gri.nwado & Co., Melbourne.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ® p RUST BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See CmpMule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Pnpartd only by J, C. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BNG.,
by J. O. BN O S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c.. everywhere.
ARTERS
gßEfffsiarg nilfflL poilb-s-
BILLS
Fob TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
Everyman and woman should know that Liver Disorf.^
In)™ “complexion, induce Pimp to ana
fea 335 SS!
H2S.SS--
efficacy of these gentle little niUs.
The Public ere
Carter’s Little
cautioned to observe
Liver Pills Must Bear
that Genuine
Signature ol
ĸ


A cough is a danger signal. You
should heed its -warning promptly.
Begin at once, and take regular
doses of
Aliens
'Cherry {federal
All serious lung troubles
begin with a common
cold. A cold in the
throat easily passes to
jhe bronchial tubes,
and you have bron-
chitis, leading pos-
sibly to pneu-
monia or con-
sumption. Stop
your cold before it goes down into
the chest. When you bring a bottle
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral into the
house you bring with it relief, good
cheer, hope, and sunshine. It is a
standard and unrivaled remedy for
colds and coughs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them and of so-
called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherrj
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A*
*
-
k
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
of us. Your
with ut question
if uot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
is allowed on every cycle bough
money in full refunded
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year--, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
andalliates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ftfirUTO wanted in each district.
Aw I lit Abtil I & Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our medal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is, Packet of Ten, 10d.
inoav
CHESTS
SCOTT’S EMULSION
The Evidence
from Neal Street, Glen Innes,
N.5.W.,0ct0ber21,1905. “My
little James suffered greatly
from chest troubles and I
decided to give Scott’s Emul-
sion a trial. The results have
far exceeded my expectations.
From the first bottle I noticed
an improvement and now,after
continuing the treatment for
a while, he is restored to com-
plete good health and strength.
He looks well, and eats and
sleeps splendidly, which is
entirely due to Scott’s Emul-
sion.” (Mrs.) J. Sullivan.
The Reason Why
He Looks Well
C£ The cod liver oil used for
making Scott’s. Emulsion is
the best in the world ; though
costly to buy, it is far more
powerful to heal and strength-
en than any other. By the
original Scott process of
manufacture, it is broken up
into tiny globules which the
weakest digestion can tackle
with ease. No chest case is so
far gone, nor yet so trifling,
but Scott’s will bring benefit
that will astonish
you.
This best of all
emulsions is
guaranteed by
“ the fishman
with the fish”
on the package.
TRADE MARK
scorrs
EMULSION
From all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines
FOR
The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS.
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHfTIS,
ASTHMA.
Ilk
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure
CIRCULATION.”
THE mmm
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent -apli
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches, in cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eves, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibratiod.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, ana (t
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians. - j
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
ICS 5
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUCCY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &o. D*-Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
« A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.” Po ‘ , B F JilSt»*v f o°«rce.' rhe
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
** (Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
om
vy
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ķ
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
'' \ IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIB, AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how
splendidly, how easily, and how
thoroughly it cleans.
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment o
than ordinary Coooa. 1
PLASMON OATS)
THE 4 MINUTES
PORRIDGE. )
Free of every particle
of Husk and Fibre.
Furnish )
perfect nourishment
\
with easy cooking.
PLASMON
\
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE )
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
S
Ask lor them.
GROCERS. CHEMISTS
and STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before We Go.
Out on her siding
Our engine stands,
With brake-pump sliding
And hissing glands.
We’ve forty waggons
To haul to-night—
So fill the flagons
All foaming white.
Ere tunnels smother
And hot fires glow,
We’ll have another
Before we go.
Drink
To the clink
Of the glasses oh 1
(The Big Tank's grumbling out in the yard.)
Here's
To the dears
That we used to know.
Love is easy tho' Life be hard,
And the road to Wellington!s cinder-starv'd.
We are the toilers
Who drive the loads—
Belting the boilers
On mountain roads.
Number Eleven’s
A hog to fire—
A harp and heaven’s
What we require—
And Four’s the mother
Of all that’s slow ;
So have another
Before we go.
Drink,
With a wink,
To the sea-side girls !
( We'll flare the furnace as we go by.)
Here's
To the dears
And their saucy curls —
Lip of scarlet and sea-blue eye
(And the road to Wellington’s hot and dry).
We’ve forty waggons
To haul to-night,
So fill the flagons—
Wet and white.
The Bull-Yank’s blowing
To say the load
Is ours for the towing
On the long hill road.
The Tank’s her brother,
And not too slow —
We’ll have another,
And then we’ll go.
Now,
“ Here’s how! "
“ May you never know,"
A greasy rail or a silly guard.
Drink
To the clink
Of the glasses, oh !
Then tramp to the engine out in the yard,
And the road to Wellington’s cinder-starv'd.
JIAORTLAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Morning.
The grand red sun has glistened in,
And, thro’ the curtain, I can see
His disc upon the steeple-pin
(Just touching) of St. Anthony.
The night-mist on the window flows
In long wet channels down the pane,
And from the distance slowly grows
The rattle of the country train.
But, here, in this disordered room
The dusty motes stand motionless
Above the glasses in the gloom
That rang last night with merr'ness.
A spotted spider walks between
The long white fingers of her glove,
Like feathers opened out, to preen,
By some proud thoughtless lady-dove.
Her little sober “ churchy ” hat,
Her month-old summer muslin gown,
The short half-stays I marvelled at—
A Frenchman’s symphony in brown—
(These, set within a chair, half-hid ;
A mountain heaped up carelessly—
Sweets hiding other sweets amid
A cataract of lingerie).
And she, herself, still breathing sound,
Her passive eyes fast closed in sleep,
Waits weary, in her bed, the round
Black Fortune means that she must keep.
Ah, frail, and sadly beautiful—
Above us in the blue-breast sky
Those stars, at dusk most visible,
Are now lost treasures to the eye.
And you, a mortal star on earth,
Perhaps, like that bright sisterhood
So fair by night, may, at the birth
Of Day, be no more where you stood.
And so (that I may see you yet
As when, across the lighted Place,
Your beauty caught me in its net
And held me by its sov’reign grace)
I’ll leave you softly to yourself,
Before a second quarter chime,
With this memento on the shelf
Until the purple ev’ning time.
Sleep on ! Your glossy hair unrolled
Burns in my fingers, and I see
A ghostly lover in its gold
Look backward mockingly at me.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


k
HOTEL
METROPOLE
— SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Twz Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
from 10s. 6cl. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
£n0 s
n rv
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to 866 our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
SUVH »3MIOM
N
OSZI
*3B'
5&8I
X S«V
*oo*
VAJO
&3«
® 9 B/ \W'
S'/u'®
/ 'ofl '
Th ® MISSES ISAACS
LADIES PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-a® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
■d irri ittcjttpo 6 ’ s “ ltable t 0 be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
w , ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
■e»
x
3333
V
V
5
>v
/ '\r
A/i
s?
45;
Aicock
Table
IS the
MONARCH
• • or*
Billiard
Tables.
PjSSnKH
27
Prize
Medals
Lbpies’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Ladies' Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848,
Johnßeccs
57ECIH LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
m
I
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS,
A
m
/k
*
rv
CADBURY'S ,
'Milk Chocolate.
A concentrated sweetmeat-food of the highest order.
More nourishing and sustaining than any other.
Doctors and Analysts are unanimous in their praises
of its purity and food value. Refuse to accept sub-
stitutes. CADBURY’S is the VERY BEST IT
IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. Prepared in a
scrupulously clean factory situated in the open green
fields of the Old Country, by the Manufacturers of
Cadbury's Cocoa
of which “ The Lancet ” says
it is “ The Standard of high-
est purity,” while “ Health ”
calls it “A Perfect Food.”
I
rsfc3
li
l
m-jpi
until
s
•lutiUlil
i
triii
Mill
fi!r.7 •
MITE ANTS
Yonr Hcmse is Going*
to Wreck and Ruin !
and why? Simply because you allow WHITE ANTS to devour
it. If there were no cure for the pest one could understand it,
but there is a cure—a sure cure. Timber printed with, or
dipped in, AVENARIUS is absolutely white-ant proof—in
fact it is insect proof. AVENARIUS is not only a sure cure
for white ants, but the best wood preserving oil known. It
makes weak timber strong and doubles the life of all timber.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH (St. CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
AVENARIUS
may be
obtained
from all
Storekeepers*
V -


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1424.
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 1907.
Price 6d.
THE SITUATION IN ASIA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia /or the A astralinns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Mnsgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Tint Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ’.. 0 7 0
Bj/sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tine Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to YVilliam Maclkod, Managing Director.
I'low to Address Tetters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advert ise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the E litor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
write inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone, by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the ollicial
always is.
Special ’Notice-
In sufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re fused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the. contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A nstralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 Ivor Is, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be reqarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ‘Will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'To Amateurs in til not;, a nil ilhi.te.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sutlie.ien)
merit, and interest and adapted for direct reproduct ion, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will lie paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London , W. C.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The. Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt, —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer ami Co.
A dents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6si,n. x thin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied, if desired.
TTle'^ulleizoi.
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 1007.
THE PARTY OF LOST OPPORTUNITIES.
The Labor party in N.S.W. politics will appa-
rently go to the poll once more as the Party of Lost
Opportunities. It has published its programme
per medium of its leader, James McGowen, and
the programme is good, so far as it goes. Un-
luckily, it doesn’t go far enough, as usual; and
the principles that are not in it are just those on
which the best tight could be put up, also as usual.
It is sound on the arbitration question, on matters
of wages, old age pensions, on the building of
locomotives, on the graduated land-tax, and on
all, or practically all, the other issues raised. But
the issues which it does not raise are the ones on
which, to all appearance, the election will be
fought. Joseph Oarkuthkks intends this time
to try Reid’s anti-Sosh game over again,
with slight variations. When things looked
bleak and miserable with Reid, and his
draggled legion had dropped the Foreign-
trade banner in the slush of defeat, and hardly
cared whether it rose again or not, Reid boldly
invented a new banner. He devised the sudden
bogey of Socialism. He became, all in an instant,
a convinced auti-Sosher of long standing ; and
with the aid of a servile following, and a Tory
press which was magnificent in its mendacity, he
waded in to save the country from his own
imaginary horror. But his opponents met him on
his own ground. They took up his challenge, and
dragged the ruins of his election spook all over
the landscape. If they had ignored the anti-Sosh
device, it might have passed muster as a live
spook made of meat, and it is quite possible that
Reid, trading on the vastness of human creduhtv,
might have won. He said the spectre of Sosli
was so overwhelming that he was driven by the
highest motives to drop Freetrade and anything
else that was no longer profitable, while he did
battle with this malignant octopus which was
just climbing on board. He said that, owing to
the size and speed of the octopus, there was no
time to pay attention to any other subject. He
reached out for the votes of Protectionists and
Freetraders alike with a frantic cry that the house
was burning and the bottom had fallen out of the
ship; and he said that the wolf was at the gate, or
the elephant was on the roof, or something to
that effect. He pointed out that this was no
time for small differences, and that all men
must combine to fight against the common
fantod. Amazing as it may seem, there is every
reason to believe that he might have swept
sufficient of the community off its feet in sudden
excitement, had not his opponents contemptuously
demonstrated that the spectre was only a gibber-
ing invention of the moment.
Joseph Carruthers follows his old leader’s
methods. He also invents a fantod, but his spook
is Federal Oppression and the wrongs done by the
Commonwealth—which rejected his friend Reid
—to the Ma State. His inventions and those of
his followers and press barrackers are just as out-
rageous as those of the anti-Socialists who shouted
that the Labor party proposed to “tear the in-
fant from its mother’s breast,” and the people
who invented the one perjury are the people who
invented the other, and the two goblins are pub-
lished in the same papers. The Reid party and
the Oarruthers party are one ; Carrutiiers
himself has said it, and it is true even though he
said it. Therefore the anti-Sosh party, which
the Democrats of N.S.W. fought so valiantly
last December, is also the anti-Federal party,
which, apparently, it is not going to fight
at all next August. There was, in all McGowen’s
speech, only the faintest possible allusion to the
anti-Federal campaign of slander, lies and mis-
representation, by which Toryism hopes to con-
solidate its power. There was a good deal about
the Lands scandals, but of these the country is
rather tired through sheer effluxion of time. There
was a good deal about a graduated land-tax, but
the country has almost lost hope of that ever
coming, except by Federal legislation. There was
a good deal about many other things. But
Carruthers and his friends, and the Tory press,
and the great aggregate horse-power of Tory
lying, will be concentrated on a wild, whirling
assurance that the house is on fire, and the ship is
sinking, and the wolf is at the gate, and the croco-
dile is in the cellar ; and that until Ma State is
rescued from obliteration and ruin at the hands of
the Commonwealth, there is no time to even look
at the things McGowkn mentions, and that they
should be set aside, and all men should combine
in a great effort, &c.—the rest can be found in
any of Reid’s speeches of last year. Apparently,
Labor isn’t going to contradict the statement that
the house is on fire, or to tread on the red
herring which Joseph drags across the trail.
Unless Labor comes out as the Federal party—
the All-Australian party—and meets the great
Tory lie face to face, it has no earthly chance of a
victory. The reason of the present Tory anti-
Federal movement is solely the democratic
character of the Federal Constitution and of
Federal legislation. All the falsehoods on which
it rests are slanders directed against that Demo-
cratic Parliament and its Democratic policy. It
charges that Parliament with having robbed
N.S.W., just as it charged it, last December, with
a Socialistic desire to rob the Paddington house-
wife of her furniture, and the State Labor party
apparently doesn’t intend to throw one serious
brick in defence.
* * * *
The situation is to some extent that of eight to
ten years ago repeated. Then the great majority
of the N.S.W. people were Federal, as they proved
at two referendums; but because Reid was
a mere time-server, and Dibbs was bitterly
parochial, and Labor was, in the main,
blankly indifferent, they found no solid
Federal party to vote for. So the anti-Federal
State Legislature, in the face of the popular will,
annulled the first referendum, and if it hadn t
been prorogued and the Legislative door slammed
in its face, would have done the same for the
second. To-day the people are still Federal, but
again it appears—through the petty selfishness of
politicians who hate the Commonwealth because
it has deprived them of some of their power and
importance—there will be no Federal party to
vote for, except in a few constituencies where
Owe’Sullivan and his. remnant will be repre-
sented. Some of the Federalists will vote for the
anti-Federal Carruthers because they object to
Labor; some will vote for the indifferent and
non-Federal Laborites because they object to
Carruthers ; a huge number, disgusted with the
lack of Australian patriotism in both parties, will
probably not vote at all. The Tories, who hate
the liberal Federal Constitution and the pro-
gressive Federal legislation, will go to the poll
solidly. A great part of the democratic element,
angered with the discovery that there is not one
party which will seriously defend United Aus-
tralia, will solidly stay away. Labor, if it came
forward in earnest as the Federal party, would
gather in a very solid vote that never came its
way before. Unfortunately it has been indifferent
to Australia so long that it would be hard to put
on the appearance of earnestness now.
it * ♦ ft
If Joseph Carruthers returns from his anti-
Federal campaign with a big majority, he will do
no more harm to the Commonwealth than George
Reid would have, done to the cause of State
Socialism if lie had been victorious last year. In
each case it would be only an ant chewing at the
base of an Alp. But Joseph will have got back.
By the sly device of rallying to his standard the
Tories who hate the Democratic legislation and the
splendidly liberal Constitution of the Australian
Parliament, and by the folly of his opponents in
not rallying to their banner those who endorse
that legislation and approve of that Constitution,
Joseph will have brought Australia’s enemies to
the poll, while many of Australia’s friends will have
been kept away. And though his fool-referendum
about the site of the Australian capital may yield
him no satisfaction, he will again be Premier
Joseph. He will have got, on a bogus side-issue,
a clear certificate of character over the lands
scandals, over the railway scandals, and the loco-
motive contracts and the coal contracts, over his
disgraceful management of the finances, over
the wreck of the Arbitration Act, and other
matters. He will come back to face a dis-
credited Opposition, for good Federalists will
conclude, in many cases, that an Opposition
which isn’t patriotic enough to make any serious
or combined attempt to refute the monstrous
inventions of Australia’s enemies are just as
undesirable as Carruthers himself. And though
he won’t come back to attempt the impos-
sible task of breaking up the union, and though
the Federal capital will be just where it is, he
probably will return to destroy the Arbitration
principle, and to do serious damage to the Old
Age Pensions system, and to accomplish other
things which are within his reach, and something
like his fighting size.
It is over the Federation question that the
Labor party promises to lose one great oppor-
tunity. Another, almost as great, is likely to be
frittered away over financial matters. On the
financial issue the party always fools away its
opportunity. One of the features of its indict-
ment against Carruthers is his proposed partial
abolition of the income-tax. But, with the
income-tax, Carruthers has this year a huge
alleged “surplus.” Most of it is due to the
proceeds of land sales, but these are mainly
payments on account of land already sold on the
long-instalment plan, and even a Government
which shutdown on future sales couldn’t prevent
these proceeds coming in for a number of years.
The rest of the surplus is created b.y borrowing—
but the Labor party won’t declare against bor-
rowing—and by working weird devices on the
sinking fund—and the Labor party doesn’t pro-
mise to be any more honest with the sinking fund
than Carruthers himself. If the Labor party
promised that, should it attain to power, it would
abolish loans, create an honest sinking fund, and
devote the proceeds of the income-tax and the
revenue from land already sold to public works,
it would have a financial programme that would
at least command respect. As matters stand,
Carruthers is going to practically abolish the
income-tax and to keep on borrowing; his op-
ponents propose to retain the income-tax, and
apparently to keep on borrowing just as much as if
it were abolished. Therefore, the Labor party
gives solid inducements to income-tax payers to
vote against it, and no inducement at all to those
who detest the loan disease to vote for it. It is
the Lost Opportunity party all the time.
® •* * *
Probably slow, honest, steady-going (when he
does go) James McGowen would reply that it
would be mere hypocrisy for his party to profess
a Federal sentiment that it doesn’t feel, and
yearnings after straight finance that it doesn’t
possess. The only answer can be that if the present
Labor party doesn’t feel that way, and if it is
sure that its present condition is incurable, then
the sooner it makes way for another Labor party
with larger sentiments the better. There was
deep pathos in McGowen’s statements about
the low wages and semi-starvation of the
miserable draper’s assistant, and about the hard
lot of many other toilers. He is intensely sincere
in his desire to repair these and other social evils.
But he will never secure the reformation of these
things from a triumphant and freshly-white-
washed Carruthers, who has just got a new
lease of office on the Tory anti-Australian ticket
because there was no National Australian ticket
in the field against him. The only way to
bring about serious reform is for the Labor
party to climb into power itself. To do
that it must get votes. It might get the
Federalist and National Australian vote, but
apparently it doesn’t want that. It might get
the votes of those who believe in honest finance
and the abolition of the loan curse, but appar-
ently it wouldn’t have their assistance at a gift.
It might, now that Carruthers has declared that
he is merely the clamorous agent in State politics
of Reid and the importing party in Federal poli-
tics, get some decent fiscal convictions, and make
the State Labor party an agency for pushing good
Democratic Protectionists into the Australian
Parliament, and thereby get a certain amount of
Protectionist support, but seemingly it doesn’t
desire that either. It is the party of Lost Oppor-
tunities at every turn. It consistently throws
away the chance to impress on the public that
Labor polities and honest and capable finance go
together, and that is the biggest of its Lost Op-
portunities. It will never climb into the place
where it c;in undo the social evils of which it com-
plains till it gets a definite financial policy. Mere
vague remarks about “restriction of borrowing”
—which may mean restriction to £3,000,000 a year
—are not enough. The country associates the
Labor party with See’s constant deficits and
Owe’Sullivan’s razzle-dazzle, and it has good
reason for doing so. The country won’t entrust
the party, or any such party, with a blank cheque.
That fact represents a chance that Labor has
thrown away every year for 16 years, and appar-
ently it doesn’t even know to this day that any-
thing has been thrown away.
BRADDON, THE BLESSED.
The Bulletin, in all seriousness, asks the paro-
chial press, the Stinking Fish Foreign Trade
Party of New South Wales, the Reidites, the
Carruthersites, the Deformers, the Cabbage-Tree-
Mob, the John Haynes party, the John
Norton party—all the motley gathering which
assembles in the Sydney camp of Anti-Federal-
ism—to do one fair thing, to make one amend, to
cease for one moment from shrieking and lying
and whining like a bedraggled drab robbed of
her beer-money, to show itself possessed of one
spark of decency and honesty and to
make amends to one Edward Braddon, deceased.
Just now Anti-Federalism hangs its case mostly
on the clause which Braddon persuaded the
Federal Convention to put in the Constitution)
providing that at least three-fourths of the total
Customs and Excise revenue should be returned
to the States, or applied by the Commonwealth
to meet the States’ debt liabilities. Anti-Federal-
ism now suggests that this clause should be re-
tained in the Constitution permanently. In the
original Constitution, which failed to get the neces-
sary endorsement in N.S.W., because of the gross
treachery and bad faith of the Anti-Federalists
in N.S. Wales Assembly, the Braddon clause
was permanent. The efforts of the Reid-Carru-
thers Government reduced it to a temporary
ten-years affair. Now that it is believed that the
clause might be a real hindrance and a stumbling
block in the path of the Union, Anti-Federalism
wants it put back again as an affair that will last
for ever. It thinks now that the provision is
loaded with disaster to Australia, and disaster to
Australia is what it wants. So the Braddon
clause (the Blot that used to be) becomes a
Blessing, and Reid and Carruthers and the rest
of the motley crowd are willing to hint or talk
Secession if the Blessing is allowed to lapse, and
is not made a fixed and perpetual bulwark to
parochialism.
* * * *
It is patently, then, their duty to do something
grand for the memory of the author of the
Braddon Blessing, especially as in the days when
he was alive they raved furiously at his Blot and
cursed him in black type morning after morning as
a bitter enemy of N.S. Wales, a robber of its
revenues and a conspirator against its happiness.
Perhaps the anti-Federalists have forgotten their
old shrieks about the Braddon Blessing (once the
Braddon Blot). These extracts from the Daily
Telegraph, organ-in-chief of Anti-Federalism, will
refresh their memories :
... All these suggestions for disposing of the surplus,
which cannot be given back to the people who subscribe
it, must be looked upon ns so much dust for the public
eye.—Sydney Telegraph (25/5/’93).
This provision of Mr. Edward Braddon is an abomin-
able blot on the Bill.—G. H. Reid.
Mr. Reid is quite right. It is the worst and most un-
workable clause in the entire Bill. —Sydney Telegraph
(2S/5/’9B).
Even Edward Braddon confessed that he was in such a
“ condition of sleepiness” that he was not able to “do
justice to the motion.” And in this way, and by these
means, JS'.S.W. is saddled with a taxation scheme which
will mean a tax of 28s. per head of the population of this
colony for the benefit of other and more necessitous
States.—Sydney Telegraph (14/5/’S)8).
There are other questions connected with that extra-
ordinary fetter, the Braddon Blot, and the striking
alteration in the position of the provincial debts effected
by the Convention Bill. — Sydney Telegraph (16/5f US).
That clause (the Braddon Blot) is in itself a clear evi
deuce as to the confusion which reigned throughout the
three sessions of the Convention on the question ol
finance.— Sydney Telegraph (4 /G/’9B).
... the gravest blemish in the whole Bill.—G. H. Reid
referring to the Braddon clause (3, 6/'9B).
. . . that extraordinary provision which requires the
Federal Government to raise by Customs duties four
times the amount of money which it lias power to spend
—Sydney Telegraph ( 15/6/'!J8).
... the Federation will be in this impossible position
that, sli uld a war break out, for every single pound it
raised by taxation for the defence of the countrv, it
would have to raise three pounds for the benefit of the
States, and it would be absolutely helpless until it defied
the Constitution under which it was established.— Svdruu
Telegraph (fl 8/198).
... It is a hopeless fetter.— Ibid.
Those are samples of the insults hurled in 1898 at
Braddon because of his Biot (now in 1907 a
Blessing). The Blot then was to exact 28s. per
head per annum from the N.S.W. inhabitant—
from the babe in arms to the centenarian—to prop
up Tasmania and other robber States. It was the
device of a man temporarily demented by sleepi-
ness. It was abominable, unworkable, treache-
rous, dishonest. The assurances of George
Reid (of the Reid-Carruthers Government) and
his press satellites that the Blot was utterly
ruinous, combined with their breach of faith in
raising the minimum vote required to carry the
Bill, caused the first Constitution to be rejected,
and out of that rejection came the Federal capital
confusion and other troubles. Now that all these
yarns are withdrawn, and the arch-conspirator of
Tasmania is canonised, and his Blot is raised to
the honor of an Ark of the Covenant, will not the
raging parochialists, in common decency; do-some-
thing for the memory of the man they execrated
with vile abuse? The Bulletin will be glad to
receive subscriptions, and to arrange a pilgrimage
of repentant States Frights to the tomb of
Braddon of the Blessing.
BETWEEN THE GATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As a saver of infant life the institution is invaluable
to the State, as, though born under a cloud, the little in-
mates, with proper attention, may still become good
citizens.— Melbourne Daily.
All men living on this earth
Enter by the Gate of Birth.
Very narrow, very straight
Is the pathway to that Gate ;
All must pass, but, onee inside.
Many are Life’s ways, and wide.
Some, alas ! are barely in
What is called a World of Sin
Ere they fall and disappear
As leaves are blown along the year.
In the taking of a breath
Lo ! they reach the Gate of Death.
Like foul vampires of The Pit
At the Gate of Birth there sit,
Parasite and Hypocrite ;
One in likeness of a Priest—
One a furtive, obscene Beast. . ..
Long ago, and long ago,
Pain, Despair, and Want, and Woe,
Hate and Malice and their crew,
At the bidding of the gods
To the Gate of Entrance drew—
Foes to Man, and fearful odds
By their number and their power—
Ah ! it was an evil hour.
These the gods, reclined at ease,
Sent to be Man’s enemies.
Ever since, by day and night,
Man has waged a truceless fight
For the joyance of the gods,
In their pleasant seats above
Gloating over monstrous odds.
Then came Reason, Hope, and Love
To Man’s aid, whereat his soul
Burned within him as a fire ;
And the world, from pole to pole,
Quivered with a great Desire ;
And the gods, with huge dismay,
Feared the rescue of their prey.
Pain and Sickness were disarmed,
And the mighty gods, alarmed,
Saw Want falter, turn and flee—
Saw Hate wounded, as the three
Great allies of Man advanced,
And his strength and power enhanced.
Hastily the gods devise
Some new bar to Paradise.
Some new force of fear and lies.
Straight beside the Narrow Gate,
Where Man’s bitter foemen wait,
Drawn from out the nether gloom,
Armed with all infernal spite,
Set the gods the Parasite —
For the Hypocrite made room.
As from out the shadow Land,
Pressing through the Gate of Birth,
Throng the new souls, hand in hand,
Parasite, with scorching brand,
Sears some —and with fiendish mirth,
Brands them Bastard; on them flings
Fierce and fiery dew of scorn.
Through their souls it burns and stings—
Better had they not been born !
Hypocrite, accursed, vile,
Full of all deceit and guile,
On them lays a deadly blight,
Ere they learn to play their parts—
Ere they enter on the fight.
Steals the courage from their hearts!
Bound, he gives them up to Care,
Hate, and Malice, and Despair.
Thus the gods, with laughter filled,
And in all oppression skilled,
Triple wrong and evil plan,
For the struggling soul of Man,
Lest by help of his allies —
Love, and Reason, and bright Hope-
lie with cruel odds should cope,
And by misery made wise.
Win, perchance, to Paradise,
* * * *
Wherefore, drawn from out The Pit,
At their devil's work still sit,
Parasite and Hypocrite.
VIC.
O.C. CABOT.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Danysz.
Danysz, the French faddist who was going to
exterminate Australia’s rabbits by the simplest
and safest means on earth, has vanished in a cloud
of dust Francewards. His words on parting
would indicate that he intended to return
and finish the diseasing of poor bunny; but
Australia need have no fear. Danysz, in
all probability, is gone for good, and sufficient
reason for his departure is shown in the
report of the two South Australian expert
commissioners who watched his work on
Broughton Island and published the results
of their watchings just as Danysz was waving his
hand to the Leeuwin in token of farewell. The
report of the commissioners alleges Danysz to
have exaggerated without compunction, and to be
grossly inaccurate and fatuously optimistic. He
declared that rabbits fed with infected lucerne
died in eight days. Yet in a small paddock,
whose: extent Danysz variously describes
as three-quarters of an acre and three acres,
out of 32-“ rabbits fed on “virulent lucerne”
none died in eight days, 20 died in 10 days, and
some never died at all, becoming apparently
immune to the virus. It was the same way all
through. The safe way to infect a preliminary
rabbit with the poison is to catch him and “ put a
drop on the eye, the nose, or the tongue.”
(Danysz’s own words). Then, if he isn’t the
sort that gets immune, he’ll die in time, but
there is no absolute certainty that he will kill
by contagion more than half-a-dozen others.
Some of Danysz’s methods savor of pantomime.
“It is very easy to infect rabbits by putting a
certain quantity of the virus in the water they
drink,” says the diseaser. That sounds easy,
especially when it is remembered that the virus is
alleged by Danysz to be harmless to everything but
rabbits. But his method of infecting the water is
another matter. “In this case,” he says, “you
would have to put a pint of broth, or one
minced rabbit (infected), to every two or three
gallons of water, and renew this everyday.” Take
an ordinary million gallon tank outback, at which
the rabbits drink. The cocky, who was poisoning
off d la Danysz, would have to catch and poison
rabbits every morning before breakfast.
These he would chop up and cast into the tank.
Just think of that cocky and that tank at the
end of a fortnight, when rabbits
had been poisoned, caught, chopped up and
shied into the water. It would poison every
creeping, flying and moving thing in the
neighborhood. Even if Danysz’s virus were
all he claims it to be, it would still, apparently,
be far cheaper to employ men to chase rabbits
and screw their necks than to sool on the
Frenchman’s microbe. But the virus is not what
he claims it to be. The disease lie causes in the
rabbit is haemorrhagic septicaemia, and it has not
yet been shown that all our native animals—opos-
sums, wallabies, kangaroo rats, bears, wombats,
etc. —and all our native birds, would not contract
the disease. Indeed, it is difficult to see how
Danysz, or anybody else, could ever prove this,
because everybody knows that bacteria take on
entirely new and alarming characteristics in new
and altered conditions. But Danysz has not
even demonstrated that the virus won’t attack
domestic animals. He had one horse, four
cattle, 21 sheep, two goats, 10 fowls, and three
kangaroos, on which he tested the virus once. Be-
cause they did not thereupon develop the disease,
he assumes that all domestic animals are immune.
But there are many other ways in which
disease may spread. No dogs, no cats, no
pigeons, no mice, no rats were experimented
on. There seems to be no doubt whatever
that the folk who brought Danysz out here
have wasted their money. Australia wouldn’t
have any Danysz, anyhow, and it owes a big debt
of gratitude to Bill Lyne for holding him up in
the first place, and insisting on restrictions, when
OarrutHers would have gaily let him loose on
the land.
A Living Wage—According to Smith.
Teesdale Smith (not Smyth or Smythe, but just
Smith) who gets £5OOO a year as manager of
Millar’s Karri and Jarrah Co. (W.A.) has
rushed into print to prove that a timber-getter
can save 50 percent, of the magnificent wage
offered him by the Combine—a whole 7s. 3d. a
day. Smith is not content with a bare statement,
but goes into figures to prove his case. The fol-
lowing is his idea of a workman’s weekly food
account: —
s. d. s. d.
12 lb. meat 9 0
12 lb. bread 2 0
1 lb. currants .. .. 0 8
7 lb. potatoes .. .. 0 8
J lb. tea 0 4
1 lb. peas .. . ..03
2 lb. sugar 0 7
i lb. salt 0 0i
1 lb. rice 0 3
I lb. curry 0 4
1 lb. jam 0
\ lb. baking powder .. 0 5
l4 11
The clothing account for the year is as follows
6 pairs of dungarees.. £lB 6
3 pairs of bluchers .. 16 3
3 flannels .. .. 0 15 0
6 pairs of socks .. 0 6 0
1 suit 5 0 0
4 shirts .. •. 0 18 0
6 handkerchiefs .. 0 3 0
Hats 10 0
Bedding .. .. 0 10 0
12 lb. tobacco .. 3 6 0
£l4 12 0
This comes out at about 21s. per week, but then
the economical Smith doesn’t allow for flour,
boots (except bluchers), matches, soap, braces,
butter, milk, vegetables (except potatoes), candles,
rent, literature, kerosene, washing, sanitary rate
(quite an item), or life insurance. Smith is a
married man with a family, the members of which
would probably be quite cross with Smith if he
didn’t provide them with boiled cabbage and
butter. Then the workman, according to Smith,
never gets ill, or requires medicine of any kind,
never goes to church, never gives anything in
charity, never drinks anything but water, never
has a trip on the railroad, never has any amuse-
ments. At any rate, if he does any of these things
he has no right to do so—according to Smith. As
for emulating the manager, and having a wife and
family, it is rank blasphemy, as Smith expressly
states that his scale is that for a single man, and
even that single man, according to Smith, has to
cadge all his matches. This same Smith is the
gentleman who, when asked in the Arbitration
Court, “ Do you consider 7s. 3d. a day a fair living
wage for a married man with a family ? replied
“ We don't employ the women and children." This
should go down to posterity with FoulON’s “Let
the people eat grass.” The difference seems to be
that Smith expects only the families to eat grass,
he having the erroneous idea that his balance-
sheet provides for the wife—so long as she
noesn’t eat vegetables. Smith perhaps wants to
introduce the “compound” system which wassuch
a success in S’Africa, and to go a step further than
the Anti-Sosh bogey about the destruction of the
marriage tie, by abolishing the woman and child
altogether. Imagine the man with £lOO a week
(and he probably reckons he is underpaid)
calculating himself as equal to 50 of his fellow
men, and advising them liow to save a small
fortune on 2 per cent, of what is sufficient lor
him ! And the Anti-Sosh crowd is full of SmiiHS.
The Bum-boat Patriots.
“ Empire Pay ” in Sydney was largely devoted to
a squalid exhibition of provincialism by Sydney
parochialists. Tory anti-Federalist Kelly and
Labor anti-Federalist P. H. Sullivan were
most notable among the self-pilloried at a banquet
—appropriate occasion ! —to hatter Storey, who
once defeated the Federal leader Barton. Mr.
Kelly flaunted his old stock of arguments, which
are summarised: —
As a matter of strategy (Mr. Kelly, having read at least
one book on the subject, is an authority on naval strategy)
it would be deadly for the British Empire to tie vessels to
Australia. ,
Therefore, Australia should subsidise the Empire to tie
vessels to Sydney, because otherwise Sydney will lose the
bum-boat money which the presence of a British squadron
in Port Jackson affords, and Melbourne—accursed Mel-
bourne—will reap some mysterious advantage.
Then Labor member Sullivan (the existence of
such Labor members explains why the Labor
party in N.S. Wales is drifting helplessly to
no place in particular) followed :
He was astonished at the supineness of the leaders here.
It was not so much a question of having an Australian
navy of our own, as the transfer of the headquarters of
the fleet from Sydney to Melbourne, with a view to
getting whatever honor or profit mig’ht accrue pro-
bably profit. (Prolonged applause.)
It is such stuff which passes current in Sydney
as “Imperialism,” as a patriotic regard for
the interests of the British race! But is it pos-
sible for any reasonable being to accept it as
“ loyalty ” and “ Imperialism ” simply because of
the fraudulent label put on it by the anti-
Australian press? These bum-boat patriots,
who would hamper Britain and imperil the
very existence of Australia because of the
dread that some of the meat and milk
and cabbage orders, now monopolised by
Sydney, should go to Melbourne—who argue in
the one breath that it is dangerous to the Empire
to have fleets in these waters, and that the Empire
should be subsidised to keep a fleet at Sydney to
spend money there—are utterly disloyal to
Australia. Their ideas are bounded by Wool-
loomooloo Bay, “The Rocks,” Surry Hills, and
Circular Quay. In the contemplation of a little
patch of Sydney, they lose sight of Australia.
How then can they have any thought for the
Empire? Petty little parochialists, they do not see
a national consideration beyond an order for meat
and groceries for their own town. With eyes
bent on their little back-yard, their vision cannot
range to anything beyond.
*
The Child Slaves of the Cow—Once More.
Once again a man has felt it his duty to publicly
condemn the rascally system of child slavery that
obtains in some of the districts of the Common-
wealth where Cow is god. This time it is the
Rev. A. J. Davidson, of Noorat (Vic.), who last
week suggested to the Vic. Presbyterian Assembly
that it should urge Parliament to absolutely pro-
hibit the employment of children of tender years
in cow work. As the Assembly applauded the
suggestion, something may presently be heard of
it. Pastor Davidson gave instances that had
come under his own notice. One was of a baby
girl of 11 who was suddenly taken ill at school one
morning. She had to toil two hours at milking,
get her breakfast, walk two miles to school, put
in a good part of the day there, walk two miles
home, put in two hours’ milking, learn her lessons,
and then totter off to bed that she might rise early
and start milking. There was nothing wrong
with her save deadly exhaustion. A boy of 13
had to rise every day of his life at 5 a.m., milk 13
cows, trudge four miles to school, and go through
the same purgatory after school was over. The
worst case,'so shameful as to be almost incredible,
was that of a boy of 14, who started his day’s toil
at 4.30 a.m. He had to round up 200 cows and
strip every one after the milking-machine had
done its work. Then he trudged three miles to
school, and went through the same programme
after lessons. He had, however, one slight miti-
gation—he occasionally had the assistance of a
younger brother. Mr. Davidson didn’t say
whether this farmer owned these 200 cows and
the milking-machines, or whether he worked on
the share system. A school inspector, referring
to these cases, said he had long since condemned
the practice as incapacitating the children for
their school work, and rendering them both men-
tally and bodily backward and deficient; but
nothing had come of it. Gippsland and Western
Victoria were, in his experience, the worst dis-
tricts. No wonder the Victorian factories need
no coloring for their butter. If poetic justice
were done, it would be tinged with the blood of
the child slaves whose lives are sacrificed, for the
profit of the landowner, in the service of the great
god Gow.
An Imported English Judge who Starves
Australians.
The English-owned Timber Combine of Westralia,
against whose exactions its employees revolted
some time ago, has put up something of a record.
But more flagrant than the employers’ action is
that of the imported English Judge, Rooth,
whose inhumanity has aided and abetted the
doings of the Jarrah Combine. This Rooth was
imported by the Westralian Government about a
year ago, because, for some inexplicable reason,
the said Government didn’t want to raise to the
Bench anybody at the Westralian Bar, and its
mean parochial hatreds prevented it offering
the position to any barrister from N.S.W.,
Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania, or S. Australia.
So Rooth came, to the sorrow of Westralia.
The facts of the present trouble, briefly stated,
are these. Westralia has a kind of an Arbi-
tration Act, under which strikes and lock-outs are
illegal. When the trouble arose in the business
of the English-owned Jarrah Combine, the men
claimed that they had been locked out —an offence
under the Act on the Combine’s part. The Com-
bine claimed that the men had struck—an offeuce
under the Act on the part of the men. The question
was tested by the charging of John B. Holman,
M.L.A.; Denny Jones, presidentof the Amalga-
mated Saw-mill Employees’Union; and Thomas
Ryan, its secretary, with having aided and
abetted a strike. They were found guilty (they
declare wrongfully), and they appealed on three
grounds: (1) that they were not guilty ; (2) that
certain evidence tendered on their behalf was
wrongfully rejected ; (3) that the conviction was
bad in form and substance. So the question
whether the employees or the employers had been
guilty of an offence under the Act—whether
there was a strike or a lockout—is still sub-
judice. A large section of the communitv
sympathised with the employees, and money
poured in to help them. And they were in dire
need of it. J. B. Holman, T. Walker, and 11.l 1 . H.
Bath, Ms.L.A., Denny Jones and Senator
Pearce were members of the defence committee
of the employees, and, as such, had the distribu-
tion and handling of the relief funds, i’he em-
ployers saw that the relief funds were big enough,
and the sympathy of the country strong enough
to see the men through. They saw also that, on
appeal, the alleged strike might possibly be
declared a lock-out, and it might be decided that
the Combine and not its employees had broken the
law. Obviously, if they were to be sure of
winning, they must win before the appeal came on.
And just as obviously the best way to win was to
knock away the support of the relief funds. In the
Arbitration Act there is a section which makes it
an offence to do anything to aid and abet a strike.
Although the question of strike or lock-out is still
sub judice, the Combine went to the impoited
English Judge Rooth in Chambers, and asked
him for an injunction restraining the defence
committee from distributing the relief funds.
They asked this imported English Judge to make
an order depriving the alleged strikers (it isn t yet
quite decided that they are strikers) and their wives
and little children of food and drink, in order that
the men might be fore d to return to the Combine s
saw mills on the Combine’s terms. And the im-
ported English J udge whose name is Rooth made
the ofder. He presumably knew that if he granted
the injunction that day (Tuesday), no steps fonts
removal, even though it were unjust and utterly
wrong 1 , could bo taken beforo the following
Friday. He presumably knew, this imported
English Judge, that the wives and children of the
employees were absolutely dependent for each
meal on the relief from the fund doled out every
dav. He presumably knew that the case was still
undecided. He ought to have known that his
high office of Judge was being unscrupulously
used by the employers to snatch a grossly unfair
advantage. This imported English Judge pre-
sumably knew all these things, and yet he granted
the injunction. The result is that the relief
moneys sent to the defence committee are lying
in the bank, and cannot be touched or operated
on by those who hold them in trust for the
starving families of the timber-workers. Even an
imported English J udge might have been expected
to hold the j udicial balance a little more carefully
than this.
Postal Voting.
Thus “Scrutineer,” from Queensland :
The new Election Act has found a use for the Queens-
land J.P. at last. It has also shown that the supply of
J’s.P. is quite inadequate for Queensland’s crying needs.
A few days ago a J.P. was worth, in this constituency,
anything from a bag of spuds to a couple of dairy cows
in full milk. . .
Hitherto we Australians have had reason to be proud of
our system of voting by ballot —a system which is so
good that it has been adopted in nearly every civilised
country' in the world —and notably in the U.S.- undei
the distinctive name of “The Australian Ballot. In
Queensland much of its simplicity has disappeared, and,
in the Postal Vote clauses, all of the secrecy. In this
constituency alone one-fifth of the total electors who
voted did so by post, and, in all seriousness, it can be
said that, of the thousand and over voters who posted
their ballot papers, it is known with certainty to the
candidates and their scrutineers, and thus to everybody
else in the town, how any and every particular vote was
cast.
Under the postal vote clause, any female who does not
wish, for any reason, to vote at the polling booth, may
apply to the local postmaster or presiding officer for an
application form. When she receives this, she must sign
it, and a J.P. must also sign it as a witness. When the
application is lodged with the authorities a ballot paper
is issued, enclosed in an unsealed envelope with a form
printed on its face, setting forth that the voter
has complied with the conditions of the Act.
She must sign this, too, and the signature is
witnessed by a J.P. This envelope is enclosed in another,
and when the chosen candidate’s name has been written
on the ballot paper, the latter is put in the first envelope,
and then both are enclosed in the second one, and the
whole affair posted, or handed to an agent to post. Males
can only vote by post who expect to be, or are, absent from
the electorate on polling day.
Some time before election day a smart man discovered
that the postal vote was a good thing. He hunted up
all the available J’s.P. of his particular brand of politics,
and nearly died of grief because he could only find 100
when he would be rather short if he had a thousand , and
appointing a canvasser to each, they were spread over
the constituent, so that very soon each home was the
scene of “ heart-to-heart talks ” with the women electors.
Generally the old man was away at work, and the J.P.
was able to play the mischief with the women’s politics,
and there were very' often sure votes for one side given in
all innocence to the other. Of course the other candidate
soon learned about the matter, so he too dug up his
J’s.P., and it was then noticed how short the animals
were.’The secretaries’ work was quintupled, and one of the
sights of the town, three days before the poll, was to see
them leading boys, loaded with postal votes, to the post
office, returning*with back loading of application forms.
When the postal votes came up for scrutiny, it was
quite plain to all concerned who knew the constituency
that when Michael Grogan, J.P., witnessed, on the
envelope, Mary Hooliiian’s signature, or what purported
to be her signature, Mary’s vote went a certain way, for
Michael was no chump. Similarly', if Ewan McPherson,
J.P., witnessed Janet Miekel.tohn’s envelope, Michael s
crowd knew that they had had bad luck. Judging by the
newspaper reports, the same thing was done in every
constituency in Queensland. ...
The local “Bottle-O” complains that his business is
ruined, for he cannot make himself heard over the back
fence, because of the calls of “Traitor,” “Hypocrite,”
and much that is unprintable, whieh are being shrieked
from yard to yard by the women electors. Of course,
what the candidates and scrutineers learned, was told to
their committees, half of which are women electors, and
from these spread over the whole constituency'. The men
of all classes are glooming over their drink, and saying
“To hell with postal and woman voting ! ” Both sides are
unanimous that it is the worst thing that has struck
Queensland in the history of the country. You see, there
were too few J’s.P. on each side to go round, and the
winning side had the most.
It is an Upper House amendment accepted in ignorance
by the Government. But anybody might guess that.
The British Kow-tow.
There isn’t much Jingoism in England nowadays.
Following the alliance with Japan, Britain seems
to have adopted a shame-faced and timorous
policy. The lion’s tail droops since he took the
monkey into partnership. Some British jour-
nalists notice the fact, too, as witness a couple of
paragraphs from two different London journals
of standing last month. The first is from London
Opinion, re the edict that “The Mikado” must
be played no longer :
That a protest should be entered against the perform-
ance of a perfectly inoffensive and altogether delightful
piece of operatic humor might be laughed aside if the
incident conveyed no serious indication. To the thought-
ful student of the world’s affairs, however, the “ request ’
is of no trivial significance. “ The Mikado ” has been
given without protest for more than 20 years. But 20
years ago Japan was, comparatively, an insignificant
quantity. Since that time, she has taken a nasty fall
out of one of the greatest of the white military Powers,
and she is now wearing a cap several sizes larger than
formerly. That is what the nations of the West are asked
to remember.
London Outlook, re the Jamaica incident
Our Cabinet Ministers proceeded to tumble over one
another in their haste to prostrate themselv es at the feet
of Mr. Roosevelt. The conduct of Sir Edward Grey was,
for once, precipitate and undignified. That of Mr.
Haldane was frankly and wantonly ridiculous. If Sir
Alexander Swetteniiam had done serious wrong, it would
at least have been decent to await his explanation.
There is a legend, beloved by the Jingoes, that
once upon a time England went to war with
China, and taught the Asiatic a lesson, over the
issue whether a British envoy should or should
not take-off his boots when approaching the
Chinese Emperor. That, if true, was ridiculous.
And there was also the War of Jenkins’ Ear.
But the swing-back has gone too far. The
favorite British attitude nowadays seems to be
that of the kow-tow. It’s a deferential “an’if
you please” to Japan; a prompt “ most happy
to oblige ” to the United States, and a general
tendency to be ’umble all round. John Bull
should wake up and be a man again, get a modern
fiscal system going, tear his cultivable lands from
foreign millionaires and home-made monopolists,
grow his own food, and arm his own manhood.
No nation kow-tows for fun ; and the world-
feeling spreads nowadays that J.B. kow-tows
because he must.
—-»
The Uuill Pnver.
A FEW —a very few —of the clerks of Melbourne
are striving hard to show to their brother quill-
drivers the absolute necessity of organisation and
legislation, if their business is to be elevated to
the rank of callings at which men can earn a
living. The present combination (the Victorian
Clerks’ Union) was formed seven years ago, with a
fairly big membership. The members, being
clerks in receipt of an average wage of about
16s. 9d. a week, thought themselves far too
good to affiliate with the Trades Hall, and
so be put on a level with unions of
manual workers, who averaged about £2 a week.
Consequently, the new union accomplished
nothing except a big bill of expenses for printing,
and hire of offices and meeting hall. Neverthe-
less, while that bill was being run up, the mem-
bers talked loudly of what they wanted and what
they meant to get. A Bill—the Clerical Em-
ployees Protection Bill —was drafted and circulated
among members of Parliament. This Bill pro-
posed to give the clerk a chance to live, and
therefore met with vast disfavor. It was never
introduced, principally through the advice of
Alex. Peacock, who was Premier then, and who
employs lots of clerks. Then, having no fraternal
backing, such as other unions have, and absolutely
no backbone, such as other unionists have, the
Clerks’ Union petered nearly out. A half-dozen
enthusiasts have risked sack and starvation, and
all sorts of nameless terrors, and have kept the
thing in existence ; and whenever the question of
clerk-sweating arises, the union makes frantic
signals to show that it is still alive and
willing to assist the clerks, if they will
come along and help to help themselves.
Years ago the union drifted up to Lygon-
street, and nestled under the wing of the
Trades Hall Council. ButeventheTradesHall can-
not do much for a union that numbers about one-
thousandth of the people engaged in the occupation
it represents. Recently, this union held a special
meeting of about 10 members, and told itself a lot
of truth about the profession. The spectacle of
men of 25 and 30 earning 12s. 6d. and 15s. a week is
so common as to excite no comment. But what
the union people did rave at was the statement,
promulgated by the employer class, that there
were too many clerks in the market. According
to the secretary of this union, there are not enough
competent clerks. The alleged overstocking of the
market is caused through the sons of well-to-do
people being put into offices —not to earn livings,
but to get business experience. These take away
the jobs of men who have families to keep, and at
the same time cut wages down to a mere pittance.
Too many clerks are really employed ; one compe-
tent clerk is equal to three or four “jackeroos,” but
the pay of the jackeroos won’t keep a clerk and
his wife. Another trouble is the hours of labor.
These are infinite. Men work five nights a week
without being paid a penny of overtime, wlnle in
the big warehouses Sunday work lias become
almost a rule. Still the pay never rises, ihe
remedy proposed by the union is eminently fair
and logical. It asks for a minimum rate of pay
and a limitation of hours, with provision for over-
time. The minimum rates of pay would have the
effect of compelling employers to select competent
men, and would drive out of the business the men
who are only in it to earn a few shillings as
pocket-money. The overtime provision would
probably put an end to the long-hours iniquity ;
to pay overtime rates would break the heart of a
Melbourne boss. The proposed wages are not
assessed on too liberal a scale. Between 18
and 20 years of age the union reckons that,
if a clerk is worth employing at all, he is
worth at least £1 a week. Below 18 years
he is to be regarded as an apprentice, and
his employment regulated by the number of full
grown clerks employed. After 20 he has passtd
through the journeyman stage, and if he is fitted
for the profession, should be a fully qualified clerk
and worth at least £2 a week. That is the whole
of the union proposal. The carrying out of the
scheme rests with the Government. Cierks can
be included under the Factories Act, wages boards
appointed, and the court of appeal asked to fix a
fair living minimum wage. There would be
quite a revolution in clerkdom, and the country
would benefit more than most people think.
The boy who stays at school to play cricket
and football, and then, having learnt nothing else,
leaves to become a “ klurk,” would have vanished.
He would have to use his football and cricket
muscles digging potatoes, or helping to grow
something, for no clerical employer would want
him. A good large useless percentage of
the present clerical world would have to give
up white collars and straw hats, and take
to hard graft to earn a livelihood. Clerical
work would be left to the men who could
do it best in the least time. The exami-
nations for accountants and clerks, which are
now neglected, would be eagerly studied for, and
a higher standard of competence would be set up.
This is all that would happen if clerks were not
“ klurks.” But they mostly are ; and if Parlia-
ment proposed to bring them under the Factories
Act, many of them would regard it as such an
insult to their high-minded intelligence that they
would humbly pray the Legislating to leave them
in their grovel. The warehousemen's employees of
Melbourne did this last session, and the “ klurks”
would do it next, rather than be coupled with
factory workers and the “ Labah pahty.
Tasmania’s Sweaters.
The just-published report of the Commission
appointed last August to inquire into work and
wages in Hobart and Launceston, as regards
persons earning less than £l3O a }eai, is-a fear-
some document, which practically says that most
of the Island’s employers are a bad lot and those
that aren’t bad are generally worse. The Com-
mission consisted of three members, who all agree
on the facts elicited, though one declines to sign
the Commission’s recommendations, as he holds
that it is no part of his duty to suggest remedies.
His stand-offishness, however, matters little; the
conclusions of the other two will be cordially
accepted by every decent citizen of the Common-
wealth. The Commissioners visited two factories—


The Showman’s Moneymaker.—The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdjm, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
the larger factories—of each trade in the two
cities ; and what they learnt amounted to nothing
less than a tale of general sweating. Here is a
brief summary of a few of the facts discovered :
Trade. Hrs. per week. Wages (per week.)
Bakers .. .. 50 to 63 30s. to £2
do. Drivers .. 60 to 65 255. to 355.
Biscuitmakers .. 48 to 50J 11s. to £2 10s.
(30s. after 8 yrs\ serv.)
C 225. 6d. to £2 10s.
Bootmakers.. .. 48 to 50 -[ for males; 4s. to
I, 20s. for females.
Breweries .. .. 64 to 64 255. to £2 Bs.
Bookmakers .. 77 to 91 255. to £2 7s.
Brushmakers .. 60 i “ al f 5 Bs.
1 to 15s. for females
Butchers .. .. 67 to 64 20s. to £2los.
Butchers’ assistants ditto 17s. 6d. to 20s.
7No pay for 12 mos.;
Clothing trade I 2s. 6d to 10s.; 10s.
(females) .. 44 jto 15s. when at
piecework.
Coffee Palaces &Caf6s 79 to 85 -( ® s ' .*i 0 Jss " * or
( waitresses, etc.
.» „ 84 17s. 6d. to 20s. for
porters.
Among other instances of soulless sweating, the
Commission found that flour-millers and gas-
stokers work the whole year round without
Sundays or holidays, 12 hours per day ; that the
wages paid to women and girls at knitting fac-
tories are too low to admit of even the barest
existence thereon ; that piece-workers at shirt
factories have to toil excessive hours to keep
body and soul together; that the river steamer
employees graft from 50 to 84 hours a week for
from 15s. to 30s. ; that the women employed on
the Government clothing contracts can only
average 10s. to 11s. a week; that a weekly half-
holiday, or even a Sunday off, is an undreamt-of
luxury in many callings. About the worst speci-
men of employer the Commission struck was the
Hobart City Council, whose laborers receive the
magnificent remuneration of from ss. to ss. 9d.
a day, while a cartage contractor gets 6s. 6d.
a day for a horse, cart, and driver. A few mar-
ried men in the Council’s employ get a
whole £1 for a week’s work. It is an
awful report, and the general finding that
“in many cases payments are inadequate, hours
are excessive, and Sunday work unnecessary,
while the sanitary surroundings of employees are
unsatisfactory,’’ is a distinctly mild way. of putting
the conclusions most people will arrive at. As for
the remedy, “it is hoped legislation will be intro-
duced next session to correct these evils.” But is
Premier Jack Evans a likely man to introduce
such legislation? And if he were, is the local
House of Rich Landlords at all likely to pass any
adequate measure of relief for these sweated
toilers ? Undoubtedly the speediest way out of the
difficulty, and one that will not only put the
Island worker on a level with the one on the
mainland, but which will also prevent the main-
land employer being undersold by the Island
sweater, is an amendment of the Constitution Act,
transferring the whole industrial problem from
the State Legislatures to the Australian Parlia-
ment. If the Federal Labor party chooses to
work unanimously and whole-heartedly with
Dkakin and co., in passing a thoroughly protective
tariff, it should have little difficulty in getting a
quid pro quo in the shape of the amendment
desired. Meanwhile Foreign-traders have an idea.
It is to abolish Protection, and kill off the local
industries, so that the sweating will happen in
England or elsewhere, where we won’t see it and
can’t remedy it.
Yet again the Victorian honorary magistrate ! A
woman in South Melbourne developed puerperal
insanity, so Policeman X tied her legs together
and humped her off to the watchhouse. She was
brought before the Honorary Injustices of South
Melbourne, and solemnly sent to gaol for
daring to be mad within the meaning of the
Act. The magistrates unbent so far as to
recommend her for medical observation.
Still bound hand and foot, she was carted
to gaol and seen by the gaol doctor, who
diagnosed the case as insanity; but since
the woman showed no signs of ill-health—
except her insanity—he did not put her in
the gaol hospital. Some fool regulation
stood in the way. In the gaol she knocked
herself about (at least so the gaol attend-
ants said), and at last, when everybody was
thoroughly convinced that she was irre-
mediably mad, the unfortunate woman was
forwarded to Kew Asylum. But her in-
carceration in a gaol cell, and perhaps the
gentle handling of Policeman X and the
gaol attendants, had done their work. She
developed pneumonia and died. The
coroner, apparently anxious to shield the
system and the magistrates, in returning a
formal verdict said that,
if any blame was attachable to anyone in the matter, it
was attributable to those who had special charge of
deceased before her committal. Her husband should
have got proper medical treatment for her. If this had
been done in time, her life would probably have been saved.
The matter had been duly investigated, and he did not
think any blame rested on the gaol or asylum authorities.
But the husband couldn’t be expected to have
more brams than the Js.P. What the coroner
should have said was that the case was a further
proof of the criminal incompetence of the Vic-
torian unpaid Justice, and another evidence of
the fact that in Bent’s State a lunatic is looked
on with only a shade less horror than the person
who sins against the sacred rights of “ proputty.”
r~® 1S a potential sinner in that respect, and,
being liable to batter “ proputty,” can expect
nothing but the frozen glare of the law.
4
Tom Price, State Premier of S.A., spoke a little
piece last week on Federation, and after the
grumbling of some State insects and liars who
regard the Australian Government merely as a
handy institution to which they can charge all
their failures, his remarks were refreshing
think we need alarm ourselves
F«W.J h pn S S ° mB - happe "’ or to anticipate that the
Federal Government is going to squander the money.
They haven t been extravagant so far. We are getting
back more than our statutory three-fourths of the
Customs and Excise revenue collected in South Australia
and we re getting more from the Federal Government
fore Fe a rier Ve f got oufc , of . oar Customs and Excise duties be-
fore Federation, notwithstanding that South Australia
was a Protectionist country. The sum fell off for a while
but the good times have more than made up the loss
The postal and telegraphic services are so well administered
that we don t regret the loss of the £20,000 a year profit
we made out of that department. Our business men can
send telegrams for half what it used to cost them and
private telegrams are 3d. cheaper for 16 words. ’ Our
telephone service is improved, too. We have not got the
penny in the slot telephone bureau yet, as you have in
Sydney and Melbourne, but we don’t kick up a row We
S“S u „S.* nds,d ” J ’"' to™
Couldn’t Carruthers cultivate something of that
cheerful spirit instead of turning down the corners
J£? U A h and weepin £ ? Last a Bulletin
man met Carruthers he was in a Turkish bath
to lfi 17 httle ° n ‘ The Ottoman w ash appeared
to have been recommended to Joe by his doctor,
heln fr f lG , nd - and sup P ol 'ters had come to
j°. tak ® Jt - And Joseph seemed just as
tics an? J n n d th fb Turkish bath as ,l<! « in poli-
• nd made the same spasmodic efforts to
break out of the hot room that he makes to
burst out of the Commonwealth. He seemed to
think the slab was the Federal capital, and that
it was contrary to the Constitution somehow.
♦ —;
Because it was Labor Premier Price who came
to the agreement with Prime Minister Deakin, re
the Northern Territory and the transcontinental
railway, the Tories of S. Australia are beginning
to snarl at the Commonwealth, and ask what sort
of a mess Federal Administration will make of
the North. If Price had been a Tory, they
would have pointed out that the State was getting
rid of an incubus with one hand and receiving a
magnificent gift with the other. But, so that Price
shan’t get any credit, they have started a variation
of the anti-Federal cry—which is all the more de-
plorable because, to S. Australia’s credit, anti-Aus-
tralianismhas hitherto been almost unknown there.
Still, the Tories don’t have it all their own way in
S. Australia—not by miles. They had a meeting
at Port Pirie, the village which is only second in
importance to Adelaide in the State, and readied
up a sweet little motion expressing an “ emphatic
protest against the Northern Territory being
transferred to the Commonwealth Government,”
except under half-a-dozen conditions. But just
when the we-don’t-trust-the-Gommonwealth mo-
tion had been nicely moved and seconded, some
remote person who hadn’t been expected moved
“ That this meeting has every confidence in the
State and Federal Governments in the matter,”
and this horrid amendment was actually carried.
♦
When the Victorian Parliament handed the ad-
ministration of the Pure Food Act over to the
propertied municipal and shire councils, it had a
suspicion that those bodies would crowd the law
into the dust-bin if they got half a chance. It
therefore provided that at least three food samples
per 1000 people should be analysed annually.
The first year has now closed, and here is the re-
cord : Out of 146 shires and 60 cities, towns and
boroughs, eight —just eight ! —complied with the
law. Twenty-two others made a feeble pretence
of beginning to do so, and then lapsed into the
old state of let-it-slide—and it slid. There is only
one way of dealing with the Victorian councillor :
when the law tells him to do something, he must
be fined at least £lO every time he doesn’t do it—
the fines to be stopped out of any subsidies pay-
able to the shire or municipality. And when the
fines have used up the subsidy, or when there
isn’t any subsidy, the money should be recovered
by levy and distress on the councillor’s furniture
and hogs— not reckoning himself as a hog.
An item from Sydney Telegraph :
Representatives of the New South Wales Alliance saw
the Railway Commissioners yesterday, and asked that
colonial wines should not be carried at lower rates than
aerated waters.
They were informed by the Chief Commissioner that
the low rates for these wines was part of the policy of
the State with a view to encouraging’ colonial productions.
It is awkward to have a man about who thus
“blows the gaff ” on a fine old Freetrade hypo-
crisy. N.S.W., in the days when it talked Free-
trade, protected a number of its biggest industries
through the Customs. The rest it protected with
differential railway rates, differential harbor dues,
and such like, though its politicians and officials
A POPULAR SENTIMENT:
Empire Day was celebrated 3 T esterday throughout Aus-
tralia with considerable enthusiasm, especially in the
schools.— TELEGRAPH.
PARSON (after a two hours' speech): “ And now,
my children, in honor of the memory of the
dear old Queen, and to celebrate the glory of
our great Empire, you may all have a
holiday." (Deafening applause.)
mostly denied the fact. Now Johnson comes
along. Johnson doesn’t realise that he is expected
to prop up an enormous and venerable lie
and, simply judging things as he finds them, he
talks of this long-standing system of protecting
aiding, encouraging, “ coddling,” and giving surl
reptitious bonuses to local products as “part of
the policy of the State. Johnson comes from a
Freetrade country. He knows Freetrade, and it
never for a moment occurs to him to regard
N.S.W. as a State which has ever tried to run on
Freetrade lines.
.REMARKABLE FACTS.
During the last outbreak of plague in Sydney, the
Tye.be Spray was used. Result—the plague disappeared
in a few weeks.
At Brisbane an epidemic of diphtheria broke out in
schools. The Tyree Spray* were used—diphtheria
disappeared.
At Kempsey plague was rapidly stamped out with a
Tyree Spray.
At a demonstration given by the Public Works Depart-
ment, thick white-wash was put on a rough wall at the
rate of 25 yards in 4J minutes.
The Manager of the State Experimental Farm, Grafton,
writes, re ticks “ I have the honor to inform you that
I have used your Spraying Machine on cattle, it penetrates
right through to the skin.”
Mr. A. Schebel, Glenorie, writes:—“l have given the
Spray a good trial with lime. I have limed all the butts
of my trees, and it has done good work.”
~ Alfred Hospital, Sydney, write: —“ I beg to state
that the Spray has given satisfaction.”
¥/■ J- A. Mackenzie, Springvale, Kewaa, Victoria,
WH i I ? ave used your Spray with paint and lime,
and it has done the work splendidly. I white-washed
cow sheds in a very short time.”
Mr. Matsell, Wetherill Park, Smithfield, writes “ The
Spray has given every satisfaction. I have used it for
spraying vines with Bordeaux mixture.”
Mr. Robie, Superintendent of Parks, writes “ Your
Automatic Spray answers all requirements necessary for
my work, spraying shrubs, trees, etc.”*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal Royal Grand Opera Co.
Palace “Coal King.”
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Go.
St. James’ Hall The Kingwells.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Virginian.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
TWxr Watt J Oarreno Recital, Friday, 31st.
Town Hall | Marie Ha H, June 1,4, 6 and S.
Glaciarium.
♦
As much of Sydney citizen and the female
of his species as the Royal would hold went there
on Saturday night to enjoy “ Lohengrin.” The
majority of the audience went with ready-made
admiration. It knew Musgrove would not peril
his artistic reputation by bringing out anything
quite second-rate. (The “quite” has to be said
impressively.) And it had been told by the
greatest and dullest authorities—persons whose
erudition would sink a ship—that the opera itself
was a masterpiece. But, the perilous “ready-
made admiration” aside, the general opinion is
that the company is quite satisfactory, even
though no star of magnitude is set in its system.
This writer staggered away from “Lohengrin”
after a four hours’ debauch of Wagner’s pictorial
imagination and mysticism manufactured in
Germany. The music-drama unrolls like a gor-
geous piece of tapestry—the orchestration surging
or whispering or wailing, but one has got to be at
least a poor relation of Wagner’s to fully appre-
ciate all the weavings of that web. In the stalls,
at the second night of the Swan Thing, a circular
lady slept during the interminable scene between
the half-superhuman knight and the Elsa he had
just wedded. The sleeper awoke with a start
when the bridegroom touched a bell to summon
Elsa’s maids. “I wouldn’t miss a note of this,”
said the ex-sleeper toheryoungcompanion, aggress-
ively. The girl looked at her sympathetically.
“Don’t bother to wake up,” she said, “I’ll
nudge you when the poultry comes on again.”
“The poultry 1 O, that swan!” The black, bitter
music of Scene I. Act 11., when Ortrude, the
sorceress, and her consort Frederick, Count of
Brabant, sit on the cold church steps or roll about
the cobblestone yard in anguished rage, ought to
have bouquets thrown to it. Julius Riinger, who
sings the Frederick r6le where knighthood
flowers in treachery and crime, took equal
honors at the two performances with Miss
Sara Anderson’s Elsa and Karl Studemund’s
Lohengrin. Riinger’s histrionic talent is quite
as good as the average community—Australasian
or European—deserves. But the black, bitter
orchestration—“ well, the most blasphemous
things, the most terrible ideas may be incor-
porated within the walls of a symphony, and the
police be none the wiser.” (Sometimes someone
else says the thing quite as well as one could say
it oneself.)
* * * •
Miss Sara Anderson looks a typical
Gretchen, or Gertrud. She’s an American, it
seems. In spite of her well-nourished person,
she makes a most attractive Elsa, and her
voice has not suffered by time. Miss Anderson
only just misses greatness as a singer. The
Glittering Knight person Studemund is a pleasing
and histrionic tenor. All the members of the
co. are strong on histrionics. Tenor S. carries his
fat and his swan helmet with equal ease and
grace. Mr. Mohwinkel and Miss Mezzo Heinze,
Fritz Rupp, the king’s herald—these are all in the
places where they are demanded by Conductor
Slap, to sing the music of Wagner, and sing it
they do according to the best of their ability.
“Carmen” will go on to-night, and the fairy
opera “Hansel, etc. ” on Wednesday at a matinee.
* * - * * •
Mr. A. Bertram Flolim, who “brought
out ” the wonderful Australian child - actress,
Wanda Radford, has two others by the hand—
Elsie and Mary Kingwell. They will appear in a
series of dramatic performances at St. James’
Hall.
*■ * » *
(The Brough-Flemming Co. is in its last
nights of the idyllic “Olivia.” Flemming grows
more saintly as the piece runs, and Miss Day
doesn’t weary of well-doing. Mr. Winter-Hall’s
“Poor Mr. Burchill” is an excellent and sym-
pathetic piece of stage-craft, and he is carefully
rounding off and polishing his histrionic angles.
The 8.-F. co. leaves for Newcastle, where it
will open among the coals on Saturday night.
** * #
Charles Holloway and daughter Beatrice
follow the Brough-Flemmings at Sydney Palace
in “The Coal King.” Hesford will be the
monarch, and Inman the monarch’s mine mana-
ger, and most of the other people who are not
colliers will .be colliers’ wives or sweethearts,
except Beatrice aforesaid, who will be a school-
mistress, and’will, no doubt, marry the most desir-
able young party in the fifth act. But this point
won’t be definitely settled till Saturday night,
when the reign starts.
# * sff #
If the Goose at Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
would turn into a swan, or even into a bunyip, it
would give the paragraphist a chance; but she
just remains the same old pantomime bird, arid
after mentioning the same fact for about 23 times
it begins to feel as though the remark calls
“ )r an apology. The only really new thing
that has happened in connection with J.C.W.’s
pantomime is that a.e of the fairies has
made an extra matinee performance in Bank-
ruptcy, pursued by a man who, she says,
lent her £5O to pay her hospital expenses while
she was ill. She has been a very prominent fairy
at £3 a week, and now, for touring purposes,
drops into Miss Florence Young’s capacious
tights at £4 per week—“and pay for your own
make-ups.” It’s when the matter is discussed in
the dry atmosphere of places like the Bankruptcy
Court, that those vast salaries that the stage-struck
Miss dreams about fade into the brown and un-
financial leaf.
** * *
“The Squatter’s Daughter,” that robust
drama ofN.S.W.’s early days when the sheep-
raising and bushranging industries marched
hand in hand, still holds the boards at Sydney
Criterion, and apparently a whole terrace of oxen
would not drag it away Tom Bathurst is as
impeccable as ever, and Miss Duggan as true;
nor is the changeling convict-bred villain any less
unspeakable. Local theatre-goers are supporting
this Australian-made article with enthusiasm, and
the management expects no variation in the bill
for the next month at least,
** * *
Our esteemed fellow-citizen, H. Rickards,
of the Sydney Tiv., is this week again lea vine for
Europe, to sample the things offering on the
other side. But somehow it doesn’t seem like old
times, for he didn’t “ Knock ’em in the Old Kent
Road ” by way of farewell, as he used to do. And
it wasn’t because the Tivoli is crowded with talent
either—the programme for the moment is just
so-so. Beyond the cat show there isn’t any thing to
enthuse about, and this writer can only enthuse
about cats in strict moderation.
** * *
Madame Agnes Janson (the brilliant
Swedish singer), of the Melbourne Conserva-
toriurn, will give a concert at Sydney Y.M.O.A.
Hall next Saturday. Staell and a string quartette
will assist.
** * *
“The Great Millionaire,” revived for the
first time at Melbourne Royal, seems to be a
little less discursive than of yore, and the bloated
capitalist in the name part now emerges from his
state of tribulation with amazing suddenness at
11 o’clock, or earlier. Any slight changes that
have come to pass are in the way of making things
more obviously pleasant for all parties at the
finish. One party—a private secretary, who seeks
to ruin the millionaire—runs his motor-car over a
cliff, and dies of the catastrophe; but the sur-
viving characters rejoice in the thought that the
rich man has recovered his reason, and “ the
clouds have passed away.” The plot of “The
Great Millionaire” is a bit mixed in its moral
purpose, but the principal incidents are strong.
A bankrupt prodigal, favorably impressing the
man of means by a final burst of humorous ex-
travagance, is an incident uncommon to melo-
drama. Likewise a Bread Riot, which arises
from the fact that the mighty exponent of Wealth
is not permitted to stay in the Guildhall and be
smiled upon by the King and Queen. As for the
Guildhall function, it has all the properties of a
comic opera spectacle, in addition to a powerful
bearing on the future proceedings.
■* * * *>
Styan gives a fair appearance of human
nature to his personation of the brutal, arrogant
speculator, who eventually falls a victim to his
paternal instincts, and gets broken up by re-
morse. He inclines to hysteria in his distress,
but his repentance looks genuine. Albert Norman
is every way in better form than when he played
the virtuous spendthrift three or four years ago.
Brown is a satisfactory old man—Brown as a
heavy, white-haired citizen is always satisfactory
—and Max Maxwell, although wanting in weight,
gives the necessary point to his fraudulent designs
on his muddle-headed employer. The other men
are mpstly of less importance than Bland Holt,
who talks Australian bush sentiment to the amphi-
theatre, and finally pursues the faithless Maxwell
in a motor-car. Nothing very laudatory can be
said about the ladies of the co." Miss Ireland has
a colorless part, which gives her only one chance
to speak in the last act, and her words on this
occasion are of no avail against the snorting of a
motor. Miss Ross has outlived her capacity to
be interesting as a starving young waif in a short
frock, with her hair hanging down her back; and
the same remark applies to Mrs. Bland Holt
as a tempestuous gipsy maiden. When she
heaves a brick at a baker’s window, it is hard to
believe that Mrs. Holt wishes to be taken seriously.
Brunton’s scenery, on the other hand, calls for
general admiration, and will be largely instru-
mental in keeping the “Millionaire” before the
public for some weeks.
** * *
At the Town Hall there will be a last ap-
pearance of Carreno to-morrow (Friday) night,
and by that time the Melbourne public will pro-
bably be quite alive to the fact that nothing finer
than a Carreno recital is obtainable from the con-
tact of one pair of hands with the business portion
of a pianoforte. The grey-haired artiste plays
mostly Beethoven, Chopin and Schubert, and
fireworks occasionally. She is charming in the
poetic pieces, and tremendous when the composer
urges her to deeds of violence. She has the touch,
the dexterity, the scholarship, and the “ tempera-
ment,” which is a word of vast musical signifi-
cance. What she needs is a crowded audience to
make the Town Hall comfortable, and give pro-
per value to the sounds she summons from the
large, obliging instrument.
** * *
Marie Hall, Marshall-Hall and Town Hall
(Melbourne) will be associated for the first time on
Saturday afternoon, when the Hall masculine will
conduct an orchestral concert at the Hall neuter,
and the Hall feminine will play much solo
on the violin. Subsequently the lady will give
three or four concerts at the same Hall,
apart from the other Hall’s orchestra. Mean-
while J. and N. Tait are remarking, in the
language of advertisement, that nobody who
claims to have any interest in musical matters
will ask such a question as “ Who is Marie
Hall?” After which they supply their own
answer to the question, and this is a wise thing to
do. For if a notable visiting violiniste had to get
all her audiences from the people who knew all.
about her before she arrived, the management,
would certainly experience a bad pain in its.
exchequer.
*** * *
At Her Majesty’s the Brune will cease'
from Tittelling after to-night (Thursday). The-
programme for that hard-working actress’s send-
off is selected from a number of tragedies andi
comedies (including “L’Aiglon”) wherein she has-
played the chief part tor all it was worth. Her-
Majesty’s will re-open on Saturday with “The'
Virginian ” on the bill for the first time in Mel-
bourne. “The Virginian,” adopted from the
novel of that name, is airily recommended to
patronage as “the Drama of Atmosphere,” the
oxygen being supplied by Charles Waldron and
Miss Humphries and the company which brought
“The Squaw Man ” to Melbourne last year.
** * m
Two or three “turns” have passed away
from the Opera House since a week ago, and
others are happening in their stead, but the
Svengalis are still the newest arrivals on the
Rickards’ scene. The Svengalis are not nearly
so interesting as the Howard Brothers were;
nevertheless, they excite curiosity, which is the
soul of show business, and their scheme of
“mystification ” possesses the negative virtue of
being too deep for the comprehension of a blatant
newspaper detective, who has fully exposed how
it isn’t done.
■* * * *
The opera season ended at Adelaide Royal
with the old-fashioned “Barber.” It has been a
fairly successful season, but there were always
empty seats. The papers “barracked” bravely
for the management, but, of individual patrons,
nine out of ten expressed disappointment. Cer-
tainly the result did not compare with that of the
Arens-Slapoffski season of years ago. “ The Vir-
ginian ” and “The Squaw Man” are due for a


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
rush visit of four evenings. Meanwhile, the
Hippodrome keeps the flag flying with cheap
melodrama, “Nugget Nell,’’and “ The Chinaman
Hushranger.” It seems to be mostly American
stuff worked over, and given a sort of Australian
flavor.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Gip”: There are more aspects in the case of “La
Milo’s ” latest advt. than you mentioned. The lady’s ad-
vertiser says that Mr. Lucas, who held an important
position on the editorial staff of a London motoring
journal, committed suicide in a false red beard for her, or
because of her, or something. No mention of La Milo
was made at the inquiry, but directly the “temporary
insanity ” verdict was given, the enterprising advertiser
rushed breathlessly to a Daily Mirror man, armed with
an attractive photo, of goddess Pansy, and told all about
it. At the inquiry, the widow of the misguided man in
the false red beard said her husband was in financial diffi-
culties, and an operation which she had recently under,
gone caused them to become still more involved. “He
was a very good husband,” she added distressfully. “ I
cannot express my love for him.” And the Pansy’s ad-
vertiser has spoilt her memory of him. Advertisement is
a callous business.
Clement Harvey, who was recently billed bv the Amy
Sherwin Co. as the Rome pianist, presumably because he
was blessed by the Pope, is “resting” uneasily in
Ballarat. He charges Madame Amy and her husband
with breach of agreement as to patronage and salary, and
alleges that his friends are out about £BOO on his account.
Harvey has placed his affairs in the hands of a solicitor.
While still earning a living at the sewing machine,
Lizzie Newbold, a plucky and energetic Melbourne seam-
stress, is working heaven and earth to raise the where-
withal for a trip to Europe, in quest of those two elusives,
atmosphere and fame. Miss Newbold has a remarkably
pure soprano of unusual range. As regards range, it is
said to beat the voice of Madame Trebelli by one note.
She was born within a stone-throw of Melba’s birthplace,
in Burnle.v-street, Richmond, gained a prize for singing
at the early age of eight, and began serious work about
two years ago. The Melbourne committee which is
assisting Miss Newbold has arranged a series of provincial
concerts, and she hopes to start for Europe in a few
months. She is described as a short, stout girl of 20.
Honesty’s a valuable jewel, especially as worn by an
actress. New York World has been asked (per writ) for
a small matter of £20,000 for “ impugning my honesty as
an author,” by stating that Sarah Bernhardt’s simple
method of writing her “Memoirs ” was to employ Frede-
rick Mayer to do the mere writing.
Ellen Terry was the original Olivia in Wills’s play of
that name (just produced in Sydney), and Hermann
Yezin the Vicar. The first production was at London
Court Theatre, in 1878. Nine years later, Irving took the
leading male part at the Lyceum, while Ellen Terry re-
appeared as Olivia.
A genuine Poverty Point item. In a tent at Kensing-
ton, on Sunday, was discovered the dead body of a well-
known Sydney street-singer, whose name is supposed to
be Andrew Birrell. The body was covered only by a
ragged coat, and lay upon the bare earth. In the pockets
were 4£d. and a bank book with a credit balance of £l.
Dan Barry is running a “ wonder show ” in the S. Aus.
townships, and his paragraphs to the ingenuous country
press are oases in a desert of sand and stinkwort. For
instance: “The life of Marie Antoinette is an historical
picture of the greatest human interest, depicting the
pleasurable events in the career of this ill-fated woman,
who was the wife of the French King Louis Phillipe, and
her fearful doom upon the guillotine, where her head is
severed from her body in full view of the audience. The
show is also replete with humor.”
“ J.A.C.” : Few musicians had a wider experience than
the late J. A. Delany. From the bottom of the ladder to
the topmost rung he knew every inch of the way. Before
he was out of his teens his remarkable talent had made
itself manifest in almost every branch of his profession—
he had played in orchestras, conducted choirs, and was a
cathedral organist. Delany was thoroughly conscientious
in everything he undertook —if he had to conduct a
Beethoven symphony, or play a cakewalk, he did it for
allit was worth. We became acquainted in 1880, when he
was conductor and orchestra combined—there was only a
piano—to the Ella Carrington “StrayLeaves”co., of which
John F. Forde, at present here with the Brough-Flemming
Co., was also a member. Shortly afterwards we went
together with Simonsen’s opera co. to Maoriland, he as
pianist and chorus-master. Most of the members of that
company are now dead—Delany himself, Martin
and Mrs. Simonsen, Leonora Simonsen, Palladini,
Luisetti, Dick Sceats and others. Riccardi is still
to the fore, and so is Jack Lindsay, Ernest St.
Clare, and that brilliant but long-haired Austra-
lian musician, G. R. Allpress, who made his ddbut
with the company. Delany was to some extent
a victim to the craze for the imported article. Al-
though his compositions are far ahead of nine-tenths
of the alleged high-class music we get from abroad—l
leave the music-hall atrocities out of the question alto-
gether—no serious attempt has ever been made here to
publish them. For this Ido not blame the publishers, but
the public. Paling and Co. did bring out an “ O Salu-
taris,” but nobody wanted it—it was “ caviare to the
general.” It is satisfactory to know that his work met
with ready acceptance in London and New York. Not
alone as a musician was Delany distinguished; his
knowledge of English literature would have been credit-
able to any university professor, and I never met a keener
wit. Notwithstanding his great abilities, he was one of
the most unassuming of men. A graceful tribute to his
memory would be the publication of his complete musical
works.
Melbourne pressmen did not take kindly to the local
Y.M.O.A. dipner tendered to the scribes of the city and
district the other night. The dinner was part of the
scheme of the new hustling secretary from America,
engaged to shove along the Association, and the penmen
resented the insinuation that they could be won over to
scatter admiring pars by a bit of chicken and a spoonful
of fruit jelly. The local press club was asked to give
official recognition to the feed, but it declined with
thanks. Only a very small proportion of the invited
writers turned up to get a bit of dinner in exchange for
the patient suffering of long speeches by Judkins, Knox
of the Hereditary Hat, and the American specialist above
mentioned. The Y.M.O.A. said its idea was to introduce
novelties to the pressmen, and it did —it gave them water
to their dinner.
THE BONDS OF EMPIRE.
To-day is Empire Day. From the pulsating heart of
Civilisation at the Bank of England to its outposts on the
beaches of Falkland Islands, the sentiment of unity will
be honored. —S.M. HEILALD.
“Skull”: Melbourne Princess is again given over to
darkness, and the renovated Bijou invites tenants in
vain, and still there is talk of building new houses. All
the summer shows have shutdown, and the three theatres
that remain open to the public are doing great business
through the scarcity of competition. Melbourne could
certainly provide audiences for comedy at the Bijou and
light opera at the Princess these evenings, but nobody is
seizing the opportunity. Where is that strenuous
American competitor at thoug'ht of whose approach
Australian managers were tottering in their shoes a few
years back ? One popular manager was so convinced the
American invader would scoop the business, that he
retired precipitately and opened a pub.
It is stated that Mrs. Shine saw an Australian paper in
which there was a paragraph to the effect that a fire
occurred at the Waverley Hotel, and that “ Mr. Harry
Shine rescued his wife with great gallantry, carrying her
in his arms downstairs.” Whereupon Mrs. Shine —the
real Mrs. Shine—filed her petition in divorce. It is enough
to make a man quit heroism for life.
“L.E.”: The crowd in a Sydney theatre is more enter-
taining than the crowd on any Sydney stage. It bubbles
and bursts with energetic hilarity. It’s funnier even than
“ Parsifal ”to watch the riotous “ bob ” rush. Each new
arrival is hailed with delight. There is a constant fight
with the centurion of the gate. The crowd shrieks and
cheers every move. Anything gets the Sydney multitude
humming—an old man falling down the stairs, a masher
with a stick, a bloke with a spotted tie, a baby (any
brand of baby), a giggling girl lifting a dainty limb over the
barrier. The peanut and squash merchant stands, every
round, a running fire of comment on his personal appear-
ance. The “ chucker out ” is kept in active service. An
old woman sits in the gangway puffing. “ Poor thing,”
sympathise some of the girls. “ Look out, mother,” they
give warning as the strong man is seen on the distant
horizon. The poor thing wants to see him—she would
like a heart-to-heart talk with him—she only wants a few
words, she bellows, with the person who threatens to put
her out—that’s all. But when the rag goes up it’s sudden
death to cough when Julius is making living pic-
tures. The Sydney crowd takes its amusements in dead
earnest. It’s out for fun, and means to have it. It
doesn’t criticise ; it just weeps and laughs, encores every-
thing, and drops peanuts on the bald heads in the front
stalls. It loves a joke (and most shows are a joke); and,
dash it, why shouldn’t it?
At about midnight on a recent Friday, a Melbourne
policeman noticed a man sitting on the steps of the vags’
shelter and home for distressed persons—the penny doss
n Little Bourke, a few doors below the “ bob ” entrance
to the Princess. Supposing the man was a penny lodger
taking the air, the “ John ” passed no remarks. An hour
later the man was still sitting there, looking out patiently
on a sleeping city. At four in the morning thepoliceman
thought it was time to make inquiries. He shook the
man up, and asked him why he lingered in the open air.
“ It’sh all ri’, constable,” said the citizen, “noshin’ the
marrer wi’ me. But, shay, wha’ time does thish theatre
open itsh dam doorsh ? ” The belated one thought he
was sitting on the Princess step, and the sun threatened
to rise on his vigil.
“ 0.K.” : Speaking without the book, I am unable to
place the date of Albani’s bauble Order of Merit which
“distinguishes” her from other singers. One naturally
presumes that she got it from her special patroness, the
late Queen Victoria, in acknowledgment of an aggressive
act of “ loyalty.” Albani was touring S’Africa just prior
to the outbreak of the Boer War, and she was in Johannes-
burg when pro-British demonstrations had been forbidden
by the Kruger Government. The local Jingo party, look-
ing for any excuse to conduct themselves as disaffected
strangers in a foreign land (for their position in Johannes-
burg at the time was similar to that of Dutchmen
in England or Australia), induced Albani to sing “ God
Save the Queen ” on a public platform, and the
resulting roar of applause was duly cabled abroad,
as a splendid burst of “loyalty to the Crown.”
Albani’s Order of Merit, if she received it subsequent to
the Johannesburg incident, was the reward of her out-
rageous disloyalty to the flag under which she was
running her musical show. But if she was already the
proud possessor of her precious “ decoration ” —well, her
singing of “ God Save ” amounted to a grateful grovel to
a foreign figurehead. Anyhow, she had nothing to fear
from her defiance of poor old Kruger’s mandate. A male
singer might have been arrested and fined heavily for the
same offence ; but a woman is different. In such matters
a lot of latitude is given to the sex which asks to be
placed on a perfect equality with man, and screams at
the mere thought of having its request granted.
“ Percole ” : Australians, awake ! Arise ! Face the
dawn ! Perform your ablutions, or do some other jolly
thing that the poets are always exhorting you to. You
are in danger of having one of your birthrights stolen,
purloined, or filched. There is a Dago from Turkey-in-
Africa travelling, terra incognito ( i.e ., secretly), in your
midst. This spy is learning and practising the art of
boomerang throwing, with the object of providing a novel
and original “turn” at London and European great
amusement places, at a salary of £50,000 a minute—if he
can get it. From investigation, it transpires that both
Cinquevalli and the chap who ran La Moto Girl, when
here, purchased numerous boomerangs, and practised
throwing, with a similar object to the before-mentioned
cove, now amongst us, living under a pomme de terre
(assumed name), and if our national weapon is thus
annexed to make sport for the Gentiles in the hands of
Dago, the importer, will this country ever be able to
hold up its head again ? Yes-no.
The Bulletin is able to authoritatively
deny the Australian daily press “reports” of an
alleged speech by Prime Minister Deakin in
London in reference to the Labor party. Deakin
made no speech, but certain statements in answers
to questions. He made no reference at all to
the Federal Labor party. He did not state
that the prospects of the South Australian
Labor party were poor. What he did say was
that the prospects of the Queensland State
Labor party were, at the time of speaking,
poor, and that in the N.S.W. State Parliament
the Labor party had not a majority. This, which
was truth, has been magnified into a general
attack on the Labor party.
By way of a personal testimonial, Charters
Towers (Q.) handed something special to “ Joe ”
M’llican, its most energetic mine owner. He
hasn’t been in Queensland for months, has never
been in Parliament, and didn’t address a single
meeting—he spent all the election campaign in
Sydney—yet the field elected him top of the poll.
Charters Towers’ Phiipites knew they had
Buckley’s chance if they relied on Philp’s politics,
so they talked Millican and his local activity
vigorously, and buried Philp’s policy at the bottom
of the deepest shaft thereabouts. And now the
result is represented as a great victory for Philp !
With a revenue so big that he deems it
advisable to knock off a huge lump of taxation,
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers still finds it neces-
sary to sell Government lands. The latest an-
nouncement concerns the sale of two big blocks in
the resumed area of Sydney Rocks. Apart from
the general unwisdom of selling lands which the
Government has once got hold of, the alienation
of this particular area is sheer lunacy. The con-
struction of the North Shore bridge, which is sure
to come sooner or later, will mean that the State
will have to resume this block once more,
letting the individual who holds it in the
interval make a big profit. This is what is called
sturdy individualism and the encouragement of
the self-reliance of the people.
Fred Stanley writes :
In your par. re ancient land grants (B. 9/5/’O7) you state
that “ The trouble is that, in the published list of grants
in 1794, this alleged grant doesn’t appear.” This is in-
accurate. The grants in question were issued to James
Brumby and Thomas Bruin on Dec. 3, 1794, and are regis-
tered in the official Cumberland Register, folio 139, and
are also registered in the Registrar-General’s office.
William Blygh Gore obtained possession of nearly all the
old grants from the grantees at Hunter’s Hill, and
became associated as partner with a certain John Boyle,
who came into possession of Brumby’s, Bruin’s, and other
farms about 1850. These he retained till 1892. In that
year I purchased the two disputed farms from him, and
saw the names of the grantees, Brumby and Bruin, on a
map then in use at the Lands Department. When
I next saw the same map, on May 11th, 1903, it
had “Cancelled” written across it, and the names
of Brumby and Bruin had been partly erased.
Nevertheless, a portion of the names were made visible
by the use of a magnifying glass. I wrote the Premier,
who advised me to take my claim to the law courts.
The Crown Solicitor, in a letter dated April 3, 1902, said
the Crown would not produce any document or per-
mit any document to be seen that might, or might not,
assist any person interested against the Crown.” I
made repeated applications to see the old cancelled map,
but all applications were refused. Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan,
when Minister for Lands, gave me written permission to
inspect the map, but was overruled by the Crown Solici-
tor. Mr. O’Sullivan brought the matter before Parlia-
ment, and also asked for the correspondence to be laid
on the table. But this was objected to by the Speaker.
In answer to a question, Mr. Ashton said that “ the
Crown Solicitor’s advice is, ‘ That it would be extremely
unwise to afford Mr. Stanley any information what-
ever.’ ” Now, I wish to know why it is “ extremely un-
wise” to afford me any information? Do the public
documents and maps of New South Wales belong to the
Crown Solicitor or the Minister for Lands ? If my allega-
tion, that the names of the grantees, Brumby and Bruin,
have been removed from the original map is not true,
why doesn’t the Crown produce the map ? Why is the
old cancelled map of Willoughby withheld, locked up, or
hidden somewhere ?
Winston Churchill’s door banging remarks
on the subject of Preferentialism may have been
the result of mere anger, want of horse sense, or of
just the wrong brand. In either or all of these
cases the remedy is to be found in the right brand
—D.C.L. Whisky, which is a great factor in
assisting the right kind of thought to turn the
wrong kind of thought out into the cold street and
bang the door on it.*
W. McMillan has not yet decided to
supplant Joe Carruthers in N.S.W. State politics,
notwithstanding pretty strenuous work on the
part of the Calico Jimmies, but the day of substi-
tution is said to be near. Calico reckons the
position McMillan’s by right of service and by his
eminence in the “spiff” world, and had not Joe
bought a renewal of his job by promising partial
abolition of the income tax, Mac. might have led
the party at the coming elections.
Attention is drawn to the advertisement
of “ the Federal Cure ” on page 23 of this issue.
For many years N.S.W. Department of
Public Instruction has been sending out instruc-
tions to each head-master to send all his teachers’
salary abstracts “ in the same envelope and by the
same post.” No head-master has ever yet broken
this rule by sending the returns in the same
envelope but by different posts.
N.S.W. Public Service Board recently
advertised for temporary empoyees :
The services of a temporary engineering assistant be-
ing required at Barren Jack Dam, applications are in-
vited for the position, which is one suitable for graduates
in engineering desirous of obtaining construction experi-
ence. Pay will be 30s. per week.
Temporary employment in the dredge service in the
following positions:—
Seaman, rate of pay £ll4 per annum. Applicants
must have had three years’ service as apprentice, 0.5.,
or A.B.
Oilers or junior firemen ; rate of pay £ll4 per annum.
Applicants must have had three years’ sea experience in
engine-room or stokehold.
So £7B a year is offered to a Sydney ’Varsity
graduate after an expensive course, while a junior
fireman can command £ll4 a year. An imported
genius would no doubt get 30s. a day on the tem-
porary engineering job.
Federal politicians found out a few useful
facts during their recent visit to Port Darwin.
For instance, they learned that the whites of the
Territory have strong opinions about keeping
their children from colored contamination in the
schools. At Pine Creek there were only 10 white
youngsters at the State school which is open to
colored children, while there were 32 in private
schools which bar the Asiatic. But what most
astonished Senator Dobson, and other colored
labor advocates, was the fact that every European
miner they met declared emphatically that open-
air manual labor in the Territory is no more
severe than in the climates down South.
Moate, who tried to make his Northern
Territory land-grant railway project carry him
into S. Aus. Parliament, flooded the Flinders
electorate with 10,000 copies of the three columns
of jam which an Adelaide penny sporting rag
had poured over him. About 40 careless electors
put a cross within the square against his name,
and the Tory Register, which, at the last elec-
tion fight, invested Moate with a highly-burnished
halo, ignored him altogether in its summary of
the voting. At present it looks as though the
alleged representative of English millions would
have difficulty in floating a cork if it had “rail-
way ” printed on it.
It is strange that the mostly anti-Sosli
Victorian farmer should have commenced his great-
trek to Queensland only when that State came
under the control of a Labor Premier. And it
was the same in Maoriland. The farmer there is
mostly Tory, and when Tories like Hall and
Atkinson ran the show, he fled from the place as
if it were a pestilence. Then the raging and dis-
astrous Democrats came into power, and the Tory
farmer fled back to the place as if it were a free
lunch.
“Squidge ” complains :
There has been a good deal of swaddying in Victoria
lately, and the screaming joke of it all has been the intense
Africanness of every officer in the forces. A bit of
timbered country or a valley is not its old self any longer.
It is a “ kloof ”or a “ donga.” Every hill is a “ kopje.”
Every ford is a “ drift.” Troops and men do not march
out, or go, or “ get,” or do anything of that sort. They
always “ trek,” don’t you know. Perhaps “ on saddle ” and
“ off saddle ” may be excused ; but how about “ inspan ”
and “outspan” for good old Australian “yoke” and
“ unyoke," or English “ harness up ” and “ unharness ” ?
It would not be so bad if only the returned farm-burners
adopted the lingo, but everybody uses it. The language
of the Army—the Army ! !!—has changed to a bastard
Dutch, and the rawest recruit puts on with his uniform
the biggest South African vocabulary he can muster.
Not only is this affected Africanness amazingly destruc-
tive of our good Australian language, but it is seriously
destructive of the training of our troops. South Africa
is taken as the be-all and end-all of war, and the ex-
farm-burners are so proud of their burnt farms that they
seem to assume that every enemy we will ever meet will
fight on Boer lines.
“ Trades Unionist ” : Mann, proud Mann,
dressed in his self-appropriated authority, was
evidently not regarded as a sufficient pest for us
in Melbourne. We had to have another visit
from arrogant Ben Tillett, who has lost no time
in delivering absurd advice about wading through
“ Blood.” The Tillett brand of orator is never
satisfied unless he is urging other people to
wallow in “ Blood.” At Melbourne Trades Hall
on May 24, Benjamin the Small gave another
example of his ignorance of Australian conditions
and his habit of telling lifelong workers for Aus-
tralian Labor that they are all wrong. Among
other things, the gentle Benjamin remarked :
There was too much “ fatted content ” about the Aus-
tralians—too much of the “superior person’’ about
them. Pride would have a fall. . . . There must be a
downright challenge thrown down to capitalists and
monopolists. There must be no relenting in their hatred.
What was being done by the Trades Hall Council to im-
prove the conditions of the workers ? Dare the members
go to the street corners and say that the hall was the
home of reform and revolution ? . . . He would be pre-
pared, if it were possible, to do what he could during his
stay in Australasia for trades unionism.
Benjamin and his kind are always babbling re-
volution, after the manner of the small boy who
has read a penny horrible and is resolved to be a
pirate. But they never get an inch nearer to it—
probably, after all these years of bellowing about
“Blood,” Benjamin hasn’t bought his own gun yet.
Meanwhile the men whom this British person
lectures so patronisingly, have managed to do a
little in the way of labor legislation—they did it
while the Tillett-Mann variety of futile word-
spinners was busy looking up synonyms for
“ blood ” and “ chains” and “revolution.” Aus-
tralian democrats were striving before the cock-
sure pair were ever heard of.
Pneumonia always results from a cold, and
can be prevented by the timely use of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.*
We have received a copy of a charming and
attractive little booklet for children, entitled “ A Day in
the Life of a Child.” It is beautifully printed and
illustrated, in colors, and will without dou t afford great
pleasure to the little ones. The publishers are Messrs.
Scott and Bowne, Ltd., the proprietors of that world-
famed preparation, “ Scott’s Emulsion ” (to which refer-
ence is made in our advertising columns), and we are re-
quested to mention that the booklet will be mailed, free of
cost, to any mother desiring a copy. Application should
be made in writing to the Australian branch of Scott and
Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent-st.reet, Sydney.’*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report re wool :
For our monthly auction - n 22n inst. we submitted 1614
bales to a large assemblage of buyers, and disposed of at
auction and privately 1572 bales. Competition ruled
strong for all greasy descriptions ; scoureds, however,
sold a little irregularly, and in many instances prices
realised were hardly up to those paid at last month’s
auction. Our most noteworthy sale in the grease was the
first instalment of Francis Murphy & Sons’ FMY/North-
ampton clip, from Blackall (Q.), prices ranging up to 1/OJ.
This wool was of good quality and staple, very dry in con-
dition, but rather dusty on backs, and carried a few’ seeds
and occasional burrs, w hilst the Comeback portion was of
nice quality, good staple, in dry condition, and realised
as high as l/Of. Our highest price in the scoured section
was 1/10|.*
THE CIRCUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald, widow of Tom Fitzgerald of that
Australian institution, Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus, has
arrived in Australia. — Neil's item.
Last week an auction sale of spare circus material
was held at Fitzgeralds’ Circus Building, St. Kilda
tvoaa. —Melbourne paper,
On an afternoon of May,
The old circus—gloomy, grey,
With a gloomy auctioneer
And an audience as drear.
And the place where horses ran,
And the place where Tom and Dan
Used to be, was dull and lone—
Dull and cold as any stone—
When the auctioneer cried “ Going !
Going 1
Gone!”
There are names upon the wall—
A horse’s name in every stall:
Janet! Lucy 1 Flower and Pet!
Leave their cards for us—as yet.
Midnight 1 Fairy ! Pony Freak !
Though they’re dumb their names still speak
The iron wall upon,
In the circus—empty, lone—
Where the auctioneer cries “ Going !
Going 1
Gone 1 "
And the place where brasses brayed
It is tattered and bewrayed.
And no more by flaring lights
Do the horses prance at nights ;
Dan and Thomas never more
Tramp Australia o’er and o’er.
The day is nearly done—
The day is grey and wan—
The auctioneer cries “ Going !
Going !
Gone 1 ”
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE BANGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. 0. W. Healy will attempt to lower the world’s
record of 48 hours’ continuous piano-playing by playing
for 50 hours, commencing on Thursday at 8 p.m., playing
for the whole of Empire Day, and finishing at 10 p.m. on
Saturday.— Argus.
Squeal of the treble clef,
Permanent fugue and op !
Making all Melbourne deaf—
Knowing not when to stop.
Adagio ! He will play
Moderato ? Never, I fear —
And his hands grow splay as night and day
He bangs that all may hear.
Tempo de valse for an hour,
But pianissimo never,
For music is nothing but power,
And he who bangs most is most clever.
“ Old Bull and Bush ” for a night,
“ Annie Rooney ” for days if you want it, he
Will deepen your plight, and play in despite,
For noise he sells wholesale in quantity.
Marvellous and apropos,
All Empire Day till the night time !
For the Empire is mainly of “ blow,”
And the row is designed for the right time.
Debauching the people with noise—
Flag-flapping and sporting the banner ;
And other sham joys, whose only alloys
Are the shrieks of the tortured pianner.
Hear the piano in pain !
Stricken with chronic andante —
A noise as of tropical rain,
While the drunken men fight in the shanty.
I’ll go to the bush till he stops !
(That banger of marches, so rorty !)
Better goannas, than maddened pianos
Assaulted for hours eight and forty.
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine,
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statement:
The Hon. Joseph Blumenthal (Tax-Commissioner),
writes : —“ lam pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years!
Since using' your treatment she has been examined bv
the highest medical authorities, and thev all agree that
she is permanently cured. VVe feel very grateful to vou
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
‘ EAROSCOPE ' we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
THE “BAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
YOUR NEGATIVES
WILL BE SHARP, CLEAR,
AND FULL OF DETAIL
i
■ ■ 9
if you use a
“VICTOR” <».”
Hand Camera.
FITTED with an “ ALDIS” Anastigmat Lens f/6. It gives mar-
vellous Photos. Size of photo 4J x3J in. (J-plate). Magazine
carries 12 plates. Ever ready for a shot. Built of well-
seasoned Mahogany. All Latest Improvements —Shutter, Finders,
Levels, Iso Screen, Changing Gear —all of the BEST.
Price £6 lOs.
Postage N.S.W., 1/3 ; Interstate, 2/2.
Our stock of PHOTO SUPPLIES and numerous styles In
Cameras, Lenses, Etc., is large and varied.
Regular supplies at short intervals of Fresh Plates and Papers,
Purest Chemicals, Latest Accessories, Novelties, Etc., and Every-
thing required in Photography.
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET (Hpar C.P.0.) SYDNEY
Branch: 93 Queen Street, Brisbane,
SOCIETY
US ’ORRID COLONIALS.
[For The Bulletin.]
Your true colonial is a difficult person to talk to fo*j
any length <>f time.... In the first place, he assume 8
that all English people regard him and his kind as un’
educated and socially inferior. For which he may’
perhaps, have a minute warranty. From this assump"
lion, however, he deduces another—which is that his only
salvation lies in bluster and high-handedness. Where-
fore, he is not, as a general rule, a desirable acquaintance,
though there are fortunately charming and frequent ex-
ceptions.—From a took called “ God’s Outpost,” written
by one Cullen Gouldsbury.
When Mister Cullen Gouldsbury went forth to “ tower ’’
the globe,
For to try to get ’is mind enlarged a bit,
.Said ’e, “Deep to the ’eart of things it’s my desire to
probe,
As be’oves a buddin’ author an’ a wit.”
So ’e bought a tow’rist’s ticket, kissed ole England ’is
adoo,
And aboard a great big liner sailed away,
And a ’ush fed on the people ’oom ’ls Nibs was goin’ to,
For they dreaded wot Vd think an’ wot ’e’d say.
And ’e came and found us “ difficult to talk to,”
Not becos ’is own ideas wouldn’t flow,
Not becos ’imself was ’aughty, and ’e seemed as if ’e
thought ’e
Wos a mighty cut above us—oh, dear, No !
No, the fault was ours entirely. Bein’ rough colonial
bred,
We “ assoomed ” when we got chattin’ to this Gus,
That becos ’e was from England ’e was many miles a’ead
Of such rough unpolished customers as us.
We “ assoomed” ’e wos above us—so ’r, thinks—and in ’is
book
>E conten Is that we are very much to blame,
Becos (not bein’ bounders) we wos horribly mistook,
In the way we treated Oullen Wotsisname.
Yes, instead of crouchin’ low an’ say in’ nothin’,
As people of our order ought ter do,
W*y we up an’ got ’igh-’anded, an’ we blustered an’
expanded
Of our chests w’en Cullen G. wos “ passin’ through.”
We “assoomed” that our “salvation” lay in blusterin’
an’ brag,
When this Johnnie from the Ole Dart came along,
Which assumption ’ad a tendency to make ’is small talk
drag,
And wos weally—haw—wos weally vevvy wong.
We should ’ave sat like dummies till the cows went ’ome
to roost,
Never makin’ at ’is brag-gin’ a grimace,
And then this fledgling author might ’ave given us |a
boost,
By declaring we were weally—rather naice !
But instead of bein’ meek an’ dumb an’ ’umble,
As social outcasts ever ought ter be,
W’y we up an’ got ’igh-’anded an’ our bosoms we ex-
panded,
An’ we got upon the nerves of Cullen G.
MAO!! I LAND. SINC. S. CLARK.
WATER FROLICS: OR, THE PORT
AUTHORITIES' CARNIVAL.
The frequency of accidents at the Semaphore anchorage
has become alarming. On Saturday the Anglo-Austra-
lian steamer Port Chalmers, which arrived from Hull via
London before daylight, struck the sunken vessels Norma
and Jessie Darling.— Neivs Item from S.A.
CASUAL OFFICIAL: “ That’s right, boys! Let'er
go, and see who can make the biggest splash.”
One day last week a deputation of North
Sydney, Lane Cove and Willoughby mayors and
two Ms.L.A. waited on N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioner Johnson. And the conduct of that
“highly-trained English expert” (as the S.M.
Herald used to call him) moved the Herald to
such anger as the mild old paper is seldom addicted
to. It said :
He was brusque and unceremonious, treating the
gentlemen who had been to some pains to welcome him
to their district, and lay their case before him, as
though they were mendicants. This is not a course
of action that is likely to facilitate business. . . .
When the Chief Railway Commissioner attempts to deal
with the matter as though public representative men had
no business to approach him, it is to shock the country’s
sense of proportion. There is such a thing as tact in these
matters, and even if Mr. Johnson could not see his way
to grant what was asked, it was felt that he might have
said so without adding insult to injury. The last of the
accumulated pin-pricks of an unpleasant afternoon was
the peremptory intimation—delivered as if a drill sergeant
had invaded St. Leonards station—that the deputation
was do keep itself outside the Commissioners’ car. Mr.
Johnson evidently forgets that the railways of N.S.W.
are the property of the people, and that public men like
those who waited upon him yesterday are really represen-
tatives of the shareholders.
The Herald, in its desperate anxiety to shift
Oliver, the courteous and capable Australian who
objected to free carriage of newspapers by train,
gave Johnson quite a dazzling certificate of
character before it met him, and at a time when
it didn’t know him from a blue elephant with
yellow stripes. Johnson was to be so satisfactory
that the Herald even began, before it had seen
Johnson, to call for men like Johnson to manage
other departments. Now the Herald has seen
Johnson.
* * * *
Melbourne has lately gained a reputation
ior genial hospitality that it hadn’t suspected
ftself of possessing, all through the capers of a
good-looking young woman of irresponsible habits
and charming manners. It has been her custom
lately to knock up casual householders in the
middle of the night, and assure them in pleading
tones that she had accidentally entered the wrong
train when on her way home, and, unfortunately,
it was the last train for the night, therefore she
was ieft stranded far away from the distant
suburb where she dwelt with her brother—
generally a doctor or a lawyer ; and if they could
but put her up for the night she would be
so much obliged, and her brother would cer-
tainly call in the morning in his motor car
and thank them. As she looked eminently
respectable, and her jewellery bespoke no
lack of means, they usually did find her a
shake down—and were frequently sorry for it.
She was quite respectable, but a trifle fastidious.
She must have a separate bedroom, and instead
of rising early and hastening to her anxious
brother, she lay in bed till the streets were well
aired, insisted on having her breakfast in bed,
and frequently stayed to lunch also. Then she
departed full of thanks and victuals. She seems to
havesampled quite a lot of new homesinthis casual,
free-and-easy fashion, but the police were finally
introduced to her, and they assured her parents—
there wasn’t any doctor or lawyer brother—that if
she wasn’t watched more carefully she would be
getting into trouble. They were quite right. A
pretty young woman who trollops round Mel-
bourne aboutmidnight, wearing valuable jewellery,
and who enters strange houses “promiscuous-
like,” runs a bigger risk than she thinks. But
she seems to have had the luck to always strike a
good sort of domicile. She has never stolen any-
thing, and the game must cost her more than it is
worth, and people are wondering what she does
it for.
* * * it
“Brad”: Be “Melbournian’s” remarks
about the drinkeries of his city (B. 18/4/’O7), what
a fearsome lack of originality is shown in naming
the beer-dealers’ premises, and what a
wondrous number of them are some-
body’s “arms”! In Sydney, for in-
stance, there are the Bath Arms,
Boilermakers’ Arms, Bristol Arms,
Butchers’ Arms, City Arms, Clippers’
Arms, Coachmakers’ Arms, Cricketers’
Arms (four of them—also the Cricket-
ers’ Rest), Edinburgh Arms, Farnham
Arms, Foresters’ Arms, Gardeners’
Arms, Glasgow Arms, Liverpool Arms,
Manchester Arms, Miners’ Arms,
Printers’ Arms, Pyrmont Arms,
Quarryman’s Arrri3 (two of them).
Queen’s Arms, Rifleman’s Arms, Rose-
bery Arms (not “Robbery Under
Arms ”), Royal Arms, Shipwrights’
Arms, Sussex Arms, Tradesman’s
Arms (three of them), Warwick Arms,
Wheelwrights’ Arms and Wool-
brokers’ Arms. Yet when I proposed to
call my new pub the Barmaid’s Legs,
I was spoken to quite severely by
some Jaek-in-ofiice, clothed in a vestige
of brief authority. Then consider
some of the weird names of Sydney
pubs—the Ancient Briton, Bald-Faceci
Stag, Cauliflower, Cheerful Home,
Cottage of Content (two of them),
Fortune of War. Four-in-Hand,
Friend-in-Hand, Friend-ship, Gas,
Green Tree, Honest Irishman, Loco-
motive, Little House Under the Hill,
Plough, Pottery, and the like ! There
are 19 Royal Hotels in Sydney, six
Commercials, five hotels named Prince
of Wales, seven Imperials, six Oxfords,
eight Stars, seven Royal Oaks, four
White Horses—and not one among all these dull
public-house dogs thought to call his place the
Foaming Beer.
* * •
E. A. Vidler is the author of an informa-
tive new “Guide to Warrnambool” (Vie.), with
100 photos. The first settlement was from land-
ward, the severe droughts of 1838-9 driving pastor-
alists from the north towards the coast, to seek
better-watered country. They found rivers, lakes
and creeks. The site of Warrnambool was in
densely-wooded ranges and swampy flats. Con-
siderable difficulties in clearing and draining con-
fronted the new arrivals. The first settlement
from seaward, whereby the port was located,
was a temporary one, by sealers from Port
Fairy. The bay was first discovered by a boat’s
crew in pursuit of a whale. The first sale
of Warrnambool town lots was held in Mel-
bourne in 1847. High prices, averaging £4O per
acre, were realised. The best lots are now
from £2O to £3O per foot. In Warrnambool’s
most lucrative potato year the price of the spud
went up to £3O per ton.
* * * *
A microbe born of a chill and cold
In a man’s lung- did reside,
And fast multiplying, grew so bold
It triumphantly defied
Each deadly drug and remedy sure,
Till one day it was plied
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Oure,
When it collapsed and died.*
He was weeping copiously, and in a noted
boxer of Scotch parentage this looked like weak-
ness. “What’s the matter?” said his friend.
“ The old oatmealer’s snuffed,” he wailed. “ How
did it happen ? ” “ Ye see, the old oatmealer, he
got up an’ cut ’is little bit o’ wood—I alwuz let
’im do that—an’ shuffled up to the corner and ’ad
’is tiddly (thank
mornin’s tiddly
an’ ’e cum
snuffed.”
athlete
scribed his
demise.
Gawd, ’e ’ad ’ees
afore ’e pegged),
back ’ome an’ just
That was how the
picturesquely de-
Scotch father’s
THE WRONGS OF ROMEO.
SMALL BOY: “My word, I wish I had hair like
you, sir.”
STAR (somewhat flattered): “Why, my little
man?”
S.B.: “ Well, I’d get it cut!”
Melbourne Argus has been filling in its
spare time lately publishing scare-headed articles
on the “Good Times.” Everything and every-
body is in a state of unexampled prosperity and
happiness. Wherefore, of course, there‘is no
_ _ r \xt t> i tji , A ,
need tor \Yageb Boards or Factories Acts or any-
thing, limes are good, and what more does any-
body want? One day last week, in a column
adjacent to the “Good Times” article, appeared
a modest little item describing how a wee baby had
been found in the street and sent to the Neglected
riu'u >„ tv i i r>■ - , & ,
Childrens Department. Pinned to its under-
clothing was found a note bearing this message
Bab.v’s name is Errol Stevenson. Fed on Nestle’s food,
Aged 7 weeks. Mother a waitress without a home,
Father a baker out of work. Please be kind to baby.
Good Times !
t #
* .
There has been another case of interfer-
ence with private enterprise in Victoria. Puzzled
as to an outbreak of typhoid fever in Prahran,
,i , , „ , i „ iv; j ■ , , ,
the local health officer and inspector traced a
suspected milk-supply back to its source in
Heidelberg, and there found, in the bed of a
creek from which cows drank, eleven decomposed
carcases of cows and calves. Some had been
skinned, others dumped in just as they were ; a
c i j-i i l A ~ , ~ , ’
few had had a few inches of earth shovelled over
them. Of course, there was a rich density about
the atmosphere, and, of course also, the creek
presented that clear, limpid appearance one might
expect. And the health officers made the dairy-
tyranny P of e Soffiflism ? ustomer!? * Tilk about the
This time it is the country clergyman at
Melbourne Presbyterian General Assembly who
pictures the cow with her cloven hoof as the
emissary of the devil Asked “what special
hindrance 55 keeps Australians from church, bush
parsons answered monotonously, “Cow!” Find-
ing cow will not accommodate itself to church,
church is about to accommodate itself to cow, and
services are to be held only in those hours which
the landholder, his wife, family, friends, and
dependents are not forced to devote to cow. Bv
the way, the cow is the Victorian settlers’ most
profitable possession. The church failed to down
the Golden Calf. What hope has it against the
golden cow ? There is another point of view
,
The church bells clamor from the hill,
A “ moo” comes from the valley now.
Let those go to the pew who will,
The farmer must obey the cow.
She may be hard upon him, yet
He ponders well the other lot.
The church takes all that she can get,
The cow gives all that she has got !
“ Depot ” : What is life without a picnic ?
A while ago a well-known Sydney legal man lost
his wife. Death was caused by a malignant
disease, and speedy burial was called for. A big
funeral firm was communicated with; but the
ease could not be taken in hand, as the under-
takers’ picnic was on next day ! Inquiries every-
where else evoked the same reply, and the dead
had to linger unburied, while the mute and the
hearse-driver and the coffin-maker whirled their
best girls in the mazes of the waltz at the ’all
down the ’arbor. And when the secretary of the
Corpses’ Union was applied to, he said he was
powerless to interfere.
“Quan”: I want to ask “Jimmie
Pannikin,” Inspector of Schools, and
defender of the N.S.W. education
system that is, a few questions—it
will be a change for him. Does he
know any inspectors who look upon
tliis new syllabus as tommy rot, and
in whose districts no attempt is
being made to introduce it ? Does
he know any who were pitch-
forked into their positions with-
out having had charge of a
school ? Does he know any who
were never first-class teachers?
Does he know any who were
appointed because they were
prominent members of a
teachers’ organisation, and
whose promotion, it was
hoped, would cause the
breaking-up of that body?
Does he know any who
were appointed because it
wasn't considered safe for
children to be taught by
men with such violent
tempers? Does he know
any who were appointed
because of their success in
collecting subscriptions
for the Patriotic Fund
during the Jingo fever
at the time of the Chow-
African War ? Does he
know a dozen out of the
three dozen or so who
would be considered good
teachers under the nevy
syllabus ? Does he know
many who made their
schools ‘ ‘ a haven, a sort of
second home, a place of
light and love, a palace of
dear delights to be remembered
after with warm gratitude in the strife and stress
of maturer years”? Does he know any who
assembled school half-an-hour before the pre-
scribed time, and dismissed it an hour after the
right time, and who were accused by parents of
harassing their pupils for their own ends—an
inspectorship ?
Writes The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabi-
tant :
A recent notice in a Sydney daily paper about adtathin
England recalls a gruesome incident. In the year 1872
one E. W. Pople kept the Morning Star public-house, at
the corner of George and Raglan streets, Waterloo. He
was also Government contractor for funerals. In that
year Nichols and Lester were executed for what were
known as the Parramatta River murders. In due course
Pople appeared upon the scene as undertaker. He re-
moved the two coffins and their contents from the gaol
to convey them to Rookwood. Hut he got no farther
than his own pub, the Morning Star. There he had the
coffins opened in his bar-parlor, and the murderers’ re-
mains exposed to view. Crowds visited the place, any-
one who bought a pint of tanglefoot for cash being
entitled to a look. Some one brought word to Captain
McLerie, Inspector-General of Police, who immediately
sent an inspector and some constables to take charge of
the remains. It was then too late to remove the
bodies to Haslam’s Creek (now Rookwood), so Detec-
tives Elliott and Bloomfield remained in charge all
night, each reposing—so Bloomfield told the writer
—on the coffin of a murderer. They had a
bottle of brandy for consolation. In the morning
the coffins were placed in a hearse, and a start made for
the mortuary in Regent-street, but up the hill the horse
would not go. While engaged in giving a push, the
o!fi ;ers noticed that the door of the vehicle had
swung open, and a sudden start being made by the un-
timely horse, the coffins were thrown on to the roadway,
that of Lester bursting open in the fall. Pople’s contract
was cancelled, and since then the bodies of executed
persons are conveyed to the burial ground by a gaol
official. It was one of the early failures of Private Enter-
prise, and one of the beginnings of State Interference.
• * * •
Surely there must be an old Fagin planted
in a tall old blank-windowed house in one of the
back lanes of Melbourne, where pickpockets are
trained in the noble art of hooking. The other
day a football enthusiast thought he felt a gentle
tugging at his vest pocket. He looked down, and
his watch and chain were gone, along with the
man who had stolen them. The enthusiast
sighted the thief, however, and casting football to
the four winds of heaven, he gave chase. He
caught the pickpocket, who struggled violently
for a few moments, and then broke away and fled
a good deal more". Cursing his luck, the enthu-
siast happened to glance again at his bulging
middle, and nearly fainted as he saw his thick
gold chain hanging there as usual. He felt in his
vest pockets. The watch was there, too —but in
the wrong pocket. Obviously the thief had re-
placed them during the struggle, considering that
the goods had become too dangerous. The foot-
ball crank, unappeased, braced up for another
run, and the thief still kept ahead, till a detective
saw his velocity, and arrested him. He owned
up, and showed a justifiable pride in his perform-
ance, but he wouldn’t say at which college he
graduated. It must have been Fagin’s.


A New Cloth Vest.
THESE are not the ordinary Knitted Vests for which there was a
demand last season, but High-Class CLOTH VESTS full of
character and “ tone.” They have neither binding or braiding. Being
in the new shades of Greys and Browns with overback designs, they
perfectly match the fabrics that are in vogue this season, yet form a most
pleasing contrast.
PRICE 14/0 EACH.
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
/'lease send me the Vest you mention. My Chest. Measure-
ment is I enclose l-'/- which eoners postage.
Name
Address
k
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
MEN’S and BOYS* OUTFITTERS
309-311 George St., Sydney.
The rugged North Queenslander, used to
much battling “on his own,” follows his owr.
independent courses, even in the conduct of his
strikes. He had a difference of opinion lately
with the bosses at the Vulcan, the biggest of
Queensland tin-mines (and, incidentally, the
deepest tin-mine in the Southern Hemisphere),
and struck. But he didn’t hang round, and
address himself in excited language, and establish
pickets and the rest; he just left word at the office
that when the boss had changed his mind a note
dropped to the Dead Cat Post-office would find
him. Meantime he would keep his pot boiling
by “ tin-scratching” in Dead Cat Gully.
m * * *
It was the capacity of one woman to
notice how many dresses the next woman has in a
year, that provoked the trouble which finally put
ex-Mayor Charles Tucker, M.P., of Adelaide, and
his nephew into gaol. The wives of certain
Oustoms officers were in the same “set ” as the
women-folk of the Forwood family ; and when the
Oustoms officers’ wives wanted to know how it
was that the Customs agents’ wives could have
ever so much more new chiffon than they, one or
two sadly-harassed Customs officers got thought-
ful. And when money was forthcoming in a
lump for other things in an agent’s menage, and
when the Customs officers’ wives consequently
filled their homes with more odious comparisons,
the matter got on to the nerves of a couple of the
'nen; and they began to give back answers.
Then, to support his back answers, one of them
pushed his inquiries a hit further; and he found
out enough to set the whole office by the ears.
GROSS-PURPOSES.
ENGAGED SPINSTER : “I suppose it is a true saying that a loving wife is just what her
husband makes her?”
THE MATRON : "Of course it is. Why, on the third day of our honeymoon my husband
began to make me cross.”
F. Dunn, Melbourne City Analyst, accuses
the suburban cow man of adulterating his milk
with coal tar. The tar is intended to give the
fluid a rich color. Another milk adulterant is
sheep’s brains, to give it substance when it is too
thin; and the common snail is also dropped in !
The mission of the drowned gastropod is to adorn
pale flat milk with a head and a bubble, and to
make it froth on top like Judkins on the gambling
evil. It seems that we are liable to find almost
anything in milk except milk.
“J.G.”: Re par about wheat lumping
(B. 16/5/’O7). It’s a pity some of the people who
blaspheme against the Australian wharf lumper,
because he sticks at having to handle bags of
grain weighing up to 4121 b. each, aren’t forced to
try the game themselves. It includes carrying
the hags in question across two or three sets of
rails from the truck to the ship, stacking them in
the hold, and climbing down various ladders with
the load in the process. Half-a-dav of it ought to
he enough to convince the average ignoramus who
blithers on this topic, of the reasonableness of the
2001 b. principle.
* » * *
We are justified in claiming that there is
no remedy equal to Angier’s Emulsion for coughs
and lung affections. No other remedy has such a
soothing, healing effect on the throat, lungs,
stomach and bowels, and no other remedy will so
invariably promote appetite, aid digestion, and
build up health and strength. In three sizes, of
all chemists.*
“ G. Trotter ” (Durban), re use of “ S.A.”
to signify “South Africa” or “South Australia”
(B. 24/2/’07): There is another Adelaide in South
Africa. The Australian and South African mails
frequently leave London on the same day, and
the address, “ Adelaide, 5.A..” is common to
missives destined for either town of that name.
I believe the postal people just toss up to see
which way a letter shall go.
* ■* * *
The tale of a glass-housed politician :
The sweetest story ever told about any notable Aus-
tralian politician is the yarn that has a pretty little stage
lady for its heroine. She was boarding at a hotel in the
city, where she was then performing. The politician was
a frequent and privileged visitor at the pub, and one
night, when the whisky had got into his elderly head and
tne common sense was out of it, he found his way to the
room of the stage lady, and aroused her from her slum-
bers. Whereupon she screamed, and the intruder’s rash
behavior was made known to the boss and others
connected with the pub. Next day the girl
put the scandal in a lawyer’s hands. The alarmed
politician went and confessed his little indiscretion to the
principal legal member of the Cabinet; the legal man
consulted his colleagues, and it was unanimousß decided
that the culprit had better quit the scene of his
notorious peccadilloes until this particular scandal had
blown over. And in the meantime, of course, there was
the stage lady to be compensated for the shock to her
nerves and the indirect aspersion that his Nibs had cast
upon her character by taking it for granted that he would
be received with open arms instead of piercing screams.
Her lawyer, after demanding £3OO, mercifully reduced the
amount to £250. But a side issue is that all sorts of shady
characters to whom the old Lothario should have been a
man of, unimpeachable reputation are now more than
ever in a position to thrust their acquaintance upon him,
and treat him as one of themselves. In this incident,
and others almost as glaringly scandalous, which can be
charged against more politicians than the one in ques-
tion, the dullest-eyed cynic may see the fallacy of the
argument that a politician’s usefulness to the State and
Commonwealth is in no way affected by his private
character. A dubious private character practically com-
pels a man in authority to do some of the things he
would riot do, and leave undone the things he would do,
if he were not afraid of being “shown up."
* * * *
“P.X.” : My youngsters had a great day
yesterday (Empire Day). In the morning, they
flapped flags which confessed that they were
“made in Germany.” In the afternoon, they
listened to the local alderman orate on the hall-
suffieiency of the hempire. In the evening, they
let off crackers made in China. German Empire,
British Empire, Chinese Empire. I wasn’t sur-
prised when my small boy asked me whether the
British Empire did nothing but fight.
A “Wild Cherry,” as the police are
beginning to call the imaginative bundle of soft-
goods who brings unfounded charges against men,
made a bad mistake the other day. She had been
interfered with on her way home to a Sydney
suburb. So she said ; but for over a fortnight she
failed to locate her assailant. At the end of that
time she said she had discovered the criminal, and
the policeman, on her information, reached out a
heavy hand at the end of a long arm, and raked
the miscreant in. Then a brief inquiry bowled
out Wild Cherry, for the accused was found to be
a just-arrived British farmer, bent on taking up
one of Carruthers’ selections, and it was shown he
was many miles off the Australian coast when
Wild Cherry was shocked, or imagined she was.
Immigrants must set this risk against Carruthers’
reduction in passage money.
“ Yes,” said the Mayor u Cow town to the
communicative guest at a Sydney hotel table, “I
heard about that case of the Mayor of Liverpool
handing over an offensive alderman to the police.
A great mistake—a melancholy mistake, I call it.
I’ve been five times Mayor, and never did such a
thing. It lowers the Mayoral dignity and out-
rages the alderman.” “But perhaps aldermen
are better behaved in Oowtown ?’’ “ Aldermen’s
as like as pumpkins. It’s the Mayor’s sense of
dignity makes the difference. Now, in my third
Mayoralty, Alderman Joyce hit me with a rolled-
up newspaper on the nose just as I were about to
put the question. I didn’t call the perleece. I
just intimated that, if he didn’t pay his store-
account next day, I’d put in an execution. Aider-
man Joyce at" once ’polergised, and no more
respectful alderman ever sat at a table after.”
“And could you control them that way?”
“Didn't f tell you they made me five times
Mayor? People don’t do things for nothing.”
“ Put everyone can’t possess that advantage.”
“ Then he oughtn’t to be Mayor. After the
trouble over Alderman Joyce’s account, I never
needed to do more, when an alderman showed
signs of growing fractious, than to look at him
meianinglv. If ye have an iron hand, I say, always
keep a velvet glove on it—especially if ye’re a
Mayor.”
* * * *
For croup there is nothing better than
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For sale every-
where, Is. 6d.*
A TALE.
MANCY DAN (to intelligent cleric on the look-out for more social evils): “ Yes, Mr. Dial kins,
sir, this ’ere gamblin’ is a awful curse. Look at me pore shoulders, which is all
umped up wiv tendin’ over the table tr yin ’ to pick the sixes on the dice.”
If the well-nourished gentlemen who are
at the back of the Empire Day movement want
to make it a success next year, they must devise
some better means of celebration than were
evident last week in Sydney. Despite the
apologies of the daily press, the whole thing was
a ghastly failure, and many Imperialists were so
disgusted with it that they announced their inten-
tion of dropping the solemn thing in future. The
management seemed to think'that the enthusiasm
would happen of itself, like that of MafekingDay,
but that kind of spontaneous and vasty drunk
only chances along once. There was an utter
absence of the sound and fury essential to the
glorious Maffick that Empire Day was meant to be.
All that happened was that a few people hung
out flags, and a few second-rate politicians
were permitted to tire everybody who troubled
to casually look in and see what was happen-
ing. Where was George Reid? Where was
McGowen ? Where were the men of whirling
eloquence and flying whiskers and raging coat-
tails, wlio should have been seized upon by the
management to stir things up ? The only speech-
maker of reputation was the Spruce Myth—a man
who has alienated the sympathy of most Austra-
lian Imperialists by pounding the inflated stomach
of the drum of colored labor in and out of season.
The Myth was the leading figure for the school-
children, and a more impossible man to speak to
children than the same ponderous chimera it
would be impossible to find. In the city the post
of honor was given to Alderman Kelly, whose
claim to this sort of fame seems to be
that he is the brother of Wiiliemotor Kelly,
M.H.R. The man whose only claim to fame
is that he is Wiiliemotor Kelly himself,
has a pretty poor one, but when lie is only
the brother of Wiiliemotor, and an alderman to
boot, it is the sort of claim that any old bush
J.R. would dismiss with costs. Alderman Kelly
took charge of a meeting at the Royal Exchange,
and, in a quarter of an hour’s maundering about
naval matters, reduced the original crowd by
about 50 per cent. The Vampire Day demon-
stration was, on the whole, about the most
wretched thing in organisation that Sydney has
seen for many a day.
Some energetic person having located, or
thinking he has located, the anchors of the old
Dunbar, which went down in ’57 off Sydney Heads
with the loss of 119 lives, State Premier Carruthers
has been bombarded by everyone in the district
who has a chance of being elected to Parliament
with a request for £lOO, in order to fish up the
relics that they may be used at a celebration of
the jubilee of the wreck on August 20 neat.
Surely the craze for celebrations has reached
its zenith in this demand for a “ jollo ” in memory
of that terrible catastrophe of ’57. But before
Carruthers had decided whether the expense was
worth the votes it might bring, some venerable
party wrote to the papers, saying that he bought
the wreck, and that he wanted his anchors.
Somebody else pointed out that the relics probably
belonged to the Australian Government as “re-
ceiver of wrecks and wreckage,” and now it looks
as if there might be another State grievance.
* * * *
One day recently the Collingwood (Vic.)
Bench was occupied by four J.’sP. and their
combined ages were 320 years. In \ i .'tori a the
serving out of a dreadful brand < f amateur
justice is the amusement of the very aged, the,
senile, the deaf who can’t hear the evidence, the
blear-eyed who can’t see which is the lawyer and
which is the defendant, the folk who hive outlived
sympathy and human emotion and to whom
nothing much matters, the people who have for-
gotten through effluxion of time all they ever
knew, the individuals who have one leg in the
grave, and those who can’t keep awake. And the
Law—with the Toothless in front, and the Senile
shoving along behind, and the Deaf holding it up
on one side, and the Partially Dead shouldering it
along on the other —gets along somehow. Some-
times it strikes a down-grade, and then it and its
amazing bodyguard get along remarkably fast,
especially when a poor woman gets six months
hard labor lor being out of her mind after child
birth, or something like that.
* * * *
This essay on “Drink” came from a
school in the midst of Eucalyptus and Jumbuck :
To-da.v many people are in gaol for committing suicide,
while under the influence of drink. Alcohol is a mocker.
It biteth like a servant, and stingeth like a hatltr.
Alcohol has an effect upon a medical man’s conclusions.
Doctors say that fatal cases are the worst, and that the
increased death-rate from alcohol shortens lives. Some
people think that the abuse of drink is right. Others
take it as medicine.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord North cote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A LAMENTABLE CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Gow said he lost the trade on articles which carried
most profit—workmen’s tools, corkscrews, etc., cash
Mr. Rolin : Where do they buy these things now?—
In the city.
And the corkscrews ?—I don’t know. I think they
knock the heads off now.— S.M. Herald Report of Arbi-
tration Court proceedings—specially arranged to depict
the horrors of Socialism.
In anti-Socialistic days—
So certain folk avow—
A corkscrew we could always raise—
We knock the heads off now 1
In those serene Saturnian years,
Described by Mr. Gow,
Men “opened” all their wines and beers—
They knock the heads off now !
In all the most “ exclusive ” clubs
Where, waited on by Ohow
Or nigger, Fatman daily grubs,
They knock the heads off now.
Such “ interference by the State ”
It’s t' at, you must allow—
Tiie Ons nos will disintegrate,
And cause the heavens to bow.
There are no words to meet the case
Save epithets like “ cow,”
This horror stares us in the face —
They knock the heads off now !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
TOO DAMP A DROUGHT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A11 we who in this land of drought
Are suffering from rheumatic gout,
Each one of us with fervor prays
To Providence for two fine days !
Just two fine days with sun a-glow
To give our aching joints a show !
We’re weary of this droughty dime
Where it is raining all the time !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Looomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:— U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. N%w Zealand cable-
grams, 4jd. per word, “ VIA PAOIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
115=117 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; or
Southport, Queensland.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J. Carruthers, Treasurer of N.S. Wales, has
handed over four columns of small type to the Sydney
ibleoraph, and that ingenious paper has made a halo out
of it for its inefficient Joss. When the Telegraph really
sets out to make a halo for a politician it isn’t particular
about the materials: Carruthers isn’t squeamish on the
subject, but the Telegraph could probably make even him
blush. Therefore, between the two of them, the public
gets some astounding information. Carruihers’ four
columns directed attention to his great virtues as a Reform
treasurer ; and one of the chief virtues was that he had
created a Public Works Fund, into which he was pa\*ing
two-thirds of the land-sales money. In the words of the
Carruthers memorandum, he had “ ear-marked two-
thirds of the total revenue derived from the sales of
Crown lands, and applied the money to the construc-
tion fflwi renewal services of business undertakings
and public works generally.” He didn’t, as a matter Sf
tact, do even that much ; nevertheless the Telegraph, in
constructing Carruthers’ halo, declares that the Joss
earmarked two-thirds of the land revenue for specific
purposes. ’ Carruthers only claimed to have earmarked
two-thirds of the land-safes revenue ; the unscrupulous
P.T. makes it two-thirds of the “ land revenue.” And as
in 1906 the land revenue was £1,729,887 and the land-sales
revenue was £976,772, the difference between the two is
the D.T. doesn’t allow a little matter of
£760,000 to stand in its way.
But, as said just now, Treasurer Carruthers’
claim that he puts aside two-thirds of even the land-sales
revenue is a cheeky fabrication. He can be convicted of
that on his own evidence. On August 22 last year,
when he moved the Public Works and Closer Settlement
Fund BiH, he said : “ The total of the land sales last year
was £976,000." Then he went on to show how he pro-
posed to juggle with the matter, and concluded : “It
will mean that £371,000 per annum will be transferred
from the sale of land to the credit of the Public Works
Account.” (Hansard, p. 1316.) Now, £37l,ooo isn’t two-
thirds of £976,000 ; it is only a trifle over one-third.
Moreover, instead of being two-thirds of the land revenue
which the D.T. says it is, it is barely one-fifth. For out-
rageous misrepresentation the statements, then, would
be hard to beat. Yet it is on things of that sort that
Carruthers’ reputation as a Reform financier is built.
The N.S.W. Public Works Fund differs from
the Maonland Public Works Fund in one respect. Into
the latter, alleged surplus revenue and loan money are
poured indiscriminately. Carruthers proposed to do the
same, but the Auditor-General reported strongly against
it. He knew what had happened in Maoriland, where
because the Fund is partly made up out of revenue sur-
plus, anything and everything is charged to the Fund:
wherefore it is possible that things which ought unoues-
tionably to be paid out of revenue may be actually paid
out of loans. Carruthers therefore amended his Bill to
keep the Public Works Fund account and the Loan
account separate. That made it less easy to juggle one
way ; but there are other ways that Carruthers left open.
To a very great extent the Works Fund account is a
capital account, because part of the proceeds of the sale
of lands is paid into it; yet it may be used for renewals
and the man who hasn’t even started to be a Reformer
knows that renewals ought to be paid out of revenue and
not out of capital. The Public Works Fund is a juggle
therefore. First, works are provided out of loans; thenthe v
wear out, and the loans remain unpaid ; and the renewal is
then paid for out of the Works Fund. There is only one
work—the original work having worn out and disappeared
and there is a loan still standing against the renewed
work. Consequently, there isn’t anything to show for the
Works Fund expenditure. It is a trick by which repairs
and renewals can be deferred, and the money that should
have been spent on them can be saved up and shown as
surplus, and then transferred to the Works Fund after it
has served its advertising purpose. Which is more
Carruthers Reform.
Then there is the matter of the Sinking Fund,
and the Reform Treasurer crows about that too. He has
“ established and placed on a working footing a general
sinking fund for use in reduction of the public debt.”
Also, according to the Treasury memorandum, it was
“ another measure of reform urgently needed, as by its
application a systematic attempt is now being made to
wipe off absolutely small parcels of the public debt,
which under former conditions became a renewed lia-
bility.” This is merely more impudent pretension. In
the year 1903-4, before Carruthers’ Act was passed
£359,413 was provided for the reduction of the public
debt. Carruthers’ Act provided, not for a reduction of
debt on a larger scale, but actually for the payment of
only £350,000 towards this object. Under his Act posi-
tively less is being provided than his predecessors pro-
vided. It is true that out of his last year’s alleged sur-
plus a further £50,000 was voted ; but the Act, instead
of committing Carruthers to a larger repayment than
his predecessors made, even in their years of drought,
actually commits him to less. Yet this impudent Car-
ruthers memorandum has the effrontery to refer to it as
“ of Reform urgently needed.”
What Carruthers the Incomplete did create was
a bogus sinking fund. The essence of a sinking fund is
accumulation. Any dictionary could have told Car-
ruthers that. “ Sinking Fund : The aggregate of sums
set apart and invented, usually at fixed intervals, for the
extinguishment of a debt by the accumulation of interest.”
(Webster.) Out of Carruthers’ bogus sinking fund, as the
memorandum says, “an attempt is made to wipe off
absolutely small parcels of the public debt." That is just
what a sinking fund shouldn’t do. It should buy small
parcels of debt, collect the interest on them, buy up more
parcels with the interest, collect the interest on them,
and so on till the whole debt is bought up. In 40 years
in that way £400,000 paid annually into the fund would
amount to £33,820,000, assuming that per cent, was
earned, and the fund would be then earning in interest
alone nearly £1,200,000 a year with which to help on the
re-purchase of the public securities. But £400,000 put into
a fund each year, and used to wipe out £400,000 of debt
each year, will only have wiped out a total of £16,000,000
of debt in 40 years, and there will be no interest at all
coming in to help on the process of extinguishing the
debt. Yet on the strength of this bogus fund, which is
smaller than the fund that existed before he took office,
and of the other bogus things, Carruthers will go to the
country as a financial Reformer who has accomplished
Reform. And the most deplorable thing of all is that
people who know what hollow humbug it all is will not
open their mouths to say so, because that might give the
Labor party a lift. So Carruthers is encouraged in his
humbug ; and the finances, which now, if ever, ought to
be capable of being put on a satisfactory basis, drift on
towards the rocks.
* * * *
At the Adelaide Steamship Co.’s annual picnic,
General Manager Northcote and Secretary Haggart made
a fine appeal to Australians to support Australian insti-
tutions—that is to say, Australian shipping cos. “ The
proverb that a prophet has no honor in his own country,”
said Mr. Northcote, “ was especially applicable to Aus-
tralian shipping. Civil servants, for instance, usually
travelled by oversea, in preference to locally-owned,
vessels.” That is only too true. And it appears to be
also only too true that the co. which makes this appeal
for support for Australian institutions gives a foreign co.
its fire insurances, and a Chinese co. half its marine
insurances.
“Focus”: In the Argus, of Feb. 27, I read
that Mr. H. B. Howard Smith has accepted a seat on
the Melbourne Board” of a foreign insurance co.—pre-
sumably with the object of helping to push the
foreigner’s business as against the business of Australian
companies. In the Argus, of May 8,1 read that “ Mr. H.
B -Howard Smith (chairman of Howard Smith Cos. Ltd.)
said the Cooma had been built for the tropical trade
between Melbourne and Queensland. It would support
an important part of their policy by affording Australians
a further opportunity of patronising local industries.”
Now I am wondering whether there are two Mr. H. B.
Howard Smiths.
*■• • •
“Num ”: Apropos of “Fluffy’s” letter from
y-, in. reference to the nominee Boards which the
A.M.P. imposes on its members outside N.S.W., it is
interesting to note that the society has made such pro-
gress in the South of late years, that the Victorian
policies exceed in both number and volume those of New
South Wales. In view of this, the directorate will
probably shift the head office to Melbourne, and have the
whole concern controlled by a Board of Melbourne men,
leaving N.S.W. to put up with a Board consisting of those
Sydneysiders the Melbourne directorate thinks good for
it. This is what the management should do, in common
fairness, considering how members in Victoria, and all
States except N.S.W., are treated under the existing’ sys-
tern. Then apropos the proposed extension to England and
South Africa : one of the society’s big’ men was trying' to
make me an extensionist when I paid my last premium,
and explained that it was desired, not so much to insure
the lives of the British public, as to provide a hedging
bureau for other European offices. For instance, no co.
will risk more than £IO,OOO on a single life ; but, if a man
wishes to insure for £IOO,OOO, they will take his premiums
and lay off the balance with other cos. The A.M.P.,
according to this statement by' its responsible officer,
wishes to accept portions of insurances effected by other
cos. By so doing, it will violate in one act the mutual
principle on which the office was founded, and convert
the institution from a mutual assurance society into a
sort of glorified Oollingwood tote, eager to gamble with
the lives of people about whom it knows nothing, and who
have neither passed its medical officers nor submitted to
its formal inquiries. Considering the flapdoodle talked
by chairman Meeks, at the annual meeting, about the
superiority of mutual to proprietary offices, this seems to
call for a little explanation.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Accident In-
surance Department :
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Re-
Income. Profit, pired Risks, serves, serves.
1901 .. £11,897 £4096 £3780 £316 £4,096
1902 .. 14,171 931 240 691 5,027
1903 ~ 24,449 4758 4510 248 9,785
1904 .. 24,188 5418 978 4440 15 203
1905... 24,876 6572 80 6492 21,’775
1906 .. 21,929 16Q4
The issued figures don’t explain why income and profits
have fallen away like this ; it may be due to the much
keener competition that has sprung up for accident in-
surance business, or to a reduction in premiums, or to
both. It was obvious that the additions which were
made to reserves during 1904 and 1905 were more than
the circumstances of the case called for: and, as the
department is not out after profits and dividends, the
plain course was to share some of the prosperity with the
insurers. Whether that has been done by reducing the
premiums charged by this branch, or by bringing about
a reduction in the premiums charged by other offices, so
that the latter have got more business, the result is the
same—the insurers have gained. But it is pretty certain
that, so long as only private enterprise was in the field,
the insurers would have benefited only to a very small
extent, if at all; the old premiums and conditions would
have been maintained in order to increase the dividends.
But in looking at the size of the reserves, it has
to be remembered that the department has no paid
capital. It began with £IOOO advanced by the State, but
that amount has since been paid back. Therefore, some-
thing substantial in the way of reserves is called for.
And these reserves are not all of the best sort; £9588 is
held against unexpired risks—practically it consists of un-
earned premiums. Still, assuming that next year the
same amount will come in as was received last year, the
department would be in a position to pay more than four
times the claims that were paid last year ; and that is a
remarkable position for so young an office to be in. From
the beginning the income has been divided as follows :
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1901 .. £2O 8 2 p.c. £45 3 4 p.c. £34 8 6 p.c.
1902 .. 51 19 3 „ 11 9 4 „ 611 5 ~
1903 .. 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 „
1904 .. 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 „ 22 7 6
1905 .. 45 310 „ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5
1906 .. 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3 „ 76 5 ”
The expense rate is high ; commission alone absorbs
nearly 14 per cent, of the premiums. It is too much •
yet so long as the State has to compete with Private En-
terprise for this sort of insurance, and has to pursue the
premiums in small amounts, cheap work is out of the
question. In Germany they do things much better.
Even in N.S. Wales the miners at any rate get a much
cheaper service; for the total expenses of the Miners’
Accident Fund are under 3 per cent. But in that case
the miner doesn’t have to be pursued by a canvasser
either to get him to join or to keep him paid up after he
has joined the Fund.
* * ■* *
TheNoRTHERN Steamship Cos. (Auckland, M.L.):
Added
Net . to Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900 ..
1901 .. £7,380 7„ „ 4967 £2413 40,238
Taken from
Reserves.
1902 .. 4,397 7 „ „ 4875 478 39,760
Loss.
1903 .. 1,808 7 „ „ 4875 6683 33,077
Profit. Added.
1904 .. 14,062 7 „ „ 6905 7157 40 234
1905 .. 7,127 7 „ „ 6905 222 40,456
Taken from
Reserves.
1906 .. 6,724 7 „ „ 6905 1181 39,275
Added.
1907 .. 15,628 7 „ „ 8681 6947 46,222
But of the year’s profits, £6651 represents additions made
direct from working account to various specific accounts ;
and to what extent they are true reserves it is impossible
to say. Thus £3877 has been added to the Boiler and
Repairs account, and though for the time being that has
to be reckoned in as profit, the size of the addition may
be simply due to the fact that repairs and renewals have
been deferred. Large changes have occurred in the
figures during the past five years. For instance :
1902. 1906. 1907.
Capital £69,642 £123,910 £124,017
Reserves .. .. 42,598 42,727 50,562
Debts to public .. 36,118 41,970 50,006
Ship property .. 131,268 186,799 198,226
Premises, &c 5,279 5,054 5,606
Book debts, stores,
cash, &c 11,811 14,755 20,751
Something is apparently written off for depreciation, so
that the repairs and insurance reserves don’t have to bear
the whole burden ; but there is no way of telling what is
the amount that is charged direct to profit and loss to
cover this wear and tear. It is certainly not being
accumulated in cash ; that money, and a great deal
more besides, is going into ship propert3'. The present
figures are so different from those of the past, and the
amount provided against depreciation is so deeply hidden,
that the published figures are of little use as a guide. All
that they are useful for is to indicate that great changes
have occurred, and that investors need therefore to get
further information about the co. To know that 7 per
cent, has been paid for some years is quite insufficient.
The Equitable Permanent Benefit Build-
ing Society and Savings Institution (Sydney) :—
Dividends: Paid-
up shares, 9 p.c.; Written Re-
Mar., Profits. Contrib., 8 p.c. off. serves.
1898 .. No information supplied. £728 £27,313
1899 .. £7810 £6363 421 28,339
1900 .. No information supplied. 317 26,785
1901 .. 7556 6373 1286 26,682
1902 .. 8431 6338 522 28,253
1903 .. 8466 8451 (12 p.c.) 210 28,058
1904 .. 8966. 6338 1053 29,633
1905 .. 9086 633S 30 32,351
1906 .. 9555 8451 (12 p.c.) 687 32,768
1907 .. 9875 6338 — 36,305
The business continues to grow ; here, for example, is
the amount of the deposits during the past seven
years
1901 .. £93,553
1902 .. 94,338
1903 .. 108,277
1904 .. 127,476
1905 .. £138,211
1906 .. 152,350
1907 .. 153,540
The growth for the past year was less than usual, no
doubt because of the difficulty of getting satisfactory
securities on which to advance the borrowed money in
the face of the keen competition of banks and insurance
offices. With the growth of deposits, represented on the
other side by advances on mortgage, the shareholders’
risks have increased. Seven years ago each £1 of capital
and reserves had to safeguard rather less than £1 of the
securities in which deposits were placed ; now that £1
has to safeguard just over 30s. So the risk on that
account has increased about 50 per cent. The extra pro-
fit shown may not therefore be all profit. For the present,
of course, things go very well indeed ; so far from the
contingency fund having been drawn upon to make losses
good, it has actually increased by £135 during the year—
possibly from the recovery of debt written off. The capital
is £70,425 ; all shares are now paid up. For many years
past 9 per cent, has been paid on these shares, with a
triennial distribution equal to another 1 per cent, per
annum ; so that the co. ranks as one of the most profit-
able mortgage cos. in the Commonwealth. The average
interest earnings on advances, &c. (there is also now
£BOOO in N.S.W. stock), appears to have been just about
9 per cent, last year. The co. that can get that return
without taking large risks ought to congratulate itself
once a day, at least.
* •* * •
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Cor-
poration, Ltd., an English office with an Australian
business:—
Reserves
(including
Reserve
Dividends paid Added for Un-
during year to Re- expired
Income. Profits. (less tax). serves. Risks).
£££ £ £
1897.. 347,007 59,896 15 p.c. =14,501 45,395 246,810
New share premiums .. .. 80,667 327,477
1898.. 736,947 213,547 15 ~,, 16,148 197,399 524,876
New share premiums .. .. 165 525,041
1899.. 748,733 139,472 15 ~,,19,429 120,043 645,084
1900.. 878,492 71,496 20 ~,, 28,096 43,400 688,484
New share premiums .. .. 96,250 784,734
1901.. 1.120.359 20,367 20 ~,, 36,488
Loss.
1902.. 1,196,655 46,936 20 ~,,32,424
Profit.
1903.. 1,130,516 48,747 20 „ ~32,415 16,332 705,585
1904.. 1,090,527 27,124 15 ~,, 24,634 2,490 708,075
1905.. 1.113.675 40,490 15 ~,, 24,554 15,936 724,011
1906.. 1.178.384.141,772 20 ~,,32,739 109,033 833,044
This is a remarkable spring in profits. But the figures
explain it. In 1905 the net premiums were £1,081,181 ;
last year they were £58,147 more. On the other hand
the claims last year were £578,330, or £27,496 less than in
1905. From the profits for 1905, £IO,OOO was written off
furniture account; for the past year £9493 is written off,
and the furniture item disappears entirely. Judging by
that, this co. doesn’t have anything that even looks like
paper-values in its balance sheet. During 1905, as
numerous fire-insurance cos. had gone into accident and
guarantee business, the Ocean repaid the favor by going
into fire business, keeping strictly, however, to “ home”
risks. The results of the new and the old departments
are not separated in the published accounts, but it looks
as if the new business is turning in a good profit.
Certainly something is doing so ; for the net return in
the past year was 83 per cent, on capital alone, or 16 per
cent, on capital and reserves combined. (In addition to
the reserves included here, there- is an investment
reserve and general contingency account, semi-reserves,
apparently created to safeguard securities.) The figures
relating to claims in the accident department, examined
over a course of years, go to show that this was a
branch of insurance business about which at the beginning
very little was known, yet about which there is a very
great deal to know. At the start all risks seemed pretty
much alike ; gradually a more scientific selection has
been applied, so that last year, on a larger income
(though how much came from the new fire branch it is
impossible to say), there were only 292 fatal accidents to
pay for, while in 1901 there were no less than 907.
In the course of time most valuable statistics
with regard to the liability to accidents in various trades
and works ought to be available. Already this Ocean
office has ascertained that no premium which it would be
possible to collect would pay for the accident risk in cer-
tain works. What about the wages in those works? Do
the workmen get paid for taking their part of the risk—in
other words, are they placed in a position to make rapid
provision for their families? We know they are not.
Except in the rarest case is anything extra paid to a man
who does dangerous work, on account of the danger. An
insurance office doesn’t take all the risk—only a small
part of it. Yet it demands something very substantial
above the average for its small share of the risk. It
seems to be a matter of most ordinary justice that the
same thing should be a lively factor in fixing a work-
man’s pay, too.
» * * *
The Charters Towers Gas Cos. (Q.):
Dividends and Writ- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. ten off. serves, serves.
Oct., 1902.. £1273 10p.c. = £IOSO £lO2 £l2l £2381
Apr., 1903.. 956 10 „ „ 1050
Oct., 1903.. 1437 10 „ „ 1050 100 287 2574
Apr., 1904.. 968 10 „ „ 1050 93
Oct., 1904.. 1375 10 „ „ 1050 100 225 2624
Apr., 1905.. 985,10 ~ ~ 1050
Oct., 1905.. 143 S 10 „ „ 1050 100 288 2847
Apr., 1906.. 603 10 „ „ 1050
Oct., 1906.. 1345 10 „ „ 1050 100 195 2595
Apr., 1907.. 999 10 ~ ~ 1050
About £20,000 is in fixed assets, so that the amount
written off to provide for renewals is pretty miserable.
Certainly, the co. spends on maintenance anything from
£IOO upwards a year ; but even a patch-work will call for
complete renewal some day. Until that day arrives this co.
will appear to be doing very well. And, no doubt, con-
sidering Charters Towers’ situation and the field’s depres-
sion, the co. is doing very well. But, in view of the
uncertainty of things and the absence of any liquid assets
worth mentioning, the man who regards 2 or 3 per cent,
of the 10 per cent, dividend as sinking fund is the man
who is likely to feel most contented on some future day.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Cos.
Written
Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1905 ..
Sept., 1905 .. £523 Nil
(£50,000 new capital issued ; deficit written off.)
Profit.
Mar., 1906 .. 2939 Nil £SOOO 2,061
Loss.
Sept., 1906 .. 3065 Nil
Mar., 1907 .. 3039 Nil 7208 15,373
This doesn’t look very cheerful for a co. whose shares
are still valued in the' market at about £310,000. And
the thing isn’t improved by going back further. In the
dim past there was a Junction North Cos., which was
always just going to do something great; Zeb. Lane was
its chief sponsor then. Presently (1896) it was recon-
structed, with an issued and paid capital of £258,000
and a London directorate—it was still going to
do great things. Then things went wrong, and
there was another reconstruction in 1901; the new
co. had a capital of £130,000. It was just going to
do great things too. But, instead, it had to reconstruct,
with a capital of £IBO,OOO, in 1905. Now the new co. has
already got behind to the tune of £15,373, though, it is
true, having started off with a comfortable balance, its
debts on March 31st were only £1259 ahead of its liquid
assets. During all this period the co., under its many
reconstructions, has paid only 4s. per share in dividends.
It is a shocking bit of mining history : in many respects,
the worst the Barrier provides.
It isn t safe to prophesy regarding such a mine
as the Junction North It has always been on the 3
of doing something, and hasn’t done it. Still the fie-ure.
must be allowed to speak for themselves. Costs last half
year for mining, milling and development were 29s 6M
per ton of ore They ought easily to be reduced to gT
If they can t be, the management is no good. The North
and the South work for under 18s. and even Block u
handicapped in many ways, for under £1 is. 6d Block
10, with creep troubles, and refractory ore, also averao-ort
about £1 is. 6d. for the past year. The Junction North
null, which ran only about 12 weeks, treated 8877 tons
The loss for the half-year was at the rate of about 6s 9d'
per ton. If the costs can be reduced by 10s. per ton as
they should be, then a profit will be shown. There were
moreover, many expenses which ran on last half-veai
while production was stopped; they would have
been no more if three times more ore had
been treated. This swelled the loss rate per ton
The half-year’s recovery was 59'G per cent, of the lead
and 40-7 per cent, of the silver. The lead in the ore
averaged 14-4 per cent., and the silver 10'9oz. There
fore, the ore was in practice worth only 4'4oz silver and
8-6 per cent. lead. At £2O for lead and 2s. 6d. for silver
that means 455. 6d. per ton. Now at the North last half’
year the ore averaged 16-54 per cent, lead and s'3oz.
silver; and the recovery was 76-1 per cent, of the lead
and 54-87 per cent, of the silver. The ore was, therefore
worth in practice 12-55 per cent, lead, and 2‘9oz. silver’
and at the same metal prices, this was worth 575! 6d. per
ton. The difference is, therefore, 12s. per ton in favor of
the North. The North worked at 17s. lid. per ton (costs
at mine), and made a profit of about £1 2s. lOd. per ton.
If the Junction North can also work at 17s. lid. per ton—
and that seems too much to expect, considering the
nature of its ore—then, on the prices from June to Dec.
1906, it would show a profit of, say, 10s. lOd. per ton. That
is, assuming the same value of ore and the same extrac-
tion as last half-year. If it works at £1 per ton, which
may be nearer the minimum, then the profit comes to
Bs. 9d. per ton. That is, without making any deduction
for depreciation of plant. It is estimated that there are
300,000 tons of ore developed. At Bs. 9d., that would
mean £131,250, or about 14s. 6d. per share. As the
market values the mine at about 345. per share, there is
either a miscalculation or great optimism somewhere.
Certainly there are tailings to account for a few uncertain
shillings per share.
Or take the Broken Hill South to measure the
other by. Last half-year its ore averaged 15-4 percent,
lead and 5 - 3 oz. silver, and the extraction was 71-3 per
cent, of the lead and 53-2 per cent, of the silver ; total
extracted, 10-98 per cent, lead and 2'Boz. silver,
worth (at £2O and 2s. 6d.) 50s. lOd. The differ-
ence in favor of the South against the Junc-
tion North is therefore ss. 4d. per ton. (At the
prices which actually ruled in the half-year to December
31st last, the South’s ore was worth 48s. 2d. ; the Junction
North’s 425. Id. —a difference of 6s. Id. in favor of the
South.) The South made last half-year a profit of 19s.
per ton ; so the Junction North could make, on this
basis, a profit of, say, 13s. Bd. per ton, or, say, £202,750
for the mine as developed—if it worked down to the
South’s costs (under 18s.) per ton. And from that also
wear and tear must be deducted. No doubt the Junction
North may improve its extraction. If, for instance, it
can get out 5 per cent, more of the lead at the same cost,
it will add 3s. per ton of ore to the profits, with lead at
£2O per ton. (Last week’s lead extraction was, as a
matter of fact, 62-9 per cent., or 3-3 per cent, better than
last half-year’s average.) On the other hand, there is the
probability that lead and silver won’t always be up where
they were in the last half-year. It is to be hoped, for
the sake of the hundreds who have bought these shares,
that the future will belie all the figures; and the only
way in which that seems at all likely is by a veryradical
improvement in the extraction.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, last half-year made
£61,945 of profit, less £7401 charged for depreciation,
leaving £54,544 net. In that gross profit was included
£15,422 on account of tailings, slimes, and other by-pro-
ducts. This was equal to about ss. 3d. per toft of by-
products actually produced—their full value under pre-
sent conditions. The net profit (£54,544) may, therefore,
be taken as the full profit for the half-year ; and that is
equal to just under 15s. sd. per ton of the ore treated, of
which about 4s. sd. per ton can be credited to by-
products. That gives 11s. per ton of ore for the silver-
lead concentrates alone. Considering the phenomenal
price of metals last half-year (2s. 7 5-16 and. for silver, and
£l9 12s. 10|d. for lead), this is not a comfortable margin.
Look at the matter from the point of view of lead pro-
duction. There were 6180 tons of lead in the concen-
trates, so the net profit (including that from by-products)
was £8 16s. 3d. per ton of lead. In other words, even
with silver at 2s. 7 5-16 and., the profit would disappear if
lead fell to £lO 16s. 7d. per ton. While lead is up at £2O,
any such quotation as £lO 16s. 7d. per ton looks absurd,
no doubt; yet these have been the average prices for the
past 14 half-years as quoted by this co. :
Sept., 1900.. £l7 6 9 Mar., 1904.. £ll 89f
Mar., 1901.. 15 111 Sept., 1904.. 11 15 8
Sept., 1901.. 12 3 3* Mar., 1905.. 12 11 6
Mar., 1902.. 11 4 6 Sept., 1905.. 13 8 0
Sept., 1902.. 11 5 9 Mar., 1906.. 16 0 3
Mar., 1903.. 11 8 1J Sept., 1906.. 16 17 9
Sept. 1903.. 11 11 10 Mar., 1907.. 19 12 lOf
This time of year in 1900 a quotation of £l2 looked
absurd, too ; yet less than that was averaged in 1902,
1903, and 1904. Block 10 certainly is in a better state to
meet such a fall now than it was then, because it so hap-
pened that it faced that slump with a milling plant which
had been worn out and torn by creeps. But apart from
that it hasn’t improved its position. In March, 1902, as
much as 41-72 per cent, of the silver and 77-32 per cent,
of the lead were extracted ; last half-year only 37 - 06 per
cent, of the silver and 65-54 per cent, of the lead. Cer-
tainly the extraction in 1902 jumped up—it looked as
though the mine were being rifled of its more easily got
ore in order to counteract the slump in price. It would
not be possible, though, to do much in that way now.
Block 10 can’t pick and choose to any great extent, owing
primarily to its creep troubles.
Whether the lead market is going to behave
itself better in future The Bulletin can’t say, and no-
body else can say either. The theory that the large pro-
duction and accumulation of gold will tend to keep up
the prices of commodities is, at the least, very attractive,
and there may be a great deal in it. If people are pre-
pared to go nap on that, well and good. They certainly
need not worry about the ore supplies. The lode at
Block 10’s deep level, which was narrow where struck,
has opened out already to 20ft. ; and it is of high metal
value, though hard and refractory. The big risk lies in
the metal markets, whose future is a deep, dark mystery.
And these remarks apply to every mine at Broken Hill.
* * * »
Broken Hill Junction’s last six months’ work
shows a loss of £736. Manager Stockdale says there are
80,000 tons of ore in reserve. Neither figure is satis-
factory. Yet prospects have unquestionably improved;
costs should now be considerably reduced, and this cur-
rent half-year shareholders may get a shock by finding


l ?in®n ® has shown a profit. If it does, it will be
rnu , of khe sort they have had for seven years
at least. Lne last dividend was paid 10 years ago.
White Cliffs (N.S.W.) opal miners are making
another move to get “the company’s blocks” thrown
'mi, 10 ' 118 fc he best sign that things are slack on the
7”“’, the co., which never ought to have been allowed
to get hold of so much leasehold (the new Mining Act
will make it impossible in the future), has lately been
allowing only enough men on the leases to hold them.
A heroic plan is now being advocated—the formation of
clo ® e . a S'hhd that enough men won’t be available to do
tne statutory manning, whereupon forfeiture would be
applied for, and that would end a trouble which sprang
out of the foolishness of the Mines Department, 15 years
or more ago, and has been worrying the gougers ever
smce. Practically every other leaseholder on the field
would sell out to the State for £lO an acre.
* * * *
After refusing to move in 1905, when almost
every other group of Australian stocks felt the effects of
more plentiful money, N.S.W. coal shares have lately
Armed, and are still growing in favor. Wickham and
Bullock Island have gained most. Twelve months ago
the old issue stood at is. 9d., and the preference at ss. 3d. ;
buyers are declared now at ss. 6dand 14s.—-the result of
the rapid development of the co.’s new Neath colliery.
Bellambi.has had much the same experience, so far as
share-movements go: December 1905, 80s. ; December,
1906, 48s. ; now, 565. Bellambi co. has two fine part
freehold, part leasehold properties, the South Bulli
and the Bellambi, covering 200,000 acres. The re-
cent firming of the market appears, however, to
be due to Che expectation that the unissued 75,000
shares, making in all 250,000 of £1 each, are to be
let out, two being issued by way of a bonus for every
seven shares held, and one for every seven at par. If
that scheme is carried into effect, then shares bought at
565. will, on account of the new issue, really cost 41s. 2d.
But no official announcement has been made. There has
been some inquiry for North Bulli. This co. is working
the colliery owned by the North Bulli Goal and Iron
Mining Cos., which apparently has the freehold; the
North Bulli Cos., which works on a royalty basis, has
installed most extensive machinery, but has not got to
the dividend stage yet, and there is only an irregular
market for shares. Inquiry for shares, which are in but
few hands, has been stimulated by vague rumors re-
garding some large deal which may possibly come off.
There seems to have been little difficulty, however, in
supplying the demand for shares.
* * « •
During April the returns and profits of the
chief Westralian mines were as follows: Oroya,
11,3390 z., £34,780; Boulder, 12,4800 z., £24,160; Horse-
shoe, 12,2170 z., £20,560; Ivanhoe, 10,21.00 z., £21,060;
Fingall, 86280 z., £14,450 ; Perseverance, 63490 z., £12,470 ;
Kalgurii, 54360 z., £11,940 ; Associated Northern, 34600 z.,
£10,340; Gwalia, 43700 z., £5650; Associated, 46500 z.,
£5400; South Kalgurii, 29220 z., £3150; Lake View
Consols, 31530 z., £1550; Hainault, 15410 z., £1210;
Gwalia Consols, 8690 z., £940 ; Bellevue, 18680 z., £670;
North Feather, 6060 z., £670 ; Golden Ridge, 4000 z., £470 ;
Greenmount, 4190 z., £2BO. Northern (late East Murchi-
son United) made a loss of £ll2O, and Vivien one of £290.
In future, Oroya’s profit will be reduced to about £17,000 a
month, and Boulder will take first place, and for some
time keep it. Kalgurli’s profit for the month is very
small, owing to the breakdown of the mill engine. This
has reduced the stone treated by nearly 3000 tons, and
£4456 out of revenue has been spent on repairs.
Hainault’s operations are still hampered by the additions
which are being made to plant. Bellevue’s profit is ex-
ceptional, owing to the scaling of the plates prior to
closing down.
* * * *
These figures give some idea of the compara-
tively low grade of the ore which is now being success-
fully worked in W.A. :—Oroya, 88s. 2d. ; Associated
Northern, 80s. 4d. ; Cumberland, 7ls. 7d. ; North Feather,
70s. lid. ; Boulder, 68s. 6d. ; Golden Ridge, 625. 6d. ;
Kalgurii, 595. ; Ida H., 565. 2d. ; Horseshoe, 525. lid.;
Ivanhoe, 455. 6d. ; Associated, 40s. Bd.; Perseverance,
355. ; Fingall, 325. 7d. ; Brown Hill Extended, 335. ;
Gwalia Consols, 295. 9d. ; Gwalia, 295. 3d. ; South
Kalgurii, 295. Id. ; Hainault, 28s. ; Vivien, 235. 5d.; Lake
View Consols, 235. Id. ; Mt. Morgans, 235. Id.; Green-
mount, 19s. lOd. ; and Hannan’s Reward, 14s. 2d. In
future, Oroya grade will be reduced to about 555. It is
all very different from the 2oz. and 3oz. per ton of the
early days. *
* « o «
Coolgardie (W.A.) is in a state of excitement.
In addition to the whole of Bayley’s ground being thrown
open to tributors, a rush has set in on the same line
further north. Holders of a block called the Indicator,
once known as the Great Coolgardie South, have taken
out 48 tons, from which they dollied 36Soz. ; and the
battery yielded 2900 z. more, giving a total of 6580 z. This
stone was taken from a depth of 16ft. only. Most of the
gold came from a narrow vein in the lode, but it is a
God-send for workingmen in the present depressed state
of affairs. The Lord Bobs syndicate has also had another
good return, and divided £l5O a man. Since May of last
year, 1214 tons have been treated for a yield of 28120 z.,
and £BI6O have been distributed among holders. Cool-
gardie is a poor place for big cos., but yields some rich
plums for enterprising individuals.
* * * *
The 1906 accounts of the Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie,
are only just out in Australia : most of the shares are
held in England. The profit was £250,281, less £1350
“directors’ remuneration.” The divs. (245. per share)
absorbed £240,000. In four years the net profit has
reached £943,664 —an amazingly fine result, remembering
that the little Victorian co. which first worked the mine
had a capital of only £48,605. After that the London and
Globe Finance Corporation took it in hand, put in £40,000
to provide plant, and presently made the capital
£1,000,000. So far £1,750,000 has been paid in divs. ; and
there were still 933,000 tons of ore in sight, according to
estimate, at the end of the year. At the close of 1900
there were, it was estimated, 227,827 tons. In the sub-
sequent six years approximately £1,383,000 has been made
clear profit, and the mine has about 705,000 tons more ore
developed than it had before all this money was made.
Profits vary, of course, but they have run about 255. per
ton for some years, while total costs in Westralia last
year were 245. 2TOd., including development, &e. Costs
and profits are thus about equal. Australia, in other
words, supplies the mine and the labor, and gets half the
gold.
* * * •
The Golden Ridge’s original Westralian leases
have been abandoned, and the 20-head mill and all
equipment has been transferred to the Waterfall leases,
to which work is to be confined in future. Ore reserves
are given as 24,000 tons, worth 405., and it is expected
that 2000 tons will be treated monthly, at a profit of 10s.
per ton. The mine, which is now opening out well, has
been terribly messed about in the past. Almost every
shareholder and director regarded himself as an embryo
expert, and instructions and counter-instructions nearly
drove the manager frantic. Some months ago, however,
manager Moss, of the Kalgurii and Hainault, bought a
controlling interest, appointed his own men, and pulled
the concern out of the mud. Divs. are now almost in
sight. The co. is in 31,200 shares of £1 each, of which
5200 are in reserve.
* * * Hr
East Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), which has
published some marvellous assays during the past 18
months, has closed down, and is not likely to be heard of
again for some time. The starting of the treatment
works knocked the bottom out of the mine, as it has out
of so many other wild cats which have lived on assays.
The lowest level is at 500 ft., from which assays from £lO
to £27 were published at intervals ; but small test crush-
ings had hard work to top £l.
* * « •
Tindalls, Cue (W.A.), alleged to be working the
northern continuation of the Great Fingall reef, would
be the best mine in W.A. if published reports were true.
At the extreme north of the property, at a depth of
550 ft., the reef has been driven on some 500 ft., and is
given as 20ft. wide, worth 20dwt. At the south end of
the property—6oooft. away—a borehole has located the
reef, and there it is said to be 10ft. wide, worth 21dwt.
The original holders took out 37,000 tons above 220 ft. for
32,9000 z. fine gold, worth £139,800. There are three
reefs on the property, but only one is being worked.
There is no local excitement, in spite of the remarkable
figures, and no information of any value is published
locally in the first place, the gaudy reports about the
developments all filtering through London. There is a
great deal of secrecy about the property, which is held
by a co. in 450,000 shares of £1 each. The latest quote
is 275. 6d., but no transactions are recorded.
• * * *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), is now again open-
ing up better, and should eventually fulfil manage r
Henderson’s predictions. With a cyanide plant installed,
it seems pretty safe to say that a recovery of 40s. per ton
is assured. As the reef averages Bft. wide, there should
be a substantial profit, with a properly equipped plant.
Very high values have recently been struck in all levels,
and, once the mine is taken over by the co., there should
be little doubt of its future.
* * * *
The patchy Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), is
once again in the hands of tributors, and it is pretty safe
to predict that a lot of gold will be again unearthed.
When a manager has to pay out per foot for all develop-
ment done, he won’t follow indicators and locate pockets.
But a tributor goes after gold, and follows it like a hound
does its quarry. Manager Davies gives good accounts
of the same co.’s South Gippsland leases, and the latest
crushing of 430 tons for 5720 z. fine gold rather confirms
his opinion. Still, the mine has now been worked by the
co. for a long time, and has barely paid its way. The
co.’s other holding, the Nine of Hearts, at Malcolm, is
merely a drag on the finances, which are not too strong,
and quite unable to bear the burden. The co. will pro-
bably have to reconstruct.
* * * •
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), shows im-
provement in most respects. In prospecting to the west
a lode 19ft. wide worth 465., and another 6ft. wide worth
605., have been found. What their average will be when
properly opened up no one can say, but it seems certain
that the future of the co. is rosy. Fresh finds located in
the Gwalia South have been followed right up to the
Gwalia boundary, and it seems certain the lode will con-
tinue for some distance at least.
• * * *
Bendigo citizens have put upon their shoulders
a mantle of solemn virtue over the failure of the Bendigo
City prospecting “go.” This is a little float of the
Golden City boom of last year, affecting a bit of a hill
near the Bendigo hospital. The site of the shaft had
been walked over and talked over by all the
dead-beats who for 30 years past have gone to
that institution for medical comforts. Encouraged
by the faith of some local ancients, a Melbourne broker
finally formed a co., got some money, and sped away
down. Work was begun on Nov. 10, 90ft. was sunk by
Jan. 25, and then 325 ft. of crosscutting was done
to find centre country. Here there was a little broken
quartz, but not as much gold as then remained in the
office petty-cash box. About £2600 more would carry
the shaft down to about the next saddle, but the
Bendigo City hadn’t the backing or the local en-
thusiasm, so June will see its end. Now, so far as
the mining w'ork went, there was nothing to disgrace
Bendigo. The way of bringing out the show might have
been a little more modest; but the fact remains that the
work, as far as it went, was not costly. True, it was
not long continued ; but that arises largely from the
series of blanks drawn by investors in Bendigo for
months past. In good times, much more money would
have been forthcoming to continue the trial. As Bendi-
gonians like to have their side lines tested, they want to
be a little more charitable when a trier from outside
misses the mark.
• * • •
Clarence United, Eaglehawk (Vic.), had good
stone at 1489 ft., and paid good divs. Since then it has
been merely a searcher after wealth. The best side of
Bendigo has been shown in the way 100 ft. after 100 ft.
of shaft sinking has been done in the hope of striking
another saddle. And the hope of the Moon line is
centred in what the co. is doing, for it needs a strike at
depth to cheer the hearts of all the Moon miners.
Clarence shaft is now down 2600 ft., but intermediate
crosscuts, so far, have failed to locate good stone. East,
at 2580 ft., a crosscut is going out to centre country,
which is also being traversed by a winze from 2480 ft.
The last lift is 200 ft., and as a little quartz has been got
in the winze, work is assuming a decidedly interesting
phase.
« * • m
The Poseidon rush, Tarnagulla (Vic.), is show-
ing very little staying power. As deep ground has been
reached the average of the dirt has tailed off, and in
the shallow wash a 250 z. slug is as rare nowadays as a
cheap drink at the local pub. The reason of this is the
“ inwardness ” of the field. The big nuggets came from
near the surface. Why, no man can tell; but, realising
that, prospectors, now that rains have fallen, are pig-
rooting the country side. The whole place is auriferous,
and any day someone may make a find. But it will be
pure luck, for the history of the district shows that it is
patchy and uncertain to a degree.
* * * *
For unadulterated assurance, the application of
the present holders of the Bethanga Gold Mines (Vic.)
for a grant of £SOOO to help to put up smelters, cannot
be surpassed. The syndicate which took over the show
after t ie Bull co. had been sold up, is by no means a
poor mao s crowd. To raise £50,000 among the lot would
be by no means difficult. Yet they—good anti-Socialists
all—go to the State for money. They have prospected
the mine, found it satisfactory, and still want coin from
the people to put up a smelter ! If they had not known
that they would have to incur this expense, some shred of
an excuse might exist for the application. But their
reports told them of plenty of gold in sight, in good-sized
ore bodies, only waiting to be stoped. Minister McLeod
should have shut down hard on the request. But he
faltered, and promised pound for pound. His excuse was
that miles of country would be opened up if the refractory
ore of the Bethanga could be smelted. This fact has been
known since old Wallace had the mine 25 years ago.
Built of tougher fibre, he never asked anything from the
Government save to be let alone. What a pity that a
little of his dogged nature could not be instilled into his
successors who baulk at the first jump 1
• * * *
Regarded in the light of a betting market, the
Melbourne Exchange quotations are favorable to the
chances of Nuggetty Ajax, inasmuch as the Nuggetty
stock maintained its price whilst the Ajax was suffering
a heavy slump. Whispers from Daylesford of selling
orders from the district had brought Ajax shares down to
60s. at time of writing—a drop of about 30s. within a fort-
night. The latest crushing gives an. average of 21J
“weights” for 1500 tons. Some of present holders of
the stock paid as much as £6 for it in January, and their
investment looks very sick. Nevertheless, the backers of
Nuggetty seem hopeful of getting a bit of a boom on it.
* * *
“Blister,” writing from thereabouts: Ajax,
Daylesford (Vic.), can defy Melbourne Age’s pennj’Tight-
ning without much assistance. All the panic reports
about the Ajax itself are the results of misinformation or
malice prepense. Take the yields from October 11 to
April 18 : 6245 tons account for 89100 z., or, say, 24dwt.
per ton. There is nothing to hide undergi ound. At the
220 ft. level there are from 40ft. to 50ft. of backs; about
100 ft. of backs lie between the 300 ft. and 220 ft. levels, and
at the 380 ft. is another 100 ft. say 240 ft. of backs.
At the 300 ft. level the lode was proved payable for 500 ft.,
and at the 380 ft. level there is over 300 ft. of good stone,
and more will be shown when the drive is extended. In
the face at the 380 ft. level there is a lode 6ft. wide in the
face, of about the same value as the stone already
crushed. Up to date the mine has paid 14s. in dividends,
and this should be made up to not far short of £5 per
share on the stone in sight—or reasonably believed to be
there. The 20-head battery can be kept going for years
to come, not, perhaps, on as good stone as reported, but
with a decent profit if economy is practised, and the eyes
are not picked out of the mine to boost an early market.
The big drop in share values won’t scare those who really
know this fine property, especially as the crushing just to
hand (23/5/’O7) shows a yield of 16030 z. (including
mineral) from 1500 tons, a little over 21dwt. to the ton.
* • * *
Port Arthur, Piggoreet (Vic.), continues on the
up-grade, and Government Geologist Dunn reports that
the country thereabouts is settled and the lode permanent
and golden. Within 12 months after the co. was floated,
the mine was self-supporting. The registered capital is
£3750 ; of that, £3175 was called up, or about 2s. Id. per
share. In three Is. dividends £4500 has been paid, and
£4OOO has been spent on machinery, &c.; a windingplant,
costing £750 has just been added. The size of the co.’s
future prosperity now hangs on developments below 720 ft.
» * * •
The Bulletin’s adviser thereabouts sticks to
his opinion regarding the much-discussed Lord Nelson,
St. Arnaud (Vie.): “ Although doing better than when
first it began to wrestle with its large new battery and
cyanide plant, it is hardly what the public would appear
to think it is, judging by the manner in which shares are
rising. While the stone in the bottom levels is certainly
payable enough, the large blocks of ore left by Zeb. Lane,
sen., in the upper levels, for the crushing of which the
big battery was mostly erected, are precisely what Zeb.
Lane, sen., considered them —well worth leaving alone.
The battery, moreover, while outwardly behaving pretty
well, is actually going to pieces, the rate at which it is
now being driven serving to accelerate that progress
downwards. The opinion of those who have to repair the
numerous breakages, including the multitudinous Wilfley
springs, broken by the racing of the engine which, so far,
no engineer has found a way to effectively govern, is—
‘ She’ll be all to bits in six months.’ Their opinion
probably sums up the condition of the £17,000 worth of
plant as correctly as possible.”
* * * *
Reeve, the young geologist who went up to
Gympie (Q.) for experience, and theorised that the
Gympie gold-bearing slates would continue beyond the
Two Mile crosscourse, which local people had always sup-
posed cut them off for good, looks like coming out on top.
The field was in a shocking state of depression when he
set to work to form his Great Northern 00. Not being
able to get off the shares locally, he took the proposition
to Sydney, and simply bullocked off the shares. The co.
is in a modest little 48,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each, only
2500 of which are paids , the others have had 9d. paid on
them. After he had made a start the Government thought
well enough of the chances to grant £ISOO out of the
prospecting vote ; and as all manner of expenses have been
cut down to the bone, this has been a great help. The
shaft-sinking hasall through supported Reeve’s theory, and
at about 386 ft., after getting slate, he has been able to pick
out a box of gold-bearing stone. Shares, which on the
developments of the past three weeks have moved up
from par to about 3s. 6d., promptly responded with a
jump to 4s. 9d. Reeve’s idea is that the Great Northern
stands in the same relation to the Two-mile crosscourse
as the No. 1 North Phuenix does to the Smithfield cross-
course ; and the No. 1 North Phoenix has paid £ls 2s. on
each of its 40,000 ss. shares. It hasn’t, of course, been
proved yet that the new venture is another Phoenix ; but
Gympie is beginning to feel better already.
* * * *
Carrington’s United, Charters Towers, in the
first half-year since the amalgamation was brought off,
had an income of £13,574, of which £6890 went in costs,
leaving £6684 as profit, and of that £2620 (3d. per share)
has been divided. At the middle of April, when the term
ended, there was £4779 in hand, and that will pay for the
reverb, furnaces, which are being prepared to handle the
copper ore. The idea is to make immediate provision
for putting througn 1000 tons a month. From the
top crosscut (60ft. vertical depth) down to 492 ft.,
in the No. 1 shaft, copper ore has been proved;
in that shaft yellow sulphide is all over the
bottom. Mostly, however, where there is any ore
at all, there is about 2Jft. of it, though at 464 ft.
(vertical) there is 3ft. in the east drive and 6ft. in
the west drive. There is copper ore proved also in
the Excess ground and Lion No. 2 West, properties now
included in the United. The Carring ton crowd, which
has always kept the most valuable information up its
sleeve, and hasn’t done anj' too much to deserve outside
confidence, has said very little about assay values up to
date. The old co. sent three small parcels to Europe for
experimental treatment, so it knows what its proposition
is stuffed with. From outside appearance, the ore, with
its lead and its zinc, won’t all be easy handling. The new
co. is in 199,600 shares, with 40,400 in reserve, of ss.
each, worth now about ss. 9d. The price shows how
sick and unpopular the whole Towers district is at
present.
* * » *
Cloncurry’s 1000th lease was taken up on May
13th. There hasn’t been a litter like it since Coolgardie.
« * » *
“ Mainshaft” : Pars, in Wild Cat (B. 16/5/’O7)
generalise too much on Oloncurry. Present rate of pro-
gress says that Commissioner Thallon is not “ optimistic,”
and that the railway will reach the field by December.
It doesn’t take much knowledge of the field to say that
it will produce some valueless shows; every field does.
If mining were as safe as soap-boiling, mining divs.
would be on soap-boiling profit lines. As to sulphides,
every Oloncurry mine that’s deep enough shows them.
West Oloncurry Co.’s Argylla north shaft is crosscutting
sulphides, bulking 7J per cent. ; Macgregor has cut a big
body of sulphides. Mt. Elliott hasn’t, because Mt. Elliott
isn’t deep enough ; but at the 185 ft. it is driving on the
hanging wall in ore bulking 12 per cent, in one face, and
15 per cent, in the other, and with that value for a length of
70ft. so far. Barring the Elliott, and in a lesser degree
the Duchess, no Oloncurry properties have big tonnages
of ore actually in sight, but good developments
are general, and time is righting the position as to proved
tonnages. The Queensland Copper Freeholds, which
owns the Argylla (and that is the biggest rich surface
show in Australia), is starting work, and another year is
practically certain to see the equipment of it as a big pro-
ducer. The railway connection with Oloncurry township
is, of course, not a connection with most of the mines,
but the results will come quicker than the pessimistic
outsider would like to believe. For one thing, there will
be no wait for money. All the principal companies
operating—Elliott, Hampden, Cuthbert, Macgregor, Cop-
per Freeholds, and Queensland Exploration—have big
cash balances, and that means tramways and smelters
quicker than ordinary.
* * * *
Good coal has been discovered at Blackrock
Creek, near Proserpine (N.Q.). Manager W. Aird, of the
Townsville Gas Cos., visited the find lately, and reported
that the coal is the best he has seen mined in Queens-
land. It looks as though within a few months shipments
will be made from the field to Northern ports.
# * * it
Stannary Hills (N.Q.) has lately not had so
good a yield of tin concentrates (worth 70 per cent,
metal) ; 1726 tons for 28 tons concentrates pans out less
than 2 per cent. Better times may be ahead, and the
manager supports that view by reporting a good develop-
ment in the Ivanhoe. There is a large quantity of ore,
estimated to average 6J per cent, oxide ; if that is the
case the return from under the stamps should be over
£5. Previously, Ivanhoe ore averaged 4’7 per cent,
oxide, so it must have been sweetening the returns a lot.
The Kitchener section has some rather poor faces, also
the Arbouin ; in the latter the tin occurs in patches, and
a fall of over-burden recently disclosed some low-grade
crushing material. The poorest ore treated by Stannary
Hills is the most cheaply handled, which enables the
manager to regulate output and equalise returns ; it also
enables the co. to show the very moderate working cost
of £1 os. 6d. per ton of ore. But development costs seem
likely to figure more largely in the report. Stannary
Hills is overburdened with shares and debentures, but
with tin at such a high price, an extensive patch of good
ore would clear the air.
* * * *
Waihi, Maoriland’s marvel —at least Maoriland
provides the gold, and J. Bull gets the marvellous profit
—paid 75 per cent, for last year, the final accounts
allowing of a bonus of 35., along with the usual quarterly
dividend of 3s. The detailed figures had not, however,
been issued when the mail left. The original capital,
put up in 1887, was £IOO,OOO, and there was a good deal
of trouble in raising that; but 165,000 £1 shares were
issued at par to shareholders in 1901, and before that
there had been small issues, some of them at as much as
£9 premium, so the present capital is £495,907. The dis-
tribution for last year (including the bonus to be paid
last month) was £371,930. Since 1900 (inclusive) £4 per
£1 share has been paid ; but the heavy premiums on
some of the shares take part of the gilt off those.
* * * *
Copper-mining in the far north of S. Australia
has had a loss through the very sudden death of O. M.
Henrie, the young American general manager for the
Tasmanian Copper Cos. It was Henrie who induced the
co. to pay more attention to the old Blinman, the
Mountain of Light, and the other copper mines in that
country, than to the Mt. Black (Tas.) show, which the co.
was formed to battle with ; and it was ha who hustled far
northern mining into an activity it hadn’t known for 25
years.
« * • *
“8.P.”: Re the amalgamation of Mutooroo
Copper Corporation with Mutooroo North Cos. (B.
25/4/’O7). Something of the kind is necessary to keep the
M.O. Co.’s leases working at all. When the first co. was
formed in ’BB, dividends were paid for a time out of the
surface bunches known as Green’s and Osborne’s. When
these were worked out, the co. made calls with monoton -
ous regularity, and eventually went into liquidation. The
Dry Creek Smelting Cos. then took over the property, to
work the large sulphide lode that was supposed to exist
at the lower levels. After producing somewhere about
3000 tons of sulphides, worth about 5 per cent, copper,
this lode cut out, work was discontinued, and the leases
forfeited. After being abandoned for years, an Adelaide
man secured the mine, and it was worked by tributors
for about four years; they just made a living by
working surface deposits at the south end. When
the present co. was formed, these men were given
notice to quit, and preparations made to “ work the
sulphide lodes ” on a large scale. Now, there is no defined
ore body in any part of the mine. The carbonate ore
occurs only in bunches, with acres of barren ground in be-
tween. The sulphide body was cut at 80ft. and was there
about 10ft. wide, worth 6 per cent, to 6 per cent. At the
120 ft. level the ore had pinched to about 3ft., worth about
4 per cent. ; at 200 ft. it had dwindled down to 6in., worth
2J per cent. From this point the lode began to go away
flat, and was followed on the underlie for about 200 ft.,
where it practically pinched out. About three years ago,
all the old workings fell in through an influx of flood
waters, which gained access through an open cut. The
present manager is repairing and deepening the old air
shaft, with the idea of ciitting the lode at a depth of
about 200 ft. In this he will no doubt be successful; but
then the real trouble will commence, for these reasons;
(1) the lode at that depth has been proved to be only 6in.
wide ; (2) copper contents are too low to give a profit;
(3) the ground is black diorite, so hard that it means
heavy costs.
* ■ » * •
Mt. Hope: Can’t give mining “tips.” But of
things mentioned, reports from Oroya-Black Range are
the most satisfactory. What the market may do is
another matter Turps: The New Zealand Oo
E. Harbort: Reckon if the shaft is 1800 ft. deep, and one
cage at the bottom and one at the top move off simul-
taneously, the ascending cage will have to pass the whole
1800 ft. of rope to get at the top. The whole 1800 ft. will
be hanging down the shaft when the business is over, and
the ascending cage couldn’t be at the top without passing
that 1800 ft. somehow. Or if the ascending cage doesn’t
pass the descending rope, the descending rope passes the
ascending cage. Anyhow, they pass.
* * * m
Anew improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining cos., because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost, which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. These machines have
been supplied to leading mines everywhere by the makers,
Messrs. Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have ap-
pointed W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, the
sole Australian agents. The machine has the distinction
of being a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.*
* * * •
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Cos.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • *
Felton Grimwade, and Cos., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer —which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* (cj
* ■* * *
The Insurance Spectator (London), of Ist
October, 1906, writes, regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited:—“Throughout its whole
career the Colonial Mutual has shown a rate of progress
that is, to say the least, remarkable in even the bulky
annals of insurance.”*
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Cos., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* » * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
» * » *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * • *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Cos., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. *
* ♦ * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Cos., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Cos., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
•» ■* * ft
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
• * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.’
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Cos., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*


HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything- that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
As miglit be expected, the names that
North Queensland battlers tack on to their mining
claims don’t always run along the old trades. On
the Walsh and Tinaroo there are the Joker and
the Right Bower, the Dead Finish, the Dead
Goat and the Black Cat, likewise the Missing
Link, the Just-in-Time and the Nearly-Missed-It
(there used to be a Just-in-Time on the Maoriland
West Coast, and there is still a Keep-it-Dark).
Cloncurry, which was overrun by men who rushed
up to peg out something for a syndicate, is more
conventional with its Duchess, and Duchess
North, and Duchess No. 1 North, and Duchess
No. 2 North, and Duchess No. 3 North, and
Duchess South, and Duchess East, and Duchess
East Block North, and Duchess East Block South,
and a dozen other registered Duchesses, all
hanging on to one poor old lady’s skirts. Still,
even Cloncurry has its Centipede and its
Pumpkin Gully.
THE POST HABIT.
Prompted by the recent instances of Australians
who have inherited English estates and peerages,
the artist offers the above suggestion. It repre-
sents Lord Bill (formerly Bullocky Bill) when he
has come into his kingdom, and finds no post to
lean against in the marble halls of his new
greatness.
Brief notice, in a woman’s handwriting,
recently visible outside a closed Gippsland
butchery:
No meet Avalable til Jim Brown gets of the Jagg. He
is a drunkn Broot.
“Snell” : Talking about the long arm of
coincidence, here is a hard local fact that will
probably not happen again on earth for at least a
couple of thousand years. A young man,
living at Brunswick (Vic.), hired a bike for a
Saturday afternoon’s ride, and went for a spin out
Lilydale way. Being thirsty, he called at a small
farmhouse for a drink. There was nobody about,
so he helped himself at the pump. At the same
time he noticed in an outhouse a small rush-basket
full of nice fresh eggs. Being partial to nice fresh
eggs, and seeing no just cause and impediment,
the young man helped himself again. He rode
back to Melbourne with the small basket wrapped
in a newspaper, and all w-ent well till he collided
with a stout, middle-aged woman at the intersec-
tion of two city streets, and man, bike, eggs, and
matron rolled on the road in one red burial blent.
Tne prostrate woman had the basket in one eye
and a light of recognition in the other, and she
clung to the basket with both hands. “Where
did you get them eggs?” she said, fiercely.
“You’re a thief! You stole them from my
house ! There’s my name on the basket! Police ! ”
The youth succeeded, in breaking away and
getting a pretty good pace out of the damaged
bike, but he will probably keep clear of eggs in
the future. His luck is too awful.
■* * * *
“Nemo” sends further particulars :
“ Brice Burn ” (B. 9/5/’O7) says that the Narraeoorte
caves, in the south-east of S. Australia, possess a, petri-
fied blackfellow. They don’t. The blackfellow in ques-
tion was twice stolen, many years ago, by an enterprising
showman. On the first occasion, he got as far as Mount
Gnnbier with his prize. While staying at an hotel there,
his “ harp,” which was encased in canvas, was left in the
passage. Strict injunctions were given by him that his
“ harp ” was not to be interfered with. But the curiosity
of Merely Mary Ann was aroused, with the result that the
curio was recovered by the authorities. To prevent any
further theft, the native was replaced on his ledge of
rook, and strong iron bars were fastened in the rock.
Tne showman, however, was an interested spectator of
the proceedings, and no sooner had the party gone than
he emerged from his hiding place, removed some of the
rock from one side of the vertical bars, and regained the
prize. This time he escaped. The last information l had
of the interesting curio was gained from a paragraph in
the Family Herald, of June, 1862, to the following effect:
‘ ‘ The principal attraction at Madame Tussaud’s will be the
petrified remains of an Australian aboriginal, stolen from
a cave at Narraeoorte, S. Australia.” The deceased black
was not “petrified.” That word, according to my dic-
tionary, means “ turned to stone.” He was simply encased
in a covering of limestone formed by drippings from the
roof above. This had preserved his skin and bone. About
the death of the curio : After the skirmish, he was cap-
tured in a honeysuckle tree ; but, as he was bad'y
wounded, his captors exercised little vigilance over him,
and while they were having lunch he my teriously dis-
appeared. The small opening to the cave, almost hidden
by undergrowth, was discovered accidentally some years
later, and an investigation disclosed the remains of the
defunct aborigine completely covered with staiactitic
formation. Some bones of an animal are still to be seen
behind the iron bars lying on an old bag. These are
evidently what “ B.B.” compares to the dried bones and
skin of a bullock.
Footscray (Vic.) council is in the midst
of a campaign. Following Melbourne’s example,
it lately adorned its streets with rockeries-
garden plots, &c. The goats, which swarm in
Footscray as they swarm nowhere else in Mel-
bourne, watched these improvements with-plea-
sure, and straightway proceeded to consume
them, rocks and all. Then the council pro-
claimed the goat a nuisance and a thistle and a
pest; but the hardy beasts took no manner of
notice, and kept on browsing off the improve-
ments. The council has appointed an inspector
and two assistants to cope with the disaster, but
as the goat-owners only allow the animals off the
chain at night, there are difficulties in the way of
capturing the beasts, and in chasing them round
the rockeries at 2 a.m. the assistants do more
damage than the goats. They have lassoed a
few and annihilated them ; but the goat birth-
rate is a tremendous thing. Now the council is
looking up the law to see if it may authorise its
inspector to shoot goats on sight.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Can any Abo.
contributor throw any light on the history or
significance of those conical-shaped aboriginal
stones found West-o’-Darling, in the wind-swept
places between Bourke and Menindie? These extra-
ordinary objects may be slate, sandstone, iron-
stone, gypsum, or cement. They are usually
cylindrical in form and tapering, with the apex
more or less obtuse. The length varies from lOin.
to 30in., with diameters of from l|in. to 4in.
Some have flattened sides ; a very few are
rectangular. The circumference at the middle
in some specimens is considerably greater than
at the base, giving them much the appearance of
a ninepin. Cross sections may be found
circular, oval, rectangular. The most important
feature of all is the base, which is invariably
concave, with a narrow margin round the
cavity, at right angles to the sides, or bevelled.
The depth of the saucer-like hollow in the base
varies from one-eighth to five-eighths of an inch.
As a rule, the surface is covered with rude marks
cut in. These cuts consist of lines of various
lengths, dots, marks resembling the tracks of the
emu, or broad-arrow. Sometimes two or three of
these broad-arrows form a star-like group.
Another mark, like a rude tomahawk, is found on
many stones. Although nearly every stone has
short or long lines, more or less deeply cut and
arranged in groups of three or four or more lines,
or in long rows, the emu foot, star, and tomahawk
marks are often missing. Some stones have a
deeply-cut line running right round the circum-
ference, a few inches from the base, or near the
middle. Many white folk refer to them as grave-
stones, but there is no authentic record of their
ever having been found in or on the graves of the
aborigines. These stones are not found on the
coast nor on the tablelands; they are confined to
West-o’-Darling. Mr. John Gordon had a splen-
did collection at the Albemarle Hotel, in Menin-
die ; another fine collection is owned by Mr.
Richard Dalton, of Tinapagee Station, Wanaar-
ing. Don’t all write at once ! [Have struggled
hard with all this description, and haven’t the
least idea what the stones look like. The concave
base suggests an aboriginal dead marine.— Ed. B.]
“ Micawber ” : “ Push ” phraseology finds
the direct antithesis to “bonzer” in “sope.”
Used in its various interpretations, it expresses
all that is condemnable in anybody or in any-
thing. It is supposed to be even more powerful
than “rotter.”
FAMILY PRIDE,
BILLO : “ Why, Blinker, who ever ’as been a-
gettin outer yer dial like that ? Was it the
push ?”
BLINKER : “Push! No. My missus done it all
by ’erself with nothin but a little sorsepan
no bigger’n yer ’and.”
“Brad” writes: —
“ J.M.” (B. 9/5/’O7) rises smellfully out of the stinkpot
of abuse, and casts base aspersions on my kookaburra-
snake episode, and the weight-lifting capabilities of Ihe
winged jackass that laughs. “J.M.” is evidently 1.0
naturalist, and is, therefore, not in a position to speak
authoritatively on the subject. What, in the name of
the jabfierwock, has the avoirdupois of a grinning bird
to do with the ponderosity of a black snake? “J.M.”
insinuates that a bird is unable to lift a weight greater
than itself, which is doodleflap. The great golden eagle,
the largest of European eagles, measures only 39in. across
and weighs from 121 b. to 161 b., yet it can lift and carry
off a load considerably greater than that. If “J.M. ’
spent more of his time in the bush, and got a little closer
to Nature and further away from the public-house, he
would learn that an ant can carry several times its own
weight. Once, near the Grampians (Vic.), I saw a brown
hawk swoop down and convey a rabbit home to his missis
and kids, as easily as “J.M.” could blow the froth from
a pot of beer. Mv air-ship being out of gear at the time,
and having left home without my scales, I was unable to
chase and weigh them, but, judging from observation, the
rabbit was much larger, if not heavier, than the bird.
If “ J.M.” needs further proof of the veracity of my state-
ment re jackass and snake, he can call round my way and
see the exact spot and tree where the scene took place.
I have also carefully preserved the Panama, which still
bears the mark made by the reptile in its downward course.
*'* * *
“F.H.R.”: Dad came home as usual on
sale-day—drunk as a navvy. The horse was taken
out and let go. Emma (who drove him home) had
removed her parcels, and was swearing, between
mouthfuls of corned beef, that it was the last
time she’d ever go into town with him again.
The buggy stood outside the kitchen, and in it
sat Dad, oblivious of the domestic storm Emma
was creating. As he fumbled for his pipe and
tobacco he sang, “And her name was bonne-e-e
Ma-ary, the pride of Ar-r-gyle.” Joe went round
the house and approached the buggy from the off
side. “Good evening, Mr. Simpson,” he said.
Dad peered through the waning light and grow led,
“Who tlier blazes are you 1 ” “I come round
to see you about that roan stallion of yours,” said
Joe. “Do you want to sell him ?” Now the roan
stallion was the greatest pest on. the place,
therefore the apple of Dad’s eye. “ Yer’ll want a
lotter money ter buy him,” said Dad. “How
much will yer give fer him ? ” “ Look here,” said
Joe in his" best disguised voice, “ I’ll give you
seventeen and sixpence cash.” Then Joe jumped
back as Dad slashed at him with the buggy whip,
and called to us to “chuck ther skunk in ther
crick.” We chased Joe off the premises, and got
Dad out and into bed, where he lay, muttering
“ seventeen and sixpence,” until he slept the sleep
of the inebriated.
* * * *
A big land-owner from the north, who has
settled in Melbourne with the intention of going
into society and finishing his days with a blaze of
glory, brought with him from the verge of the
Never a faithful black called Tommy. Tommy
was an excellent servant at Dim Distance, but
since coming into touch with pubs and other
debasing influences of the higher life he has
sadly deteriorated. The other day Tommy was
found hastily accommodating a billy of beer
in which some chemical had been dissolved
for the purpose of frosting windows. Tommy
had no sooner gulped down the decoction than he
fell into misery, and squirmed on the floor. A
doctor and a stomach pump were ushered in with
all speed, and Tommy was well and good again
next day. Very shortly after this more of the
frosting mixture was made, and, being left un-
guarded for a moment, the billy again fell into
Tommy’s hands, and the stuff was only rescued
after a struggle. Tommy was roundly abused by
his good master, who reminded him of the horrors
of the medical treatment to which he was about
to expose himself. “Plenty nasty that one, 5
said Tommy, “ but mine chance it ! ” As an in-
stance of the seductive power of beer over our
brother black this is something special.
* * * *
Some poets rhyme for fame alone,
And some for bread and butter ;
Some rhyme because their nature is
Poetic thoughts to utter.
But these poor rhymes have nobler aim,
They’re written to secure
The health of all humanity
By Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“The Prooshan”: The artistic faculty,
like measles and murder, will out. I once knew
a coach-driver who was quite incompetent to
write his name, yet contrived to make pictorial
memoranda in his note-book. “ Blode if I could
ever write, but I reckon anybody orter be able to
dror.” “ What’s that
for?” I asked, point-
ing to a boot and a
little cottage. “Oh,
that was about Jim
Homefield’s boots—I
had to get ’em half-
soled.” “What’s the
house for?” I in-
quired. “Why, that’s
a home, a-eourse.
That’s to make me
think about Home-
field.” I pointed to
a tin standing near a
fence. “Yaas, that’s
karersene for Rogers.
I had to drop it off
at the fence, yer see.”
I once came across
some bullockies camp-
ed for dinner. On
finishing his lunch,
one long, slabsided
puncher took up his
whip and, walking to
a white gum, said,
“See me chop old
Parkes outer this
blanky gum - tree.”
And then and there
ho flecked the tree
deliberately, about Oft.
from the ground, until
a very fair Phil Mayish
picture of Henry Parkes
appeared. Walking over
to the tree, the artist
of the hide regarded it
a while critically, with
head on one side, and said,
“The hi ain’t too good.
I’ll have ter give it another
lick,” which he did, and
produced such a. speaking
likeness that we almost heard,
above the skirl of the locusts,
the countenance saying, “Hi
do not seek hoffis.” I recently
saw a bush genius making border
patterns and lyre-birds’ tails with
the trail of his poison-cart; but his boss came
down on him like a cataract of bricks for wasting
his pollard, and said “he didn’t pay him to
embroider his bloomin’ paddock—he P‘ u(l h,ln ; t
poison rabbits.” Thus was a budding artist
blighted in the springtime of his youth.
“ Miles ” : To-day we cleaned out a cement
cable tank 15ft. square and 4ft. Gin. deep, with
vertical sides. After taking out some four tons of
cable and running out the water a man went m t
clean up the sludge. In a foot of sludge he found
a mud turtle about Sin. long, very much alive and
cheerful. I put it on the hank of the moat fn>sh
water), and in a few minutes it stepped galy in.
Now the water in the tank was salt, and the
cables are coated with a preservative containing
creosote, ozokerite, arsenic, tar and phenjl, and
the presence of naphtha mdiarubber, copper
sulphate, and other such substances is very marked
iS ’the water. Frogs and mosquitoes won tgo
into the tank. The liquid will blister t'm human
skin, and even handling the cables when arc
dry causes “ cable-burn —like sunburn, on y
more so. But that turtle lived tnrough it ail.
CHARITY.
B ILL: “ Will Ido anything for yer? W'y, I’d
do as ranch for yer as I did for me own
brother.”
CADCER (hopefully): "That's very good of you.”
BILL: “ Don't make no bloomin’ error. ’E’s been
in the hospital ever since.”
The Adelaide papers of May 14 give a
quaint incident from Charleville, on the Queens-
land border. One George Deane, a seiector was
leading a kangaroo dog by a piece of binding
twine, and when it bounded forward on seeing a
wallaby, its master’s thumb was cut clean oK.
The faithful hound ate the thumb! (Dangdon
Bonython’s ’Tiser, though telling thei first part
the story in the same words as the Register,
decorously suppressed the closing incident.)
An eminent lung specialist stated in a
lecture before the British Conference oil Con-
sumption that “nothing goes rig*
stomach is wrong.” All authorities .agree that
there is no lung remedy equal to An 0 " ,
sion for keeping the digestive organs healthy.
Pleasant to take, it promotes aid- d
gestion, and improves nutrition. Itis^neq^ f a,1 ® 1
for all lung affections. In three sizes, of all
chemists.*
ON THE COAST ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him, padding- the road to hell, with a reckless look
in his eye,
With his shoulders slack, and his hat pulled down, going
back to the Coast to die.
Shattered and nervy and stony-broke, with his life in a
single lung,
And a sad, wild g-leam in his shifting fiance, as he
stopped in his tracks and flung
A curse at the ribbon of road ahead where the dust lay
smothering white,
And a withering curse at his vanished luck, and a curse
at the failing light.
He came into camp with a terrible cough and a cheek-
bone crimson-bare,
Loping along on the way to hell, to sweat with the
sinners there.
He reckoned to finish in hell, all right—he’s probably
there by now,
With a fountain of flame in his empty eyes and a red-coal
crown on his brow,
And, instead of the friendly bush, the black abysms of
sunless space,
And the crowded grids of the roaring deep, with never a
friendly face,
With the cheerful songs o’ the cherubim coming down
from the Lazy Coast,
From the drowsy calm o’ the Glassy Sea to the Place of
Eternal Toast—
For the Harps, he told me, were out of his line, and the
Golden Crowns no sport,
And the Snowy Robes small good to a man of his rough-
and-ready sort.
He left next day, and I handed him out a humble dollar
or so,
To dull his drouth on the long, warm, thirsty journey he
had to go.
And he passed on, grinning a sideways grin, with a curse
for the swarming flies,
And he cleared the rise with his old felt cady jammed
down over his eyes ;
But now and again, in these later days, when I lounge in
the cool sea-wind,
I think of him staggering in, that night, with the West
red-hot behind,
And the plaintive gleam in his eye when he left, when I
gave him a trifle—and how
I might’ve made it as much as a quid, when I think . . .
he’s in hell ... by now !
vie.
FRANK HENTY


Efce LADIES’
"Fx&R” Watch
At £6 Os.
Is a f-Plate Lever. Is jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby roller jewel. Has solid lict. gold case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two
years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Ladv’s 2-plate Lever, Solid 14ct. Gold Case,
£6 6s ; ditto, JBct. Case, £7 7s.
Plain Figures
Cash.
jt FAIRFAX &ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House'
in Sydney,
! 23 Hunter St.
“ Cict ” : Re the nomenclature of
sluicing claims in the Tumbarumba (N.S.NV.)
district, mentioned by “Agricola” (B. 9/5/’07).
In nine cases out of 10 the claim takes
the name of its owner, or a corruption of
same. For instance, Peel’s claim becomes
“The Peeler,” Perfect's ditto, “The Per-
fection,” and Waters, a little further up the
creek, is known as “The Watery.” Occasionally
we pass “The Duffer,” or “The Golden. or
“The Lonesome,” or “The Bosh ter’ -names
which howl for themselves. But otherwise the
system goes on its steady way, and the claim
owned by George Cook will in less than a week
be known all over the field as “The Cookshop, ’
and should he sell it to Jones it becomes at once
“The Jonesy.”
• « * *
GRIN !
[For The Bulletin.)
Even tho’ yer clothes don’t fit yer,
And Woe’s got yer down and bit yer,
An’ supposin’ that ye’ve bin and lost yer job,
Don’t you give up in despair—
Sigh, and rend yer raven hair.
Don’t you snivel, but choke back yer risin’ sob.
There is twenty million others —
Black and white an’ khaki brothers —
That ’ud like to be a-campin’ in yer skin.
So whatever comes along,
Sing: the same old cheerful song,
Turn the corners of yer mouth right up —and grin !
When yer pal is sick an’ sorry,
When he’s loaded up with worry,
Don’t you go to him an’ tell him any tales
’Bout the bloke as died last winter
Of blood-p’ison through a splinter
Wot he got when puttin’ up some posts and rails.
If ye’re sour an’ sad an’ mopy,
An’ yer tell him that you ’ope ’e
Ain’t a-goin’ to perish—you let clouds right in.
Cheer him up with hope an’ laughter,
An’ ye’ll find that shortly after
He will answer to the helm—and also grin !
Don’t be always pullin’ faces,
For ye’ll find that in most places
Other people’s doin’ all that can be done
In the way o’ gloom an’ sadness.
Tour job is joy an’ gladness,
You ain’t a bloomin’ rainstorm ; you’re the 'Sun !
Work an’ play as if yer meant it,
An’ yer life, when you have spent it,
Will be full enough o’ joy to crowd out sin.
Don’t you think it wrong to laugh,
Nor to chy-ak, nor to chaff,
Turn the corners of yer mouth right up—and grin 1
MAORILAND. CLAUDE JEWELL.
Senator Dobson has been witnessing the
shooting of buffalo at Adelaide River (N.T.).
Says a telegram
Senator Dobson, in company with Constable Gordon,
separated from the others. Constable Gordon shot and
wounded a bull buffalo, which charged him. He dodged
behind trees, firing Martini cartridges into the buffalo’s
hide until his supply was exhausted, and then he climbed
a tree. Senator Dobson, who witnessed the encounter at
a distance of 200yds., was unarmed, bub the buffalo
failed to notice him, and, after bellowing and pawing for
two hours around the tree in which Constable Gordon
took refuge, returned to the swamps and allowed the
prisoner to escape.
A buffalo cannot see distinctly unless be lifts his
head to a level with his spine. This buffalo lifted
his head only half way, and thought Dobson was
a fly.
PREVENTION BETTER THAN CURE.
RYAN: “ For whoi’re ye puttin’ up a fince,
Doyle, afther all th’ years yev lived here
widout?”
DOYLE: “Well, th’ fact is, Barney, th’ docthor’s
bin at us these mont’s t' take precautions
agin thim microbes yir heard of.”
“John Moran”: “ Werrimee ” sools his
dog on “The Prooshan” (B. 25/4/’07) for saying
that a black snake swallows its young ones when
alarmed. Now, I have never seen a snake do this
—in fact, I have never seen a snake with any
young ones —but I have seen a centipede swallow-
ing its young once, and only once, in all my life.
There is no hearsay about this. I saw it, and I
just thought there might be something in the yarn
about the snake doing the same thing. [Another
writer, by the way, sends along the statement
that the female spider at times not only swallows
its young, but also digests them. He adds that
the Fijian natives used to swallow the young at
times when they could catch them.— Ed. B.]
* * * *
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business.*
A MAN OF MANY STEAKS.
ANTI-SOSH CANDIDATE : “My friend, you would not talk like that if you had a stake in
the country.”
BULOCKY : “A stake! Why, dash my eyes, I’ve got a whole bullock team!”
“Paul Cupid”: If “C.R.” (B. 2/5/’O7)
will just spend 30 seconds in examination of the
next snake track he sees in the dust, he’ll notice
that the dust is forced forward midway between
the concave and convex points of the track in the
direction the reptile is going. If the creature is
in a great hurry, the pushing forward and turning
over, mould-board fashion, of the dust is more
pronounced ; but close observation will detect its
direction no matter how slow Eve s tempter is
going, provided there is sufficient dust to make a
trail.
*■ * * *
“ Climax ” : I have remarked some start-
ling lies about the durability of dogs. I admit
they are fairly tenacious of life, but for downright
refusal to give up the ghost and for recuperative
power I want to enter my cat. Up to the present
she is the mother of about 75
kittens (many since dead),
but it is not for this alone I
want to skite about her.
Last Wednesday puss came
to the kitchen door with a
small rabbit, with which she
was amusing herself after
the manner of cats. Now, I
am the unfortunate possessor
of two kangaroo dogs and a
fox terrier. The terrier
wanted that rabbit. He made
sufficient noise to attract the
f roo dogs round, and then
puss was treated with con-
tumely and used frequently
as the rope for a tug-of-war.
I endeavored to separate the
rioters, and, after a minute
or two, saw pussy disappear
round the corner of the house
like a streak of tabby light-
ning (I may mention that the
rabbit hid during the general
confusion). The dogs, of
course, were in full cry at
once, and accident overtook
the quarry —or rather she
overtook it —in the shape of
somebody’s cattle dog, which
held on till the others came
up. lam a bit lame, and
by the tune I had cleaned
things up with a pick-handle,
the cat was to all appearance
dead. So I shot her into the
rubbish box to await decent
cremation. After supper, I
was rather startled to find
pussy waiting, as usual, for
her evening meat; and, after
eating 21b. of mutton, she got
into the store, and had five kittens in the tea. I
consider that any cat which can provide sport for
four dogs, and then get over the indignity of
being cast into a dust-bin and go and have a
healthy family of five in the tea, takes beating.
* * * *
“ Jostler ” : The best camp horses in the
world are found on the Belyando River (Q.)
stations. They have the grit and stamina with
which to gallop and twist and shoulder a beast
out of any mob. Just let your camp horse see
the beast you want cut out and he does the rest
Knew a chestnut horse in that district who was
named “ Mickey Free.” If a beast became trouble-
some, Mickey’s rider used to gallop alongside and
“throw” the obstreperous homey, and Mickey
then knelt on that aforesaid animal and stayed
there till he was told to let go. It is wonderful
how a rowdy half-ton of meat gets all the starch
knocked out of him after he has been thrown.
-*■***
Mr. Frank W. Frazer, of Scone, N.S.W.,
writes“ I was touring New Zealand some time
ago, and owing to the continued wet weather con-
tracted a very severe cold. While staying at the
‘Royal Oak,’ in Wellington, a friend advised me
to try Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This
advice was followed, and after I had taken a few
doses was completely cured. I can confidently
recommend Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to
anyone suffering from throat or lung troubles.”*
“Groper”: The Westralian crow, apart
from his ordinary caw, has another cry which I
have never heard in any t’otherside bone picker.
When sitting on a tree surveying a likely carcase,
he emits a hoarse chuckle* like a lost soul poking
borak at the devil.
“ R. Mac.” writes :
Those pug’s who do the country shows and picnic
races with a boxing booth fully earn the 6d. that
‘passes you right on to the inside.” Very often
they strike a bullock-puncher who proves himself a
hard-hitting man-puncher as well. Especially has th
aggressive, but unskilful, pug a parlous time of it. The
fast, clever boxer can evade the earnest, hard-hitting
oxen-conductor for a couple of rounds, and then retire
with dignity ; the other kind of pug has to fight like
Venerable Henry to escape complete annihilation. Saw
Jack Tuckwell (a one-time worthy opponent of late Otto
Cribb), at Donnybrook races, near Maitland, being
buffeted about by a 13-stone sleeper-cutter. Jack
tried manfully to stem the tide of battle, the
only tiling he could hit was Mother . Earth
with different parts of his anatomy. He did this
with painful monotony. One round was enough. Tuck-
well struck tent and crept silently away, a sadder and
more damaged man. At first Newcastle show, a lOst.
youngster put it all over then champion McCall. Billy
was trying the clever act until, exasperated by the boy’s
straight lefts and the crowd’s taunts, he swung left and
right to his opponent’s frontispiece ; the scrap ended
there and then. Ruenalf is the best of all the touring
pugs. Once, at Lake Macquarie, I >aw Bill Squires, then
unknown to fame, take a glove for a spar with the Maori.
Onlooking miners, who knew Bill’s quality, expected
to see the sudden passing of the dusky warrior ; but
Ruenalf’s speed proved too much for Bill’s brawn. Even
now, Newcastle miners speak in awe-struck tones of
Ruenalf’s skill, and conjure up all sorts of possibilities if
hh only had more grit.
“ Mangrove ” : I herewith nominate the
Kimberley (W. A.) nigger for the glass-breaking
championship of Australia. Please forward prize-
money by return mail. In 1886 the nigs, in that
locality were rank myalls, yet they had brought
the making of glass spear-heads to a fine art.
These spear-heads were four or five inches in
length, running to a needle point, and with
serrated edges. How did they manage to convert
deceased marines into such lethal weapons ? Old
Kimberley hands will remember Ted Locket, who
had charge of the Ord River cattle hi the late
’Bo’s. Ted once came into violent collision with a
glass-headed spear. Seated on a 50 of flour, he
was having breakfast, theblackboy being away for
the horses. The click of a woomera fitting into
a spear (which is as familiar to a bushman
as a gun-click to the average pigeon-butcher)
smote Ted’s ear, and he darted for his Winchester
with the alacrity of George Reid grabbing at offis.
As he sprang his hinder region stopped the missile,
which was intended for a more vulnerable spot.
On striking the bone, the glass head split into
innumerable sharp fragments, each an irritating
needle, causing intense pain. However, owing to
the uiiremitting attention and nursing of the
warden, Mr. Finnerty, a real 18-carat old chap,
Ted was right in about six weeks’ time. I have
knocked round most parts of W. A., the Territory,
and N.Q., and have seen all manner of things used
by the blacks for spear-heads, but never saw glass
heads anywhere excepting at Kimberley.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
R. L. N. Gilbert: The notice reads that rejected
contributions will be returned if stamps of any State
accompany them. To accompany, and to be gummed
on like a drowning female clinging to a rock,
are two different things. If your host accompanies
you to the door, that doesn’t mean that he glues you to
the d00r... .C.H.B. : “ The Terrible ” only hovers on the
outer rim of possibility, so to speak M.N.: “Cynic
came within an ace of acceptance... .Jack H.: “ Winding
Engine ” mainly an enumeration of hits of machinery, and
cost 4d. for deficient postage.... Alfred T. (England):
Don’t care much for “ Afterward,” and your envelope
with an English stamp gummed hard on to it is of no use for
return G.Pa: The irreverent remarks that small
kids make about God are only moderately humorous....
C. : Somehow this cold weather froze our appreciation of
your “Summer Morning.”... .B. : There is one rhyme
you missed to “ Isabel.” We supplied it. Other verse
rather joggly in metre and blunt in point Richard
Lawson: Sonnet structure faulty, and matter unin-
spired. Also vou venture to rhyme “aroma” with
“ foamer.” M. Nicholson : Couldn’t you'cheer up and
write something that isn’t all dusk and heart-break?....
Sea Weed : Idea good, and some poetic feeling, but the
metre is too uncertain. With more care, you should do
good work The Fool: “Two Lovers” is interesting,
but the woman who can’t forget the other fellow is pretty
01d.... J.C. : “ Consolation ” and “ Lorele.y ” passed out.
“A Hedge” under distracted consideration O.H. :
“ Judgment Reserved” got a verdict at last. It was
found guilty Sydolt: “Life’s Episode” is a most
gruesome thing’....E. Desmond: Humorous in spots,
but rather crude, as a whole E. D. Barry : Try
your suggestion on some Foreign-trade, anti-Aus-
tralian paper....G. Scott: When you send along
■jokes always remember to enclose the humor along with
them. It doesn't really make the letter any heavier.. ..
Tallawadja Bill : Horrible suggestion Talder : No.
Liverpool asylum is a horror only to be written about
with an axe, and you don’t seem to have an axe....
F B H. : Sorry, but too many people have been before
you ..C. C. : “Changed” got a lot of consideration
f or so small a scrap, and was finally passed 0ut....
A.N. : “Black Australian Wedding” doesn’t go ( Well.
The struggle to find rhymes is painful....E.C. : “The
Prodigal” is strange but not humorous, though a cocky
named Smith with a taste for collecting old editions 10
almost strange enough to be humorous Sand: Scarcely
what might be called a sizable episode.... N. : The
Brink o’ Rest” has two moderately good verses and two
dead ones Upsilon : “ Drunken Fish ” too laborious a
lie. ..StaunaLea: “ Waster ” passed out. It is a moan-
some thing, like the sea lamenting on the beach on a grey
dav, or the blasted heath when you can’t find out what
blasted it, or the mother bird whose egg has died, or any-
thing like that Dion: “Parting” also moansome.
For Heaven’s sake cheer up and hang on to the girl. ..
Yarrum : Too long to explain,but the number of “pomis
of attraction” make a city usually safe against lightning
stroke H.A.F. : Bonnet sonnet had a good idea but
poorly expressed.... Link Motion: “Quite Xempoiaiy
was by “ Hop.” Krys W. : “ Reverie” is nicely versified
and pretty’, but commonplace in sentiment... .R.D.N. :
Well meant, but it isn’t poetry J.O.Y. : The basket
took both T.L.J.: Not enough in that.. ..Sam Chester :
“ The Pest ” has a good idea, hut is weak in detail. The
other isn’t worth print Carydon :It almost squeezed
in.... Janies S. : A feeble effort C.S.G. : Notfarshoit
of the mark. You have the dramatic-instinct....
Louburke : Still don’t care for “ Flat.” The other also is
weak Barnes: Fear it’s impossible to reprint old
tales Wattle Bark: We couldn t stand that....
Ernest N. : “ The Rising Sun ” doesn’t rise high enough...
Dub’-ite: Some of it is good, but there are a bad slum] s
‘in jt E.W.M. : Very faulty in places.. . .S.P.A.R. :
You can’t rhyme “Australia” with “failure.”... .C.K. :
Excusable as a first attempt Mars : The longer one lias
several bad stanzas. Other not much better H.G. :
You are a bit out. The Registrar is forbidden to marry
you unless you have “ conscientious objections” to being
married by the clergy; and he charges £1... .Matrix :
Couldn’t put the language in, and it would be
a tame joke with the language left out Mouse:
None of the last hatch of suggestions much account....
Chilbur : Agree fully that there should be State registra-
tion of midwives. "The ignorant woman who, for a fee,
acts as midwife ought to be just as liable to punishment as
the ignorant man who poses as a doctor... .Australian
First: You state a series of truisms with the important
air a Columbus might wear while discovering America....
Olla Podrida : Blow the Dunbar wreck 1 It has been a
wreck so long that it has lost interest R. Bartlett:
There are so many incredible blunders in your yarn that
some of them must pass uncontradicted. But (to take
one series) who ever said that internal taxation neces-
sarily cheapens commodities? Don’t you know tlie dif-
ference between Protective duties on imported goods and
charges for services rendered, such as carrying you by
train, or carrying your correspondence by post? Then
you say “ a penny tax was imposed on all newspapers in
this State.” That is amazing ignorance. There is Jd.
postage on a single newspaper, and. there can be sent toi
Id. as many newspapers as will weigh 20 ounces. Under
the old N.S.W. State system a N.S.W. paper sent
to another State cost ->d., as a rule, up to 100 z.,.
but there was a special rate for Queensland and
Papua; a local paper posted in Sydney for de-
livery in the city cost Id. or more ; a paper to he
delivered at any other part of N.S.W.cost nothing if it.
was under a certain weight, unless it was over se\en
days old, when it cost Id. A Queensland or other out-
side paper, if re-posted inside N.S.W., cost Id., unless it
was a Victorian paper, in which case there was a special
rate. Now there is Freetrade in papers, the essence of
Freetrade being to give no preference to the local article.
Your statement that “ What we want is no taxation is;
also wrong. The things we want are free board,
lodging, clothes and amusement, and the abolition
of death. What you want is a knowledge of spell-
in<r so that you won’t write “ fedral parliment.”....
J.S. : Tired of pointing out that the Union Jacks of
“ Empire Day ” are mostly all wrong. You see, the adver-
tising Imperialists of Australia are mostly foreigners, and
can’t be expected to know the right flag Oxo : Yes ;
all pars that see print are paid for. Out out and send to
the Accountant, Bulletin office, with name and address,
and he will remit.... W. Boyes :It was returned on the
13th May Unsuitable : Jack Rugby, C.H., Wattle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
8.8. : Gone to its long burning place... .F.C.B. : After
looking at the man as you have depicted him, reckon the
o-irl had better let him shoot himself Kaytee : Speci-
men of art firmly declined R.: Only a very small
hit of street-boy impertinence J.S. (Warracknabeal):
Consider yourself dead—H.W.T. : Drawings so hope
lessly bad as to be beyond criticism... .W. Wright : Pic-
ture of a swagman looking for work lacks novelty....
W.H.M. : Drawings hopeless XXX: Wotfldn t raise a
laugh.


✓ * /V,
uC* <(5 vo -'
a*
/y *V
(^V/
X
a- »\
4 sr 1 - 4 %
Aot» e o
v s w S <1
\°£ £ «*
'
% ®® I
Sts s §
o 5, c p o
5 |S 4*
I
P »r U* ®
> IT C* 0»
v*\i\
* • H
O* -*• u»
e> •* a
It is now on the cards
for a deputation of the
Ungodly to ask for
“ something to be
done” about church /
bells. M
-EMPIRE DAY IN SYDNEY : SUMMED UP.
The anti-Australian idea of naval defence: (1) It
Is dangerous to the Empire for Britain to keep war-
ships on this station, (2) therefore Britain should
be bribed with a subsidy—say one penny—to keep
them her/-
A BELATED WREATH.'
The Premiers’ Conference—will It do
this tardy act of justice ?
Mr. McQowen as he
did lock, May 23.
A STUDY IN LOST OPPORTUNITIES.
M 4 Hr. ricGowen as he might have looked,
' May 23.
Mr. McQowen, leader of the N.S.W.
Opposition, delivered his policy speech
on May 22. He declared neither for
) / Federalism nor Financial Honesty. ‘
x -Fact.
NOT “ FATHER CHRISTMAS.’-*
mi id WILLUMBAH. Saturday.—The Premier and party arrived by n*>t<**
car. tKSn A depJSn waited on the Premier, and mdcedUmt
several small matters should be attended to.
Mr. Carruthers replied that **be was not Father Christmas.”
Still all things considered, the Inference would be a lair one.
Think this out.
EMPIRE DAY, &c.


A FOOLS’ PARADISE AND A ROGUES’ HEAVEN.
With a world of pathos the advocate of shoddy asks: “ Why should tho
woman of moderate means be deprived of the pleasure of wearing a pretty
shimmering material which rustles at each step she takes, even if it be not
silk 1 "—Age.
The Shoddy Importer : “ Hush!
Don’t tell the poor dear
thing she is being robbed.
It might wreck her happi-
ness—not to mention mine.”
A free passage back to a land
flowing with milk and honey—and
with Mr. Panton, P.M.. on the
point of retiring from the Bench !
—is just the opportunity to de-
light these gentry. —Argus on re-
patriated Australians who were
charged with the heinous crime of
singing songs and the like on the
voyage out.
Another proof of the A/sp</s’
kindly belief that the Aus>*
tralian is something to be
governed by the lash and the
genial Mr. Panton, P.M.
PERHAPS UNAVAILING.
“Yes, we have banged, barred, and
bolted the door,” &c., he. Winston
Churchill on Preferential Trade.
But some things are quite indifferent
to mere bolts and bars.
fm 7 mi
BLACK DOINGS AT BRUNSWICK!
Near a certain hotel a man was seen to emerge from
a barber's shop and scan the horizon with a field glass.
In the neighborhood of another hotel a little girl of
eight threatened to sool a dog on the zealous watcher ;
while at St. Kilda suspicious-looking persons entered a
livery stable. —Judkins on Sunday crime ■ in Melbourne.
This is nothing. The Bulletin, looking out of its back
gate one Sunday, saw a man—a fat man—SNEEZE
THREE TIMES Into a green handkerchief, and policemen
passing all the while 111
TAKING TO THE ROAD.
It was open, he said, for ministers in the other
Australian States to come forthwith to Victoria; the
announcement that there is a dearth of clergy would
cause a great influx.— ltill. ■SoMOone at, Melbourne Freshg-
tenan Assembly discussion Oil She Vic'; dearth of clergy.
The Traveller: Any chance of - job, boss?”
The Presbyterian General Assembly is complaining about
the godless influence of the cow, which keeps the farmer and
bis family from church.
JUSTICE IS BLIND
AND DODDERINO.
In a Vic. court re-
cently the average
age of the four pre-
siding magistrates was
over 80 years. . . .
Mr. Davies said “ the
Government would
not remove names
from the commission of the peace on the
ground of age alone. The reason why
police magistrates were retired was
that they had reached an age at which
they were not worth the salary paid,
but with honorary magistrates it was
different.”
JTr. Acting-Premier Davies: "You
should know, my boy, that it’s
bad form to look a gift magistrate
in the mouth.”
A FEW VICTORIAN POLITICS.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Qout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at l/=, 2/6, and
51- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Democratic Chief Justice of Queens-
laod, Charles Lilley, would have been 77 years of
age last Monday had he been living. And for
that matter, Charles I. would now be 307 years
old if he wasn’t dead.
Robert Philp, ex-Premier and leader of
Queensland Opposition, was one time an enthusi-
astic amateur pupil of pugilist Larry Foley. He
Was a vigorous smiter, but the common verdict
was that he lacked the intelligence to be a really
successful pug.
Garruthers, on his northern N.B. W. tour,
fled through Coramba without stopping, though
the indignant inhabitants Were, gathered at the
roadside in their Sunday clothes to receive him;
Then this wire went to Briner (member for the
district) : “ Cocky just flown through. No time
to perch.”
Editor Bonython’s eldest son has followed
in his father’s footsteps to the extent of becoming
Chairman of the Adelaide School Board. J. L.
Bonython, jun., is a city councillor, with ambi-
tions towards the mayoralty, and he has an eye
also on a Parliamentary Seat. At present he has
charge of the Advertiser during Pa’s absence in
England.
Henry Carey Dangar, M.L.C., has for no
less than 15 years been the oldest barrister off the
Bench in N.S. Wales; it is 53 years since he was
admitted. But he never practised ; which recalls
that other non - practising squatter - barrister-
M.L.C., “Bill” Long, who, in the witness-box,
remarked to the Judge when he couldn’t explain
a document—‘“Though a barrister, your Honor,
I am no lawyer. ”
“B.”: Apropos diseased beeves (B.
23/5/’O7). A member of the New South Wales
Parliament, who is also a churchwarden, was
fined, not many weeks ago, 40s. and costs for send-
ing diseased pigs to the Sydney market.
ARIIY PLIMMER, ACTOR .
Died in Scotland, W. T. Smellie, for a long
while manager of the London Bank in Sydney, and
chief actor in the most remarkable scrimmage
that has taken place for many a year in a Sydney
bank-manager’s office. Disappointment killed
him. He had been led to expect that he would
be general manager when Guthrie retired, but he
missed the post; and presently he found himself
involved in rows with the head office. Thereupon
this sudden retirement upset his judgment, and a
wild scene in his successor’s office followed. He was
packed off quietly to Europe, where he made
another good start; but he had been beaten. In
his knowledge of Asiatic exchange and banking
business he probably had no superior in Australia.
John Madden, from the fatted eminence of
a person who draws a Chief Justice’s salary and a
Lieutenant-Governor’s allowance, and whose
more or less grateful country has lately granted
him prolonged leave without diminution of in-
come, declares that “the last thing the great
literary man dreams of is pay.” It is so easy to
be altruistic on a Chief Justice’s salary, a
Lieutenant-Governor’s allowance, and prolonged
absences on full pay. It reminds the writer of a
sea episode. “What we want is unpaid legis-
lators,” said the huge captain of the U.S.S. Co.
boat, smiting the dinner table so that the pie
leaped in the atmosphere. “What we really
want is unpaid ship captains,” said the journalist
passenger.
“J. A.” :In your issue of 16/5/ s O7 “BVG.”
is in doubt re the naming of Bacchus Marsh. It
Was positively named after the squatter bearing the
classically bibulous name of Captain Bacchus. He
was one of the many Vandemomans who, in 1836;
crossed the strait with their flocks and herds to
overrun and hold the pastures of the newly-
discovered Port Phillip district. Bacchus was a
retired army officer, who, judging by the station
name of Peerewur, had probably seen service in
India; “F.C.” is a little mixed otherwise; Sturt
ttevOr cahie south of the Murray on exploration
bent; ahd never named Mount Alexander atld
Macedon. That was done by Major Mitchell iff
the same year that Bacchus squatted.
Richard Windeyer Robertson, son of old
“Jack,” who dropped out last week at Ash field
(N. S. W.), Was many times pressed to hunt fot a Par-
liamentary seat, but he clung to his clerking job
in the House; He used to point to Parkes’ son and
Parnell's soil and say, “One politician is enough
for one family, and one Premier enough for four
generations.” But even if he had become a poli-
tician, Richard could have felt easy in mind as
to being Premier Robertson No. 2. He was Cut
Out for quill-driving; indexing, and collecting
parallel Cases; Which lie did faithfully, and he Waf?
a courteous type Of public servant all his official
days; Premier John has quite a large grdtip of
descendants to continue the nahie; Then hfe haS
grandchildren through the female line, most of
whom take Robertson as a front name.
Old-time barrister Moriarty, who lived in
Tasmania some 30 or more years ago, has been
recalled to mind by the murder of his widow at
Southsea (England). One Crump left Moriarty
an estate on condition he took the name along
with it, and Moriarty, for the rest of his days,
put up with the indignity of being called Crump.
He died as Crump. His widow was living under
that name when a very aged person named John
Langford Crump arrived, to inquire about some
property which he reckoned was coming to him.
Very old Crump from Maoriland called on widow
Crump from Tasmania, and apparently had a
brief argument about the property ; then he shot
her dead. There may be a further story behind
the deed, or it may nave been simply the
dementia of an aged Crump.
The heir to a Dutch title and estate has
been discovered in the person of a Dutch fish-
hawker of Armadale (Vic.). Titus Schukking
states that he left Holland many years ago, and
after travelling for some time reached Victoria in
1883. When he left home several lives stood
between him and the property and the coat of
arms, the war-cry and the profit, but they all
dropped out. Titus, the fish-man, had been
wanted for 25 years, when a sharp-eyed police-
man noticed the uncouth name on his barrow, and
remembered that the Consul-General for the
Netherlands was advertising for such a one.
The present holder of the title and estates is
Royal Commissioner or something of the province
of Groningen and is aged 95,. so it isn’t likely
that Titus Schukking will wait long for his
kingdom.
George Sainsbury, who, with great
acclaim from the press, became chief of the Vic-
torian detective force on January 1, 1906, has
retired to a plain police job, as head of the Ben-
digo district. The stated reason is ill-health.
Sainsbury is the man who, with Customs
Detective John Christie and Paddy Board-
man, tried to patch up the Wren tote and
cl ub business, by permitting Wren to withdraw
with all the honors of war. It is a curious fact
that he is being succeeded by Larry Gleeson,
the police inspector who took the quaran-
tine proceedings against Wren, and has
fought Wren and his push with unremitting
energy. Sainsbury was a fair catcher of ordinary
thieves, especially when they left a fine large clue
behind them.
Some June birthdays : Panton, P.M.
(Melbourne), 76 on the 2nd ; Prince of Wales, 42
on the 3rd ; Dr. Leeper (Melb.), and Labor
Leader Archibald (S. Aus.), 57 on the 3rd ; Prop-
sting (Tas.), 46 on the 4th ; Dill-Macky, 58 on
the Bth ; Bishop White, 48 on the 9th ; Country
Party Leader Burgoyne (S.A.), 80 on the 10th ;
Chief Sec. Peacock (Vic.), 460 n the 11th ; Federal
Statistician G. H. Knibbs, 49 on the 13th ; Arch-
bishop Smith, 71 on the 14th ; Professor Kernot
(Melb.), 62 on the 16th ; Louis Becke, 50, and PL
Lawson, 40, on the 17tli; G. Essex Evans, 44,
Rason(W.A.), 48, Education-Director Tate, 44.
and Archbishop Murphy, 92, on the 18th ; Crouch,
M. Howard Willoughby. 68, and Parson
E. H. Sugden, 53 on the 19th ; Explorer David
Lindsay 51, and Prof. Anderson Stuart 51, on the
2 )th ; Chief Justice Griffith, 62 on the 21st ; ex-
President Baker, 65 on the 22nd ; Town Clerk
Ellery (Adelaide), 35 on the 23rd ; Bruce Smith,
56 on the 28th. Justice Higgins has a birth-
on the 30th, but he keeps his age strictly to him-
self.
The periodical digging up of the story of
Ben Boyd has again eventuated. Boyd came to
Sydney about 1841, representing an English
syndicate which established the Royal Bank in
N. Wales. The premises were on Church Hill.
The processes of banking were too slow, for Boyd
was a whirling person, and thought he saw better
opportunities of investment in stations, whaling,
&c. With this idea he established himself on
Twofold Bay, at Boyd Town ; he erected pre-
mises for boiling down sheep, and made Twofold
Bay the rendezvous for his whaling ships. He
erected a lighthouse, but Governor Gipps would
not allow it to be lighted. Even in those days
Sydney wanted no rival port in the State. Boyd
was the first to introduce black labor to Aus-
tralia ; he engaged a large steamer, with five
small tenders, to bring South Sea Islanders to
Boyd Town. They were to be employed as shep-
herds on the stations, the wage being 6d. per week,
with a new shirt and Kilmarnock cap every year.
The island shepherds were a failure; they strayed
from the folds, and many made their way to
Sydney, and appeared there in the garb, or nearly
so, of Adam before the Slump. They were then
tried as sailors on the whale ships, and failed
there also. The British people who found the
money for Boyd’s great rush of enterprises began
to grumble at the absence of dividends. They
lost faith in the sheep and the whales, and re-
commended a winding-up. Boyd agreed to retire
on condition of receiving three whale ships, the
yacht Wanderer, in which he came from England,
and two sections of land at Twofold Bay. He
went to ’Frisco with a digging party in the Wan-
derer in 1850. Not finding things as he expected,
he started back to Sydney, but, calling in at the
Solomon Group, he went ashore at Guadalcanar
for a few days’ shooting, and has not been seen
since. His absence having now spread over 56
years, there are hardly any hopes of his return.
His yacht was wrecked at Port Macquarie, the
whaleships died of old age, Boyd Town was
deserted, and the old policy of dragging all trade
to Sydney triumphed.
Don’t experiment with unknown medicines
when you have a cold. Take Chamberlain s
Cough Remedy and be cured.*
OUR NATIONAL NAVY.
(NOME growl at sacking ships of war that We
have now “on loan,”
And say we can't raise sailor-chaps to man the
ships we'll own.
But we will show those gloomy folks when OUR
star-flag 'unfurls,
There’ll he no lack of sailor-blokes to hug Aus-
tralian girls!
Adelaide has just been reading a remark-
able will—that of an old battler named “Jack”
Elliott, who, leaving the sea, went pub-keeping
at Broken Hill, in the field’s early days, and
coined money (much of which was lost for him;
but that isn’t this story). “Jack,” who couldn’t
read or write, had been told numerous times that
he was about to die, and when he didn’t die he
concluded that the doctors didn’t know as much
about the human body as was good for other
people’s health. In his will he not only therefore
provided that his body should be used for
anatomical purposes after death, hut set apart
money to pay the doctor who did the cutting-up.
The philanthropic old warrior’s idea was that if
the doctor didn’t get a fee he might hang on to
any information he got out of the job as payment
for doing it. And Elliott, who was public-
spirited, wanted them all to know.
Charles Rasp, who was found dying in his
smoking-room at Adelaide, the other day, was
the Mt. Gipps boundary-rider who, in 1883, “ dis-
covered Broken Hill,” the mine which has since
paid the cos. that own it £10,829,827 in cash divi-
dends —and that was only up to the end of 1906.
Rasp was a German who knew nothing at all
about mining; hut people were “chasing silver
slugs” at Tliackaringa and .Purna-
moota, and there was talk of tin,
too, at Euriowie, and Rasp had an
idea that the big, black, barren hill
looked like tin. He and David
James (of Kapunda, S. Aus., a
station-contractor), and Jim Poole,
a Mt. Gipps station hand, pegged
out the first block ; and a station
syndicate was formed to peg out
the rest—of which syndicate Philip
Charley, a Mt. Gipps jackeroo,
now Captain Philip Charley,
stock-breeder, of Richmond and
elsewhere in N.S.W., was the in-
fant member. Of those mentioned,
Poole was the only one who had
tlie bad luck to sell out early. He
is, or lately was, in Westralia.
Rasp, who knew his limitations,
settled in Adelaide, and called
his fine house at Medindie “ Will-
yama”—the alleged native name
for Broken Hill; but neither be nor
James ever took the smallest in-
terest in the Barrier, or in the
people who eat dust there, or who get smashed
up earning the absentees’ dividends.
Edwin Thynne Real, 8.A., of Sydney
University, who was called to the N.S.W. Bar
last Friday, is a son of Justice Patrick Real, of
Queensland Supreme Court. Patrick Real is a
Limerick man. born in 1847. He was brought to
Australia in 1851. His father died on the passage
out, and his mother settled at Ipswich (Q.), where
the boy was apprenticed to a carpenter, and worked
in the Ipswich railway workshops. At 21 he formed
the idea of becoming a barrister, left his trade,
and devoted himself to study, was called to the
Q. Bar in 1874, and practised with success. On
the death of Justice Mein (who had been a Bris-
bane solicitor, and whose existence as a Judge was
a standing grievance with the Bar), in 1890, Mr.
Real was appointed a Judge, thus getting a new
Bench to make up for the one he abandoned
at Ipswich. A brilliant but cantankerous man is
Justice Real.
Died in London, on April 18, in her 71st
year, Sophia Helena Hill, eldest daughter of the
lace George Hill, M.L.C., and widow of James
Richard Hill, of Yaucluse, Sydney. When the
lady was born, her father was keeping the Car-
penters’ Arms Inn, Pitt-street, Sydney. At the
same time his father, William Hill, kept the
Butchers’ Arms in the same street, and his brother
David, the Wheelrights’ Arms, also in the same
street. Another brother, Daniel, kept the William
the Fourth in Sussex-street, so there were four
simultaneous public-houses in the family. Another
brother, Richard Hill, afterwards M.L.C., was
running a carpenter’s shop in Sussex-street.
After retiring from the pubs, in the early ’forties,.
William became inspector of slaughterhouses,
David and Richard became retail butchers, and
George entered into business as a carcase butcher.
They took to beef as unanimously as to beer. A
sister of the Hills, Elizabeth, married Baronet
Dan Cooper, and died recently in England.
The way to know a good thing is to try it.
Any doctor will tell you that Angier's Emulsion
is the best remedy on the market for coughs and
lung troubles. It not only soothes and heals the
lungs, but it promotes appetite, aids digestion,
and builds up strength. In three sizes, of all
chemists.*
One Australian “ Rhodes scholar,” any-
how, is doing something in the athletic way.
J, L. Walker, who, in the annual Oxford-Cam.
bridge contests, represented the home of the bleat
in the featherweight boxing division, is a Perth
(W. A.) product. Several London sporting writers
say he is “ the best man at his weight Oxford has
ever had.”
“ Tiger Snake ” writes :
How sorry everybody must be for 6. E. Bunning, of
Darr River Downs, when they read “Central West’s”
account (B. 9/5/’O7) of his experiences, given at the Long,
reach Land Court—26 years’ operaiions, 19 droughts,
seven good seasons. Appalling ! Still, Mr. Bunning went
to Darr River Downs 26 years ago with the usual new-
ehum equipment in pastoral knowledge, an empty
pocket, and a fine contempt for the working-classes.
(This last quality he shared with his late lamented
brother, then manager of the place, who was shot in open
day, at the homestead gate, by a fever-madswagman, who
had repeatedly appealed in vain for a horse to carry him
to a doctor.) Mr. 6. E. Bunning took his brother’s place
as manager ; a very few years brought him into the firm
as third partner. To-day, we know him as one of the
most successful woolmen in the State, active partner in
Flskin, Bunning and Co. (of Darr River Downs, Lucknow,
Buckingham Downs, and a multitude of grazing farms).
Owing to the losses by bad seasons he was able to pur-
chase the one-third share of a deceased partner in the
stations named, thus securing the controlling interest;
likewise, he spent about £lOOO (of another year’s losses,
MO doubt) in an abortive attempt to enter the first Federal
Parliament by way of Maranoa ; and, 12 months ago, for
£15,000, he bought Braeside, near Stanthorpe, as a
summer residence, also, no doubt, out of his heavy losses.
Still, when a man is pleading for reduced rent, &c., you
might expect some stinking fish. What we needn’t ex-
pect is that all the yarns Land Courts hear should be
taken seriously.
A very resolute woman has just died
rather opportunely for her husband. She liked to
live in Westralia, He rather preferred Bathurst,
N.S. W. She Went to W.A., and whilst there
issued a warrant for his arrest as a levanting hus-
band. That’s the yarn, as the evidence seemed to
show it. The law, the extraordinary law, allowed
the Warrant, and the husband might, by this
time, have been on his way, under arrest, to
W. A. had not the lady obligingly died. There
doesn’t seem to be a law extraordinary enough
to drag a husband back to a dead wife who has
left him.
“ Suss,” from Melbourne : —-
I had dinner in a Melbourne hotel one evening last
week, and at a table near me the Victorian State Minis-
try—the old gang of it —was feeding. There was Davies,
looking like an ancient swagman from the Back of
Beyond. His beard was unclipt, touzled, and ragged.
He ate hurriedly, as though he had left his swag and
billy on the verandah, and the long red road to Bourke
was a-calling. At one end of the table was McLeod,
dour, gruff, and hungry. He spoke not a word, but
carefully cleared the plates as they were set before him.
Opposite Davies was Cameron—poor, old, weary Cameron.
He was too old, too tired of being alive, to eat, and
toyed with his food like one for whom the day had been
over-long. Master Pushful Sachse, like an arrogant,
overgrown boy, out of place among his elders, sat
next Cameron, and argued in loud, domineering
tones with Davies. And Davies, between his fur-
tive glances at the waiters, answered Sachse in
low, well-modulated tones, to which Otto bellowed
hack mutinous replies. Beside Davies sat the brains
of the team—Swinburne, long, ugly, red-nosed, thin-
haired. He ate like a healthy man who enjoyed his
dinner. He did not argue, but between mouthfuls
smiled to himself at the bullying pertinacity of the
incubus Sachse, and the patient forbearance of wise old
Davies. At the head of the table stood an empty chair.
It may have been only chance, hut it did seem as though
the chair had been left empty because Thomas was away
in London. He was needed to complete the old gang,
and alas !he was not there. He would not have smiled
at Otto. He would not have patiently replied to the
churlish Teutonic bellowings. Thomas is the one man in
Victoria who is able to explain briefly to Otto Sachse
exactly what he thinks of him.
AN ATTACK OF THE HORRORS.
Mr. Churchill said the demand for preference made by
the Colonial Conference was being repeated daily with
strident clamor by the Tories and the pothouse press
supporting them. “ They said,” declared Mr. Churchill,
“that the Government bad banged the door. Yes!
they had hanged, barred, and bolted the door upon the
Imperial taxation of food, and the largest Liberal, Radical,
and Labor majority ever seen had set their backs firmly
against it. The Liberals would stand like a rock between
the working masses and those who sought to squeeze
some shameful little profit out of the scanty pittance of
the weak and the poor.”— London Cable News.
My Dear Brethren, —A warning to those unfor-
tunate Australians icho are addicted to the
Freetradc craving. Already we’ve ivitnesscd the
aivful ravings and hysterics of the Freetradc
press and politicians; then beware! Sign
the pledge'at once, for the next stage is D.T.s.
—The Bulletin’s Religious Editor.
W. L. Slack writes :
We —and some of us are parsons—can generally rejoice
in your crusade against cant and injustice. But in this
week’s issue you have some verses (“ Personal Items ”
“ The Call of the Screw ”) that are wholly unjust.
“ Mr. Blank,” who goes to Carlton Congregational
Church, will get no more screw than he did in his last
pastorate (he may not get as much). Also, be it known,
he leaves a comfortable church in the salubrious semi-
fashionable suburb of Surrey Hills (Melb.) to take up a
difficult cause in an over-populated, poor and dirty
adjunct to the city. He is content to go where, if the
“ screw ” is put on him, it is in a different sense to what
“ Martin Luther” implies.


UNTRIMMED MILLINERY
At Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
An Interesting Variety of SHAPES and COLORS to seleA from.
No. 256— Fancy Straw Toque, Black and Colors, 7/6
r
No. 2121— Tortoiseshell Back Comb, Gold Metal
Mount, set with Pearls, 1/6
Six different Designs.
No. 248 —Fancy Straw Toque, Black and Colors, 4/6
No. 252 —Satin Straw Toque, Black and Colors, 6/3
HI?
No. and Chenille Toque, any color, 13/.
No. 238—Chenille and Crinoline Straw Toque, Black or
Colors, 13 /-
No. 2329—Spanish Tortoiseshell Back Comb,
Gold design set with Brilliants, 2J9
No, 2589—Crinoline Straw and Chenille Toque, Black or
Colors, 131-
W>.'#
SV.
•m
R
No. 249. —Fancy Straw Toque, Black and Colors, 4JII
No. 21-S —Spanish Tortoiseshell Back Comb,
Gold dc=iu'n, 2j(>
No. 245 —Fancy Straw Hat, Black and Colors, 3/9
No. 2426—Fancy Back Comb, Oxidised Gold
Metal Mounts, 5/-
Other prices 2/3, 7/11, 9/11, 13/6
No. 1884 —Java Straw Sailor Hat, 3/6
No. 2525—Satin Straw Toque, Black and
Colors, 6/3
No, 84—Chenille and Crinoline Straw Toque, Black
or Colors, 11/6
No. 2649—81ack Chiffon and Straw Toque, 6/11
Send for Autumn and Winter Fashion Portfolio.
Post FREE Anywhere.
Anthony Hordern (&, Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
gull
¥
Esteb?' 1818
By Special Appointment to
Ji i s -Maj e sty The King.
(fry
“ Goutez et Compare?.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
AMSIHM
ĸ
“craV emetics
isl\ Are the k>EAL Fabrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ _ Sydney. May 28, 1907.
My Dear Arint,
The Mongolia’s saloon decks burst into bloom
on Saturday, when close on a “century V of
persons swarmed along with flowers in baskets,
violets by the armful, and chrysanthemums by the
sheaf, to give a floral send-off to Mrs. J. C.
Williamson and small girl “ Tootles” Williamson.
The friendly hand was held out to them tottering
under a weight of vegetables. Miss “ Tootles,” a
picturesque infant in blue and white, and shod
with blue kid shoes, was presented with a wicker
deckchairmade speciallyforher, andcushioned and
ribooned in blue and white. “ Crying goodbyes”
have gone out almost as completely as crying
weddings, but on Saturday one goodbye-sayer
borrowed from a man a hanky as big as an after-
noon tea-cloth. She wanted to have a good satis-
factory howl. Mr. Williamson and other small-
girl Marjorie will be collected in Melbourne.
Other departers by the Mongolia were the
motor-car Prestons and the Harry Rickards.
A type of morning girl who sees the liner off, is
very smart and fresh. She was epitomised on
Saturday by one wearing a skirt and shirt blouse
of deep pink and white linen, made quite plainly,
high shirt collar, and the skirt finished with a
deep hem. Her small Panama hat had no
trimming, but a narrow blue ribbon to match her
china-blue eyes. Her tie was pink, white and blue,
her strap of red library books was red. And,
though her get-up was one for early morningsummer
wear, it quite fitted in with present weather con-
ditions when the summer and winter are holding
a midway truce. (I had just written that when,
with the inopportuneness of inanimate objects, it
began to rain heavily.)
The Wimmera took away the Julius Knight co.
same noon, and the bunch of departing artists
made the occasion wholly floral. Miss Marion
Grey and Miss Sydney were both a little
white and miserable looking at the prospect
of leaving this weather for a rascally substi-
tute in Wellington. Maorilanders who went to
see them off assured them that “ they might get
it just like this in Maoriland.” Miss Elbert-
Orton wore a big-check-patterned coat bound with
leather, and a wonderful veil, and she and the
pretty Mrs. Plimmer carried garden spoils. The
gay Julius posed a rakish travelling cap with his
deck suit. Violinist Premyslav, baritone Andrew
Black, and Miss Rosina Buckmann also departed
by the same vessel. It is simply ballasted with
talent, and Maoriland has a great time ahead. All
the country-will have to do will be to pay its
money and take its choice of drama, song and
fiddle.
At Lady Northcote’s afternoon concert, at
Government House on Empire Day, Mrs. Janson,
Mrs. Fitzgerald, Miss Leverrier, and Messrs. J.’
Carter, Waine, Aitken, Sfcaell, B.' Carter, Sykes,
and Brown made high-class melody, with various
verses sung in various voices, or with various in-
struments. The programme had a full stop in
the middle for tea, and her Ex., on her
way to her own fairy-like repast somewhere
else in the house, stopped to speak to Dr.
Jordan, Minister Hogue, Mr. Justice Cohen,
and Mr. Forbes Angus, and Mayoress Hughes
Mid the Allen Taylors. The distinguished
Bunch just happened to be there—in the path of
her circuit. After the final trombone quartet the
lady said a few more gracious things, and then a
bar of the Anthem threw the guests out to their
motor cars and broughams.
Considerable National Anthem at first night of
the grand opera at the Royal ! Lady Northcote
had Miss Rawson with her. Captains Greville,
Wilson, and Fryer—he of the Christian martyr
(after the lions have got a bite) expression—were
m attendance. Her Excellency has a box for the
whole bag of masterpieces, and on Saturday night
she led the applause. It was smile-raising to
observe Society watch for the vice-regal cue, and
then applaud at the right time (instead of in the
middle of a solo). It’s a comfort to know that
for someone in the audience Wagner throws up
no dust. Once there was a Mrs. Excellency in
Sydney who didn’t know when to applaud, but
she always did it at the right time all the same.
The conductor gave her a signal when the music
struck a patch where the spontaneous enthusiasm
of a cultured mind would naturally be looked for.
Yet another stage union is imminent in Britain. ‘
Lord Dalmeny, M.P., son and heir of the Earl of
Rosebery (ex-Prime Minister, Derby winner, and
many other things), has become engaged to Phyllis
Dare, the charming little lady who emerged from
a convent last year to take all London by storm in
comic opera. The haughty Earl is said to be
furious, and to have ordered the young man away
from London (personally the Earl married a
quite satisfactory Jewess of enormous wealth);
but as Lord Dalmeny must eventually be a
millionaire in his own right, by inheritance from
the Rothschild branch of the family (his mother
was Hannah Rothschild), the path of true love will
run smooth no matter how much the displeased
parent fumes.
A most enthusiastic meeting of the Central
Committee of the Women’s Wbrk Exhibition was
held at the Town Hall on Monday afternoon.
Miss Rawson and Mayoress of Sydney Hughes
led the proceedings. A lot of “progress” was
reported. A Mosman’s lady has invented a new
billiard table. Miss Margaret Windeyer asked if
there was room on the schedule for cabbage-tree
hats, because a woman living in this State, far
from the madding crowd, on a lonely patch
of cabbage-tree swamp, made such hats. Some
extraordinary and artistic wearing apparel, made
of pheasant skins, were shown—a bolero, a
toque, a hat, a boa, and a hand-bag. When you
met anyone wearing them you’d feel inclined to
stroke her down, even if you hadn’t been intro-
duced, so soft is the plumage. “The work of a
very poor woman!” Babies’ socks, knitted in
white thread, fine as a kitten’s whiskers, the work
of a lady aged 73, were shown. Then the meet-
mg had tea and pretty cakes, and Mr. Layton
contrived to say the encouraging word to every
woman present.
Miss Beatrice Day’s “at home” at the Metro-
pole brought together a crowd of smart persons,
an artistically decorated drawing-room, out-
side of which Eugarde’s string band was making
melody. The dressing of the hostess was a peach
cream crepe-de-chine and lace, guipure, tur-
quoise silk, and a hat of white velvet and mouse-
colored plumes.
While in Cobar, Excellency Rawson thrice at-
tended Skuthorpe’s buck-jumping show. “In
recognition of Skuthorpe’s contributions to chari-
ties, and his efforts to improve Australian horse-
manship,” the Governor laboriously carried to
him a gold medal given by Cobar residents,
Australian Artillery (N.S.W. Field and Gar-
f/son) are handy with their feet (N. 8., this is a
bull ) on a ball-room floor. They dance well
and untiringly at their annual ball. Last,
the 21st, came off at Paddington Town Hall on
Iriday, and was a crowded, jolly affair. The com-
mittee of warrant and non-commissioned officers
proved themselves proud warriors in the matter
entertainment. Amongst the officers and
ofhceresses they invited were Col. and Mrs.
Wells, Major and Mrs. Lenehan, Col. Lester,
i Kellys, Major and Mrs. Hall, Major
and Mrs. Pearce, Col. and Miss Wigram, Mr.
r^ n( ? an d the James Mackins.
Col. Wells opened the ball with Mrs. Evans.
Big Prof. Jordan—he is built big—did not quite
kiff nes s of the name of his first lecture,
Ihe Call of the Twentieth Century.” Possibly,
he didn’t expect such a lustrous and illustrious
audience as faced and surrounded him in the
Great Hall of the Uni. The rather monotonous
conversational tone, the lack of oratorical graces
and “winged words,” and a certain child’s-class
goody-goodyness, gave the lecture a Sunday-school
atmosphere. But the address read better than it
sounded. And the Prof, was frequently humorous
in his quotes from Twain and Billings. The
refrain of Dr. Jordan’s address was, ‘ * Work,
young man ; there’s plenty of room at the top.”
He seemed to have no time for the ruck. “ When
gods arrive, the half-gods go,” although he didn’t
say that. But he’ll be a great success here—if
only from the fact that he put down the American
game of football at the Leland Stanford Uni.,
and introduced Rugby rules. One young man,
treat by name, from the Stanford, is in Sydney
absorbing knowledge of Commonwealth conditions.
It may be remarked here that the Leland Stan-
lord Uni. has a fairly complete library of Aus-
tralian literature. Mr. Stanford, of Melbourne,
brother of the many-millioned late endower, pre-
sented that same to the institution.
A sequence: One day last week the S.M.
Herald advertised a silver wedding, a ruby
wedding, and a golden wedding, and next day
advertised a diamond wedding, the last being
that of Mr. and Mrs. Thurlow, of Scone, who were
wedded on May 25, 1847.
Howard Vernon had a birthday a few days ago,
and his devoted young wife bought and presented
to him a calf, a strong little bullsheen. The ex-
star immediately yoked it to a plough, and any-
one who drives past the farm, near Liverpool,
may see Vernon and the calf hard at work. He
naan—works fourteen hours a day in the
“elds, and, to the amazement and amusement of
their friends, neither he nor his soprano prize is
tired of being on the prosy soil instead of in en-
chanted stageland.
June number of The Lone Hand will have two
photographs—Young Australia about to smile,
and Young Australia with the smile at its widest.
Ihe pictures were taken at the children’s garden
party given by Lady North cote some months ago,
and the psychological moment of camera-ing was
when the massed youngsters were looking up at the
Punch and Judy vision. Many of the children are
easily identifiable. A small John Laidley, and a
Geoffrey Allen, and a tiny Tim Tickle, and a
brave infant named Warwick Fairfax, and two
“ perfect dears” cousins Geoff. Rodd and
Jack Belisario. Also included in the open air
Smile are a little Alison, and a Manning, a
Stephen, a MacCormick, a Knox, a Ewan
Frazer, and a Taylor-Young. Lined up behind
the small boys are small girls Jocelyn and Rose-
mary MacMillan, Stephanie Barton, Hazel Hay,
Betty Dangar, Margery Rich, Margaret Knox,
Judith Jenkins, Alison MacCormick, Ruth and
Jean Morton, a small Holdship girl, a little Massie
girl, and a Mclntyre bud. Altogether it’s a
ripping group of healthy young Australians.
Violiniste Marie Hall put in two nights and a
day at Sydney en route to Melbourne. She
stopped at the Australia, and proved to be a
slight, girlish-looking lightweight, who does not
look her age (23) by five years. She is fair, with
the real cinder-blonde hair, dark-grey eyes, small
features, and pretty teeth. Nothing in her build
or facial outline or expression denotes the courage
and determination with which she is credited.
Her manager says she is never daunted or dis-
mayed, and that her capacity for work is pheno-
menal. In her student days she worked 15 hours
a day. The tiny, attenuated hands and wrists of
the girl seem scarcely fitted for aught more
strenuous than playing with dolls. Yet she
hardly knows fatigue. Miss Hall tells that when
playing in London during the season she would
begin her fiddling to the Smart Set at 11p.m.,
and get to bed at 2 a.m. Once, when playing
privately to her Majesty Alexandra, the Listener
asked her for the Kreutzer Sonata. It took 40
minutes, and the Queen turned over the music for
the player, who says she detected no sign of deaf-
ness in the lady.
Miss Basche, the violinist’s accompanist, is a
big, fair-haired girl, with massive wrists and
strong hands, as befits a damsel who has to teach
half a ton of piano how to behave. Whilsf the
pair were being catechised by those who always
want to know “the place and date of your first
concert,” Prof. Starr Jordan came in to call on
his late fellow-passengers. He gave Miss Hall
the humorous certificate of being “ all wool and a
yard wide.” Speaking on a brief acquaintance, I
would say she was even wider than that—in
an intellectual significance of course. On the
voyage here he gave a lecturette, and she a little
concert, and the crew caught a shark. So the
distinguished party had a holy blizzard of a time.
“ Kentville,” where the late John Young de-
lighted to entertain bowlers from all over Austral-
asia, is no more, or soon will be. The executors
have given instructions for the sale and removal of
the hospitable old mansion at Annandale, with all
its appurtenances; and the club-house, and the
skittle-alley, and the famous bowling-green will
presently be things of the past. “ Kentville ” was
the nursery of the ancient game of bowls in
N.S.W., and its demolition will make many a
cheerful old bowler feel thirsty.
It was, indeed, a blow to pretty Miss Gordon
Lee to take up a Sunday paper and find herself
writ large as Mrs. Carter Pickleyard. There
should be some legislation to make this sort of
thing an indictable offence.
One of the most tragic episodes of a recent ball
was supplied by a visiting maiden of “forward”
views and an aged local knight, whose gallantry is
wont, on occasion, to give his native caution
lengths and a beating :
“ And do you really think me as exquisite as you did
tost time?” she purred within the shadow of thj hired
palms.
“ More ” (fatuously), “ far, far more ! ”
“ But do you mean it now, you naughty man, or isn’t
it just what you say to every girl ? ”
“I think” (with the passionate stop turned full on)
you’re the most adorable, delightful, entrancing,
maddening”
But just here a hard dry cough disturbed the
atmosphere, and the female knight, who, unob-
served, had been keeping lonely vigil in an
adjacent chair, rose and staggered blindly for an
exit and the homeward tram.
Mrs. Rosenbloom, of “Ohatsworth,” Potts
Point ; Mrs. Callaway, of Chester-street, Wool-
lahra; and Mrs. Coghlan, of Waimea House, have
been appointed press hon. secretaries for the Child
Study Association.
Mr. Bertram Flohm gave an afternoon recital
last week as a preliminary canter for two children,
Elsie and Mary King well. They sang, and
recited, and acted in a bright little comedietta,
“ Wally and the Widow,” with charm and clever-
ness. The littlest one is a genius, and if she
doesn t prove a forced bloom she ought to make
some stir. Mr. Flohm was l.ttle Wanda Radford’s
coach.
Miss Nellie Stewart, in a short, white serge
frock, wide pleats from the waist, and the dandiest
violet straw hat—a cross between a mushroom
and an early Victorian—with a light posy of violets
at either side and a white little wedge of face
ambushed in bronze hair, looked rather tired and
“nervy” on Saturday. On Sunday Nellie
Stewart, knocking oysters off the rocks at
Middle Harbor, looked as lively as a
school-girl. When she gets on the Harbor
in a launch with old friends she feels as much at
home as a ’possum on a safe gum-tree. Early in
June Miss Stewart leaves for America. When
she was there lately she saw Gladys TTre playing
in “ Veronique ” —the Agatha part. And she was
doing it for a mere pittance of £25 a week.
It was a curious thing, but the only Minister
who hadn’t got out of Sydney on Empire Day on
fjome pretext or other was Mr. Hogue, and the only
golitician of interest fooling around was the
'’Sullivan. Mr. Bruce Smith, who is a most un-
interesting politician, gave 10 separate addresses.
By nightfall he was the hoarsest patriot in Sydney.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
Invitations are out for a garden party and ball to meet
the Northcote couple at Government House at the end of
June, when the Chelmsfords shall have returned from the
northern wilds. In the meantime, the town is full of
Premiers, and Lieutenant-Governor Morgan has got out
his best clothes and is standing treat at a big dinner at
the official shanty. Premier and Mrs. liidston will enter-
tain the visitors at a moonlight reception, in the Botanical
Gardens, on Friday evening, and no end of other
junketings are sandwiched in between.
Only one engagement has been announced this week,
that of a brother of Mrs. Dr. Louis George Davidson to
Leila, daughter of one-time Lands Minister O’Connell.
Three other engagements are pending.
There was no particular or visible reason why Brisbane
should have suddenly burst out into a rush of gaiety
this week. True there was the Cup, but that’s an in-
cident we are wont to take with resignation. I think it
must have been the relief at getting the elections over,
that set the ball rolling. The dresses at the races and
the crowds were quite like the old times, before we sat
on the ruins of. the smashed banks, like Marius sitting on
all that was left of Carthage, and before we started the
drear superstition of living within our incomes. There
was every kind of joy: Every favorite either fell down
on Cup day or was left at the post, and even that was joy.
“The Little Mich us” brought such a rush that
Manager Bracy has stretched out the season for two
nights more, to be devoted to “The Country Girl” and
“ The Cingalee.” Then there were supper parties and
wild and reckless gettings-home in the wee sma’ hours.
It was a break-out on a southern scale, with a regular
sheaf of scandal to follow.
On Cup day the best-dressed woman on hand was Mrs.
Henry King, of Sydney, in black lace and white satin,
and a tricky erection of tulle and plumes on top.
Miss Suter (Melb.) was good to look upon in the magpie
mode, and so were the Brenan sisters in wine shade and
navy blue.
The week was responsible for another record. Tuesday
evening saw the largest gathering of woman diners that
has yet graced a Queensland board, unless our black
sisters mustered strongly in the aboriginal days. The
event was the annual dinner of the Pioneer Club, when
40 fair ones held merry concourse, drank toasts, and sung
songs in the most approved fashion. Mrs. J. T. Bell wore
her diamonds and a pale-blue frock, and was an
■ornament to the chair. On her left, Mrs. Bourne (mother
of two Fairfax prize-winners) shone in black and jet,
while the rest of the frivollers made a rainbow effect of
green, yellow, pink, blue, and heliotrope.
Pretty little songstress Bertha Morrison goes Sydney-
wards this week, to sing the “ Song of Ruth ” at the
wedding of her cousin, Miss Vera Isley, to one of many
shekels, and bearing the name of Zlotkowski. The event
transpires at St. Andrew’s Cathedral on June 2.
The opinion expressed by a high musical critic in Milan,
that our own Mrs. Gilbert Wilson's voice “ is beautiful and
her method perfect,” is good hearing, and should help to
silence those persons who mistake Queensland for
Nazareth. Most of the English balladists of the day
would have to sing some to beat the handsome Queens-
lander. Melba said as much when she was here, and
Melba isn’t wholly devoid of information.
From “Rosna ” in Adelaide :
Adelaide had a portrait of Edward Rex cast at it last
week. The thing was unveiled at the League of the
Empire carousal, at the Exhibition Building, on May 23rd,
by his Ex., who came in full fancy dress to do the doughty
deed. (Please note alliteration.) The Mayor attended in
his rabbit-skin robe and dog chain, and other officials put
on their fancy garments of ’possum-hide for the cere-
mony. An escort of mounted police attended his Ex.,
the way from Government House being beset by trees,
statues and other perils. The cadet eorps formed a
guard of honor to prevent the common multitude falling
down and kissing the hem of his exalted garment. A
military band played various ditties, while the populace
sang about the Empiab. The local school children showed
their devotion to the said Empiah next day by clothing
most of the city’s “ animated busts ” in garments of vege-
tation and subsequently standing round the Queen’s
Statue in a drizzle of rain what time they cheered Edward
Rex and other deserving characters, and gave the royal
family a leg-up in the way of applause. The Town Hall
bells chimed, trumpets fanfared, banners waved, and a
voice sold “ Wile rabbi” in the far distance.
By way of helping on the S.A. Exhibition of She-
handicrafts, Mr, Barr Smith offers £5O for a story of
100,000 words, which, I have been told on good authority,
is equal to over 80 columns of Thk Bulletin ; and Mrs.
Barr Smith offers £25 for an Australian play in three
acts. The Exhibition happens in August, so Marie Corelli
of the Semaphore and George Eliot of Walkerville are
writing in haste about how the beautiful heroine heard a
shot, and turning the corner fell over the body of a tall
distinguished-looking man in evening dress. He wasn’t
dead, of course, and they married later on and lived in a
Bloated Grange.
His Excellency is making up for his lengthy absence
from this capital by rushing headlong into the social
whirl, and attending public meetings, Empire gather-
ings, and other frivolities. He shed the heavenly radi-
ance of his smile upon the first day of the Birthday
meeting at Victoria Park last week, and has signified his
intention of going along to see that the Cup and Steeple-
chase are properly manipulated. He looks a smiling and
joyful Excellency these days, no doubt in expectation of
shortly casting off his grass-bachelor state, and once
more having a wife to smile at him across the breakfast
chop.
“ The Squaw Man ” and “ The Virginian ” dropped on
Adelaide for four nights this week, and all the girlv
element of the State that hadn’t pawned its evening frock
to pay for the opera, flew to take a tearful farewell of
Waldron. His popularity rivals that of Julius of the
Divine Supports himself.
Mrs. Ennis, that enthusiastic friend of tram-horses and
all such as are beastly and heavy laden, has returned
from Britain, and once more takes up the cudgels on
behalf of her favorites. Stern inspectors roam the
country, appearing, spook-like, from nowhere, and
boarding the cars unexpectedly. And our little
tram-boys are beginning to wear a scared expres-
sion and an occasional clean face in consequence.
On Tuesday last (28th) Mrs. Ennis called a public
meetingin the banqueting-room of the Town Hall to ex-
patiate on cruelty to that which goes horizontally on
four hoofs, and various speakers flooded the landscape
with eloquence to help the good cause. His Ex. took
the chair (he must have quite a collection of chairs by
this time), and a good crowd went along to shed a sym-
pathetic tear or two at the shrine of its four-footed
brother.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHL.
London letters show that Lord William
Neville, that cheerful and scrambling black
sheep, only got his latest 12 months in gaol by
sheer bad luck—not that he hadn’t earned it ail
right. First he pledged some jewellery with a
moneylending Fitch. After valuation, the goods
were made into a packet, and sealed with the
Neville seal. Then, by a piece of clever conjuring,
he must have substituted another packet ready
prepared. From after events, there can be little
doubt that the loan would have been paid when
due, without any discovery; Neville simply
wanted the jewels for another flutter somewhere
else. But, just before the loan fell due, Fitch’s
partner died. (Stroke of luck No. 1.) The firm’s
lawyer had to look into things—and he was an
Attenborough ! (Stroke of luck No. 2.) That
family has followed the English snobbish
tradition: first generation, shop ; second, solicitor;
third generation, a barrister and a “gentleman.”
But to a Londoner Attenborough means pawn-
broking, just as to an Australian Tattersall means
a sweep; and the lawyer had the family blood.
When he heard of a sealed packet, in conjunction
with the name of William Neville, he had the
“ security ” open in two shakes—and it was coal!
The money was promptly paid, but the angry
Fitch proceeded, and it was the barrister Atten-
borough who prosecuted. Sentence 12 months,
which must seem a mere trifle to the aristocratic
black sheep after the five years he got in 1898.
As to treatment of heroes, note the case
of the driver of a tram which made a chute of
Brickfield Hill, Sydney, some time ago. The
driver stuck to his post till a Pyrmont tram at
the foot of the hill intervened, and thus he saved the
lives of passengers, who only waited for the driver
to jump, when they would have followed. He
received a letter of congratulation from Carruthers
for his “heroism.” A public subscription was
stopped, “ as the Department was going to look
after him.” The hero also abandoned a good case
for damages against the Department, because it
was going to look after him. Now the heroism
is pretty well forgotten, but the driver’s perma-
nent injuries remain, and he has been given a
situation with a reduction of Is, per diem on his
previous wage!
S.M. Herald, in a recent article on
“ Railway Extension ” :
Light lines of railway should have their place, and
invention is making such strides in these days that there
should be no difficulty in combining cheapness with
efficiency. We hear through our cablegrams of the
mono-rail proposals of Mr. Brennan, an Australian, whose
torpedo has given him money and fame in the old world ;
and the way the Indian Government is interesting itself
in his latest work should prompt this State to keep a
sympathetic eye upon him.
The Herald can find a word for even an Austra-
lian when it hears that he has made money and
fame in the old world, and that the Indian
Government has its eye on him. In fact, it would
seem that the Herald feels that when the time is
again ripe to import somebody, it might even be
agreeable to import an Australian —providing
some foreigner gave him a testimonial.
“Dimchurch”: Mr. Joseph Ward, Premier
and Postmaster-General of Maoriland, has been
so mighty busy for years talking about cheap
postage that he has sadly neglected the condition
of the Maoriland post-office. As a result, Maori-
land has probably the worst postal system in
Australasia. Everywhere the staffs are short in
numbers, and not great in quality. Resignations
are taking place wholesale. Young fellows of 19
and 20, who receive 14s. and 15s. per week, are
taking to the bush, where they can make £2 and
£3 for ssj days’ work. And the staff—neglected,
over-worked and under-paid—is fast losing all
traces of civility, and manifesting an all-round
readiness to tell the community to take a short
cut to Gehenna, where the devil boils his tail in
the soup.
Make your home as comfortable as you can—that’s a
good winter rule. Don’t have a cold this winter, he
comfortable ; take Senior’s Black Currant Balsam at first
symptoms and a cold cannot develop. A bottle kept
handy is insurance against colds all winter. It will
quickly cure an obstinate cold, too. You will find it the
most pleasant and effective remedy you have ever
taken. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is. 6d. and 2s.
6d. per bottle. Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George Street,
Sydney. *


ftiaea,
&
oil)
it
■/
.\ |
imr/ A.
%f v<3^.(A^
H
«?
' APPOI^
to His Majesty King Edward Vll.
r
■»
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Ltpion’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Si Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
kftet
<ORESS
SHIELDS
jyjORE than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers. A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 27, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Somehow women don’t buy clothes to match
their temperaments. They only strive for a
harmonious complement to the color of their eyes.
For instance, the other day, I met a dame with
burning eyes, and a quite immoral hat which com-
bined the fires of a tropic sunset with a suggestion
of flesh pink and a bunch of realistic grapes.
She talked with a tame accent, in a loveless,
weak little voice, of how her eldest boy
made mud-pies with a charwoman’s child from the
next street, and said, “ It’s so dreadful to see such
low tastes in one’s own flesh and blood.” She
didn’t talk up to her hat for a single sentence.
Why didn’t she wear a straw hat with a simple
bow ? Next anomaly I met was a tow-haired
young thing, with a binding of navy blue gingham,
a black ribbon sash, and a river hat. She had
simple eyes, and a mediocre complexion. “Menare
liars,’’she confided. “Absinthe and literature have
taken their place in my life. Absinthe is delicious;
but please don’t drink it frapp6. It will make
your dreams resemble a coke-lire, instead of a
blazing world ! ” I passed on, wishing that she’d
indicated her bent, even by a mere plait of hair.
Another foolish combination was a tailor-made
girl, with a habit of giggling. ' Another : A lady
with a chronic woe and a silk petticoat. Another:
A creature with the intellect of a pork pie, who
bode her hour in a collection of subtle garments
which would suit a reincarnation of sweet, fierce
Sappho. Eventually I found relief in a lass who
talked to match her evening frock, which barely
showed her collar-bones in front, and was cut
to disclose her waist muscles at the back. She
was very complete. She wore a wanton look in
her roving eye, and a Madonna coiffure. She
said,_ “Yes, Mamma,” with an intonation of
childish affection, conducting an innocuous in-
trigue the while with two men, each old enough
to be the father of her. I questioned her. She
confessed that she tried to appeal to the under-
standing of those about her, just sufficiently to
perplex them. “ And I like to be typical—that’s
why I wear red silk stockings with a book muslin
frock.” I left, loving her. Why can’t other
women disclose themselves a little in their cover-
ings ? It would save a large waste of masculine
endeavor.
Victoria, one time Queen of Great Britain
and Ireland, was positively remembered for a
few hours on Empire Day. She has secured
the very best standing room for a statue that
could be found in Melbourne. Anything big and
statuesque would look well on the crest of that
small rounded hill set in the curve of the arm of
the mighty Alexandra Avenue —with sloping
grass hills and gardens behind, and the gleam of
the river round about. The unveiled statue shows
an imposing piece of marble, in the shape of a very
weighty lady standing on a world of bronze with
four woolly poodles (should they be lions ?) guard-
ing her feet, and four well-modelled figures of
Justice, &c., in attendance.
Society women are doing a great graft over the
forthcoming Women’s Exhibition. Those who
aren’t actually working are parting up with un-
expected enthusiasm. Mrs. Janet Dowager
Clarke has just come along with a tremendous £3
prize for the best scheme for furnishing the living
rooms in the suburban villa residence of the house
agent’s dreams. “ How to make a cheap home
beautiful in a small way.” Lady Talbot carries
her hankering after the hand-made to extremes.
She has offered prizes for a whole walking costume
to be made altogether by hand, and a shirt and
skirt that’s got to be hand-made too. Heaven alone
knows what is the point of a hand-made dress
these machining times ! Mrs. Edward Miller
hands over a whole £l5 to the maker of the best
outfit for an infant, while Mrs. John Turnbull
has got £5 waiting for that illustrious She who
shall compile the best set of single-bed linen.
Mrs. Northcote—no relation presumably to the
Vice-Regaless—has offered a mysterious sort of
prize for which only the wives of bona-fide
mariners may compete. It’s a£s prize, and the
donor does not reckon Mrs. Fisherman or Mrs.
Waterman eligible to compete. The object is
a suit for a three-year-old boy. Mrs. Argus
Mackinnon, sen., offers £lO for the best collec-
tion of crochet work—and a cold shiver passes
down the backs of all those in authority.
If you offer even a half-crown prize for
a collection of crochet work, fearful and
awful things descend on you from the east
and from the west—yea, from the north and from
the south. The outcomes of a £lO prize are
appalling to contemplate. There’s crochet work
and crochet work, of course, and the best is ex-
ceedingly good. Altogether several hundreds of
pounds have found their way to the prize fund,
which promises to increase in volume.
“Tryphena” in the Big Smoke :
When the procession of Premiers started its way along
the Strand last Tuesday, General Botha was in the lead
and had the best brand of welcome. Hat in hand, he
looked uncertain and nervous. Despite a calm, in-
tellectual countenance, his eyes rolled anxiously over the
gaping Cockneys. Beside him smiled a fair, young
thing, looking most Mayfairy and local in complexion and
style. Miss Botha had no wonder or speculation in her
flower-like eyes. She was sparkling. An aunt of youthful
cut and smart build was perched vis-a-vis. The Maoriland
Ward looked assured and perfectly pleased. Herself was
a bright splash of color—hyacinth blue from hat-brim
to toe-cap. The Canadian Lauriers looked blankly out
from their carriage-perch. Their faces said nothing. His
beaver half-circled the grey atmosphere now and then, by
way of thanks to any stray bheers. The Deakins were a
stately but sombre pair. Alfred’s black whiskers en-
gulphed any pearling smile, and the Londoners alongside
me at a swaggah cafh window, murmured chat “he
looked aboriginal.” Truly there wasn’t much white
Deakin on view, Black-lidded, black-coated, black-
bearded, there wasn’t much argument for the White
Australia policy. Mrs. Alfred loomed beside the Chief in
sage green. It suited the charming lady’s temperament
better than it did that grey atmosphere.
The overfed Premiers had their most stupendous gorge
at the 1900 Club feast—the Club of red-hot Conservatives,
chaired by Arthur Balfour. Nearly 2000 nibbled at the
great spread, and a few extra hundreds gazed from the
top tier of the Albert Hall upon the privileged at their
myriads of circular tables. Each of the Exalted guests
arrived upon the scene to a Gabriel bleat of trumpet, and
paraded a heavily-flanked aisle on the heels of a clanking
escort. I was perched in a stall within a crumb’s-throw
of the Balfour long table. Near by sat Mrs. Stuart
Murray (nie Frankie Oliver) in bereavement chiffons,
looking less saucy and fetching than of yore. Closer
still was perched Better-not Wally—leaner and nicer,
hut not yet bald. He had males for neighbors, and took
small joy in the gorge. Whenever I looked his way,
he seemed to be murmuring great secret thoughts down
the length of his nose, which is now, owing to cavernous
cheeks, qualifying to be more a limb than a feature.
There isn’t another like it in this Big Smoke.
Mrs. Deakin—for once brightly apparelled in glad
garb, a splendid brocaded blue, with mauve garnishings
—sat, long-necked and dignified, in the seat of most
importance. She had the chairman on her right and
Wilfrid Laurier t’other side. When I told my Fog batch
that the bright Victorienne was a grandmother they stared
rudely. They didn’t believe. She honestly was looking
girlish this banquet-night, and her straight, slim figure
scored easily among "the dames of high degree. All
round the vast building the diamonds of the nobility
_glared from long shoulder-blades and unmsthetic heads.
Arthur Balfour looked like a dissenting- parson or a
Quaker, with an almost basin-crop thatch drawn back
clerically from his high bleak forehead. He yapped tire-
somely. His voice carried to the top-tier and remote
box. He talked platitudes with any amount of vigor,
which couldn’t, however, pass for magnetic fire. The
Balfour eloquence seems to be hedged in by an elderly
bachelor sense of reserve. It has no warmth or abandon,
and his yap is ever of great length. Wilfrid Laurier is
grey, cold, and actorish in appearance. He strikes the
fogtown mind as being a replica of the departed Irving.
His voice has no pitch, and is somewhat burdened with
age. Canada’s Premier may be dominant and capable,
but he’s neither lovable nor pleasing to the casual eye.
The 1900 Club festival was, after all, Deakin’s star night.
The noble scions of the big muster rose from their apathy
and their chairs when Australia’s Chief sprang to his feet.
(Alfred has a habit of springing to the perpendicular.
Possibly the slowness of bis confreres gets on the Deakin
nerves.) It was a tribute —this active interest of the
nobles. One Ducal party in my neighborhood packed
away his eye-pane, and sauntered right up to the table,
murmuring, en route, “Let’s see-ah-the-silvah-er-voiced-
ah-oratah I ” A squad followed, and pressed to the Bal-
four table. It was the best of all the Deakin efforts.
It galvanised the banquet mind into attention. It
caught the ear of the entire muster. It warmed
the weary Londoner into shouting his applause.
When Deakin sat down enthusiasm grew even more
articulate. The applause wouldn’t drop down. The
muster wanted more. It energetically demanded more,
but didn’t get it. The Maoriland Ward was brusque,
but a trifle commonplace. He had two or three
friendly jests, but the enthusiasm of the club and the
guests was exhausted. London enthusiasm has strict
limits. Alfred had used it all up.
Mrs. Fred. McEvoy is scoring in the matter of dash
and chiffons at the Cecil. Mr. Dick Casey at this
point fights the ’flu fiend with stolid patience.
Walter Kirby crossed my line of vision in Fleet-street
yesterday. He looked like Rudolf in “La BohSme,” fat,
musical, and romantic. Mr. George Edwardes is the
handsomest Greyhead in the whole Big Smoke. Agent-
General Coghlan scores with his wife. Fogtown reckons
her “highly superior,” and she helps Tom along con-
siderably.
Bernard Wise is very ill. He has gone to a shadow, and
takes life very gently. Mrs. Leslie Walford, living at the
Langham, looks like a swaggah West-ender. She knows
the Big Smoke intimately by now, and gets about some-
thing considerable. The Hordern batch are with her.
Miss Lyne has taken to calculating the effect of smart
chiffons. She’s done her dad proud at all the official
rallies, and earned some high-class comments. I lived
through a top-grade Italian spree hosted by the
Volentis the other night. He (Nora Dane’s Macaroni
spouse) is an impressive maestro of fine looks, and
Nora chatters in his lingo as if she’d never been either
wild Irish or a jolly, rollicking ’Roolander.
The s.s. Orient brings to Melbourne Mr. Richard
Strauss, the brilliant young man who found
publishers for “The Man Apart,” and several
other exotics. He comes to shake hands and have
a chat with a paternal uncle who leads a merry
bachelor life at Whitehall, our latest pile of flats.
The cheerful relative, it is hoped, will divide his
responsibilities with those aesthetic damsels who
dearly love a lion, even when he wears a beard
and roars from behind spectacles. A lion roam-
ing the desert in spectacles suggests ideas.
In a printed leaflet widely circulated by the tea-
cake and political-libel club, Mrs. Clarke, of
Cliveden, airs her views per medium of an article
written by herself with her own hand and pen,
dipped in her very own inkbottle. Its tone
recalls a male relative of hers, who rode his horse
into a ballroom, where contemporary plebeians
were enjoying some innocent but vulgar amuse-
ment. She rides a very high horse ; sets down the
ethical excellences of Wimmen’s Leaguers “who
fulfil their association’s demands”; and advises
that pity and tolerance should be extended
to the wayward. Also she describes her
ideal politician—the gentleman whom the
League will always support, and whom all its
members should vote for. His first consideration
should be “the great ruler of the Empire,” and
then the good of the people ; which, according to
the lady, is not to be secured through class legis-
lation. The remainder of the effusion is devoted
to remarks upon religious loyalty—loyalty to
Ned, to Womanhood, and to the League. She
avers that it is better, “ like the Early Christians,
to be tortured and die, than be wanting in faith.”
But then, the Leaguesses are not tortured,
neither do they die by the lions.
A flaming passage from an outburst of Janet
Missus to the Women’s League :
As, in history, Boadicea rode at the head of her army
and conquered ; as Joan of Arc led her countrymen and
conquered, so should Australian women, in the quietness
and confidence, without which there is no true strength,
seek to show their loyalty and love to the throne.
The other day a nice young man, who came out
from the north, completed his capture of a local
beauty. He is Mr. Jack Leitch, of Berry Jerry
station, near Wagga ; the bride was the eldest ewe-
lamb of Mr. Keate-Hall. She wore the usual
sheeny white gown, which was unusually becom-
ing, and she had diamonds, furs, and fine linen,
bestowed upon her in large quantities.
Mr. Tittell Brune and his worshipped missus
are suspected of an intention to open a co-opera-
tive season here at the conclusion of her engage-
ment with J.C.W. Meantime, Mr. Tittell opens
the Melbourne Bijou with a performance of the
late Wm. Shakspeare’s tragedy, “ Richard III.”
The regal cripple will be played by “ Miss Brune’s
husband,” in a humorous spirit, which will have
the merit of novelty, though it lack all other.
Now, he’s adapting his wifelet to the sweet uses
of advertisement. He sedulously attends the
exhausted st&r to and from the theatre, thereby
giving the gallery girl an opportunity to learn the
promise of his countenance, and admire his hus-
bandly virtues.
Carreno has everything—youth and age (to-
gether, as the gods have), the power of an
Orpheus over the world of sound, a fascinating
personality, a temperament full of warm rich
color; and, for her own happiness, she has the
“joy of living.” She is a South American, of
Spanish ancestry. Soft grey in her dark hair
gives some little sign of age, and she laughingly
chats of experiences many, many years back, but
for all that there is about her nothing but the
fresh vigor of youthfulness.
“Nonsense,” she laughs, “lam growing old;
but I have been so spoiled and petted always that
I cannot remember to step aside for nevv-comers.
I was trained for a singer, and I still sing—and
love it —but the piano was my master ; it would
not be denied. It was impossible to divide the
study, so the piano held me.”
Carreno has lived in many countries, has
travelled far, and seems to have personally known
every great musician in the last century. “It
makes me very old,” she laughs, “these names
that are like echoes now, but still I knew them.
Had I been a mere stick, I must have absorbed
some of their wonderful influence. I was always
somebody’s beM —Bulow, Gounod, Saint Saens,
Mario (why, his name is now a dream !), Rubin-
stein, Tietjens, they all called me bebe. And
Patti ! Ah, but she was too young to call me
beM. I was her * little sister.’ I travelled with
Patti, and played for her. I was crazy about her.
She was the most fascinating woman in all the
world. Her singing would make one weep, yet
she was hard, cold-hearted as that ” —with a bang
on the table.
What hands Carreno has ! A wonderful shape,
white and firm, with the keen sense of steel
suggested under their dimpled softness.
Carrefio’s first appearance in public as a singer
was rather sensational. It was in Glasgow. She
was a mere girl of 16, and was appearing as a
pianist. In those days, there were two powerful
and rival impresarios, Colonel Mapleson and
Alfred Gye. Gye had Patti as his big star, also
Lucca, the great Mario, Graziana, and others.
Mapleson had Nielson, Tietjens, Christini,
Marioni and baritone Maurelle. Carreflo was
with Mapleson and Tietjens and a large company
—touring. They were to open in Glasgow with
“ Les Hugenots.” The light soprano who was to
take the Queen had stayed a day behind on tour,
ill. She was to arrive in Glasgow in time. She
did not. It was the height of the season. Every-
one was engaged. Wild messages produced no
substitute. It seemed as if the production must
be cancelled. Mapleson said, “ Bebe will sing the
Queen ! ” Carreflo had no idea of the part. As a
comfort and bribe, Tietjens (playing Margarita)
promised to lend her all her jewels. She looked
upon the magnificent dress designed for the part,
and was conquered. “I shall never forget it,”
cried Carreno. “ The glorious audacity of youth.
The Queen is on the whole of the second act; I
was 16 and fond of effect, but I felt the size of a
doll as I swept the huge train of my gown along
and stood there, blazing with Tietjens’ diamonds —
and sang.”
Carreno’s last concert was in Berlin. She is on
her way to America. “I was fifteen years in
America,” she said. “Fifty years !” I ejacu-
lated. “Oh no, child,” she smiled, “do let
us keep my life experiences into 200 years
—for appearance sake !” Her husband, Taglia
Pietra a charming Italian —is travelling
with Carreno, also her three daughters. Teresita,
the eldest, is a pianist; she has played much in
Germany. Two younger daughters, aged 12 and
14, are to go to school in Melbourne until the trip
is continued. “They usually speak German,”
said their mother, “ but they learnt much English
on the boat.” Carreno herself speaks almost
every language except Russian. “Rubinstein
taught me as much as I could learn in music, but
Russian was like climbing a glacier ! ”
It is a pleasure to sit closely enough to watch
Mrs. Carreno’s face as she plays. The delicately
sensitive countenance shows her thoughts, pen-
sive or bright or whimsical. There was a quite
unusual fervor in expression in one part of the
big Listz Rhapsody when she gathers up notes and
chords in massive handfuls, and pelts tnem at the
audience—at one chord she must have hurther in-
jured finger, for there was a distinct D (or perhaps
a Spanish C) coming soundlessly from between
small gritted teeth. Carreno pluckily played all
through the Monday recital with a sore finger—a
nail bent inward —and next day a surgeon had to
mend the matter. The dropping out of a concert,
a little rest, and the finger is now quite well.
Dr. Barrett gave a swagger At Home last week
in honor of the Carreflo, and, incidentally, some
girls had a chance of showing what Australians
can do in the way of language. The Carreflo
daughter—Miss Teresita Pietra —was sad and
lost and shy. Her English is limited to a little
picked up on the out-coming boat. Two jolly
Melbourneites took her in hand, and attacked her
right and left with excellent French and German,
then swung off into Spanish, till she laughed her
sombre eyes into dancing, sparkling black dia-
monds. Australian girls appeal to Miss Teresita.
“They are not sleef like the Eenglish, nor much
ceremony like the German,” she says.
The melodious Mr. Mohwinkel lays foreign
emphasis on the fact that his Australian engage-
ment almost certainly saved his life. He had been
asked to sing with the Yandyck company, but he
had contracted to leave for Australia on the 3rd
of February, and the other management could not
have released him until the 2nd. Not wishing to
be such a hurried Mohwinkel, he refused the
engagement. All the members of the Vandyck
company were aboard the ill-fated Berlin, and
they found a damp, unpleasant grave in the North
Sea. So he continues to be Mohwinkel. Had he
joined the Vandyck co. and gone down among
the shell-fish, his name to-day might have been
Winkels without the “ Moh.”
Melbourne doesn’t run to many more interest-
ing men than Sculptor Gilbert. He does his pot-
boiling literally as well as metaphorically—makes
a good income as a restaurant chef, and keeps his
art unspotted from the world. I was up at his
studio, the other day, to scan a clay portrait of
Justice Holroyd. Just then his Honor walked
in. Gilbert has got his subject line for line, and
there was something really funny in seeing the
Judge whimsically surveying himself through
smoked glasses. Looking at your own statue is
uncommonly like reading your own obituary notice
—it’s always a little on the flattering side. Gilbert
is at work on the marble now—he does none of
his sculping vicariously—and the Law Courts will
get the finished job. One finds a lot of entertain-
ment at the studio apart from the busts of larger
statuary. The story of the quest of the Golden
Girl is as nothing to the story of the local sculptor
in quest of models. For one woman who thinks
she has a pretty face, there are dozens convinced
that they possess Trilby figures. Unlike the
average genius who leads a double life, Gilbert is
specially lucky in his wife. She’s pretty as an
artist’s wife ought to be, and though it was the
chef she married she’s quite devoted to the
sculptor. She feeds him properly, reminds him
when he wants new clothes, and doesn’t let him
wear his hair long. As a natural consequence
Gilbert might easily pass muster as a police
superintendent.
Talking of sculpture. The picturesque and
veteran Panton has a nice taste in modelling, and
when he goes off the Bench in the immediate
future he’s promising himself a good time with
clay. His 76 years sit on him with a lightness
that is most encouraging to other men. But then
they can’t all be well-paid autocrats, whose office
hours are from ten to four. A cynical friend re-
marks that no men lead healthier lives than the
abstemious police magistrate and the prisoner
whom he commits to a higher court, where he
gets 10 years.
The energetic little Helena Rubinstein, who
runs luxurious suites of rooms in all Australasian
cities to pamper the being-beautified Mrs. or
Miss, is rushing off for still another European
trip. She has magnificent plans in her smart little
head. One concerns a visit to Turkey to discover
what the women of the harems use as a skin-
beautifier. Probably when she gets there she will
find they don’t use anything, and that they
look it.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
t'L':
GO I*o HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
;;;{/- per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
Vila
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
> 281 George St. I
• (omt. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY, j
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICA
POINTS
THE IDEAL PARLIAMENT (ACCORDING
TO SPRUCE MYTH).
The ideal Parliament would be a body of thoughtful
men with judicious minds.—Bruce Smith.
Eleven Queensland candidates lost their
£2O election deposit. This is a record number for
the State. Drake’s was the most notable smash.
But possibly more galling than the loss of his £2O
was the fact that McLaughlin, Queensland’s
choicest political freak, polled two to his one.
It is characteristic of the present N.S.W.
Government that it wants to appeal to the Privy
Council, in England, instead of to the High
Court of Australia, against the decision whereby
it was struck with heavy loss over the allegedly
illegal expulsion of W. P. Crick from the N.S.W.
Assembly. There is every reason to suppose
that the Australian High Court would give as
good and reliable a brand of justice as the British
Privy Council, but then it is an Australian Court
and a Federal Court, and the Carruthers Govern-
ment is steadily anti-Australian in its policy,
while its anti-Federalisin amounts to mania.
Aid. T. H. Kelly has been helping his
little brother Bill spread himself on the Ernpiah.
Little brother Bill scorned those who wanted a
navy to keep to the Australian coast, and look
after home defence. “Did Nelson keep to the
British coast?” he demanded. And the alderman
brother told Deakin that he ought to go to school
again and learn history. But it might be gently
suggested that Bill and his big brother should do
the same, and turn up the story of the Spanish
Armada. Did Spain keep to its own coast? No !
It sailed the seas, and prepared to attack England.
If the alderman and his little brother will read on
a bit, they will find out what the British coast
defence —the defence that Bill and his brother
scorn —did to that Armada.
In his pre-election speech at Kogarah, Pa
Carruthers dragged in the woes and wrongs of Ma
State, allegedly crushed beneath the heel of Tas-
mania, Victoria, and Westralia, and he called
Kogarah and Rockdale to witness that poor Ma’s
life blood was ebbing fast, and that the Sovereign
State of the Commonwealth had practically
ceased to exist. Then Joe solved the situation :
The community would be asked to express its opinion
with regard to two matters of Federal concern. (Hear,
hear.) He believed that the Federal Constitution itself
was not a bad Constitution, though he would have pre-
ferred unification. The Constitution meant that the
States were to exist as entities, and have their State
rights, though being associated together by a compact.
This meant that provincialism would continue. Unifica-
tion was the only tiling that would do away with that.
Carruthers’ remedy is to wipe out Ma’s existence,
and dissolve her boundaries, making her fair name
but a memory.
Thus a cablegram from India :—-
EXTRAORDINARY LIES CIRCULATED.
_ Some seditious emissaries in the Punjab have been
circulating most extraordinary lies, with the view of
stirring up the populace.
They pretend that the plague, which has been raging
with unexampled virulence during the last two months,
is due to the Government having poisoned the wells.
Two emissaries who have been concerned in spreading
these statements have been arrested. One was sentenced
to eighteen months’ imprisonment, and the other to two
years.
Now if that had read that a prominent Syd-
ney politician had got 18 months’ for falsely
stating that the alleged troubles of N.S.W.
were due to the Australian Government, aided
and abetted by Victoria, having poisoned the Ma
State, it would have been an exactly parallel
case. The only discrepancy is that the politician
hasn’t got 18 months’yet, but we live in hopes.
Still they seem to do these things better in
India.
Not so very long ago the Melbourne Argus
screamed with indignation when a Victorian
woollen mill mixed good cotton (not foul rags)
with good wool, to provide a cheap material that
could compete with imported shoddy. Now the
same paper shouts about the action of the Aus-
tralian Government in dealing with materials
adulterated with tin, lead and arsenic, and sold
as silk
Why should the woman of moderate means be deprived
of the pleasure of wearing a pretty, shimmering, rustling
material even if it is not silk ?
Well, who prevents her ? Any clean, wholesome,
“pretty, shimmering, rustling material” that
isn’t silk can come into the Commonwealth, pro-
vided the Argus’s importing friends don't lie and
thieve over it by passing it off as the silk that it
isn’t. The only trouble is that the paper’s import-
ing friend seems unable to stop lying and thieving.
As for the shimmering “silk,” that is largely lead
and arsenic poison, will the Argus have the
courage to say straight out that that sort of stuff
should be allowed to go into circulation ? Does
it hold a brief for the secret poisoner ?
The straight-out declaration of E. W.
Owe’Sullivan that he is for the Commonwealth,
and against the
disgruntled Jeffer-
son Davis party —
the secessionists,
the State Flights
crowd, the Car-
ruthers gang, and
the inventors of
imaginary bruises
and black and blue
stripes perpetrated
upon the back of
the old Ma State —
covers a multitude
of the garish Owe’
person's bygone
sins of extrava-
gance. Now that
B. R. Wise is gone,
Owe’Sullivan isthe
one N.S.W. poli-
tician of any pro-
minence who has
the courage to say
that he is Federal
to the backbone,
and if he borrowed
£10,000,000 in one act that declaration would
almost compensate for the iniquity. At the worst
N.S.W. could file its schedule and pay 2s. 6d. in
the “quid.”
THE BATTERING RAM.
A valuable ram, at Cardigan (Vie.), knocked its own
brains out endeavoring to butt down the brick parapet of
a well. — News Item.
This should he a learning to some other foolish
sheep we wot of.
Prospects of the Australian mail syndicate
grow more doubtful every day, and the anti-Aus-
tralian papers are filled with an indecent joy.
Yet the blow will be not so much to Australia as
to that Private Enterprise which the Tory press
always seeks to canonise. In future, a sensible
Australian Government will look very hard at any
“private enterprise ” proposal for a big national
work.
Through its clunderheadedness in running
against Kidstonites, Queensland Labor lost one
seat in Fortitude Valley, and one in South Bris-
bane, besides a mortgage over the second seat;
also it lost Woollongabba, a sure Labor seat; and
Cairns and North Rockhampton seats likewise
went down in the chaos. And this isn’t reckoning
the losses that the same dunderheadedness in-
flicted on the Kidstonites. There are many sore
heads in the Labor party to-day as they realise
what their folly has cost.
In view of the fact that the anti-Federal
push has been going very strongly of late over
the statement that N.S.W.’s objections to
joining the Commonwealth were only over-
come by the grant of the Australian capital
to the Ma State, it is worth while noting
that in N.S.W. 66,228 votes were recorded
against the first Constitution, the one which
left the situation of the capital an open
question ; while against the second Consti-
tution, which fixed the capital in N.S.W.,
no less than 82,741 votes were recorded. The
N.S.W. Legislature annulled the first re-
ferendum in advance by fixing a hopeless
minimum affirmative vote of 80,000. And it
proposed also to annul the second one in ad-
vance by fixing an utterly impossible mini-
mum affirmative vote of 140,000, but just
when it thought it was going to meet and do
the deed, Premier Reid further prorogued
it, and when it got a chance to assemble, the
referendum was all over, and the oppor-
tunity' of the Parochialists was gone. But
if Reid hadn’t prorogued Parliament, the
Constitution which fixed the capital in
N.S.W. would have been knocked out in the
same way, and by the same shady device, as
the one which didn’t.
The path of secesh is Poe’s “route
obscure and lonely, haunted by ill angels
only'.” Some of the angels are very ill.
The Owe’Sullivan, recently :
It was a proud privilege to belong to such a nation, for
within it law, order, and justice were supreme. A bit of
blue paper issued by some simple-minded magistrate in
the name of the King- was as effective there as a general
at the head of a victorious army, because behind that
bit of blue paper were all the powers and resources of the
British Empire.
H’m ! Perhaps. But the bit of blue paper which
pursued Nicholas Willis had a stormy passage
anyhow.
Garnsworthy, J.P., of William,stown
(Vic.), has been sat on. Garnsworthy, while
hearing a case under the Factories Act, aired his
fine old crusted Toryism with the remark :
It is a Trades Hall Act, and not one that sets forth the
opinion of the people.
Acting Attorney-General Maekinhon immedi-
ately asked Garnsworthy', J.P., for an explana-
tion, and Garnsworthy, J.P., wrote in haste to
say that he was sorry he spoke. Then Mac-
kinnon ukased that Garnsworthy would not be
permitted to adjudicate in any more Factories
Act cases, and implied that it was only Garns-
wortby’s expressed penitence that prevented
Garnsworthy from losing his blessed J.P.-ship-
altogether. Also the Crown Law Department
whispered a cold, stern word into the ear of the
foolish Clerk of Courts Blacklow,. who aided and
abetted Garnsworthy in his abuse of the law ; and
Blacklow is also sorry he spoke
A flight of colds set out one day,
Great ugly things, and flew away,
Across the hills and o’er the sea,
Determined vengeful thus to be.
But all at once these colds grew fewer,
Vanquished b.v Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ;
And so they died, all one b.v one,
Their deadly work left all undone.*
The proposed investigation by
the Australian Government into
the operation of certain
Machinery Trusts is a very
essential matter. Recently
the members of a well-known
Sydney manufacturing firm
purchased in America cer-
tain machines which were
in advance of anything
yet displayed here. As
soon as the machines were
installed, the representa-
tives of the Trust sent
along conveyances, and
demanded that all
machines supplied by
them be returned
forthwith. (This is
actually provided for
in the royalty agree-
ment.) In the end,
the firm had to dis-
card the special ma-
chines rather than-
submit to a virtual
dismantling of its
factory, for almost all
i ts machines are under
patents controlled by
the Trust.
“ N.” : Mitchell’s
Newspaper Directory,
for 1907, shows that the
British Empire has put
on about 40 per cent, of
territory in the last 26
years. In 1861 it was
about 85 million square
miles. Hardly anything
was put on between 1861
and 1881, but from 1881
to now it has increased up
to not very far short of 12
million square miles. All
this may be treated in a congratulatory vein, but
I think it is rather shuddery. Biting and chew-
ing again ! England wants to know why other
nations cannot let well alone, and disarm.
Johnny Bull, as Little Jack Horner, has one-fifth
of the globe’s plum pudding on his plate, and
cries because he hasn’t got the lot.
The only visiting politician who got decent
treatment from some high quarters in England,
according to a complaint made through the cable,
was Louis Botha. It is something for the poma-
tumed party that toadies to the Monkey to
ponder over. For Botha didn’t toady to England
—he fought her. And now England respects him,
and calls him “ The Lion of South Africa.” To
its Monkey friend the pomatumed Australian
will, instead, be “ The Worm of Woolloomooloo.”
Carruthers, with an election in sight, is
yelling so much about the awful manner in which
N.S. Wales is put upon by the Commonwealth
that, outside Australia, where they don’t know J.
Carruthers, they think N.S. Wales is a very good
place to stay away from. Anyway, in spite of all
the advt. that there is plenty of N.S.W. land to
come to, N.S. Wales actually sent away to Great
Britain, in the first three months of this year, 218
more people than it received. From the other
States, however, it received 5923 more than it
sent away, which shows what the other States
think of Ma’s grievances.
ANOTHER VIEW OF IT.
Owing to the alleged connection between Premier Car-
ruthers and the Reid Freetrade party in the Common-
wealth Parliament, the N.S.W. Protectionists have re-
fused to coalesce with the Government, so the Ministerial
fortunes border on desperation.—Age.
N.S.W. Railway- Commissioner Johnson
was interviewed recently by a deputation from
the Northern suburbs, with a request fora new
bridge, and Johnson killed the deputation nearly
dead by asking how much the residents would put
up towards the cost. Johnson in turn has almost
died of astonishment at the indignant howl that
has gone up all over the State because of his
question. But what’s the matter with Johnson ?
He reads every day of the need to suppress
Socialism. He hears every where the call to nilly
to the banner of Anti-Sosh. The proposed bridge
is in Wade’s electorate, and Wade is a champion
of Anti-Sosh. So Johnson fell in. He has yet
to learn that Anti-Sosh means leaving the State
to pay the bill all the time, while Private Enter-
prise takes all the profit it can lay hold of.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is especially
prized by r mothers of small children. Eor sale
everywhere, Is. 6d. #
THE THINGS THAT ABE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is more than probable that a great disaster will be
the prelude to a great awakening on the part of the
Australians. Meanwhile, we must face the things that
are.—Miss Vida Goldstein.
Mr. Tom Mann demands a six-hours’ day.— News Item.
Down in Egypt, long ago,
Dwelt a people sleek and slow—
O, they lazed in bliss idyllic by the fertilising- Nile ;
But some rude invaders came,
An 1 with spears they jabbed the same—
Yea, they spoilt the cheerful creases in the fat Egyptian
smile ;
There was bloodshed in that land,
And the people, sleek and bland,
Were pursued across the landscape, and were scattered
very far:
And unless we wish to flee
With the same velocity,
We had better cease our chatter and perpend the Things
That Are.
Here are we, four millions “ strong,”
In a land that should belong
To a nation extra mighty, with its ships on every sea ;
We are bogged in swamps of debt,
And our steps lead pawnward yet—
But it’s time to make fresh hoof-tracks o’er the fields of
history.
Aye, it’s time for us to moil—
Time to till the gracious soil,
Lest a ruder breed should smite us in a mode irregular.
Better furbish up our gun,
Ere the latest brand of Hun
Teaches us (To-day’s Egyptians!) to revise the Things
That Are 1
Six superfluous Parliaments,
Filled with useless, fluent gents—•
Six great monuments of folly on the road to beggary.
Heave, Australians, heave them forth,
For the Monkey in the north
Won’t be stopped by piles of Hansards or the cry of
Smith, M.P. !
Six superfluous Governors,
Carted here from Britain’s shores —
Ship them back to anxious England, packed with care
particular;
Clear away the lumber-heap—
Rubber-stamps are quoted cheap :
Let us rid the land of rubbish—let us face the Things
That Are !
When the great Disaster comes—
When we hear the battle-drums,
Will Australia’s soldiers clamor for a six-hour fighting-
day?
When the Monkey’s legions strive,
Will they cease to shoot at five—
Will they drop their guns instanter, and proceed to draw
their pay ?
Will you tell us, Mister Mann,
How the Germans won Sedan—
Will you tell us how arose, in days of old, Napoleon’s
star?
Did his soldiers cease to shoot
When the engine gave the toot —
Did they conquer with “ Objectives ”?—Bah ! let’s face
the Things That Are !
Work is warfare : and the Goth
Licks the nation sunk in sloth—
’Tis the grim, hard-toiling Peoples hold the hemispheres
in fee ;
Lo ! the mighty Yankee Trust
Scoops creation’s golden dust—
Half the battles of To-morrow will be won by Industry !
Not with powder, but with steam—
And with roaring mills supreme,
Shall the Nations win to power, and be feared in lands
afar ;
Let us toil, Australians all—■
Hear our Country—her Her call !
We must work like steel-thewed Titans—we must face
the Things That Are !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


Ronisch
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
These emi-
nent Piano
m a K. e r s
were es-
tablished
in 1845-
Their In-
struments
have been
sold for 60
years with
great satis-
faction to
the buyer.
Catalogues Free.
***
Sole Agents—
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
58
Bandsmen
*
PALING’S
can supply any instrument
required trom a
CORNET
I
to a DRUM
and all other Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Exchanged
If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, why
not ex-
change it
for a new
one from
Paling’s
Call or write to
Paling’s, who will
tell you how to xnaKe
an exchange, and at
the same time asK
for a Catalogue.
Paling’s
338 George St.
Sydney
65
OLD MAN!
DO YOU FEEL
UNWELL ?
TAKE COURAGE!
*1 6s. is sufficient to send for* a cure in most cases.
DO NOT ABANDON HOPE. All is not yet lost. Our system of cure (which is sent
•to you in sealed package safe from observation) has lifted many from the brink of
t&r. I* wiH U >'»»• Write to „ freely andl frankly tolll.JB mp.^
and we will, in return, forward on payment of £1 6s. a full treatment. J.ne
Bulletin” Endorses our Cure.
Do vou suffer from a feeling of something dreadful about to happen to the Ma
State aTense of loss, sites before the eyes, unnecessary irritation, nervous inability to see
straight loss of reasoning power, bashfulness in the presence of honest men, a feel ng
of fullness after reading the morning papers, shortness of sense ? Are you disinclined
for exertion ? Do you see wrongs to the Ma State in your sleep !
All these symptoms point to the one conclusion. You are suffering from State Enghts.
But courage. We can cure you. We have cured many worse cases.
READ THESE TESTIMONIALS FROM SYDNEY CITIZENS!
A State Premier writes
“ Two years asm I began to feel unwell. My tongue was forked My statements were irregular.
I Tad Braddon blots before my eyes. I suffered from frightful dreams of the Ma State being
burned at the stake. Now, before taking your mixture lam just the same as ever. I refuse
to take your mixture.”
This shows how bad a sufferer can remain who does not take our mixture.
A Cured Young Man writes . , , ,
“ Formerly I used to read only the morning papers. I was fast becoming worn to a shadow from
State Frights. I could retain no wholesome food. I saw everything yellow. I was becoming
a burden'to all who came into contact with me. I was a real Mrs. Gummidge. Since taking
your treatment I am a cured man.”
(Name and address on application.)
DELAY IS DANGEROUS. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Federal Cure is sold in bottles : Small size. 2/3.1; large size containing less than
half the quantity, 5/-. Full course of treatment £ 1 6s. (sufficient for life). Send 1/- for our
literature on the subject.
The Federal Cure,
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ķ
100 Cigars foi* 17/6
King of All. K& B Cigars will
open your eyes with their quality
and flavor when you know they
cost only 17/6 a box of 100.
SaiEvpl© Box of Four l/<
Post
Free
Those who smoke them agree that they are
the Best Cigars sold at the price.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
*v \ ;
spjgfl
i
a/V'
mpms
: e'om
HH
;. * »‘;
■ ..
If:.. ■"■' :
<«
f I
&
n
A
m\
m
m
AN EXTRAORDINARY PHENOMENON.
“What is it?”
“Why, it’s ‘YOURS AND MINE.’”


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Oup, the Gar-
land Oup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and," First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents; Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
Intestinal Worms Eradicated by Comstock’s
Worm Pellets.
Many a mother is puzzled why her child is so
fretful and cannot be pacified. The bowels may
be regular, but more frequently are alternately
constipated and very relaxed. Invariably the
cause is due to intestinal worms, which irritate
the bowels and set up a slight inflammation.
Ordinary laxatives do not remove all the worms,
and consequently the irritation is not abated.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
safe and reliable remedy for children and adults.
Full directions on every box. Obtainable at all
chemists and stores, or will be forwarded on
receipt of price, Is. 6d. (6 boxes 8s.). Ihe
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to Hjs Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. I. H. FOTHCRQILI & 00,, 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Messrs. Noble and Trumper are hard at. work
assuring a grinning community of a large number of con-
fused things. Boiled down, their rambling statements
amount to a declaration that they have the best interests
of Cricket at heart. They do not explain what they
mean by Cricket. (Writer once knew a station-master
who collected assiduously for “ The Poor.” He was The
Poor.) They point out, that in the petition they are going
to lodge with the Board of Control, there is not a word
about going on strike if representation is refused, but
they carefully abstain from making a straightforward
statement that they will, under no circumstances, refuse
to play if selected. Why ? Trumper denies that any
Australian XI ever paid a dividend of £7OO per man. Quite
true—some of them had to go on reduced figures,
but Mr. Trumper carefully refrains from saying how
much he got out of each of his trips to England. Alto-
gether, the statements of these two misjudged players
are remarkable for the things they don’t state. In the
opinion of Thb Bulletin, the whole trouble is due
to a dread on the part of the players that the Australian
Board of Control may take charge of the financing of the
next Australian XI. that goes to England. The statement
of Messrs. Noble and Trumper that the Melbourne Club
has nothing to do with this latest move can be dismissed
for what it is worth. It may be true in letter, but the
solemn fact remains that the Melbourne Club once tried
to establish Australian National Cricket on a purely
money-making basis, and the men who are raising the
present dust were more or less allies of the M.O.C. in that
attempt. If the players got their representation, and the
interests that once stood for the purely money-making
basis found themselves in the ascendant in the Board of
Control, the temptation might be too strong for the M. C.C.,
and it might forget its promises, and all the rest of it.
There is a large portion of the cricketing community that
distrusts the players, the Melbourne Cricket Club,
and the S.A. Cricket Association. Apparently, finding
their hand forced, the players will lodge their application
at once with the present Board. In which case, before
even considering it, the Board should demand from them,
one and all, a written guarantee that they will play—if
selected—whether the application is granted or not. All
players refusing to give that guarantee to be disqualified
for international cricket for life.
The representation demanded by “the under-
signed players of N.S.W., in conjunction with the
cricketers of Victoria and South Australia,” is that they
shall have two representatives on the Board of Control-
One to be chosen by the members of the last Australian
XL, and one by remaining members of the inter-State
teams of N.S.W., Victoria, and S.A. There are
only about five members of the last XI. left in active
cricket, and they are to have a whole representative to
themselves. The inter-State teams of last season will
certainly not be inter-State teams of the coming season,
but they are to be represented to the exclusion of the
men who will actually compose the teams. All of these
players, as members of their associations, have a voice in
the selection of members of the Board already, and their
additional representation as members of a small coterie
interested in keeping the Australian XI. a close corpora-
tion is only understandable on the argument that some-
one has an axe to grind.
w * * *
London Daily Mail says “ there is reason to
believe ” the next cricket team for Australia will include
Jackson, Knox, Crawford, Hutchings, Spooner, and R.
E. Foster; Tyldesley, Hayward, Fielder, Arnold, Rhodes,
and Oates; and “possibly” Humphreys, Lees, Relf,
Blythe, or Perrin. It must be the merest guessing. As
regards the last five, only Blythe (and possibly Lees) has
any right to be in an All England 14. Oates has none at
all, and Foster hardly ever plays. Anyway, Hirst and
Lilley, whom the Mail does not mention, would be about
the first two men chosen. From other sources it
seems really likely that Fry will come if certain “little
difficulties” can be overcome; and the chief difficulty
seems to be the provision of a sum which will compensate
that gifted “amateur” for leaving his editorships and
other paying work. It is freely stated that the gifted
amateur’s minimum price is £lOOO.
* • * *
In the Soccer football competition. Glebe, having
become mighty, was incontinently hurled down from its
seat to share second place withPyrmont, with six points.
Ultimo took the vacant throne with seven points.
Balmain and Petersham share the third place with five
each. Rozelle and the unfortunate Navy are three and
nothing, respectively.
* * * *
The Glebe-Ultimo match was a well-contested
game. At half time they were one each. In the second
half Ultimo made several fine sweeps. The Glebe
goalkeeper proved equal to the occasion, and sent them
back again to defend their own net, but he was out-
manoeuvred at last, and Ultimo got a lead of one. With
the end in view Glebe managed to score and equalise
things. Right on time the ball was kicked from the
corner into the mouth of Glebe’s goal, the Ultimo man
was on the spot, and the game was won in the last
minute by three to two. Balmain and Rozelle played
another of those scoreless draws, due to the fact that the
ball went over, instead of under the bar, as is necessary
in the British Association game. Although defeated by
Petersham, the Navy showed some improvement on this
occasion, and was beaten by only two to one. Pyrmont
had the bye.
* • * *
A metropolitan team having gone south to do
battle with the Riverina Association, there were no first
grade League (Australian rules) football matches in Syd-
ney on Saturday. Most of the clubs held practice
matches, but the results do not affect the competition.
This sort of thing is a mistake. Every one of the clubs is
strong enough to have put a good playing team into the
field, and the competition should have gone on. It
would have given the colts renewed interest in the
struggle. In the match at Narrandera both teams
showed excellent speed and combination, but the Sydney
defence was as solid as the squares at Waterloo, or
George Reid’s hunger for office, while their combination
for attack proved irresistible, and the metropolitan team
won by 79 points to 29. It was a fine match, and bristled
with interesting and exciting situations in spite of the
inequality of the scores.
* * * *
In Sydney Rugby, Glebe seems to have struck
the deluge. After being stamped flat by North Sydney
the previous week, Saturday saw it pitted against Uni-
versity, the only team that has so far this season been
undefeated. Somewhere about 20,000 people rolled up at
Sydney Cricket Ground to watch the struggle, which was
expected to be willing, the lighter, faster Uni. haying
always proved a thorn in the side of the heavier, stronger
Glebe crowd. The strength of Glebe is its pack and the
solidity of its full-back. In the first half the Glebe for-
wards kept the game to themselves, and neglected their
back division. They relied upon being able to run over
the Uni. team ; but they failed. During the interval,
Captain Johnson ordered his men to “open it up,” and
when play resumed University made a magnificent
dribbling charge which looked very dangerous. Hedley
kicked! tiadily and sent them back again and once more.
But the Universities had found the tactics were good, and
dribbling rushes were the order of the day. For nearly
half-an-hour they came away with the ball at the toe, and
then, once within striking distance' the backs were let
loose, and by a piece of perfect Rugby, University scored
and converted. Glebe got a great rush on, but the
quicker University men broke away, always with the ball
at the toe, and another magnificent piece of combination
brought another try, which was converted. Glebe charged
en masse, and with such fury that the Uni was back on
its own line before it recovered itself ; but University,
kicking clear again, had the butchers in difficulties.
Hedley saved his side over and over again, but those
dribbling rushes came so fast and were so splendidly
executed that the man was overborne, and the collegians
scored another try, which, however, they failed to convert.
Glebe was defeated by 13 to nil.
Another match, which ended altogether un-
expectedly, was that between North Sydney (which had
the previous week downed Glebe) and Eastern Suburbs.
On paper North Sydney should have run over E.S., whose
case was considered quite hopeless, owing to the absence
of Stuntz, without whose aid Messenger is supposed to.
lose half his terrors. On the other hand, the Northmen,
early in the game lost their fine three-quarter, Hellmrich,.
who had to retire owing to injuries, and whose place was
taken by Morris—fresh from a sick bed. North made a,
great defence, hut the Eastern men scored a try in each
spell, both of which Messenger, whose kicking has gone
off, failed to convert. Eastern Suburbs won by six to nil.
South Sydney and Newtown put up a savage contest, in
which they seemed dead equal, the only score of the.
game being a try by half-back McCabe, of the South, ab-
solutely on his own. He picked up at half way, and ran
right through the opposing team. Owing to its crack
flyers being mostly on crutches, Western Suburbs made a
poor showing against Balmain, which won by 10 to six,
and should have done better.
The only other match was that between Sydney
and St. -George, won by the former (nine to nil) after a
struggle devoid of anything brilliant. Manly had the
bye, and put in the day by playing a drawn game with a
local team at Goulburn.
The sum total is that University is still at the
top of the poll with 10 points. South Sydney is second
with eight, and Eastern Suburbs third with seven. Glebe,
last year’s premier club, is down to fourth, with six
points, but as the club meets Manly the coming
Saturday, the downward progress has probably
stopped. The interest next Saturday will centre on
the match between Eastern Suburbs and University,
which provides an interesting study in “form.” North
Sydney defeated Glebe by eight to six, and Eastern
Suburbs, with one of its strong men absent, defeated
North Sydney by six points to nil. University beat Glebe
by 13 to nil, so should wallop Eastern Suburbs by five
points. See how it works out. That match will be worth
seeing. Eastern Suburbs’ weak spot will be the pack.
* * * *
Saturday’s football in Melbourne mostly pro-
vided exciting games, in both League and Association,
for the big crowds that turned up. Certainly South,
which seems to have acquired a thoroughly co-operative
team, had all the better of the argument with Carlton in
points, but it was the latter’s awful kicking that lost it
the game—it could only score five goals out of 21 shots,
whereas South raised the two flags nine times in 16 tries.
A most interesting game, with just a spice of roughness,
was fought to the very' sound of the bell by ’Wood and
Essendon. ’Wood commenced the last quarter with 4.7
to 3.4. At once the red-and-blacks rushed the ball down
and scored a clever goal. Again they passed the leather
along, and plugging away at the posts, notched two more
behinds. The Magpies were still a point to the good, but
that wasn’t enough. Passing the ball to one another in the
old systematic style, they got it within shooting distance,
and raised the two flags—but had no time for a breath
before Essendon scored another sixer, and again disaster
threatened. The Magpies set their teeth and waded in
for the goal that meant certainty, but could only get
two more behinds —three points ahead. There were five
minutes more of play when the ’Dons, spending their
last ounce, worked the ball round the Eastern wing and
marked at a close angle. The ball was high enough to
clear, but it hit the post—and the barrackers swore
something awful. ’Wood promptly came to the conclu-
sion that it wanted no more shocks of that sort, and,
passing the ball on determinedly, potted another goal
just as the bell rang, winning by 47 to 38. Saints v. ’Roy
was the exception to the close games, in that the former
gavg their opponents no chance from start to finish,
when the board showed 13 goals 9 behinds to 9 goals 10
behinds. Melbourne went to Geelong, and returned in
disorder, eight points to the bad.
• » * *
The half-score of League top-notchers whom
Essendon (Association) has seduced, failed to pull it
through against the concerted play of last year’s runners-
up—Footscray—and a huge crowd seemed mightily
pleased at the “noxious” suburb’s victory. It was a
violent struggle, with the ’bailers doing their con-
demnedest, and the crowd roaring itself hoarse right
up to the finish. A blow or two enlivened matters
inside the fence, and a fight or two outside.
The scores indicate the fierceness of the struggle—Half-
time : F., 20 points; E., 19. Three-quarters : F., 34; E.,
33. Finish : Footscray, 53 points ; Essendon, 52. North
v. Richmond was also a lively struggle, but the North
indulged its weakness for playing the man instead of the
ball beyond all reason, with the natural result—37 points
to Richmond’s 52. Preston put up an unexpectedly good
fight against ex-premiers West Melbourne, only seven
points separating them; while Prahran and Ports also gave
a big crowd as much excitement as was good for it—only
4 points separating them when they concluded the dis-
cussion. Already the casualty list grows lengthy. Satur-
day’s play added three more invalids—a Carlton recruit,
with a broken collar-bone ; a Brunswick forward, with a
forehead-cut that had to be stitched up ; and another
Brunswick man so seriously injured by a blow on the
head that at time of writing he was still in hospital,
unconscious.
• * • *
The Melbourne drapers have formed a football
association for the physical improvement of the young
man who wields the scissors and the tape-measure.
Buckley and Nunn are putting up a trophy for the boss
drapery club to hold and to have —the price of final
possession being three consecutive premierships. The
trophy is a pleasing thing—a silver challenge shield
mounted on oak, and surrounded by ten small shields,
likewise in silver.
■* • * *
In Australasia, Rugby football is now confined
to Queensland, Maoriland, and parts of N.S.W. The
other small patches do not count. For years, the
local referees have been building up a sort of Rugby com-
mon law in each of these sections, and the process has
now reached a stage at which it threatens to make three
different games. The thing that is perfectly legal and
smart play in Maoriland is an outrage in N.S.W., and an
abomination in Queensland, and vice versa. And the
lords of the game are alarmed. Something must be done
to check the process. So it is proposed that a conference
of referees from the three States shall meet and discuss
the best method for reducing the game to a common de-
nominator, after which the report will be submitted to
the various Unions for further discussion and sug-
gested improvements. The crack-brained idea of regard-
ing the English controlling body as the supreme head of the
game is dying fast. The blessed English body is too
haughty to live. South Africa, having suddenly irrupted
into the international Rugby firmament, will also probably
be invited to send delegates to the Conference, and the
outcome may be the creation of a supreme Rugby Board
of Appeal.
* * * *
The decline of hurdle racing was again evi-
denced by the appearance of only four starters at Rand-
wick on Saturday. The bait was £lOO, and the small
field showed conclusively what owners thought of it.
They are not going to train expensive horses for small
prizes, and that’s the sum total of it. The race itself was
a dreary business. Two fell, and the winner (Zillah)
cantered home with the best part of a furlong to spare.
By no stretch of the imagination can this be called sport.
Naturally, with such a small field, the betting was a farce.
Ten to 9 against Ryde, 2 to 1 Zillah, 6 to 1 Brownell, and
6 to 1 Surgeon 1 Only the man with whom the desire to
bet is a spinal disease fools away his money in a game
like that.
* * * *
S. A. Supreme Court has had to inquire into the
race which terminated Tom Wigley’s career as starter to
various S.A. racing clubs. There was a mix-up at Oak-
bank on Easter Monday, in which some horses raced the
whole course on a false start, and were, of course, dead
for all sporting purposes when the race proper started.
A Tattersall’s meeting at Morphettville, just after that,
began with exactly the same fiasco, after which Mr.
Wigley (who has had a successful and fairly long career
with the flag) declared that he would never officiate
again. The half-owner of Karl Dour, winner in the
“no race” this time, was brother to A. J. McLachlan,
a sporting lawyer (until lately O. C. Kingston’s part-
ner), and the Court was moved to give the stakes, and
incidentally a totalisator dividend, to Karl Dour—both
having, of course, been paid on Coronna, winner in the
race proper. Wigley generously offered to pay up him-
self if the case went against the club ; but, as nearly all
sportsmen foretold, the Court declined to interfere with
the stewards’ deliberate judgment. Godfrey Watson was
brought over from Melbourne to do the starting at the
Cup meeting.
* tr # *
Robert Waterman, who suicided at Broken Hill
recently at the age of 60, was a well-known Victorian
jockey in his youth. In 1861 he piloted George Watson’s
Palestine to victory in the Oaks at Flemington. In 1869
he won the Oaks on Kestrel for William Pearson, of Kil-
many Park, Gippsland. In 1866 he rode Exile, the winner
of the Ballarat Cup, owned by Mr. P. J. Keighran, and in
the following year rode the same horse for the Ballarat
Cup, and won. Exile dropped dead as it passed the
winning post. Some miscreant had poisoned the animal,
but it was fast and the poison was slow, and there are
hopes that the miscreant laid his all against it and was
ruined.
• * * »
Billiardist Inman, who came from England the
other week in advance of Stevenson, and is due in Mel-
bourne this week, has made a good start by beating
young Lindrum at Perth. With a start of 1200 in 3000,
boy Lindrum had all the best of the game on his points
until they neared the finish. Lindrum was 2321 to the
visitor’s 1542, when the final session began ; but the score
presently stood at “ 2727 all.” Then the youngster, play-
ing with good nerve, got a lead of 150, and was only 70
points from the winning post when Inman ran right out
with an unfinished break of 220.
The boxing tournament which opened at the
Melbourne Pavilion on May 20, drew an enormous crowd,
and provoked enthusiasm to correspond. The battles were
for distinct championships in light and middle-weight
divisions, with a £5O purse for each. The fighting, of
which there was “ slathers”—l2 battles in three hours—
demonstrated the great superiority of the small men of
the rising battalions, considered as boxers, for, while the
middles shaped badly, the light-weights never failed to
put up a decent scrap, with some show of skill and a great
display of fervor.
* * * *
The Mother-State suffered yet further un-
pleasantness at the hands of Victoria in the defeat of
Peter Kling, of Sydney, by Bill Lang, on Monday night.
The calamity occurred at the Athletic Pavilion (Melb.), and
resulted not only in the serious disfigurement of the
N.S.W. citizen, but also in the keeping of a purse of £l5O,
which otherwise must have found its way to Sydney, in
that capital city which is the temporary seat of the
Australian Government. Lang, who gave his \yeight as
12st. 13jrlb., was supported by Joe Stokesbury and Ted
Nelson; while 12st. 101 b. of Kling leant an aching
brow at various intervals in the conflict upon the
bosom of Hamilton (his trainer), and was otherwise
ministered to by Bert Perry. The commotion went
ten strenuous rounds, and was one of the goriest,
and hence most satisfactory, events of its kind seen in
recent years. Both contestants had damaged features
before the first gong sounded. Till the fifth round things
were even, Kling’s superior skill standing to him. From
here onward Lang’s determination began to tell, and by
the ninth round Kling was wilting visibly. In the tenth,
Lang sailed in to win, and with a heavy l.eft hook and
some other concussions he accomplished his purpose.
From a Sydneysider’s viewpoint, the affair smacked
rather of Victorian aggressiveness ; but, on the whole, it
was a fine and sporting exhibition.
* * *
Battling Nelson, the Amurkan bruiser, who
went to England with a great flourish of trumpets, is
back in the land of the Fried Nigger. He talked of
fighting an Englishman named J. Summers, but when he
found that they do not in England allow a man to butt
with his head, and back-bash with his elbows as they do
in Amurka, Nelson quietly packed his carpet-bag and
slipped back to New York. When he arrived there he
howled fiercely to Summers to come to Amurka and see
what a mess he, 8.N., would make of him, J.S., over
there. Summers is going.
• * * »
Tommy Burns, who is to fight Squires, is
evidently not regarded in his own land as anything very
terrible. They are putting poor old Bob Fitzsimmons,
the ex-Maorilander has-been, up against him for six
rounds in Philadelphia some time this year. Time is no
object to the Amurkan bruiser.
* * * *
Hackenschmidt’s popularity in Australia should
diminish considerably, in view of his assertion to the
American press that Bill Squires was afraid to meet
Gunner Moir, during the latter’s visit here as Hacken-
schmidt’s wrestling partner. According to appearances,
the matter was all the other way, for Gunner threw
all sorts of obstacles in the way of an early match, and
then refused to remain after Hackenschmidt’s departure,
even for the certainty of a big purse. Still, nobody who
met Gunner would accuse him of fear. His vanity is so
stupendous that he is afraid of nothing on earth. His
victory over Bill Smith —nothing to crow about, as
those who witnessed it know —was regarded by him
as proof of his superiority over anything in Australia.
“ Aw 1 ” Gunner would say, “ Oi beat Bill Smith, an’ ’e’s
the best foighter in Awstralier. Aw ! Oi beat Moike Wil-
liams afore Oi knoo aw ter foight! Aw ! ” Gunner’s
true worth was gauged by his unpleasantness with Felix.
Two rounds resulted in both falling, clean done. Gunner
was able to rise in Bsec. Felix took 12 ; and that differ-
ence of 4sec. represents the respective merits of the two
men. When Moir meets Bill Squires, and tries his rush-
ing tactics, he’ll probably never know what hit him till
his medical adviser breaks the news gently, an hour later.
* * * *
Some English writers have been passing a few
well-deserved remarks on the utter rottenness of the rule
under which a sculling champion like George Towns can
pass the championship of the world on to a practically
unknown fledgling like his brother Charles. In fact, as
things are now, a select ring of friends can go on passing
the championship of the world on indefinitely without
ever getting into a boat. George Towns forfeited to
brother Charlie ; some other blessed brother may chal-
lenge Charlie, and as there is no means of compelling
Charlie to row, he can forfeit to his other brother,
who can in his turn forfeit to one of his cronies. It
seems to be a solemn fact that in a family of eight or
ten males they might all be champion scullers in turn,
including the toothless grandfather and the bedridden
uncle.
* * * *
Although there was a lot of local enthusiasm
over the sculling match between Mesdames Hyde and
Woodbridge, at Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.) on Saturday,
most of it was of the non-paying order. It crowded the
banks instead of the steamers that followed the contest.
The two ladies held the double-sculls championship of
N.S.W. from August, 1906, to January of the present
year, and t£)e race on Saturday, which was for the ladies’
championship of the Hunter River and £lO a-side, was of
some slight interest as deciding which of them was Mrs.
Jonah in January’s downfall. After a couple of false
starts, Mrs. Hyde got away with a slight lead and settled
down to materially increase it. At the end of the first
100yds. she had widened the gap considerably. The rest
of the race was a series of more or less desperate efforts
on the part of Mrs. Woodbridge to overhaul the leader"
Mrs. Hyde was easily the better sculler, and paddled
home with a margin of 10 lengths.
* • « 9
The discovery that the Canadian team that will
tour Australia in a month’s time will play a match against
Sydney lacrossers has given the game an unusual zest.
Anything with an international twang about it draws the
public, and the result is that considerable crowds rolled
up on Saturday to see the local matches, of which that
between Mosman and Petersham was far and away the
jewel. The players were in good fettle, and played the
game in the best interpretation of the phrase. So vi»or-
ously did both sides defend that at half-time neither
had scored. The second half saw Mosman make a deter-
mined charge, which was repulsed, and Petersham looked
as if about to press its attack home. Before it got pro-
perly going, however, Mosman came again and scored
first blood. Tremendous cheering. Petersham made
the scores equal. Mosman scored again, but, after that,
the Petersham men improved their machine while the
waterside men lost theirs, and the remaining two goals
were gained by Petersham, which won by four to two.
At St. Luke’s Park the anything but formid-
able Balmain team ran over Waverley, winning by 14 to
two. It was a fast and eheerful scrimmage in which
every man played absolutely on his own during the first
half, but during the second spell the Balmain captain
spoke severely to his team, with the result that it was
reduced to something like discipline, and then the downfall
of Waverley commenced. North Sydney wiped the floor
with the crowd chosen by the Association to play the
team that had drawn the bye, the figures being seven to
five. Both sides showed good passing, and both shot
wretchedly, the extemporised team doing the worse of
the two. Practice matches for the match against the
Canadians will commence on June 3rd.
* * * *
One of the multitude of Rawson Cups being
contested for in and around Sydney found an abiding
place on Saturday last, when Ashfield bowlers decisively
defeated Petersham in the final of the competition there-
for on Randwick green. The previous week saw Petersham
down Chatswood on Marrickville green, and the winning
team on that occasion felt that it had more than Buckley’s
chance against the winners of the pennant. The final
was a great game, both teams showing splendid execu-
tion, and running neck and neck at the 24th head. Play
lasted right into the brief twilight, and Ashfield
apparently had the better sight, winning by a margin of
29, the scores being 101 to 72.
« * * *
Woolloomooloo first grade marbles competition
commenced on Saturday afternoon in perfect weather,
and in the presence of a large crowd of guttersnipes of
both sexes. Owing to the lack of enclosed spaces the
barrackers encroached on the rings, and the result was
slang and biff. In the big ring alley competition,
Porker Green led off for the Lanes push, knocking out
six in two shots. The conditions stipulated that shooters
should use only glassies, large alleys or agates, and when
it was discovered that Porker Green was using a blood
alley, the referee administered a caution, and said some-
thing about disqualification. Porker Green immediately
administered a hiding, and said a lot about “a cow.’’
The Fish Market push demanded that the six alleys be re-
stored to the ring, and upon the Lanes refusing, a general
scrap took place, in which the combatants raged over the
ground, and scattered the other competing teams.
When the referee had resigned and left (he threw
road metal at the competitors from a distance as he
retired) the rival captains constituted themselves a
Board of Appeal, and the game resumed, after Porker had
replaced the six alleys and the other side had agreed to
the whole of the Lanes push using his blood alley.
Porker again led off for the Lanes. But the scrap had
upset his nerve, and he only succeeded in knocking the
alleys to the edge of the ring, whence Ginger Smith
knocked out three. Billo Grummet was the second
Lanes shot, and he showed a very pretty turn of thumb,
getting two at the first try, and leaving another couple
right on the edge of the circle, where he had to knuckle
down. Failing to knock them out, he managed to hit
them back into the centre, but unfortunately left Porker
Green’s blood alley in the ring, where it, of course,
became the property of whoever could knock it out. Four
coal-heavers held the Porker while the alley was being
shot at by everybody, his own side included. Benno
Moses, using a big agate, biffed it within three inches
of the line, and Ginger Smith, with a lemonade
stopper, knocked it right out. Porker resumed
with another lemonade stopper, and got two of
the remaining seven alleys. This left the Fish
Market only one behind and Benno’s shot. He
managed to equalise things by knocking out another.
Porker Green and Billo Grummet removed their waist-
coats and breathed on their thumbs, while Ginger Smith
and Benno Moses took off their shirts and prayed silently.
Porker got two more, and called for a “ wet ” to keep him
up, after whichhe “finnicked” in a most glaring manner.
Before the Fish Market could appeal it was seen that he
had knocked an alley right out and left a new' blood-
alley, whichhe had obtained from somew'here, spinning in
the alley’s place. Wild applause from the Fish Market.
Ginger got it the next shot, and followed up by appropri-
ating two more alley's. ‘ This made the Fish Market a
sure winner, and although Billo got the last alley easily
enough, all interest in the game had vanished. Fish
Market is now leading the competition with two points,
the Lanes being at the bottom of the list with a round
nought.
9 * • *
What arrant humbugs these show athletes are!
Hackenschmidt is going round London now skiting that
he has “earned a rest,” and accusing the public of down-
right cruelty to animr’s by insisting that he should go on
showing his biceps and bumping other men on the tops
of their heads. How and when the public insisted on
any such thing Hacky did not mention. Anyone hearing
of a wild demand on the part of an excited crowd that
Hack should stay on the stage five minutes longer is in-
vited to communicate with this office.
* ■* * *
Authoritative announcement by Mr. Jim
Jeffries in the Yankee sporting press : “ I’m not busted.
I have a valuable farm, a good town house, and a bank
account that looks like plenty of ‘ rest ’ tome. Pve quit
the ring, and couldn’t be dragged into a fight with any
of the present bunch of near champions. I’ll never fight
a dinge. I’m a rube now, and proud of it. All I want ia
to be let alone and grow me own alfalfa.” So there now I


Notice to Canecutters
IT having been decided at a public meeting
of cane-growers of the Richmond River,
held at Warded, on Saturday, the l«)th ult., to
increase the price of cane-cutting, the following
prices will be paid for cutting on the Richmond
River in the coming season, commencing the
28th June :
Trashed Cane on Flats 2s. 9d. per ton, on Hills
3s. per ton. For untrashed cane on Flats
2s. 9d. to 4s. 9d. per ton, on Hills 3s. to ss.
per ton. A bonus of 10 per cent, will be
paid to Cutters on satisfactory completion of
the season.
Note.—ln addition, camping equipment, &c.,
will be supplied as heretofore.
T. F. O’CONNOR, Hon. Sec.
N.S.W. Sugar Defence League.
THE CYCLIST
who would enjoy to the full that
down-hill spin, should test
The Hyde Free Wheel
It has been aptly called the
“Free-est of all Free Wheels,”
and it has well earned that des-
cription from the fact that,
apart altogether from its other
excellent qualities, the special-
ised process of grinding the bear-
ings, and the method of dividing
the balls have entirely eliminated
friction.
“It toils not, but it spins **
Ask your Dealer or write for
latest Art Booklet, Dept. A
BADIE MFG. CO. LTD.
4 Stock Exchange
Buildings,
Collins St.,
Melbourne
m
Works : Rkdditch, Eng.
£BOO
FOR NOTHING,
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £BOO to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Scamp
Merchant, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Send
for his free Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some? Hunt them up at
once—they are worth money.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM THOMAS McKENZIE, late
of Balranald, N.S.W., write Mrs. John
McKenzie, care Nurse Stewart’s Private
Hospital, West Midland Junction West
Australia.
EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN. Wanted
the address of above, or if dead, certificate
of death. Age 56, height 5 ft. 11 in. Lost sight
right eye. Born at Irthlingborough, England.
Reward of £2O for correct information dead or
alive. Apply to SHARMAN, JACKSON and
ARCHER, Solicitors, Wellingborough, England.
Tenders.
Great Cobar Limited.
TENDERS are required for the supply of
STORES to the properties of Great Cobar
Limited, for the twelve months ending 30th June,
1908. Schedule of estimated Stores required may
be had on application to Works Office, Lithgow.
Tenders close 14th JUNE, 1907. The lowest or
any tender not necessarily accepted.
G. H. BLAKEMORE, General Manager.
EDISON!
That’s the Name.
Throughout the civilised world Mr. Edison
is famous as the foremost inventor, and lie has
devoted 30 years to improving the genuine
EDISON PHONOGRAPH
And Cold-Moulded Records.
The fact that a re-production of his signa-
ture like this
TRADE
/ Q/ £diAOTU>
MARK.
is used as a trade mark is sure evidence of
what he thinks of this particular invention.
When you buy a phonograph or gold-
moulded records, look for the signature on
each, and don’t be tempted to accept some-
thing said to be “ just-as-good”—offered you
for the sake of greater profit.
Write us and we will send you the latest
books and other printed matter, free of charge.
National Phonograph Go.
of Australia Ltd.,
DEPT. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
I*
m
m
m
THE GOLDEN KING,
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
/ guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course ..
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
# do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
BanKers
Victoria and Royal Ban Ks.
Telegraph or* write for all Sporting
Information. Sufficient Address.
Barney Allen,
MELBOURNE.
KUGELMANN’S
&
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FR.EE
SAMPLE
sent on
R.eceipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
.JFUMIGO...
This is an exquisite aromatic for burning
in sick rooms, imparting thereto a delight-
ful odor. It is very economical in use, for
a Is. Bottle will last for months.
PRICE, Is. PER BOTTLE.
Double Size, Is. 9d.
If unobtainable locally send price, together with
the name and address of your chemist, to
BLOGG BROTHERS,
24-38 Spencer-St., MELBOURNE,
who will see that you are supplied.
N.B.—Free sample sent for Id. stamp, any State.
A crank, signing himself “Patriot,” wrote
to the Sydney Morning Herald last week,
demanding that Premier Carruthers should take
a firm stand against the “pernicious influence of
Victorian vampirism.” The poor fellow was
evidently under the impression that the average
Victorian jumps from his bed at midnight, and
becomes a sort of bat, with immense wings, on
which he flies across the Murray to suck blood
from persons sleeping on the Riverina side. This
isa specimen of the ideas that come to weak-minded
individuals when Carruthers and his kind get
working them up with comic opera tales of woe.
A fine crop of lunacy is in preparation, and
“ Parochial Mania ” may yet be a recognised form
of dementia, just like the religious article.
From a Queensland politijian :
There is hell (plain and unadulterated) to pay over the
postal ballot system. It smells like a boiling-down estab-
lishment. The honorary J.P. is at the bottom of the
whole trouble. The postal ballot-paper must be signed
in the presence of a J.P., postmaster, or other official.
The J’s.P. mostly resolved themselves into active can-
vassers for the candidates, and as a huge proportion of
the J’s.P. are boodlers and Tories, corruption was ram-
pant. My sister-in-law voted by post, and the J.P. who
put the business through openly barracked the while
for the Philp candidate. The first dead smell went up
when it was ascertained that the postal votes right
through the State were almost all Philp votes. Accord-
ing to the Act, the elector must sign the ballot-paper in
the presence of the J.P. (who must not, however, see how
the elector votes). But not only did he see how the elector
voted in most cases, but in very many he is credited with
having filled in the paper and also voted for the postal
elector (generally a woman). Paid canvassers drove J’s.P.
around the city in cabs, fixing up votes as they went
along, and the trail of the J.P. is over the whole business.
On the other hand, the Federal postal ballot system
worked splendidly, and not one whisper of corruption
was heard. Kidston has promised a drastic inquiry into
the whole business. Voting by post was intended for
those absolutely unable to attend at a polling booth. But
thousands used the vote when they were quite
able to go to a polling place. Charters Towers
records show 8000 votes polled, and 1800 of these
were postal votes. The primary votes gave the
Labor members a handsome majority of about 600.
The Opposition secured 1200 of the postal votes, and
went in flying. A curious and significant incident of the
Towers election was that Philp received (and had the
amazing folly to publish) a telegram after the first
count. This advised that the postal votes would win the
seats for the Tories. They knew, and Philp gave away the
fact.
am downo.
W. E. Beanham s&f
-*T.-«r miv .Lts, |l| j iJIUVS% .„
« e i^
?^ri'4£r£r—^
c 7 A-6
■'•**. yK-v
'f ■ Y ' "
Tjf, <<— y
d^sm^
J.
4<* ii
*!*-*—& h—u^£
Are so Popular* with
Cyclists in Australasia.
Over 240,000 made c- sold in Australasia Annually.


A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s (id,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s (id,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER. 255.
All Guaranteed.
TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisiactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
O-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, £7
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
IS-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, SOs,
40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
SOLID
GOLD
£3.
I*o.*
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires* £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Flora] Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds. • £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT
set pearls and turquoise
3os. Others £2, £2 10e
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-et. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
ENGAGEMENT
RlNGS..—sa9t^
These illustrations reveal some of the very
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and
Rubies
Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£lO
or Sapphires, £lO
Emerald Centre
£l2 10s.
£l2/10
A. SAUNDERS/>
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£B/10
£l2/10
or Sapphires £8 10s.
AH Diamonds £l2 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and; Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s Od, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-et. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
Keyless
Lever,
20/-.
/
\
BAtTNDLER.B
s
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong -
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
Extra
QuaXity,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
DdL Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2 .
m m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting' Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
5s, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£10, £12 10s, £15, £20, £25, to £50
Guaranteed for 3, 4, 5, and 6 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
£im
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


mmm
i': ,
■
v |:
■
..."
I
<J*P
- - -< w '
is
'%***
/
.
V£
•cm
r jUIW
*r «**• «r
mwm
m m
-■™
«• .
mm
Br>V**s»
■
SOI*
■ ■ mH
** ■' • * Jg|g
*3
I
mm
p
fr Jfeifi
;
a# i %
, 1 k 2£Z >
m
6 jm-
A
i pjw^
tv
m
as*
,*■
IS
m
* •„
■
#‘§
.
Jr' M
i /
i
>*
;j*c 'S'*-
mm
:im-
*#
Sfc
*
M
fH
+1 »
* ; / »✓
'W * * <i
I
I
-■
%*#
If
'
R
#*
'
K*%
. .
r
* ' •
• SSS'SJfc.::
- ’V; :
.
■
■
• ■*. •• ~
■
TU . _ n sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia, and
no be«er brand than the THREE CASTLES. ”


It is interesting to note that that beastly
Socialistic law, the Secret Commissions Act, has
its counterpart in England in an Act which came
™to force with the New Year. Only in England
there is no mincing matters about the name. It
is bluntly entitled the Corruption Act.
Amusements.
14 ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ * Under ! the;,direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SEVENTY-SIXTH PERFORMANCE IN SYDNEY, and
LAST NIGHTS of
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
. for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
criterion theat r e 7 sydn e y.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musorove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. fid., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
Business Manager ALEC VERNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 1,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including the Charming Young Australienne,
MIS i BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
Presenting the Up-to-date Mining Drama,
THE COAL KING,
Written by Ernest Martin and Fewlass Llewellyn.
THE GREAT MINE SCENE,
THE WORKING CAGE,
THE ENTOMBED MINERS,
THE RESCUE.
ONLY “ COAL KING” MATINEE— MONDAY, JUNE 3.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. Early Doors 6d extra.
H E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
§T. JAM E S’ H ALL, SYDNEY.
JUNE 4th, fith, Bth,
Mr. A. BERTRAM FLOHM will introduce his prot^giSs,
LITTLE ELSIE KINGWELL
AND
LITTLE MARY KINGWELL,
Two Exceptionally Gifted Child-Prodigy Actresses.
Plan at Paling’s. Admission—3s., 25., Is.
Under the Distinguished Patronage of Her
Excellency Lady Northcote.
Also of His Excellency Sir Harry Rawson and
Miss Rawson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 1,
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 1,
Y.M.C.A. HALL, PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THE IDEAL “ CARMEN,”
THE IDEAL “CARMEN,”
MADAME AGNES JANSON
MADAME AGNES JANSON
Assisted by
11 M. HENRY STAELL,” Soli Violinist and
String Quartette.
Plan at Paling’s. ss, 3s, 2s.
Both 5s and 3s Seats may be Reserved.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
■fOURING QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
EXHIBITION HALL, BRISBANE—JUNE Ist and 3rd.
Amusements.
J. and N. TAIT.
J)IRECTION OF
THE BOOM OF 1907,
THE ROYAL
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN
BAND
WILL PERFORM AT
Newcastle— THUßSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY.
Sydney Cricket Ground— MONDAY, JUNE 3.
Maitland— TUESDAY, JUNE 4.
Tamworth—WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5.
ArmidaIe—THURSDAY, JUNE 6.
Later Fixtures will be Announced.
A REMARKABLE SUCCESS EVERYWHERE.
F. S. STETSON, Manager.
TLY 9, L 1 • THEATRE, SYDNEY
bole Proprietor & Manajrer— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of TEOHOW’S CATS.
Immense Success of MISS RIJOU RUSSELL.
Great Success of EMIL AMIEL, World’s Leading - Flexible
Equilibrist and Most Marvellous Bender.
THE FOUR ROSEBUDS, THE DRISCOLLS.
THE BICIvNELLS, Musical Sketch Artists.
Master JOSEPH DEWIIURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
LES WHARTON. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE SVENGALIS in the Most Sensational, Inexplicable,
Mystifying - Entertainment ever shown.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plays.
FRED BLUETT, Australian Comedian.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
Plan at Allan’s. £3" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 1,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC CO., headed by
MR. CHARLES WALDRON and
MISS OLGA HUMPHRIES
—in—
THE VIRGINIAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR OF
MADAME TERESA
CAEBEHO,
The Celebrated Pianist,
GEELONG, JUNE 3. BALLARAT, JUNE 4.
SYDNEY, JUNE 8.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—6s., 45., 35., 2s.
Direction BENNO SCHERER.
I\I EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
JOWH HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
MARIE HALL,
THE YOUNG ENGLISH VIOLINIST.
FIRST CONCERT, SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 1.
Also, TUESDAY, JUNE 4, THURSDAY, JUNE 6,
SATURDAY, JUNE 8.
REMEMBER ! FOUR CONCERTS ONLY !
PRICES —6s, 4s, 3s 2s. Plan at Allan’s.
ICE SKATING.
THE FAVORITE WINTER PASTIME.
THE GLACJIARIUM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
OPEN DAILY.
GRAND POSTER CARNIVAL—
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, at 8 p.m.
The Wonderful Majestic
Phonograph & 6 Records
20/- Post Free.
o
NEVER before has such a Phono-
graph offer been made at the
price. The “ Majestic ”is a
wonderful instrument—it plays—
talks laughs sings, and gives
splendid results. Nothing to get
out of order—and is so easy to
work that a child could handle it.
We have over 20,000 Records of
Songs, Rand Pieces, Operatic
Selections, etc., etc., from which
you can make your selection.
The Majestic Phonograph and 6 Standard
Size Records Sent Free Anywhere for 20/-.
Write for Lists of Records and
Catalog's of Instruments:. . . .
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., My Opticians,
Imp " rt S'i, P K H IS;S‘ iAPMS 393 George St., SYDNEY.
Hi
■;;
J3B
811111
8
eKSSSS)
.
88 G®
SiiraffiS
H
SB
BKMZ
ss■?£
|^»r
Hi
Wm
. u ■. '.’ • 4 |* ’ - ||||pfy||§|&§C
HHnr
m
|. | gsalgS§g|j sBa|®s3|
steg
$. '■
HBB
m
SIMM
ic-J>
&
am
ilfttl
,vrf
§n
w;
1
?«TOTOate»i6fl
HU
Hi ■
HUM
: - ■■■-. v,
CONTENTS.
David Syme ( Frontispiece) —a Photographic Study
David Syme—An Appreciation - ■ • ... . . .
The Axeman—Verse ---------- By A.B.C.
Two Battlers and a Bear—(with Pictures by “ Hop ”) - - By Edward Dyson
The Overlander—A Pictorial Study By George Lambert
The Bar of Victoria—(with Photographs) By Philip A. Jacobs
All Flesh is Grass—Verse - By Dexter
A Story in Pictures—(A “Doggy” Series) By Norman Lindsay
Widening the Horizon—(lllustrations by Alex. Sass) - - - By Ethel Turner
Literary Life in Paris - - - - - ■ - - - By Henri Feme
Sub Rosa—Verse ----- Written and- Lllusirated by Alice J. Muskett
The Mean Hound—A Quaint Rhyme (with one Quaint Dog Picture) - By “Kodak”
An Australian Whaling Station—(lllustrations by Harry J. Weston)
By Albert Dorrington
A Bridal Song—Verse -------- - By Crawford
The March of Science—Drawing - - - - ' -
A Job for the Parson—Story (Illustrations by Harry J. Weston)
By Norman Lindsay
By G. B. Lancaster
- By Mick Paul
By 1 ‘ Aqua Fort is ”
By E. Dyson
By Roderic Quinn
Artists and their Art—Norman Lindsay - - -
On Etching—(with Some Notable Etchings) -
Scientific Selection—Verselet
On the River—Verse (Illustrated by Percy Spence)
The Genesis of “The Bulletin ”—(with Illustrations from the Drawings of Phil May)
By J. F. Archibald
Someone Else—Verse - By M. Forrest
The Poor Poet—(Picture by B. E. Minns) —with Verse By Victor Daley
A Book of Old Menus—(with Photographic Reproductions) - By J. B. Dailey
Job Verse - -- -- -- -- -- By Furnley Maurice
My Mate—(A Drawing by Frank Mahony)—with Verse By Claude Jewell
A Study in Martyrdom—(with Decoration by D. Souter) - - - By “ F.R.”
Our Exiled Artists
Loneliness—(A Drawing by F. Rodway)—with Verse - - By Arthur H. Adams
The Secrets of a Prime Minister—(with Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay) - Anon
She Trips Across the Street—Verse (Illustrated by G. W. Lambert) -
Editorial
Miss Nellie Stewart -------- - By Beatrix Tracey
A Triolet - -- -- -- -- -- Whitney
For the Public Good —A Series of Exposures : (a) The Religious Press —an Indictment;
(b) Headache Cures
Parks and Open Places - - -ByJ D. Fitzgerald
The Arab Horse -------- gy sir James Penn Boucaut
PAGE
117
120
121
128
129
132
133
134
140
144
*45
146
149
150
151
155
156
161
162
The Australian Navy
Scattered Lyrics
Boy and Man
Critics and Criticism
The Skirt Dancer - -
Life’s I. O. U.—(with Illustrations by Enes) -
Author and Actor-Manager
National Opera
Some London Chat
Shakespeare’s Stage Furnishings
Fremiet’s “Gorilla and Woman ” —(with Four Illustrations)
Unhappiness—(Humorous Drawing) -
The Hypocrites
The Judicious Thief
By C. A. Jeffries
By Enid Derham
By Furnley Maurice
By Norman Lilley
By D. Souter
By “ HAbeille”
By ‘ ‘ Stargazer ”
- By “ Durand ”
By “ Leslie Willis ”
By Blamire Young
By B. E. Minns
By W. H. Ogilvie
163
166
167
168
173
174
175
176
177
178
184
185
188
189
190
196
202
206
213
216
217
218 ■
219
221
223
224
225
226
230
231
SUBSCRIBE NOW
12s. per annum, post free.
THE LONE HAND,
214 George Street, Sydney.


SEALE
lak in
PIANOS
UNSURPASSABLE QUALITY.
Soi
* ; ;rr\
>s
sit? <
w
? *
£332
SK
25*
HI
s
. %
■"■:v v,-:-;.?
-
;„..; ' ■ •
/. -
r?. =h->
*.. •• •,/.'
• ■ ■■ . ■
••■ . ; - ";■ ,
• ; ..... - :...-!
-/V>«r
Beale Australian Piano
in Renaissance style, built by us throughout in our own Factories at Annandale, to our own original
designs. We make every detail, including the candelabra, handles, and castors, and thus obtain complete
control of the quality, materials, and workmanship. With Beale-Vader Patent Steel Tuning System,
patented cross-plied woodwork, patent hexagonal bass-strings. Guaranteed to stand all climates.
IN tone, in touch, in tune, in design, in woodwork, metalwork, frame, tuning system, carvings, action, felt, glue, castors, sconces, strings, polish—in every
detail of material, of workmanship, and of system of manufacture, in every attribute, the Beale Australian Pianos are of unsurpassable quality. They are
built throughout on the most up-to-date scientific principles, by thoroughly competent workmen, guided by experienced management. They contain
features which cannot be obtained in any other pianos—patented steel tuning-system, patented cross-plied woodwork, patented hexagonal bass-strings,
patented cast-in hitch pins. The system of manufacture in many respects is far ahead of the practice of the piano makers of Great Britain, Europe, and
America, and in every other respect it is equal. The quality of the materials is the best that money can buy. Then how can there be any better pianos 1
The demonstrable fact is that there are no pianos—German, English, French, American, or any other—even equal to the Beale Australian Pianos. We do not
claim that there are no other high-grade pianos, but we do most emphatically assert that the Beale Pianos, by reason of our patented inventions and our
improved systems of manufacture, are superior to all others, good as some of those others undoubtedly are. Come and see them for yourself. Write for
Catalogue and Circulars. Compare them with all the other pianos you know, see which is superior—and you will decide to buy a Beale.
Cash or Easy Terms Anywhere.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth
BEALE and CO., Limited,
474 George Street, Sydney
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
28 Hunter Street, Newcastle
24 Bridge Street, Ballarat
George Street, Batburst
Mitchell Street, Bendigo
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide
615 Hay Street, Perth
101 Brisbane Street, Launceston
THREE TIMES AS MANY BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS ARE SOLD YEARLY IN AUSTRALIA AS OE ANY
OTHER MAKE. THEY ARE SOLD DIRECT EROM FACTORY TO USER—NO MIDDLEMEN.


PIECE OF BEEF
Suffered For Three Years With
Itching Humour—Doctor Did No
Good—Cruiser Newark, U. S. N.
Man Cured in Three Weeks.
SPEEDY CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
**l suffered with humour for about
three years, off and on. I finally saw
a doctor and he gave me remedies that
did me no good,
so I tried Cuticura
when my limb be-
low the knee to the
ankle was as raw
as a piece of beef.
All I used was the
Cuticura Soap and
the Ointment. I
bathed with the
Soap every day and used about six
or seven boxes of Ointment. I was
thoroughly cured of the humour in three
weeks and haven’t been affected with
it since. I use no other Soap than
Cuticura now. I remain, yours respect-
fully, H. J. Myers, U. S. N., U. S. S.
Newark, New York, July 8, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N.S.W.
$
CUTICURA GROWS HAIR
Crusted Scalps Cleansed and
Purified by Cuticura Soap
Assisted by light dressings of Cuticura
Ointment, the great Skin Cure. This
treatment at once stops falling hair, re-
moves crusts, scales, and dandruff, de-
stroys hair parasites, soothes irritated,
itching surfaces,, stimulates the hair fol-
licles, loosens the scalp skin, supplies the
roots with energy and nourishment, and
makes the hai r grow upon a sweet,whole-
some, healthy scalp when all else fails.
Complete external and internal treat-
ment for every humour, from pimples to
scrofula, from infancy to age, consisting
of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills,
may new be had of all druggists. A
single set is often sufficient to cure the
most distressing cases.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate
Coated, in vial of 60), are sold throughout the world.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
Send for “ The Great Humour Cure.”
Address, B. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
LiLs-fcata
Ljxats—
Up-to-date Office Systems
ihake Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers,
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-.
her over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
lias it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon,
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UN3HRWQ3D “VISIBLE’’
BILLING TYPiWRITEB,
fOIIN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sot,K AI'.STUAIiIAN AaUXT WABASH SYSTEMS.
GOES LIKE SIXTY
SELLS LIKE SIXTY
SELLS FOR SIXTY
$65
GILSON
GASOLENE
ENGINE
For Pumping, Cream
Separators, Chums, Wash Ma-
chines, etc. FREE TRIAL
Ask for catalog-all sizes
QILSON mfg. co. ltd. Sept, i., Guelph, Ontaria
ĸ
1 THE 1111
CYCLE TEN
YEARS OLD!
Many Cyclists have told
us that they ride machines
built ten years ago with
B.S. A. Fittings
which are none the worse for wear.
The REASON WHY
fs to be found in the B.S.A.
HANDBOOK. Post Free.
Jlppl}) to H. E. Wooton, 46, Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne, representing
Scholefield, Goodman & Sons.
105,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia lauj.it u ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
m
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE'
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, ckanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
ALIFOpm
YRUP orfr|©S
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indiges’ion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
|
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE-*
''SSTIIl l UMlliUl.^Lm!Llliiiimi; m
r
FREE.W
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES*
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, !)d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE-
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
Our Booklet, “Shoelight,” that illus-
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
k
EEEMING’S BOOT Storeo
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 C iAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
!>.
m
8
mm
ffiii
S§
SB
r*
timmssa.
(jiVLN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
OIA the Bunch
P"St free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black <"ip- ed
with w
Illustrated Price
List Post Free.
Pale Blue Bead Necklets //-, Post
Free.
The very Newest Winter Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
Write early if you wish to secure one.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney,
[Mem,ion The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals
Works c Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Al'ention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Business, Robbery, etc.
No wonder the Melbourne clerk begins to
writhe under the screw, and to make one of his spasmodic
attempts at bettering his condition. Two Melbourne
city men who lately advertised, one for a clerk, the'other
for a typist, received dozens' of replies, and 20 per cent,
of the applicants offered to work for ss. a week ! Many
even offered to work for nothing for a while “ to get
office experience,” and nearly all held medals, speed
certificates, and splendid recommendations from “ busi-
ness colleges ” in some part of, Australia. These colleges
mostly promise “lucrative positions ” to - those who take
a £J 3s. or To ss. course, but when the pupil offers to
work three months for nothing, it looks as though some-
thing has gone wrong with the promise.
• * • •
1 hough S. Australia has more charities and
“ lodges ” and funds and societies to the avoirdupois
pound of its population than any other part of the Com-
monwealth, its one ewe bank, the Bank of Adelaide
■ that is, leaving the State Bank out of the question—
doesn’t own such a thing as a provident fund for its staff.
For nearly 20 years the thing has been mentioned in
whispers, but it never got any forrarder until somebody
found the ear of A. M. Simpson, one of the biggest share-
holders in the bank. It was a good ear to get hold of, for
A. M. Simpson is a curious mixture of hardware merchant
and philanthropist—a man who can take a keen interest
in the State Bank, and, at the same time, be chairman of
some of Adelaide’s lately unlamented tram companies,
and many other dividend-grubbers ; a man who, though he
can scent a sovereign as well as anybody, yet because he
didn’t believe in pay ment of members handed over all his
Parliamentary screw for the encouragement of rifle-shoot-
ing among the Defence force. He talked about the
provident fund in a fatherly way to the directors 12
months ago, and the slaff reckoned that something might
come of it with an increased dividend on the cards ; but
nothing did come of it. This year the champion got as
far as tabling a motion ; but the directors staved him off
with a promise to thir.k hard over the matter straight
away. So the staff still has its hopes.
» * * *
“The Rat”: Every N.S.W. shire council is
compelled to buy a heavy iron safe for the storage of
account books and useless departmental circulars ; so a
Sydney foundry launched a sample on the market at £25
less than the imported article of the same bulk. Nearly
every shire looked askance at the local article, because it
was cheap, and because it was Australian ; and, as nearly
every councillor had a bank-manager friend who recom-
mended Blubb’s, or Stubb’s, or Grubb’s, or someone else’s
patent as being good because it was English, the Aus-
tralian manufacturer wasn’t considered, and his price-
list was lost or burnt. The YVallarobba Shire (Dungog)
was divided over the matter, and it was left to the presi-
dent. He was an ardent Protectionist and a champion
of Australia, but the bank-manager influence prevailed,
and he ordered a Scrubb’s, or Dubb’s, or Itubb’s, or some-
one’s safe at £65. Do these bank managers get any com-
mission for pushing the imported article ?
o'* * *
“ Spring ”: Undoubtedly the modern advertise-
ment is worth studying. One in the Sydney Herald
recently started off with a spirited defence of the Aus-
tralian accent, gradually got quite profound, and finished
up by introducing our special line of ladies—ahems 1 ”
(The bold ad, didn’t say “ Aherns.”) Then it contributed
the following puzzle “S. 4/3, W. 4/6, L. 5/-, O.S. 5/6,
E.O.S. 6/,.” I got a bit bashful here, and thought I had
discovered something that ought not to be inquired into
by mere man. Afterwards, I found out that “ S.”
signifies small women’s—ahems ! “ W.,” women’s—ahems !
“ L.”, large—ahems ! “ 0.5.”, out-sizes in ahems !
“ E. 0.5.”, extra out-sizes in—ahems ! Extra out-sizes in
—ahems / Gee ! It must take yards, and yards, and
yards of cloth to make these —ahems !
* * *
“Polstan”: Yic. railways have an admirable
system of charging freights. For instance, all trucks of
grain are weighed on their arrival at the metropolis, the
tare deducted, and the freight charged upon the weight'as
it is then shown. So far, so good. But the railway
weighs its old truck once a year, and paints the tare on
the side. Perhaps a week after the weighing it gets a
new floor, or new sides, and a cwt. or so of paint. Then,
for a whole year, the public pays freight on all that extra
paint and redgum, and everyone is satisfied —especially
the railways. Or else the truck isn’t clean when loaded,
and contains a bushel or so of dire, and the unfortunate
merchant pays freight on the dirt, and when railway
weights are to be taken according to a grain transaction
stipulation, he also pays the farmer three bob a bushel
for the dirt, which pleases the farmer very much and
encourages him to put a little road metal On the floor of
the next truck he loads.
* * * *
An ordinary four-legged lorry-horse, living at
Maryborough (Q.), the other day preached a good
eloquent sermon in favor of using Australian materials
for street verandah posts and balcony supports. Jerking
his vehicle on one side he snapped off with a wheel one
spindly cast-iron affair that was propping up a roof, and
then, one after another, eleven more of the ornamental
spindles snapped on account of the little jar that the
first smash gave them. They were all imported.
* * * *
This is a “specialising” age!. A wine and
spirit traveller recently told Preston (Eng.) Bankruptcy
Court that the “special” Scotch whiskies now on the
market numbered over 500 ! He didn’t mention the
“ extra specials,” probably being too exhausted to count
further.
* * * *
It transpired in the course of a maintenance
case in Melbourne lately that the defend nt husband was
the licensee of a city hotel. He was put in by a brewery,
and got 15s. a week and the keep of himself and his little
boy. “ Fifteen shillings a week and found ”as licensee—
hardly tlfe wages of a boots or a third-rate barman ! Who
wouldn’t be a bloated Bung 1
* * » *
“J.R,”: Despite all that has been said to the
contrary, an enquiry into the methods of certain “ busi-
ness schools” would be a big surprise to the public.
Intending pupils are assured before parting with their
money (and they generally have to spend from five to
twenty guineas) that a situation will be provided for
them at the end of their course. This is the alluring bait
that acts as a splendid money-dragger. Business men
know only too well that in very many cases this promise
is never carried out. Here is one instance. A girl, who
was a successful student at one of these places, and who
was the holder of numerous certificates from the “col-
lege ” as to competency in both shorthand and type-
writing, asked the establishment to fulfil the promise
and secure her a situation. “Let me see,” said Mr. Artful
Manager, “we have a splendid situation open in the
backblocks at 17s. 6d. a week. Would that suit you V ”
Before he spoke he knew full well it wouldn’t. “Of
course,” he added, “if you had only gone through our
bookkeeping course’’(more guineas) “ I could get you a
situation at So-and-So’s in the city.” In the end the girl
got a situation in the “ college ” office at ss. per week.
That was the “ college’s ” estimate of her worth after
over 12 months’ tuition, and the spending of a consider-
able sum of mone.v in fees. It is only one car* iti many.
Any' number of bright and intelligent girls, after wasting
long periods and having good sums of money spent on
their behalf by parents who can ill afford it, have not
been able to secure situations, or have had to be content
with ss. or so a week. It is manifestly absurd for any
“ college ” to guarantee a situation to intending students,
and this system of baited advertisements should not be
tolerated.
• * * •
“Stony”: The modern Squeers or Squeersess,
although not allowed to provide long-dead horse as food
for the pupils, often carries the habit of economy to a
point at which it becomes a vice. The yarn of a siushy,
who lately toiled at one of Sydbourne’s large girl-colleges
—kept going on the “ scones and skim-milk ” plan—rims
disagreeably : There is a hard-faced housekeeper em-
ployed at the brain emporium, a dame who personally
supervises the disposition of the carrot-scrapings, and
who measures out the tea and sugar, and generally has a
fussy finger in every pie. One day, Mrs. Housekeeper
came in with a bundle of dirty dishcloths and dusters.
There was a pot on the hob, simmering. Mrs. H. took
this for hot water, and put the cloths in it. The kitchen
slushy' saw what had happened, and exclaimed, in alarm,
that the pot contained soup! Mrs. 11. simply took the
goods out, and told Jane Blush to say nothing about the
matter. The soup was duly served to a crowd of
boarders, but unfortunately the story leaked out, and
Jane Blush got the sack, and two of the boarders were
taken away by frenzied parents, and other things hap-
pened.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
“ H.” writes :
Isn’t it about time somebody blew out the jiu-jitsu
fallacy? Ever since the Bear-Monkey war (the Bunkey
war for short), European countries have been flooded
with reams of fulsome twaddle from dilettante
athletic experts on the marvellous form of physical
culture which Japan has developed, and many per-
sobs have taken these stories so seriously that a demand
is heard that jiu-jitsu should be substituted for the
panics and gymnastics of Western civilisations as a means
of building up a strong race of hoys and girls. To start
with, jiu-jitsu isn’t in any way suitable for physical cul-
ture purposes. It is an art, pure arid simple. Its very
essentials are that it enables the weaklings who know
it to defeat the strong who do not —not by becom-
ing strong also, but by acquiring certain tricks.
All that is done by the learning of jiu-jitsu is to acquire
the art. In no other form of sport—if this he termed
a sport—is there less of the muscular exertion which
forms the basis of all physical culture. For all the
practical purposes of developing a hardy frame, a man
might as well play bridge or billiards. Considered as a
sport, jiu-jitsu is even more of a fraud than when regarded
as a form of physical culture. The wonderful originality
claimed for it is non-existent, when it is coldly examined.
The only point in which jiu-jitsu differs from ordinary
European wrestling is that it includes a vast number of
the elements of wilful murder, which the European gradu-
ally eliminated as he learned to walk upright and eat out
of a plate. Were it possible to exhibit a biograph picture
of a wrestling match in the stone age, it would be so like
jiu-jitsu that nothing but the white skins of the com-
batants would show the difference. Practically, jiu-jitsu
is old English wrestling plus push fighting, the combina-
tion being raised to an exact science. In all probability
the white races would have raised it as high, or higher,
only for the existence of a prejudice against homicide and
maiming that prevented its exponents developing their
ideas to the fullest extent. The Rocks and Liver pushes
of Sydney practised jiu-jitsu extensively twenty years
ago, hut, instead of having their exhibitions presided
over by prominent citizens and University professors, and
the exponents having butter shoved at them in a lordly
dish by the Stinking Fish party, they were dispersed and
broken up before the necessary finish was put on the art
of imparting sudden death in a scientific way. In five
years the jiu-jitsu fad will excite the same ridicule as a
host of other Monkey ideas now held up as examples to
the white world.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Cldorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with rue, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLOIiODYNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its heat recommendation.”
WHY DON’T YOU
A
Vi
m
s?
OU have a complaint or weakness that has bothered you for
years ! You are still doctoring and dosing yourself! You
are trying one doctor and then another; one medicine and then
another, but you are no better, and your stomach is turning in dis-
gust from it all. Now then, why don’t you Stop it? Why
don’t you hesitate before you carry the dose to your mouth and ask
yourself, “What is this stuff lam taking ?” “ What am I taking
it for ?’ ’ How can I expect it to make me strong ?’ ’
Ask yourself these questions; think them over, and if you have any “common
horse sense” you will quickly see your folly ; you will quickly realise that the
remedy you need to cure must give new power, new strength, and new life to
the impoverished nerves, organs, and blood of your body. The life and
strength they have lost is Electricity. The most eminent scientists of the world to-day admit that life is elec-
tricity ; therefore, Electricity properly applied, as it is with the improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT,
is the only certain and natural cure for you. It cures where drugs fail because it is Nature’s cure, and restores the
natural Electricity to the body. Throw physic to the dogs, and try this world-famed Electric Appliance. It is
the original and standard Electric Belt of Australasia, and the only one that has stood the test of time.
Its price is as low as £1 in many cases, and with its special attachments for men and
women it is a certain cure for all nervous and chronic diseases. We have testimonials from every part of
Australasia, and will send you the names of people in your own locality whom it has cured.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It i=> full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a Man !
Send the COUPON or call to-day.
THE McLAUGHUN CO
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
6
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906' edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Cd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Ac, st. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. Tiik Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for tiie
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
KK
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It Will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
gipsy fortune telling cards—love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. HOw to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing,. Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang ok
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is fid. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, HEitameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. !<F~ Established 26 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
*
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make .Up., Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. “Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
•2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s eachtaiosted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers AmUSuGAR-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’-s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. 'Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
ķ
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


THE AOCORDEON for Country Residents.
I
K<b£
ms.
.
/;vfflTnbane
m
HEINDORFF BROS.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/ 6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 2 10 Queen St., Brisbane
&
Those English Suitings
55/- Value—NOW 44/6
The Suit to Order.
Our buyer purchased the materials
at a heavy discount at the close
of the English Winter.
Beautiful New Tweeds and Pure
Indigo Serges.
55/- Value.
44/6 The Suit to Order.
Write for Patterns To-Day.
Murdochs
in ParK .Street, Sydney.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
MURDOCH’S New Overcoats—rainproof—stylish-
great values 27/G.
“DURBAR” DE LUXE
Polishing Outfit.
Containing’ Dirt Brush, Daubing Brush, Selvyt
Polishing Pad, Dusting Cloth and Tin of Polish,
Post free for 2s. 3d.
Everything 1 to keep the Boots in Perfect condition.
Why should you use DURBAR Polish ?
Because it is more than a Polish- it is the ONLY Leather
PRESERVATIVE. Makes YOUR boot uppers last longer ;
Saves REPAIR Bills—That’s why.
Dainty Sample Boxes, Tin each BLACK
and BROWN. Post Free, 6d. in Stamps.
Remember Ensures your Boot
Uppers Against Cracking.
DURBAR Polish Co.,
2P, BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
SPECIAL FOR LADIES.—DURBAR is Waterproof, and
won’t soil your Clothing.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
Will make your complexion
clear and beautiful.
Make a point of trying this great English
face cream. It removes the dust and'dirt
that clog the pores of the skin and which
soap and water does not thoroughly remove.
It is free from dangerous mineral salts and
animal fat, which heat causes to go bad. It
does not grow hair.
If you use Oatine regularly, the dry Aus*
tralian climate will not cause your skin to
crack or peel and ruin your complexion.
Get a jar of Oatine to-day. However
trying the weather or fierce the sun your
skin will always be clear and healthy if you
use it. Men should use it after shaving.
Price 1/9 a jar at all chemists, stores,
throughout Australia. Larger size, four
times the amount, 3/S.
Don’t
“DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 75% of Cases of Old
or Young,
Our FREE BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES are dang'erous things for you to “ doctor ”
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent, of
cases of deafness of people who write us. 76 per cent,
of cases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
Write us the
History of
Your Case and
We will ad-
vise you Free.
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
young, whether you have
been deaf long or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and WE WILL
tell you whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you DON’T, we can.
We can, because, as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will send you FREE, we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. It tells you the names and addresses of
hundreds of people who formerly were deaf, and who
could only be cured by using Mr. Vernon’s Electricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain, because if
we can’t Cure your case we will
say so at once.
That costs you nothing,, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-day.
THE L. R. VERNON CO.
the
Off"**
BRINGS BACK
60-64 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
£3
k ■ a
r PIIIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping, and
* is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
counts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3, Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lolos.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“ DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne
TMT IT TU suffering' from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
JTA A-r TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug Co., 88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “ Medical Review,” London, 25 years
chief consultant & Locum Tenens to Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostioian, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for over 30 years. Cure Guaranteed.
Where
GRAPH -o-phones
Daily Capacity
2,000
GRAPH-o-phones
(Cylinder and Disc).
$
Twenty-Four
Hundred People
are Employed
in this Factory.
r~
■lk
mm
ARE MADE,
The floor space
is
257,0C0 square
feet.
%
■) •
A duplicate of
this Factory on
a smaller scale
is located in
London, England
ĸ
The above represents the Largest Talking Machine Factory In the World.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen’l.
Head Australasian Office : 2C5 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL THE PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE WORLD.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE. "3SBCI
■
. r ;:JL
&
TWENTIETH CENTURY
Steam Merry-go-round
Latest Up-to-date Machine.
Tent Revolves. No Stakes or Guy
Lines.
Good Money-Making Concern.
HERSCHELL, SPILLMAN AND CO.,
North Tonowanda, N.Y., U.S.A.
Australian Representatives:
Wm. ADAMS & CO. LTD., 521-3 Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues.
A'"*,-
Over Your Face
You want your Razor to slide smoothly over your
face—to cut clean and keep right on doing it. The
Razor that does it best is the PLUM—every time.
The PLUM RAZOR 10/6
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKENt 654 George-St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
THE SOVEREIGN PHONOGRAPH l SIX REGORDS
ONLY TWENTY SHILLINGS
COMPLETE OUTFBT FOfS 20/- Carriage Paid
Handsome Nickeixed Horn & Good Mechanism.
WONDERFULLY LOUD AND CLEAR
a short time ago it would have been impossible to offer a
Phonograph for many times this price, but the lapse of patent
rights and the perfection of manufacture enable us to sell you this
excellent Talking Machine and Six Effective Records for less than the
price charged recently for the Records alone, and they are better
reco r d s now and a better Phonograph. You should
order at once, or you may be too late. Our present stock is limited.
If you mention this paper when ordering we will give you an
additional record without charge.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FREE
FOR WRITING.
GUARANTEED Cure for
DrunKenness.
We are giving- away Free Samples of the world-renowned EUCRASY.
• Send for Booklet and Sample; enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
Call on or Address THE EUCRASY CO., 02 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
FACTS ABOUT THE
EU C RAiSY Treatment.
JIMU^MIIIMMMHMIIMWIIIIIiIIIIIII HIWIII— IH I !»'■ HIM I II II IMIIfIMWMMMMMWMMMMn— P—3
The Celebrated Cure for the
LIQUOR
TOBACCO MS
DRUG HABIT.
If you are addicted to Drinking, Smoking, or the use of Drugs, in any form, and you
now suffer the consequences, you must not delay in availing yourself of the
EUCRASY TREATMENT for the following reasons:
Because
The Eucrasy Cure has
been successfully used
for over 30 years
throughout the world,
and 11 years In Aus-
tralia.
Because
About one million
patients have already
been cured, over 10
thousand of whom
were in Australia.
Because
Several thousands of
Australian Testi-
monials are on file in
our offices. Many are
from Clergymen and
prominent public men.
Because
Physicians, Clergy-
men, Politicians, the
Press, and Business
Men ot high standing
endorse tne Eucrasy
Treatment.
Because
The Cure is positive
and permanent. It is
agreeable to take, no
injections or painful
operations of any kind.
Because
Each patient treats
himself, at his own
home without incon-
venience or loss to his
daily vocation.
Because
People addicted to
drinking-, without re-
alising their own
folly, can be cured
secretly, even against
their will, and with-
out their knowledge.
Because
Our specially prepared
remedy, in powder
form, is tasteless and
odorless, and can be
administered in food
without the patient’s
knowledge.
Because
The effect of the
treatment on the
nerves is marvellous.
The Eucrasy is a life-
saver. There are no
bad after-effects.
Because
The craving- for alco-
hol is entirely stopped
in a few days, and a
permanent cure is
effected in from one
to two weeks.
All cases are treated
Confide ntially and
with absolute privacy.
Letters and packages
are forwarded in plain
envelopes, sealed from
observation.
For further informa-
tion, call or address
the
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Mgr.
Gfte BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.


k
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrufcb & Co. on each Bottle.
mm /
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich In appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade. „ . _ . .
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis’ ChiffonVel Duvet,is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. BY HAND LABOR.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF.
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trust or Combine.
Manufacturers
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
E. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
THE MISERIES OF
Indigestion
Indigestion attacks old and young, rich and poor, and
terrible are the consequences of neglect. You must eat to
live and the disease that robs you of the power
and to digest robs you of the very source of life itself.
Slowly your strength ebbs away, you are tortured with
pain and life becomes a misery. Be warned! Take MOTHER
SEIGEL'S SYRUP, the real cure, and end your suffering
ALL YIELD
'For years i was cursed with a weak stomach, which was
a source of frightful suffering to me I was frequently
laid up with severe attacks of indigestion; retching and
vomiting till 1 could hardly stand 1
but nothing did me any good till I got MOTHER SEIGEL S
SYRUP That cured me It also cured my wife of sciatica.
Mr Wm. Jones 55, Wilton Street. Strawberry Hills, Sydney
New South Wales
TO
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S
SYRUP
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
The Most Comfortable and Best Appointed Hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere,
MRS. MACLURCAN
Prop*, ietress*
Beautiful Home Decorations
k
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities,
“BAPOMHT’* J'LOOU ST AIMS stain and varnish-with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on floors, Borders,
Woodwork and furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“ SAI’OI, IV »* Aliimni M KVAM HI. gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE <iOl.ll PAIiVT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface, for all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid Imitations .
Successfully used in tltis climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS.. New York, U. S„ A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
OMCEOPATHY
ILL-HEALTH!
Do you realize tlie value of VITALITY
and ENERGY?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, iu order to find tine most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met witb unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to be able to state tbat the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
and Diver Troubles,
Rheumatism (2b Allied
Complaints, Prostatic
Affe«stions, Etc., are completely and permanently cured by
& 4Ji
The
Secret
of> • •
Health.
Patients living: at a distance, who wish
to give the HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMOEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated :—“ Homoeopathy is only in
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly to
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power— HOMOEOPATHY.”
We would like you to know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “ WORDS OF
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
In N’York, Uncle Sam finds it necessary
these times to keep a police-court going night and
day. Some of his leading citizens would steal the
stripes off poor old Samuel’s pantaloons if the
sleepless eye of the law got down off its bench and
went home to bed.
McDouall Stuart, the Australian explorer,
has an apparently everlasting memorial in the
shape of a small wooden ketch trading out of
Melbourne. The John McDouall Stuart was
built at Adelaide in 1861—the year that the
explorer set out from that city on his successful
trip across Central Australia. For close on half
a, century the little craft battled its way through
storm and sundries on the South Australian coast
and in Bass Straits, and is still going strong
in the more sheltered waters of Port Phillip Bay,
where it makes regular trips from Melbourne to
Rosebud, Sorrento, and Rye. The men on the
ketch have never heard of John McDouall Stuart,
the explorer. They have a vague idea that their
craft was named after some rich relative of the
iowner.
“ Frank Macgregor ” writes :
Albert Park Rowing Club (Victoria), whose best
•eight has recently been sought after by the Vic-
torian and Queensland Rowing Associations, received
a note, the other day, from the Pioneer Boat and
Pattern Company, of Bay City, Michigan (U.S.A.),
‘Offering to supply “knock-down” frames for the
‘construction of boats. The communication continued
that “ these knock-down frames are invariably completed
ready for planking before knocking down for shipment.”
The Park committee breathed hard through its
nose, said “ Sure ” by means of the same channel,
then proceeded to “hit up” the “knock-down" com-
pany by writing it that, “in the opinion of the com-
mittee of one of the premier rowing organisations in the
Southern Hemisphere, Australian designs, executed in
Australian timber by Australian workmen, are far
ahead of anything else yet brought forward.” Then,
with a patriotic glare in its optic, the com-
mittee further assured “ that yer ” company that
“as Australian oarsmanship compares favorably
with any other in the world, it is apparent that our
boats are subjected to very severe tests, and it is upon
the results thus achieved that we base our opinion as to
the commercial value of Australian products and
industry.” The last piece of compressed fodder
that disintegrates the vertebrae of the dromedary
was supplied when the club courteously “ thanked ”
the Michigan Mud-Barge Builders for their kind
attention. After that Michigan manager has ac-
knowledged “ the receipt of your esteemed favor of
12th instant,” and has finished cavorting round the office
: scenery, and clearing' the nasty taste out of his mouth, it
will be unhealthy a whole lot for Hiram Denver Washing-
ton, the small office boy who puts in his spare time at
“Billy King’s Dime Museum” when he isn’t licking
“knock-down” correspondence, to ask for a 10 cent
rise, and expect to get it.
“ Oby ” : A policeman with much ex-
perience about Sydney broached a new liquor idea
in a conversation last week. “We should be able
to close up all pubs that sell fighting stuff,” he
said. “Nine men out often who fight in their
' cups do so because the stuff is bad—it’s raw,
doctored or three parts white spirit. I know
pubs that never send out a fighting man, and I
know places where the quietest man grows savage
: after a couple of nips. Raw whisky, or whisky
lhalf white spirit, turns a lamb into a tiger. An-
alysis is all right as far as it goes, but pubkeepers
lhave ways of getting round the business, and
tfliey make as many men mad now as ever. I
would close up fighting houses. When the pub-
lican applies for his renewal I would produce the
list of fights about his premises, and knock him out
on that alone. You don’t hear of many fights at
the Union or Australian clubs. They drink as
much there as at the Blue Devil Hotel, but it’s
different liquor. That’s the point.”
“ Stony ” says he has met the Object
I have seen It! I met It in t e lain. wa
a large hat, with feathers. The fowl-lea\es were le ( in
place by the very dead-looking claw of some tremendous
bird-thing, with a ten-ounce topaz shining at the meaty
end. It wore an orange silk petticoat, and Its large area
was draped with blue glace silk. Here and there, divers
bunches of old, priceless, and somewhat dirt> .Lace were
a bout Its person, and It sat all over two seats
o£ fche compar tment, holding 100 post-cards in Its lap,
and noisily licking’ a large patch of postage-stamps,
which It gradually tore up and affixed to the cards,
“ Sendin”em to Maoriland,” It said, and beamed upon
the seven women * n m t . h ,-i r s „ e r c „' o a H V .W/t nice people!
post-cards! We asked one P young
j ad y to show us the Cathedral, and when we came out
ghe 'was standin’ there waitin’ in case we’d got lost, so I
sa id ‘ What can we do, you have been so kind? ’So she said
—‘ Send me a post-card.’ An’ I’m _ sending alll t ese o
aU my friends over there, mciudirjer•
It, «oh f” and then went “on again,
W hat surprised me was to note that all the women
treated It with fear and reverence, as though It had been
some kind of Sacred Beast. Little did I know, however,
how the c&S6 really stood. When I reached Melbourne I
"4n who knew It by sight, and made inquiries. I
found that the reason for this fear and reverence was the
f ac t that It was provided with a Hyphen. Perhaps if Its
Hyphen had been extracted in Its infancy It would have
been a less harmful animal. But, as it is, my sleep these
nights is crowded with monsters, clad in blue “glassy”
silk and orange, breathing heavily upon me a perfume of
warm postage-stamp, and babbling in my ear, “Yes, we
stayed there three months. O yes, and went to the mud
springs, of course ! So good for the complexion, as I
told my Mona, who’s inclined to be mothy, and will use
all kinds of cold cream and things which never do any
good.” Ido hope I shall not meet It again.
~ ... ~ •
Bos lravelling, tile other in
a Malvern (Vie.) ’bus, I was entertained with the
following one-sided conversation, carried on in a
high-pitched voice between two ladies, or rather
, 6 .
by one lady, seated oppo^
Yes; didn’t I tell yer I lorst me purse r Yes; that
night, at St. Hilda. I was standin’ looking at the ng'gers,
an’ I felt somethin’ tug me dress. I turns round, an a
young feller standin’ there starts ter word me. ’L struck
me as bein’alright, so we went for a walk an sat down
on the beach. I give ’im me purse ter mind, an when e
left me I forgot ter arst ’im for it. There was a bob in it
an’ that cosy pattern o’ yours. I’ll ’ave ter do without
me photo-frame now! No, I won’t; I’ve finished the
cosy, an’ yer can get it to-night. It’s down ’t Laura s.
Tbat’ll be a bob yer’ll owe me ; hut I’m a bob out any ow,
ain’t I? Wot was ’e like? Well, ’e said ’is name was
Snowy, but I don’t know w’ether I liked 'mi or w ether I
didn’t. Y’ know, there’s always somethin about someone
yer like that there isn’t when yer don’t like ’em. I m
funny like that, yer know ; I don’t meself arf as
much when I go out with anyone I don’t really like—
funny thing, ’e said ’e was just like that too ; but I think
’e was fond o’me. I think fellers take ter me because,
even if I’m not gone on them, I always try to make me-
self, yer know, contented like,
<4 T •<• „ ~ .
Luclfer on model •“
“ A.B.’s ’’ par (18/4/07) emphasises the one point that
Gimlet and Co. will not believe—the modesty of the
model _ The Australian model is the best in her class,
and Gimlet and p rig . w ;n be quite surprised to hear
that she has morals every time, or a good many times,
Why shouldn’t she?
As an Art student, this writer has seen many of the
comely creatures, chatted with them, arid on his oa„h,
cannot say that there is anything improper in naked
Bub the trouble is that every puritanical bounder in the
universe thinks it is his God-given privilege to cast mud
with his own frequently dirty hands.
This species of mud-slinging is insufferable, and too one-
sided. , , ,
There seems to be no one to pitch the earth back.
\v e ll, all I can say is that the model comports herself
w ith more modesty than some of the females who find a
vocation in church bazaars, Sunday-school cake combats,
and the like.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUEANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & 00
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital
.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck,£43.435) .. 55.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The golenial IQutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
The
Bank of Borth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, E.q. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Z ea,an^
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
GOVERNHENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
-L on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
ra fc e s of interest.
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, V
P. E. WILLIAMS, V Commissioners.
W. H. O’M. WOOPj
DALCETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund
£4,000,000
£1.000.000.
£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCH ES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Ivalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon, Roeburne and Port
Credland.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skim, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
WTHE HOP!
Price 21a. The Bulletin Office, Sydney
snipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £453,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS ..
DAMASCUS
•MILTIADES
R. B. V. McKilliam I Noon. June 21
H. A. Schleman .. I No n. July 19
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 16
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the high est standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Datyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LIME.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON wia CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
CUFIC (Cargo only) to sail about 15th
JUNE.
PERSIC, to sail about 12th JULY.
RUNIC, to sail about 9th AUGUST.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUE VIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 6 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
ķ
$ HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G.)>
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
sSBf
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & COLtd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of IN S UJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ... 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. M 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... „ .. 5,475,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon.CHARLES K. MacKellar, M.L.0., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLahrin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O. •
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the weld.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
AT J, USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
O. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
P“ A l\l Accident and Guarantee
VvCMIN Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWAIAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The most attractive and
interesting route to Europe
is via Canada.
*Twin Screw.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS,
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Manairing Agents, Georsre-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TEBMS. y
WE
&>
4^
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
zKr-s."w.
IDontde pieteß.nl!. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Rabbit sKins.
We are CASH BUYERS (or Export.
Top Prices Guaranteed. No Commission.
JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO
(Established 1889.)
44 Dalgrety Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
S.S. Dilkera (Cargo only),
Friday, May 31.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. _
BRISBANE, \
MACKAY, | S.S. Imiamineka, June 1.
TOWNSVILLE, S.S. Marlon, June 8.
And Ports North to Oairns. '
Rest and Cheapest lloute to UoldHelds.
"S.S. Marloo, Friday, May3l
S.S. Yongala, Friday, June
7th.
Rest and Cheapest llUnite to <lotil.iiel.dt.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company 's Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO.,' LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, asfollows:—
Steamer
Com
mander
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne.
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
lp.m
NERA .. ..Schmitz
DUMBEA ..Bover
SYDNEY .. Baiillon
ARMAND I
BEHIC Guionnet .
1907.
.June 1
.July
.'Aug.
I 1907. 1907.
June 20 June 22
15 July IS July 20
12 Aug. 15 Aug. 17
Sept. 9S' pt. 12 Sept. U
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingand passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply’ at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street. Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRi>- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Paradt
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-liour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMBER.
George, hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. __
Henry Skinner,
Clareiidoii-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10U5. CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefuUy
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete m tne
colonies ; and can with confidence guaran
satisfaction in all business entrusted to . 'in.
Public and J“ for Banquets »nd
Private Balls ? e e “ ble Dinner PartioS
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN'S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanston-St., Melbourne •
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourn
Close Proximity to the Bail way Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPIO
SEE OUR GATALOGU
ĸ
! E J.
whare.
Of Novelties, Curious Musical Instru-
ments, Cheap Sheet Music, Home
dions. Mouth Organs, • 1 ,;, pctr jc Light
Electric Medical Ratter.es, Ru bber
ket Outms PS N n .'.n Brooches, b &c., te
i ype Outfits, 0; " e 5 a „d
Sole Agents (mention
? a '"7 ne r r Catalogue posted free any-
STAR »OVELT« » » *SL.


r
4?
A QK CUARANf
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from at! Tobacconists
New Cure
For Rupture.
New Scientific Appliance, Always a Perfect Fit-
Adjustable to Any Size Person—Easy, Comfort-
able, Never Slips, No Obnoxious Springs or
Pads—Costs Less Than Many Common
Trusses—Made For Men, Women,
and Children.
I Send It on Approval—You Wear It—lf You Are
Not Satisfied, I Refund Your Money—irings
Immediate Relief to Sufferers.
I have invented a rupture appliance that I can safely
say, by 30 years’ experience in the rupture business, is the
only one that will absolutely hold'the rupture and never
slip, and yet is light, cool, comfortable, conforms to every
movement of the body, without chafing or hurting, and
costs less than nn. iv ordinary trusses. There are no
springs or hard, lumpy pads, and yet it holds the rupture
safely and firmly without pain or inconvenience. I have
put the price so low that any person, rich or poor, can
buy, and I absolutely guarantee it.
C. E. BROOKS, The Inventor.
I make it to your order—send it to you—
you wear it, and if it doesn’t satisfy you
send it back to me and I will refund your
money.—C. E. BHOOKS.
That is the fairest proposition ever made by a rupture
specialist. The banks or any responsible citizen in
Marshall will tell you that is the way I do business
always absolutely fair and square.
For several years my appliance has been used in all
parts of America, with a wonderful record of success. It
lias come to be,recognised as the only sure, unfailing: re-
lief from all the tortures of rupture, and the most reliable
method of cure. Thousands of reputable, honest, thank-
ful men and women testify to the great good the Brooks’
Rupture Appliance has done them. Since its introduction
into England, my appliance has brought perfect relief
and comfort to many who had suffered for years from
rupture.
Mr. R. Hartwell, 95 Holly Hedge Lane, Walsall,
Staffordshire, writes as follows :
Walsall, Aug. 9, 1906.
Mr. Brooks. Sir, —I received the appliance all right
on July 27th, and must say it answers the purpose
intended. It is very comfortable. I see men around me
in the same form as I was, and I think very likely when
it is more widely known that some of them will adopt
your plan. I have now worn it two weeks and can walk
about much better, which is a good advertisement.
Yours truly, It. HARTWELL.
Mr. T. W. Straw, 23 Park Road, Blackpool, has
found relief. He says:—
Blackpool, May 12, 1906.
Dear Sir, —I received the appliance on the lstihst.,
and am very pleased w T ith it. It adapts itself to the body
in a marvellous manner and serves its purpose perfectly.
I have neverfelt so safe or so comfortable before since I
was ruptured. I cycle and take a lot of exercise, but the
pad always stays in place, whatever position I get in.
I am, Yours truly, W. T. STRAW.
If you have tried most everything else, come to me.
Where others fail, I have my greatest success. Write me
to-day, and I will send you my book on Rupture and its
cure, showing nvy appliance and giving you prices and
names of people who have tried it and been cured. It
is instant relief when all others fail. Remember I use
no salves, ho harness, no lies. Just a straight business
deal at a reasonable price.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2£d. postage.
Write your name very plain, and be sure to give your full
address, so there can he no mistake in delivery. Address,
C. E. BROOKS,
3367 Brooks Bldg., Marshall, Mich., U.S.A -
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
.Catarrh is inflammation of tire lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay 1-ever, Catarrhal Deafness. Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, bronchitis. Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
- Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Sti.-t,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
Medicator, «ize
Inches long.
C-B
TAILOR-MADE
corsets:
C-B"
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The fin eat
shape
ever created.
In 50
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
M*E WORM
Ou
cP
&
R
4
ft 9
n y
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
All C.B. Corsets have
rustproof supports.
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, wile for book of types to:
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., I A. E. Wittey, I J. Bunting,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. | York Street SYDNEY. | Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
To Hotel & Boarding House Proprietors & Others
m
For the preservation of .your meat, fruit, and vegetables,
as well as for the improvement in flavorand tenderness of
meat that is hung, and from motives of economy, you
should not be without a
BRUNSWICK
ICE MACHINE
which, at a small cost, gives you a perfect cold storage.
Only £ h.p. is necessary to drive the plant. It requires
practically no watching, and will give you splendid
reliable refrigeration.
The smallest size of Brunswick Ice Machine gives
refrigeration equal to the melting power of ‘2oolb. of
Ice ; i.e., if you could get 20 101 b. blocks of ice in your
ice chest, you would then produce the same refrigera-
tion, BUT AT WHAT COST? The Brunswick will
save you money.
Write for Catalogue and Further Particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., l td., 7 & 9 Market St., Sycisray.
sc
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
RISKS”
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
k
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
k
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
“ It has an elegant appeara ce, white and granular, like sifted sugar, and is
certain,y one ot the daintiest and most highly prized articles on the*’ table. In
warm climates it is useful on account of its not readily clogging.”
Agents—Harrison Aitwocd. tyaney.
“HARNESS THE WIND’’
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
Wk ark tiik Largest
Importers is Australia
.... of ....
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering' elsewhere.
James Martin & Go.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
' -
PRICE 27/6 j
Consult HE
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed
... . .. TREATMENT BV POST A SPECIALTY.
M Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course 43s 6d
BLOOD CURE PILLS. ail c °ntagious Blood and Skin’ Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles anri all RinnH
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Coifrse 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
ff*tS If HHnniPn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses 23 6
WVtScaK VVUinBII Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIv and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes 6s Course 23 6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAJDE • ’
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
British* Jliistralasian
A Weekly Journal for Au traliana, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d*
POST FPEE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are Cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
<>f all the leading Austialian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bitmsii-A cstkalasian during the first
two months'of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORM (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
STRANGE
PREDICTIONS
Planetary Professor Foretells
Events and Quickly Reads the
Lives of People though Thou-
sands of Miles A way.
Sends Letters to the Rich and Pjoi l
Alike, in which he advises them about
B U*. IN ESS, /VIA RRIA GE, SPECULA TION,
LOVE AFFAIRS, WEALTH, ETC.
Offers Readings to all who write and
send Date of Birth, with //- to cove r
ccst of postage, etc.
IN liis office in Melbourne, surrounded by
Charts and Dials of strange design. Prof.
Henri De Astro studies daily over the lives
of men and women who have written him for
advice on affairs of business, love, speculation,
travel, marriage, health, and the important
events of life. The following letter gives an
idea of
MR. DE ASTRO’S ABILITY.
-
lasstii
-
;
■ '
Miss Mary D. French.
Prof. De Astro.
Dear Sir,—You are certainly the most wonderful
Astrologer living. Everyone of your predictions
came true. I consider that you not only saved me
from an unnecessary voyage, but prevented the loss
of many pounds. I trust that many people will
profit by your advice. —Sincerely, M. D. French.
THE accuracy of recent predictions made by
this eminent Astrologer has caused many
of his frimids to believe that he possesses
a supernatural er, but he modestly asserts
that his predictions are due alone to a scien-
tific understanding of natural laws. The many
thankful letters Prof. De Astro has received
from people who have benefited by his advice
furnish ample proof that he is sincere in his
work and has a kindly feeling towards
humanity.
Readers of The Bulletin can obtain a
Reading by addressing a letter to Prof. De
Astro, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Simply
say you wish a Reading of your Life, stating
your birth date, sex, and whether married
or single, enclosing Is. Stamps or Postal Note
to pay postage etc., and the Reading will
be promptly sent.
NERVOUSNESS
IiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o£ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYOKTBY.


08980. —Fine Diamond Ring, 18-ct. Gold,
£5/5/-. Larger, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO/10/-.
ORDER BY MAIL.
IH3
H 613. —18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Ring, £2/10/-
Write for Free Size
Card.
101.—Two Diamonds, Three Rubies
18-ct. Gold, £3/10/-.
Brandies in Australia
18-ct. Gold, Two Diamonds and Three
Rubies or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
Sydney
F1443.—18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Diamonds, £l7/10/**
Melbourne
E7458.—Tw0 Diamonds, Three Rubies
18-ct. Gold, £l/12/6.
Brisbane
18-ct. Gold and Three Diamonds
£3.
Fertb-
F332L—18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3/10/-,
Correspondence
Invited.
H2951.—18-ct. Gold, and Five
Diamonds, £22/10/-
tetuart ©awgon & (Ts,
<§>trawtr Corner, (George Jb*,
Gold Medal Jewellery
Our display of Gold Jewellery at the Christchurch (New
Zealand) Exhibition, just closed, was awarded the Gold
Medal, and in addition we secured a gold medal for our
Silver and Silver-plated Goods—a gold medal for our
Watches, and a further gold medal for Collective Display.
Our enormous turnover in our Eight Australasian Stores
places us in a position to supply reliable goods at the
most advantageous prices to you.
A
18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Opals, £3/10/-.
ail
18-ct. Gold Band Bing, £2.
Others, 21/-, 25/-, 80/-.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal
Gent.’s Ring, £4.
18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Opal Bing, £2/10/-.
feii
Gs29B.—Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Bing,
18-ct. Gold, £lO/10/-.
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Bing, £5O.
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Garnet Gent.’s Ring,
£3.
18-ct. Gold, Bed, White,
and Blue Bing. Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires,
£6/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, One Green
and One Yellow Sapphire,
£4/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, and Fine
Diamond Gent.’s Ring,
£4O.
F8718.—18-ct. Gold,
Gem Set, Five Row
Ring, £7/7/-.
11641. 18-ot. Gold, Diamond Cluster
Ring, £7/10/-.
London House, 19 to 21
Hatton Garden.
174.—Four Diamonds, Three Sapphires,
18-ct. Gold, £7/10/-.
Special Rooms for Australasian
Visitors to London.
18-ot. Gold and Fine Opal Lady’s
Ring, £2.
Descriptive Booklet Free, ex-
plaining advantages of above.
G 3589. —18ct. Gold, Diamonds, Sapphire
and Pearl, £B/10/-.
Write our Nearest Store.
G7358.—18-ct. Gold, Diamond, Sapphire
and Pearl Ring, £3/5/-.
Quality our First Consideration
18-ct. Gold, Pearl, Ruby, and Rose-Cut
Diamonds, £4/10/-.
Money Back if we Fail to Please
18-ot. Gold, Diamond, and Ruby
Ring, £B/10/-.
171 A.—18-ct. Gold, Five
Fine Opals, £2/10/-.
ml
178. Wedding Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £l/1/-
Heavier ones at £l/5/-,
£l/10/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
18-ct. Gold Diamond Band
Rings, £6/10/-, £4/10/-,
£3/10/-.
84890.—18-ct. Gold Ruby
and Diamond Ring,
£3/10/-.
m i
G 5195. Fine Diamond
and Ruby Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, £ll/10/-.
gXC
MW
■it*
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Ring, £3O.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal
Gent.’s Ring, £4/10/-.
18-ct. Gold and One
Yellow and One Green
Sapphire, £3/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, Opal and
Two Yellow Sapphires,
£5/10/-.
ED
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Gent.’s Ring,
£l4O.
18-ct. Gold, Pearl and
Diamond Ring, £5.
F 9278. —18-ct. Gold King. Half-hoop of
Diamonds and Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2/10/..
ORDER BY MAIL.
Fs32B.—Three Sapphires or Rubies, and
Four Diamonds, 18-ot. Gold, £5/10/-.
Illustrated Catalogues
Free.
18-ot. Gold, and Five Pearls,
£2/10/-.
Branches in N.Z.
18-ct. Gold, Diamond, and Two
Emeralds, £2/5/-.
AucKland
18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Diamonds, £l6/10/-.
Wellington
35193.—18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Peridots, £B/8/-.
Christchurch
G2792.—18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Emeralds, £3/3/-.
Dunedin.
F93ss.—Three-Stone Diamond Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £2/10/-.
Jewellery Repairs
Done Well.
181.—Fine Diamond and Sapphire
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £7/10/-.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
*
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
■i Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal. *
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting' a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hcarne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and •*> whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
Ililliiiiiiufll
PURE, WHOLESOME,
INVIGORATING.
“ 0.T.” is just t"he very drink
for the critical man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating, delicious—a drink
guaranteed at every point.
.Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a winter
beverage.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Sydney:
Orme, Keigwin & Go.
Brisbane:
Quinlan, Cray& Co.
Adelaide : Tolley & Co.
Fremantle : Tolley Lti.
iss*
J.DIXON&O>
4 C*EAT-(u»e
A fine budget of books for the winter lire :
Sueh is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. Gd. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. Gd. ; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. 6d. ; The Southern Garland 4s. Gd.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of Australian
books.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
reehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
vf Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
Jalian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent” of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
tutfctors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcomhe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
'FAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
uoker’s Spanish Je wci Case Surprise.
This case is neatly made of wood, decorated to represent a treasure
box. Every home should possess one of these mirth producers,
which never fails to enliven the company. Makes an ideal Booby
prize. A great joke on inquisitive people, as immediately the lid is
removed the whole box collapses, and the spring sausage inside flies
n all directions. A good surprise for posting to friends. Price
9ct., posted free to any address in Australasia.
Electrical Novelties, Conjuring Tricks,
Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL. I
Write for Price List B. |
surprise Squirt Gramophone.
This Squirt is one of the most novel
and up-to-date jokes to be found in
our varied stock. It is an exact
model of a genuine gramophone, and
it looks so harmless that, when your
victim is operated on, he receives
the greatest shock he ever had in his
life. Ask your friend would he like
to hear your new miniature gramo-
phone, and of course he accepts the
invitation, and, immediately he
becomes interested, squeeze the
ball inside the instrument and watch
result. Full directions enclosed.
Price 1/3, post free anywhere.
a£3
The Joker WINDMILL or LUNG TESTER.
This novelty consists of a small flat box with a
figure on the top of it holding a windmill. The
box contains soot, and is perforated with small
holes along'the front near the mouthpiece. Ask your victim to try the strength of his
lungs by seeing- how many times he can make the windmill revolve. Immediately he
blows into the mouthpiece the soot flies out, covering his face, and making him appear
as if he has just left a chimney sweeping job. Causes roars of laughter. Securely packed
and posted in any address in Australasia free on receipt of //- Full directions enclosed
H. L HUTCHINSON,
The Most Up-to-date
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Fancy Goods Store in Australia.
By Royal Warrant to
ķ
His Majesty The King.
BOVRIL
contains the whole of the valuable stimulating and nourishing
properties of beef and is therefore of great value after acute
illnesses of all kinds.
Whenever appetite is poor try a cup of Bovril.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
JLIIiIJII d RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t J& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
GOUT
at the
sides of
your head,
See how
thin your
hair is
9
growing around the ears. You
need scalp nourishment.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
' 'Vv
builds up starved scalps. It
makes them able to supply the
hair roots with vitality, and
growing-power. There are no
bare places around your ears
and on your forehead when you
use Tri-coph-erous. Be sure
you get Barry’s.
Renter's Soap Makes Rosy Cheeks^
Awrht axvA
Mo’tVr sue.'Ad de 'N'A.AouY vt
ox\ request.
5 ;
/!progress/ye d/'etary adapted to t/?e grow/flp d/yest/Ve powers
Milk Food N°l
From 6/rtfi fo 3/nonMs
Milk Food m 2
from J to 6 mooMs
Malted Food 1M93
fro/n 6 mont/rs upwards.
ifi
& Loftus Sts., Sydney
4
mm
g juntas
f BALSAMorANISEED v
W Por e in<!ltv vparc PftWPI I Ril SAM hac hppn tho nnt» suffi nnd reliable '
f remed
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable
remedy for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Throat
Troubles. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
The Rev. Wm. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle“ For the past twelve years I have been in
the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your balsam. I should not be exaggerating if I said
I had never known it to fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it in preference to anything else, and again and
again it has cured me.”
Mr. Lionel Brough, the eminent actor, writes:— “I think it an invaluable medioine for members of my
profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and sister artistes.”
Mr. A. J. Woodhousk, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk, writesLast year Powell’s Balsam of
Aniseed cured for me a very obstinate cough of some months' duration, whioh I feared would lapse into a
pulmonary affection.”
{ SOLD BY HLL CHEMISTS and STORES.
L Observe the TRADE MARK on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
|k Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blaokfriars, LONDON, England.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES and QUEENSLAND
HHk ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY,
and Eagle Street, BR1SBANB.
"i
#> TOR A
&
►AS
(R®jp
o
5*
m>m
mI~


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
©6e LEADING
HOUSE
CAN
T
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
ummuumnumi
m
Best Selected Silßworm Gut.
Hand Polished.
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., Pd. ; Padron No. 1,16 in., Is Sd ; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Impe: ial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
N'. 328—Sparrow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets —
5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 21/6 each
No. 329— Bat Folding - Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing - , Post Free.
sVipTjg
HEARNES BRO cS TIS
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, F*ain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .lly.
(UQTI AC Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning; of the Act. it is equally beneficial -for
v 1 * *" ‘ the youngest child and the most aged person.
V'' ASK. FOR.
BOSISTO'S
“PARROT a .
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES.
fftEME§IM?N
vl
In consequence of'
the great demand, the
Samples of Creme
Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
fresh supplies arrive
we will post a full-
size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/6, or
White,Cream or. Pink
Powder for 2/6.
CLAUDE HEALY. & Co.,
63 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask: ■ ’'*"*■ *“*
s.
w _ 1 u
4sk your chemist im it? history—the book is free—or write
3. GREEN, 210, \L,ambeth Road, London, Eng.
A
POLICY i-or TaE COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id.
ĸ
-S CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making- our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
pounds’ worth of
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE- TO DO
5
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes; Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL- BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to" this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you 50 of our Better Class picture post cards. Everybody wants
picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 50 cards for your own use, you have plenty of
friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of. Send
your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a st ■ oped addressed envelope. In writing, state
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., 5 Angel Place, Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE
Only known
Cures,
FULTON
COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
On the Trail of the Trust p !TJ t 3
Cleanse
The Vitiated
Blood
I When you see
Its impurities
Bursting through
The Skin
In Pimples,
Blotches
And Sores.
Rely on Sulphur Bit-
ters and Health will
follow.
wmmm i
morriss
IMPERIAL
[ Y£S
%
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is.; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.


MEIDONS
2
mwM
I vm'm
DIGESTIVE
TABULES
DIGEST WHAT
YOU EAT
FOR
COUC HS
COLDS 8c
CONSUMPTION
BANISHES
ALL PAIN
si
Yes! Miss
DB SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS COLDS & CONSUMPTION
is the most effective Remedy
on the market. AM it’s pleasant to take.
CURES= KIDNEY DISEASE
From Mr. Thomas H. Roach, 24 Margaret-street, Enmore, Sydney, N.S.W., 16th March, 1906.
“ About seven years ago my little daughter, now ten years of age, contracted scarlet fever in a
very severe form. She recovered from the fever, but her constitution was left very weak, an some
years later she began to suffer from Bright’s Disease of the kidneys and dropsy. Her appetite at farst
became very capricious, then her body and head began to swell and her face became pallid,
alarmed by her condition, especially when the doctor, after a thorough examination, pronounce
to be suffering from Bright’s Disease in a bad form. She was taken to the hospital, where her
was pronounced by the doctor to be quite incurable, and that they could do nothing for her-
urine, by analysis, showed much albumen. We tried every possible means of alleviating
sufferings without result. It was an awful and anxious time for us to see her dying and to be able to
do nothing to help her. As a last resource we decided to give her Warner s Safe Cure, having heard
such good reports of the efficacy of that medicine. The result proved the reports to be correct, f r
after she had taken one bottle we were delighted to find the medicine was doing her good. We per-
severed with the medicine, and she continued to grow better and stronger. Every week showe
improvement. Repeated tests proved that the quantity of albumen in her urme was decreasing,
continued to give her Warner’s Safe Cure until all trace of albumen and sediment had disappeared,
and all signs of dropsy had left her. She lias now fully regained her health and strength, and looks
more robust than any member of the family.”
Erom Miss M. Cornish, Storekeeper, 352 High-street, Bendigo, Vic., 24th August, 1905.
“For many years past I had been suffering from kidney complaint. The pain in my back and
sides was so intense at times that I could not lie down, and sleep was out of the question, whilst food
was revolting to me. I also suffered from severe chronic headaches, recurring two ot three times each
week. Doctors’ medicines did me no good, so I started to try the effect of Warner s Safe Cure. Soon
after commencing to take this medicine I obtained relief, and gradually began to mend, until all pain
had left me and I could eat and sleep without distress. lam now in the best of health.
From Miss Elizabeth Newbery, Bangor, S.A., 3rd August, 1905.
“ In hope that others may benefit by my experience, I wish to testify to what Warner’s Safe Cure
has done for me in saving my life. In October, 1903, I was taken ill with dropsy whilst away from
home. I did not take much notice of it at first, but soon became so ill that I had to be removed to the
hospital. For ten weeks two doctors attended to me, and at last had to confess that they could do
nothing for me, and that the best thing I could do was to go home to my parents. They fully expected
that I should die, and I thought the same. I decided to go home. Before leaving, a minister ad-
vised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, saying that a like case, to his knowledge, had been cured by that
medicine. For seven months, after arriving at home, my life was hanging by a thread, and everyone
thought that I should die. Often I had such difficulty in breathing that a rope had to be passed
through a beam in the roof and I had to be raised by that, so that, whilst holding on, I could get my
breath. At one period of my illness I measured forty-four (44) inches round the waist. I then pro-
cured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, and finding that it did me a little good, I continued to take it,
taking also Warner’s Safe Pills. Altogether, I took thirteen bottles of the medicine (with the pills),
and, marvellous to say, since then I have been stronger and have enjoyed better health than ever
before. Warner’s Safe Cure undoubtedly saved my life after the doctors said that I was incurable.
From Mr. J. W. Jackson, Storekeeper, 87 Inkerman-street, St. Kilda, Vic., 25th January, 1906.
“For a number of years I suffered from disease of the kidneys, which gradually undermined my
health. As the disease advanced I became weaker. I lost all appetite and experienced extreme
wakefulness and nervousness. I had a sinking feeling which increased day by day, unfitting me for
exercise of any kind. When at the worst I commenced to take Warner's Safe Cure. 1 rapidly re-
covered, and was soon once again in the enjoyment of good health and strength.
A treatise containing many similar letters and an explanation why
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures kidney and liver diseases, and the effects of those diseases,' such as Rheumatism, Gouh Neu-
ralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Gravel,
Stone and Bladder Troubles, will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Australasian
Branch, Melbourne.
The Cheque Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE blistering sun that poured down
on the two-pubbed town of Danderyack
had driven most people inside. The
town had a deserted look. A white cockatoo,
soaring through the molten atmosphere, about
200 ft. above the blistering community, and
making as much noise as a troop of fiends,
was the only sign of action. Pat Murphy,
of the Golden Hole Hotel, reclining in the shade
of his verandah, did not lend any animation to
the scene. He looked as though he was dead
drunk. As a matter of fact, he was painfully
sober and intensely alert, and watched the road
for approaching travellers as eagerly as any
spider ever kept his 250 eyes on the look-out for
flies. He was not the only spider about, although
the other would not have been so readily
discerned. Jim Robinson, of the Tin Dish
Hotel, lay in the passage of his pub with his feet
out on the footpath, and from that position com-
manded a view of the road that lay north. He
never worried about the other end of it—Murphy
had the start of him there, and always got hold of
travellers first.
The Post Office clock, that had been erected
out of a loan, chimed three. With a bang the
manager of the Bank of Victoria closed the door
of his one-roomed institution, and started imme-
diately for his boarding-house, half-a-mile away.
The crash of the closing door caused both pub-
licans to sit upright—it occurred to them simul-
taneously that on such a day even a bank manager
would have a thirst. As he passed Murphy that
citizen subsided once more, muttering:
“Nice blank to have in er bank —one drink er
week—ugh ! ”
Robinson’s remarks, as the manager disappeared
past his line of vision, were quite unprintable.
Five minutes later Murphy upended himself
suddenly. Two perspiring swagmen came into
view at a run, and leaped like kangaroos for the
bank, on the door of which they beat furiously.
Robinson heard the clatter and arose hastily, only
to see that Murphy was already talking to them
from the shade of his verandah. Robinson went
inside, and a burst of melody suddenly emanated
from the parlor of the Tin Dish Hotel. Robin-
son’s hired siren had drawn very profitable
drunks from Murphy’s before now with that same
burst of melody, for Murphy had only a con-
certina.
Men who batter on the door of a bank are the
sort that publicans take an interest in.
“Too late, lads; closed sharp on time ter-day,’
said Murphy. “ Come over here an’ have a drink
—you look as though you needed it.”
The two travellers dragged their swags across
the road and deposited them in the shade of the
verandah.
“ Thanks, don’t mind if we do have a pint! ”
said the elder. “We’ve walked from Crosby’s
mill—cut out the 24 miles in five hours to catch
the adjective bank, and now we’re beat.”
He went on to say some shocking things about
the banking business, and demonstrated that the
early closing movement was merely a device to
rob people of the use of their money. His mate
confined his remarks to the lurid, carmine, jumped-
up, crawling toffs that ran the financial business
of the country.
“Never mind, boys, it’ll be open in the morn-
ing, and you can stay here and have what you
want. Perhaps, though,” he exclaimed in an
afterthought, “ I might be able to cash it meself
—if it isn’t too large.”
“I wish you could,” said the elder, fumbling in
his pocket among a mass of papers. “It’s pretty
fat—£97 16s. Bd. There’s three of us in it—Jack
here, meself, and a chap named Joe Ford. Joe’s
broke his leg, and they druv him to Narrogin to
catch the train in the morning. So I told Crosby
ter put his lot in wi’ mine, and I’d have it at Nar-
rogin in the morning before the train goes. So if
you could cash it we’d push on right away.”
“’Struth, that’s the biggest cheque’s been in
Danderyack since the gold gave out! ” said Mur-
phy, truthfully. “Me cash that? Why, I
reckon it’ll take the bank all its time to do it. ”
“ And the flaming coach leaves here at six in the
mornin’, doesn’t it ? ” broke in the older of the
two travellers.
“ Yes, an’ don’t go again till Friday,”
The elder swaggie leaned back and swore
vehemently. He was in despair about,Toe Ford’s
bit. Even a hardened old sinner like Murphy
was touched at the sturdy honesty of the
rough toiler who was anxious that the injured
man should have his money in his pocket when he
started for the hospital. Then the disgusted
traveller got up and went across to the bank, and
had another pounding match on its door.
‘ ‘ He’s a real good fellow, is Jim, ” said the you nger
traveller to Murphy, nodding his head across the
Street at the angry figure which was leaping up
against the premises of that eminent financial in-
stitution, the Bank of Victoria ; “but the drink
gets him down. He wouldn’t rob a Chow.”
Murphy of the Golden Hole Hotel rather liked
men with money whom the drink “got down.”
James came back from pounding on the bank
door and remarked that they must get a move on,
and do something.
“ We must have Ford’s bit ready for him when
the train starts. Nuisance, too,” he went on.
“ I know a reef round here that ’ud make our pile
if we could only get summat crushed, and the
stuff sent down to Melbourne. Anyhow, I’ll
come back and test her.”
“Yes, I know,” scoffed the younger man.
“ Three times we’ve come in so’s you could show
me that reef, and you never got nearer than the
Half-Way pub before. We’d better hunt up the
banker bloke and get him to cash that cheque,
and catch that coach in the morning to Narrogin;
and then, when Ford’s got his bit, I guess you’ll
settle down in Narrogin till you’re dead broke.”
This began to worry Murphy. He saw that
these men, unless they got Ford off their minds,
would catch the coach, and the publicans of Nar-
rogin would catch all the money Ford didn’t take
with him to the hospital.
“ What’s Ford’s share ? ” he asked, suddenly.
“ Only £6 10s. He’d only just started when he
bruk his leg, poor devil.” . .
Murphy arose, with an air of sudden decision.
“ Look here, me mahn. That cheque s beyond
me, but Oi tell ye what Oi’ll do. Ye have areet,
ye say. Yer’ well. Ye want to give bora his
money. Yer’ well. Well, Oi’ll give yez the £6
10s., and ye can post it to Ford, and he 11 get it
long before the train goes. Then yez can pay me
when ye cash the cheque. ’Tis a pity to be alter
wasting the chance of testing the reef whin the
post-office kin do the worruk as well.” ,
“By G , you’re a white man ! said Jim,
with a sudden burst of gratitude. “I won’t for-
get you for this.”
Murphy went off to get the envelope and the
money. Then he watched Jim address it in a
heavy hand, and they all went to the Post Office
together and registered it, after which they went
back to the Golden Hole and had five beers
straight off. .
“ Tell you what, boss,” said Jim. “We want
some weed and socks an’ things —make that
advance £7 10s., an’ then we can get what we
want and get away to the reef in the morning.
Murphy passed over the other pound, and after
a few more drinks the mates went up the street.
They called in at Robinson’s and stayed so long
that Murphy began to grow anxious. Just as he
was about to send the handyman with a bob to
pay for a drink that he might bring them home
again, they landed in, somewhat drunk, but with-
out the tobacco or the socks. However, they
shouted, and as Jim paid for the drinks with half-
a-crown taken from a handful of silver, Murphy
realised that they could not have spent much.
They had a few more drinks and then Jim pro-
posed bed. Jack “touched” Murphy for a bottle
of whisky.
“It’s no good getting up till the bank opens, is
it ?” he inquired.
“Not a bit,” said Murphy. “I don’t get up
too early myself, and there’s never anyone about
till nine or 10, so you can have a good sleep.”
Dan, the handyman, showed them to their room,
and when he returned he was smiling in an
unusual sort of way and was redolent of whisky.
* * * *
It was the sound of Robinson’s piano going
strong that brought Murphy from his bed about
8.30 next morning. When he got his door open
he heard a woman singing “ The Ship that Never
Returned.” He hated that woman and that
piano. Many a man had paused in his beer at
Murphy’s counter to listen to it, and had then
gone out to hear better, and had finally gone to
finish his cheque at Robinson’s.
“By cripes,” he said to himself as he dressed,
“I’ll have to nurse these blokes all right or
Robinson’ll have them. That hurdy-gurdy of his
draws ’em in like flies into a treacle-pot.
Dan was watering the front of the bar.
“Are those chaps about yet, Dan ?”
“Yes,” said the handyman, “they got out
early, an’ I dunno where they are now.” He
tried hard not to smile.
“By hell, I do, then,” said Murphy.
“Robinson’s got ’em. Listen to the way that
haybag’s knocking the noise outer the piano.
Here, collar this, and slip out and get ’em back.”
He thrust some silver into Dan’s paw without
counting it. “Don’t let on I sent you, and whin
ye bring thim in there’s a quid fer you.”
Dan again tried hard not to smile. He strolled
up to the Robinson pub. Robinson rushed him
into the bar and poured liquor into him twice.
Then he broached the subject.
“Say, Dan, them’s two nice chaps staying at-
Murphy’s. They’ve a bonser cheque, an’ I hear
that you’re pals with them.”
Dan answered the two questions in the affirma-
tive by nodding his head. He also pushed his
pint over to be refilled. Robinson drew the
beer into it in an abstracted manner, and then
took a sovereign from the till and pushed it-
across with the pint.
“You’re a clever chap, Dan. Bring them
chaps up here, and I’ll give you a better job
than you’ve got at Murphy’s, and if you’ll land
’em here by dinner-time there’s another for you.”
Dan walked down the street, chuckling.
Murphy was stamping up and down, swearing
furiously.
“ Are they up there still?” he roared.
“Yes,” said Dan. “I shouted twice for all
hands, an’ tried to get ’em back, but Robinson’s
keepin’ ’em. I’ll go back presently an’ try an’
get hold of ’em when Robinson’s havin’ some-
thin’ to eat. When the manager passes, I’ll
rush in an’ tell ’em the bank’s open. You’d
better give me a few more bob.”
Murphy counted out five shillings. The noise
of Robinson’s piano nearly drove him crazy.
Dan went off.
An hour passed, and there was no sign of
Dan or the swaggies. Murphy waited another
30 minutes, and then vague suspicions rushed
through his mind so fast that he hardly knew
what they were. Anyhow, he’d go up and
lock their room so that they couldn’t get their
swags away to Robinson’s till they had settled up
with him. When he got to the room he gasped.
Their swags had already gone. His blankets had
also departed, and there was a stripped appear-
ance about the apartment. He tore down the
stairs cursing, and rushed up to Robinson’s. The
two publicans met in the passage.
“ Bay, Robinson, are those two swagmen that
stayed at my place here ? ”
“ Good God, no ! ” gasped Robinson, consterna-
tion spreading over his face. “I haven’t seen
them since they were in last night. They said
they were going to bring their swags up to-day.”
“Well,” said Murphy, despairingly, “the
-blanks have gone; they’ve done me for £7 10s.,
besides drinks, feeds, and me blankets. And
Dan’s gone too.”
Robinson fell against the wall. For a moment
Murphy gibbered, and then, turning, rushed out
of the hotel. He tore down the street and made for
his stable. Five minutes later he was on horseback
galloping for Narrogin. At a turn of the road it
seemed to him that there was somebody on the
road ahead of him, also galloping towards
* * .
When he got to his destination he could hardly
keep his seat on the horse, but he struggled along
to the post office and asked for a letter addressed
to Joe Ford. The postmaster looked at him
keenly.
“ There’s nothing here for Mr. Ford,” he said.
“But I posted it meself —me name’s Murphy,
of the Golden Hole Hotel, Danderyack.”
“Well, it’s very strange, Mr. Murphy. Mr.
Robinson, of your town, called with a written order
from Joe Ford to receive his letters. There were
two. Have you got an order also ? ”
But Murphy staggered out and started to look
for Robinson. He found him at the Railway
Hotel using language that was a disgrace to the
country. Before him lay two envelopes, both
addressed to Joe Ford, and a lot of folded scraps
of newspaper.
“ We’re done rotten—-they never put the stuff in
the letter at all,” he said bitterly. “ ’Twas what
they call sleight-of-hand business.” Then he
groaned.
Dan, the handy man, smiling sweetly to himself,
and with about £3 in his possession, pursued the
even tenor of his way alopg a road where the pine
scrub shaded him from the sun. In a sylvan nook
off the main road two swagmen were finishing the
bottle of whisky.
“ The bloke at the top pub was a bit hard to
work, but Murphy came like water,” said the
elder man.
“ Well, you could hardly expect him to be as
expansive as the fellow where we were staying,'
said the younger, “ even though we told him
Murphy’s liquor was no good, an’ we’d have tore-
move to his place.”
“That’s so,” said the elder. “There’s £4r—
that’s your share. And now we’ll make for the
Murray. I know some towns over there that
would be real glad to see a cheque-man.
ELMORE.


(onsFipatio
A Professional Nurse Cured.
CONSTIPATION is beyond doubt responsible for more illness than
any other known ailment. Mere purgatives are no protection
against this disease; and the old-fashioned
remedies containing aloes, mercury, etc., gen-
erally do more harm than good, by making
medicine-taking a constant necessity. Bile
Beans being purely vegetable, and operat-
ing on the liver—not as a mere purgative-
are a safe and certain cure for Constipation.
They tone up the liver and prompt it to
secrete nature’s own purgative —the bile.
Constipation is thus ended in a perfectly
natural manner, and as soon as the cure is
effected the Beans may be left off.
Nurse Baldwin, residing at 106 Bourke
Street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, writes —“You
have my heartfelt thanks for the benefit I have
received from Bile Beans. About seven years
ago my health began to break up through overwork and worry. My liver was
sluggish in its action, and I suffered from Constipation and Indigestion, and finally,
Decline. Several doctors prescribed for me, but, strange to say, I derived no
benefit from their treatment. I also tried several medicines advertised as a cure
for my complaints, but still failed to improve in health. Bile Beans were recom-
mended by a friend, and although I had little faith in their doing me any good
after all the others had failed, I still determined to give them a trial, and purchased
a box. Their effect was marvellous from the first few doses, and, continuing the
course, I was quickly restored to health. Since that time I have never been with-
out Bile Beans in the house, and have recommended them to scores of my patients,
and in each case they have derived great benefit. As for myself, I cannot speak
too highly of the u.”
Nature’s Own Remedy
for Biliousness, Indigestion, Headache, Constipation, Piles, Bad Blood, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Restlessness,
Female Ailments, Loss of Appetite, and all disorders of the Liver, Stomach or Digestive organs. J - a £ e ! l °'J
the approach of winter, they safeguard the body against Rheumatism, Colds, Chills and Influenza, oo
all Chemists and Stores at 1/1 % per box, or 2/9, special large family size.
ONE BEAN ONE DOSE.
i*.
m
k
9
Mvm/>tf t 7 s%iAmki fir'
• m •
A
Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WE stole sweet Love from his open throne
Where all men homage make ;
We hid him deep in a poisoned sleep
Which only we could wake ;
We stirred in him with wicked wines
A thirst he could not slake.
Through stealthy days and nights we touched
His lute to music rare ;
None ever guessed the wondrous feast
We made him grant us there,
For we had hid away the Love
Which should be everywhere.
We drugged him while we rifled him —
The apple Eden-born
Was never reft with ruder theft
Than those from dusk till morn ;
By eager hands that could not rest
His wings of joy were torn.
Bruised and despoiled, we set him up
And bade him give again,
No treasure-box had bars or locks
We could not rive in twain.
All that lie had was ours; but now
His vengeance comes in pain.
The slow hours pass, the long hours pass,
And kisses lose their guile,
The sweet delights of vanished nights
With a shameful stain defile
A crippled Love with twisted wings
Who can no longer smile.
His bonds that grip our weary souls
Are ruthless bonds of death ;
They sear and burn where the senses yearn,
They clutch the panting breath
That prays in vain for the ears to hear
The requiem no man saith.
For the bitterest thing of all is this —
That the wingless Love lives yet;
By a smouldered fire of sick desire
In ghastly pallor set,
He lives and grins at the maddened sins
Which pay his endless debt.
Yea, whether Death, or whether Love,
You know not well, nor I;
We feel his grip on breast and lip
As days and nights go by,
While we curse and cling to that withered thing
That is cold, and will not die.
We dare not part, we may not sleep
While that maimed thing sits beside,
And, with laugh malign, pours out the wine
Where the choking bubbles hide,
In vengeance for the cruel wounds
We dealt his rosy pride.
For this is sin which we have done—
Sin passing hope or prayer,
Whose evil root and bitter fruit
Are now our only share—
That we stole and hid away the Love
Which should be everywhere.
Had we knelt to him where he sat aloft,
And gave his generous bliss,
Though his smiling face were the world’s disgrace,
It had better been than this,
To lie in hiding, and to drink
Poison in every kiss.
VIC.
PRIAM.
A Just Judge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the story of a just Judge, and how
he fell in.
All these things happened many years
ago, before the Maori had become refined by
education, and before politicians had become
honest, or Judges wise. The laws relating to
Maori lands are complicated affairs, but the docu-
ments proving the ownership of those lands are a
thousand times more complicated. A wise Govern-
ment, therefore, appoints only men who have
studied the Maori character in all its subtleties to
be Judges of the Native Land Court; but even a
wise Government sometimes makes a mistake.
Porteous was this Government’s mistake. He
was clever, there was no doubt about it, but he
was conscientious, and, worse still, he was a right-
thinking person. A lawyer should never be a
right-thinking person —at least not till he is fat
and fifty, with bulging pockets and a hoarse yoice.
For a young lawyer it is professional suicide.
Luckily for Porteous his uncle had a friend whose
aunt was married to the Premier’s nephew. It
took some considerable time to get the machinery
in motion, but when it did start events happened
rapidly. Porteous found himself a Judge of the
Native Land Court, a member of the Wairuna
Maori Council, attorney of the Mokimoki Irri-
gation Board, and about 40 other things. He was
rather startled—but game. “The Great Man”
himself sent for Porteous, and gave him ten
minutes’valuable advice. He said : “You’ve got
about the toughest job in Maoriland. You’re
young, or you wouldn’t tackle it. The Opposition
will give me hell for appointing you, and will
watch you like a pack of jackals watching a
carcase. You will have to live straight, act
straight, and untangle some of the knottiest
problems that a man ever tortured his brain with.
Above all things, placate the Maoris. If you
don’t, we’ll have scores of them coming here with
petitions, and addresses, and God knows what.
Good morning.”
Porteous was subdued, but not disheartened.
He believed that if a man did his duty he would
come out on top in the end, and he meant to
carry that theory into practice. He had never
studied the Maori. On the Onehunga boat the
new Judge met old “ Bill” Trenton, the pakeha-
Maori interpreter of the House, who was return-
ing to his kainga on the banks of the Waikato.
Bill was patronising to the new hand, but not
averse to giving advice. The night was clear and
the sea calm, and they sat on the deck smoking.
Bill spoke from his forty years of life amongst
the brown people.
“The cases you will have to decide are all
much of a muchness. The evidence is nearly all
legendary, though some of it is genuine, and some
pure invention. If the tohunga tells Henare
that he is the owner of Block 244, Henarewill
bring 400 bucks to swear that 244 belongs to him.
Of course, 244 may belong to Mahi Rotorua, but
you will have to listen to Henare, because he is a
grandson of Te Kooti, and his mana is great.
Your worst case is the Mahakipawa one. The
Mahakipawas claim the whole of the Maranui
block, and have done so for years. The rightful
owner is Wiremu Maniapoto, of the Ngapuhis, but
the Mahakipawas have such evidence —they come
up with something stronger every time the Court
sits—that old Wiremu’s case is pretty hopeless.
Between them they kept Judge Tickhard going
for three years, and though the Judge hadn’t a
doubt that Maniapoto was the rightful owner,
the Mahakipawas fairly swamped him with
ancient stories and prophecies and legends until
the Judge’s health broke down. He was a strong
man, was the Judge, but three years wrestling
with the Mahakipawa title deeds would kill an
elephant, and he had to give in. No, the Maranui'
block is useless to the Mahakipawas, but if they
lost it they’d lose a big chunk of their manfi, and
personally I think that they’d sooner eat you
than lose that land.”
Porteous visited Rehua and Ngatimana and
Rangihaeta, and left a long trail of indignant
Maoris behind him. Many Judges had they seen
—good, bad, and boozy—but Porteous was
altogether too strong for the mental stomachs of
the natives. Never before had justice been dealt
out in such. solid slabs. Cases which usually
lasted weeks were settled in a day, and the korero
was a thing without dignity and without beauty.
It was a very flustered Judge who arrived at
the Mahakipawa Pah, and was housed in the
“ tchudge’s whare.” Mahakipawa Pah is situated
on a small hill, surrounded by some of the most
beautiful bush in all Maoriland, but it knows not
the tourist and hfs inane ways. The chief of the
Mahakipawas was Hone Tuna—Hone the Eel—a
thin, consumptive-looking native, who had the
reputation of being the smartest litigant in the
Auckland district. It was Hone who found the
witnesses and the evidence to demoralise the
forces of the hated Ngapuhis ; and it was Hone
who was the “ dam smart pfeller.” Hone was a
descendant of the great Toa—the man who ate
three pakehas at one meal, and thus became
endowed with their brains. Two of the pakehas
were lawyers, and so Hone inherited the mental
power of two lawyers, a clergyman, and the great
Toa himself, who had more brains than the
other three put together. Hone was a slippery
customer.
Half a mile north of Mahakipawa Pah there is
a body of water called Lake Wairau. Lake
Wairau is the breed of thousands of
birds—grey and Paradise ducks, swan, and bittern
—and Lake Wairau is tapu. It is not a Maori
tapu, but a Government one—a rigorous, law-’n’-
order, penal servitude sort of tapu—and the
punishment for any person found shooting on the
Lake is too awful to contemplate. The Mahaki-
pawas lived principally upon kumaras and onions
and ducks killed at Lake Wairau. The tapu
troubled them nht a bit, and Mounted-constable
M'Grath, in whose district the Lake lay, was an
angry man. M'Grath had been censured by his
chief for neglect of duty, and he had sworn that
he would get a conviction against someone, or
retire from the service.
Now Porteous was becoming bored with the
brown man’s style of business. His over-educated
brain failed to detect the nice point in the Maori’s
argument, and he saw only plain, matter of fact
truths. This was Porteous’ misfortune. When
on the first morning in the big meeting house,
Hone rose to give his customary address of
welcome —which usually lasted about four hours
and forty-five minutes—the Judge said to his
interpreter. “ Tell the fool to sit down. ’ The
interpreter— a flabby Wanganui half-caste-
translated the order as, “The glorious rangitira,
on whose brow the wisdom of the world sits, as a
pigeon rests on a limb of the kauri tree, orders
the pig-faced son of a slave to close his lying
mouth.” Hone sat down. The hope of the
Mahakipawas sank below zero and the Ngapuhis
smote them hip and thigh. In vain Hone rallied
his men. Raukura's evidence was received with
incredulous silence. Mamari—the mainstay of a
hundred trials—was ordered to stand down. For
the first time in the history of the tribe the
famous Mahakipawas were utterly demoralised.
Towards evening the Judge delivered a brief
“summing up”—the Mahakipawas hadn’t the
ghost of a chance—and said that he would
announce his decision in the morning—this on a
case that had dragged along for years and become
an institution ! Porteous was going to brush it
away as if it were a fly.
After the evening meal Hone made several
pretty speeches about the Judge, likening him to
the celebrated Maui, to Lake Moa.ua, and to
Waimangu Geyser. Never had the Maori people
been blessed with such a clever Judge, and the
Mahakipawas—who were not fit to l.ve in the
same Universe with him—were overwhelmed by
the honor of his presence. Porteous, well pleased
with himself, retired to his whare to smoke and
read Shelley. The Mahakipawas returned to the
meeting house, and in an atmosphere reeking with
tobacco smoke and heated Maori, held a big
korero. When Hone had explained his plan to
them there was much loud laughter and applause.
Next to a tangi the Maori enjoys a joke better
than anything else—when the laugh is against the
other fellow. In this case the laugh was against
the Judge.
What sort of a yarn those designing brown men
worked off on Constable McGrath history will
never record with any sureness or accuracy.
(The constable’s explanations afterwards were
various and confused, and he was sacked in
the middle of them and sent into private
life.) But certain it is that, that night,
Constable McGrath, confident that he had at
last a good case, broke into the whare of a
Judge, found there as fine a brace of Paradise
ducks as he had ever seen, a big black swan, and
a double-barrelled gun.
Constable McGrath was shocked at such bare-
faced law-breaking by a white vagrant. It was
useless for Porteous to protest that he was a
Judge, and that he didn’t know one end of a gun
from the other. His protestations only con vinced
the policeman that he was a champion liar, as
well as a flagrant poacher. The citizens of
Matenga were beginning to congregate at
Morton’s pub for their morning “bowl” when
McGrath and his captive Judge, dust-covered
and saddle-weary, ambled into the township.
Not until Porteous was lodged in the
lock-up did the truth of the situation transpire.
The story got into the papers. Porteous was
recalled to Wellington—and “fired ” for looking
ridiculous and being a subject of laughter. The
Ngapuhi v. Mahakipawa case is still battling
wearily along, but an older and more experi-
enced Judge listens to the wild statements of the
Mahakipawas, and the sullen assertions of their
enemies. He goes on the old, simple principle of
adjourning for further evidence, and hopes that,
by coming round as rarely as he can, and taking
only a small section of the dispute each visit, the
problem will last his time.
MAORI MAO.


Lost flesh rapidly, was greatly weakened, took
quantities of medicine, failed all the time. Was
quickly cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“Some time ago I had a very
evere attack of influenza which
eft me greatly weakened. I lost
esh rapidly, and was in a very
way. I took quantities of
dicine, but grew constantly
orsc. Finally, I tried Ayer’s
aparilla, and began to im-
ove from the start.
“ I took about six bottles and
perfectly cured. I have used
is remedy in my family a great
eal and I know it to be a thor-
ughly reliable, health-giving
m pound and family medi-
le.”
Mr. John Murrell, railway
station master, of Sunnybank,
Queensland, sends us this letter, together with his photograph, which
we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. You
ought to profit by it greatty; for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are
without appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and
certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood, and you are suffering from
headache, boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, or rheumatism. If
you are suffering from weakness of any kind, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will
restore to you strength and energy, and will make life the better
worth living. Be sure you get
AYER’S S arsaparilla
There are a great many substitute Sarsaparillas on the market that will disap'
point you. Avoid imitations.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYES & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
4 .
m
m
FREE
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When yon
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with vou again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal' offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. ✓
REGAL POST CARD Co.. B.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
k
"FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNV DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and St miach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women,
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS ■■
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . „
Qout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
7t, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks toy the use of
0S RXCO*s'«
csSt** CE °? vA f fc \
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
alt the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125. , or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
ls6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
~AN INTERESTING -
BOOK FOE YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, EMzabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY -FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BALLET GIRL
ķ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp far Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
-$ K
?4
-f>
'n
<S>
\rw
ou
KHAMS
Pills
wai
all
the
inerence
A Gool Appjtite comes only by having' a perfect-acting liver and a good digestion—both can easily be obtained
by using
BEEC HAM’S PILLS
They are a reliable remedy for the cure of Biliousness, Lassitude, Poor Appetite, Impaired Digestion, Costiveness,
Wind and Pains in the Stomach, Discomfort after Meals, and all other troubles which arise from a disordered liver or
stomach. They cleanse the system, give tone to the digestive organs, and’will, if taken according to directions
Make all tke Difference
to your physical condition, restoring you to sound and vigorous health. When your friends enquire into the cause,
you can honestly givq them the benefit of your experience should they appear to need it. This is the only form of
testimonial the proprietor of BEEGHAM’S PILLS is really proud of.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price lO'd., 1/IJ, 2/9.
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send yotir . . .
Rabbit SKins,
FUR SKIRTS* and BUTCHERS* PRODUCE
■' —TO—-
HILL, CLARK <& CO.,
SYDNEY.
WILL forward to anv address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; w.th Pendant, Heart, or Gross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/d; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated.-Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole's
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
c^Nf^
I
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cares the same
diseases in 4.8
hours v/Uhcut
incon-
venience,
the name
on-
Ime pr («)
men
ANO
WOMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Disea:es of Men and V omer, and Their Come Cure,”
May lx* had from Geo. Robertson and Go., I,id., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you applv to
Dr. Mania now a copy will be PJSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent. medical work contains 692 Peg-es
Crown 3vo, over 500 Prjsoriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Must: arsons, wit:; Beautiful Four-Cclu ed
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical uoik pnbl..-hed. It i- a true guide for all
tbe diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books lujverl iscd fia e
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with ldii"-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been'pablixlml.
CD ET KT A 50-page specimen copyof this grand work, containing 34 illustrations anrfoolortd plate,
I giving a v-erv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and Ins
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). {Sf Note Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “Bimiey Houser 75/ Eh'zabeth-st.
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. ”


HOT
WATER
BAGS
:
Complete
w Hli
Wool or
The Very
Quality, with |
Patent Stopper!
and Handle. -
Without Sealette.
Sizes. Covers. . Covers.
12in. x 6in. 7/- 7/9
12in. x Sin. 8/- 9/-
12iu. x XOin. 8/6 9/3
THESE WE GUARANTEE.
Perdriau Rubber Go.
270 George Street,
Our List of Winter Requirements F
ASTHMA CURE
I GRIAOLTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
QR |U| K 3» DSNQ
Ol IYI B OU 111 O IU/Oij
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SilVIHNVW
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissor!
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
©OOOO
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
C oHB
JIBB
<'VOLF
07
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a, so at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J, Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE:
jFf**
I
INSTRUCTION FREEH
You can becomes, Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minde of others, control friendship
a»d affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free erf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just -what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this i
ful book ooste you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chanoe of a iifetb**©.
Write te-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, a 9 Pitt St.,:
ĸ
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
iirntTr-fi
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill lor
Mines or Quarries. Weiirht about 181bs Operated bv comnressed air, consuming: about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LiMPRIERE,
506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
k
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAfiPA’
POCKET
KNu/ES
are the
BEST.
Soli
by
all first'
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 i 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle• 21 •
Stag Handle ® - 2/6
1
m
■H
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
.... - '• ..-.y. ' v •.'• . • » 1 /• . «.
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AGENTS-—" 7
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Bredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting:, Hangers, te., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c.,' Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements- Correspondence Invited.
™ GOLF BALL
TELEPHONES—BB2 and 2435 CENTRAL.
SILYERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Professional
or THE
Silvertouin Rubber go.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S. W.
BILLETTS PATENT HOT AIR TUYERE
rr
O
effects a saving of 25 per cent, in fuel.
Heats the Iron in one-third less time. Thousands in use throughout Australia.
PRICES REDUCED:
No. 1, 355. No. 2,40 s. No. 3,50 s.
All Hardware Houses, or the foie Licensees :
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
J
I.J. '.'.'.YS/JJJ. fffjf
A-
