

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS'
REPUTATION.
R. G. WATKINS «$& CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
-— —
fjadleys Orient (jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ud., H 7 York St, Sydney
Kirchnar’s SAWING and WOODWORKING MACHINERY
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL BANDMILLS HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD.
Grand Prix Paris 1900 (Highest Possible Award)- Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
' Take it back,
2 must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand I
MAMS ®
BACON.,
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
LINOLITE
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &tc.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current.
Sole Aoents for Australia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
38 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
tL
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
I 1 •
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL, EttCINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION cuarante
all Sizes.
STATIONARY and PORTAB
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON'S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Fanner, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. .Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Qtt'and Traction Engines to
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St. f Melbourne.
m
BECKS LAGER
As supplied to the ‘ P. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
/?
s
Trade Mark.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches ■, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists' Supplies, &c.,&c
(Wholesale and Retail}.
HARRIS&6
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
How Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON SPA
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
QOX.LIJI & CO., iVße.it..
The Bulletin
Vpl. 28.'—No. 1412.]
[Thursday, March 7, 1907.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SXOOfI
M3N
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria Cross, Life’s Shop Window, 3s 6d, post Gd.
Vaughan, The Sins of Society, 3s Gd, post Gd.
Darbyshire, Precision Grinding, 7s Gd, post Gd.
Le Bon, Evolution of Matter, ss, post Gd.
Hiscox, Modern Steam Engineering, 15s, post Bd.
Warner, Natives of Bnttish Central Africa, 7sGd, post Bd.
Bassett, Judith’s Garden : a novel, 3s Gd, post Gd.
Beeke, Sketches in Normandy, 2s Gd & 3s Gd, post sd.
Skeat and Blagderi, Pagan Races of tine Malay Peninsula,
2 vols., illustrated, 50s, postage 3s.
Tucker, Prof., Life in Ancient Athens, 5a,-post Gd.
Hibbert’s Electric Ignition for Motor Vehicles, Is M, p. sd.
Thomas, Kinship and Group Marriage in Australia, 7s (id,
p. (id. Reynolds, Ball, The Tourists’ India, 10s Od, p. Gd.
Clark, Labor Movement in Australia, 7s (id, post Gd.
Kuskin, Sesame and Lilies, Unijo this Last, aheap
editions, each Bd. posted.
Gant, Electric Traction for Motormep, Gs, post 6d.
Ingall, Lead Smelting and Refining, 15s, post Is.
Lock, Study of Variation, Ueredity & Evolution, 9s, p. Bd.
HUDSONS
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
A— The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, ‘‘CUMENTHC*
TTT.TUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. ' '
the contrary, they have a beneficial etfec ,
Seir Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food.
[2.
THE RED PAGE
LAFCADIO HEARN
ONE of the most remarkable careers in
literature came to a pathetic close in
Japan in September, 1904, when
died, at the age of 54, Lafcadio Hearn, author'
of Kokoru, Kwaidan, Glimpses of Un-
familiar Japan, Japan, an Interpretation, and
other remarkable The life of a man
of the literary ,pre T eminence of Hearn,
—beginning on the Greek isle of Santa Maura
(from whose modern designation, Lefcada,
the child was given his name), and, after
wanderings in America and the West Indies,
ending with his burial, with Buddhist rites,
as a naturalised Japanese in Tokyo—must
necessarily prove of interest; but the inner
life of the man was even richer in romance.
Hearn was of a remarkable parentage.
His father was Irish, with a strain of gypsy
blood, his mother Greek, with a hinted ad-
mixture of Turkish and Arabic origins ; the
marriage, which was the result of a passion-
ate love-affair, was afterwards annulled, both
parties re-marrying, leaving Hearn and an
undistinguished brother practically orphans.
Lafcadio's life story may be briefly summed
as one long struggle against poverty, dread-
fully handicapped by physical and tempera-
mental defects. Brought up in the wealthy
home of his great-aunt in Wales, sent for
two years to a Jesuit college in France,
thence to a Roman Catholic college
in England, at the age of nineteen he fled,
apparently in a great fear of priests, penni-
less and friendless, to America. After ex-
periences that were doubly terrifying to one
of his excessive sensitiveness, he ultimately
got employment as a reporter on an Ameri-
can daily paper. Then, slowly drifting south-
ward toward the tropics that ever after-
wards held his exotic soul, he was able,
commissioned by Harper's, to spend two
years in the French West Indies. In that
pause from the long hours of toil upon the
daily press, Hearn was able to indulge to its
utmost his life-long craving for strange arid
exotic knowledge. He had from the first
been interested in French literature, and his
first literary work consisted of trai-.sla-
tions from Gautier, on whom his mar-
vellous pro'se style was modelled, Mau-
passant and Loti.
His first book, One of Cleopatra's Nights ,
a translation of some of Gautier’s fan-
tastic romances, made many journeys
before it found a publisher. The reason
for this reluctance of the publishers may
be divined from the fact that one critie
spoke of the work as “ stories of unbridled
lust, without the apology of natural passion ”:
the translator suffered for the sins of his
author. But now Hearn set himself to
acquire that knowledge of the Odd of which
he was destined to make such remarkable
use. He published a collection of Creole
proverbs; he eulled from strange litera-
tures their most exotic blossoms ; he
probed history for the remarkable ;
be sought assiduously among ancient legends
in quest of the weird ; he knew gypsy poetry,
Hindoo mythology, the music of the ancient
Egyptians, Finnish literature, the poetry of
Pre-Islamic Arabia, the dances of the Orient.
For this reason his letters (The Life and
Letters of Lafcadio Hearn, by ■ Elizabeth
Bisland ; Constable,- London) abound in
strange suggestions.
What a curious article (he writes) might be
written upon “ The Amorous Epochs of National
Literatures,” dwelling especially upon the extra-
vagant passionateness of Indian, Persian and
Arabic belle-lettres —and their offshoots !
The pertinacity with which he pursued his
task may be indicated by his description of
his library.
In positive acquirements I am exceptionally
ignorant. By purchasing queer books and fol-
lowing odd subjects I have been able to give my-
self the air of knowing more than I do ; but none
of my work would bear the scrutiny of a
specialist ; I would like, however, to show you
my library. .. . Every volume is queer. Know-
ing that I have nothing resembling genius, and
that any ordinary talent must be supplemented
with some sort of curious study in order to place
it above the mediocre line. 1 am striving to woo
the Muse of the Odd. . . . Meantime, I am trying
to fill my brain with unfamiliar facts on special
topics, believing that, some day or other, I shall
be able to utilise them in a new way.
Ultimately this longing led him to Japan.
There he became a teacher in a middle school
at Matsue, married a Japanese lady of high
rank, relinquished pedagogy for journalism,
and was (in 189 b) appointed Professor
of English in the Imperial University
of Tokyo. After seven years of brilliant
work there, he was cruelly and deliberately
forced by the Japanese authorities to resign
his post, under circumstances that serve as
an object-lesson to those who think that ever
the East and West can be reconciled His
residence in Japan, however, while proving
fatal to himself, gave to the greater world of
literature a contribution of inestimable
value. In Japan he—“a stray from the
Nineteenth century, moving about in
the unrealised world of the Fourteenth ” —-
wrote that marvellous series of expositions
of the psychology of the Japanese that cul-
minated in his final work, Japan, an Inter-
pretation. And at the time of his death the
universities of Oxford and of London had
recognised his labors to the extent of negoti-*
ating with him for a series of lectures. In
the Life and Letters , however, no mention
is ma le of one fact that has an Australasian
bearing. It is that on the establishment of
the Victoria University, at Wellington
(M.L.), Hearn was one of the applicants
for the chair in English. The posi-
tion was given to a brother of “Jock”
Mackenzie, the famous Minister for Lands
in the first Seddon Cabinet. Under the
circumstances the choice cannot be cavilled
at; despite the immense disparity in
the teaching and literary equipment of
the two applicants, the position of a
Professor of English, with a Japanese wife
and family, in a Maoriland university would
have been awkward both to Wellington and
to Hearn ; but the mind may for one moment
dwell upon the possibility that Hearn in
Maoriland with his training and tempera-
ment might have done for the Maori legends
what he So exquisitely did for Japan.
Lafcadio Hearn went to Japan full of a
fierce enthusiasm for this long-yearned-for
land of promise. The precepts of Buddhism
had early attracted this man who in his youth
had been surfeited with Christianity. He
yearned passionately for the pagan ; Japanese
ancestor-worship seemed to him an almost
unprospected field for the ghostly and the
weird ; and, finally, the charm of another
civilisation was a powerful lure to one whose
restless and probing spirit was dissatisfied,
not merely with places, but with civilisations.
You can comprehend (he writes) how one
becomes tired of the very stones of a place —the
odors, the colors, the shapes of shadows and tint
of its sky ; —and how small irritations become
colossal and crushing by years of repetition—yet
perhaps you will not comprehend that one can
actually become weary of a whole system of life,
of civilisation even with very limited experience.
His first impressions of Japan, in the old-
world town of Matsue, confirmed his antici-
patory enthusiasms ; and his earlier Japanese
books are full of the quaintness, the beauty,
the peace, the happiness of this mediaeval
child among the-modern nations. For, as
Elizabeth Bisland records
He had the good fortune to be ehosen to assist
at one of the great births of history. Out of “ a
race as primitive.as the Etruscan before Rome
was” —as he declared be found them —he was to
see a mighty modern nation spring full-armed,
with all the sudden miraculous transformation of
some great mailed beetle bursting from the grey
hidden shell of a feeble-Jo.oking pupa. He saw
the fourteenth century turn swiftly., amazingly
into the twentieth, and his twelve volumes of
studies of the Japanese people were to have that
unique and lasting value that would attach to
equally painstaking records of Greek life before
the Persian wars. Inestimable, immortal would
be such book's—could they anywhere be found—
setting down the faiths, the traditions, the daily
lives, the songs, the dances, the names, the
legends, the humble lore of plants, birds, and
insects of that people who suddenly stood up at
Thermopylae, broke the wave from the east, made
Europe possible, and set the corner-stone of
Occidental thought. This was what Lafcadio
Hearn, a little, penniless, half-blind, eccentric
wanderer, had come to do for Japan. To make
immortal the story of the childhood of a people
as simple as the early Greeks, who were to break
at Mukden the great wave of conquest from the
west, and to rejuvenate the most ancient East.
It was fantasy and charm that Hearn had
come to Japan to find. And at first he
thought he had discovered the hidden gate
to lvis paradise.
The first charm is intangible and volatile as a
perfume. ... Elfish everything seems ; for every-
thing, as well as everybody, is small and queer
and mysterious : the little houses under their
blue roofs, the little shop-fronts hung with blue,
and the smiling little people in their blue cos-
tumes ... the magical transparencies of distance,
the wondrous; delicacies of tones, the enormous
height of the summer bluq„ and the white, soft
witchery of the Japanese sun.
But disillusion quickly came—a disillusion
that grew in clarity and bitterness till the
end. He learnt fid know the griln and
callous soul behind that childish smil-
ing mask ; he saw the Japanese as they are ;
and, at last, he died, trodden under foot like
a troublesome insect, wiped out with a
monstrous and dispassionate callousness that
cannot be paralleled in the minds of the
West. It is a grim story, plainly told in his
letters. Here and there in his published
works he hints of that almost inhuman
Oi'iental soul ; but in his correspondence he
spoke out all his disillusionment.
Here is an astounding fact. The Japanese
child is as close to you as a European child—
perhaps closer and sweeter, because infinitely
more natural and naturally refined. Cultivate
his mind, and the more it is cultivated the
farther you push him from you. Why ? Because
here the race antipodalism shows itself. As the
Oriental thinks naturally to the left where we
think to the right, the more you cultivate him the
mure he will think in the opposite direction from
you.
Closely that Western observer watched,
and marvellously he recorded the process of
a race, “ live thousand years at least emo-
tionally behind us,” adopting under compul-
sion and at a price to itself that must be
paid for many generations yet, the practices
of a larger civilisation.
Here in Japan I watch, day by day, the de-
struction of a wonderful and very beautiful civili-
sation, by industrial pressure... .
I am now convinced that the deficiency of the
sexual instinct (using the term philosophically) in
the [Japanese] race is a serious defect rather
than a merit, and is very probably connected
with the absence of the musical sense, and the
incapacity for abstract reasoning. That the
Japanese can ever reach our aesthetic stage seems
to me utterly impossible, but assuredly what they
lack in certain directions they may prove splen-
didly capable of making up in others. At least
it seems to me that here is a danger. Japan
ought to produce scientific, political, and mili-
tary haters of “ideologists”—Napoleons of prac-
tical applications of science. .. . Imagine a
civilisation on Western lines, with cold calcula-
tion universally substituted for ethical principle !
The suggestion is very terrible and very ugly.
One would pre c er even the society of the later
Roman Empire.
It is an ugly business, this’[Chinese] war. . .
The people are still good. The tipper classes are
becoming corrupt. The old courtesy, the old
faith, the old kindness are vanishing like snow in
sun. . . The Japanese peasant is ten times more
of a gentleman than a foreign merchant could
ever learn to be. Unfortunately, the Japanese
official, with all his civility and morality rubbed
off, is something a good deal lower than a savage,
and meaner than the straight-out Western rough
(who always has a kernel of good in him) by an
inexpressible percent. . . The old men are divine.
When you meet a horrid Japanese, though, there
is a distorted quality about him that makes him a
unique monster —he is like an awry caricature of
a Western mean fellow without the vim and push
—solid contemptibility in petto.
The students attempt to do on rice and gruel
wljat foreign students can only do on beef . . .
heavy, nutritious diet. In the eternal order of
things, the overstrain comes. The higher educa-
tion will not give the desired results for at least
another generation—because the physique of the
student must he raised to meet it. The higher
education requires a physiological change—an in-
crease of brain capacity in actual development of
tissue, an increase of nervous energy, and, conse-
quently,- a higher standard of living. . . . The
stuff ent of to-day is not sufficiently strong and
sufficiently nourished to hear the tremendous
strain put upon him at the higher schools and the
university. . . . Some students I liked l>ave gone
mad; numbers have died ; numbers have had to
give up. The strain is too great because the
hardship is too great—the cold, the poor, cheap
food, the poor, thin clothes. . . . Long-sustained
effort, protracted and unbroken study, are things
foreign to Japanese existence.
We are all in Japan living over earthquakes.
Nothing is stable. All Japanese officialdom is
perpetually in flux—nothing but the throne is
even temporarily fixed ; and the direction of the
currents depends much upon force of intrigue.
They shift, like currents in the sea, off a coast of
tides. But the side current's penetrate every-
where .... and swirl round the writing-stool of
the smallest clerk—whose pen trembles with con-
tinual fear for his wife’s and babies’ rice. ... In
the Orient, intrigue has been cultivated as an art for
ages, and it lias been cultivated as an art in every
country; no doubt. - But the result of the adoption
of constitutional government by a race accustomed
to autocracy and caste enabled intrigue to spread
like a ferment, in new forms, through every con-
dition of society—and almost into every house-
hold. It has become an infinite net—unbreakable,
because as elastic as air, though strong enough to
upset ministers as readily as to oust clerks. . . .
Tokyo takes out of me all power to hope for a
great Japanese future. .. . At present I think it
can be truthfully said that every official branch
of service shows the rapidly growing weakness
that means demoralisation.
It strikes me that in another twenty years, or
perhaps thirty, after a brief artificial expansion,
all the ports will shrink. The foreign commerce
will be all reduced to agencies. A system of
small persecutions will be inaugurated and main-
tained to drive away all the foreigners who can
be driven away .. . Life will be made wretched
for Occidental’s—in business—just as it is being
made in the schools —by all sorts of little tricky
plans which cannot be brought under law-pro-
visions, or even so defined as to appear to justify
resentment —tricks at which the Japanese are as
elaborately ingenious as they are in matters of
etiquette and forms of other kinds. The nation
will show its ugly side to us ... My conclusion
is that the charm of Japanese life is largely the
charm of childhood, and that the most beautiful
of all race childhoods is passing into an adolescence
which threatens to prove repulsive.
&
Hearn did more than write of that swift
racial degeneration ; he was himself one of
the victims of the new regime. He took the
first dangerous step when he married a
Japanese lady. The marriage, which turned
out a perfectly happy one, was celebrated
with the local rites, as to have been married
according to English laws would at that
time have deprived her of her Japanese
citizenship and separated her from her
people, by obliging her to live in one of ’the
open poits. Concern for her future and his
children’s status, should he die, forced upon
Hearn the second step. He saw no way out
of the difficulty but to renounce his English
allegiance and becomea subject of the Mikado.
To do this he had necessarily to Ije adopted
into his wife’s family. He accordingly took
her name, Koizumi. And even as he took
this necessary step he had a premonition of
its result.
I am still hesitating alittle (he writes) —because
of the Japanese. Would they try to take advant-
age, and cut down my salary ?
Hearn had ample reason to fear the loss
of his professorship at Tokyo University.
All his life he struggled with poverty ; his
profits from his books were pitiably little
(“a book brings me in about 300 dollars—
after two years’ waiting ”) ; Inis health was
failing ; his eyesight in a dangerous shite of
weakness. And he notes one warning :
An Englishman in Yokohama, who became a
Japanese citizen, had hi* salary immediately re-
duced to a very small figure, with the ©bserva-
tion: “Having beeome a Japanese citizen, you
must now be content to live like one.”
His position, (nice he had put himself
into the hands of the Japanese, was indeed
precarious. Asked to print his inimitable
lectures, he refused, with the remark :
* When a professor in Japan prints his lectures,
the authorities think they have got all that he
knbws in hand, and lire likely to look about for a
new ihan.
And at length, with weak lungs and an over-
powering anxiety abo.ut his eldest son’s
future—“ My son—a being entirely innocent
of evil—what chance for him in such a world
as Japan '! ” —Hearn learnt the full bitter-
ness of his attempt to understand, and to
serve, the Japanese.
As I anticipated. I was forced out of the uni-
versity, oil the pretext that, as a Japanese citizen,
I was not entitled to a “ foreign salary.” (They
told me that 1 ought to be satisfied to live on rice,
like a Japanese.) ... I was also refused the
money allowed to professors for a nine-months’
vacation after a service of six years, )
Then a way opened to him out of all his
troubles. Lafcadio Hearn died.
“ Indeed,” writes his wife in her artless,
broken-English letters, “he loved Japan
with his whole heart, but his sincere love for
Japan was not very well understood by
Japanese.”
As was timidly prophesied on this,page, George
W. Lambert has made secure his position in the
London art-world by his pictures in the Exhibi-
tions of the Modern Society of Portrait Painters
and of the International Society, of which lie is
an Associate. The critics are especially enthusi-
astic about his five portraits in the former show.
The Academy, for instance, after speaking of a
“striking and dramatic portrait,” of F. Derwent
Wood, gives detailed criticism of a portrait group,,
“a very charming tigure-composition of two ladies
going down to the sea, one carrying a child about
to paddle, while by her side trots a naked
youngster, eager for his swim. It is a de-
lightful little work, charming in color and
composition, and the contrast of the nude
and clothed figures is as successful and
natural here as it is unnatural and forced in
the same artist’s The Sonnet at the New Gallery.”
The Athcnceurn gives Lambert first place in its
criticism: —“Portrait painting has, and has
always had, two ways of satisfying a client: it
may succeed by intimacy, the revelation of
character, or in less spiritual fashion by display, by
celebrating the splendor and costliness of Ahe
sitter's appointments; and there is coming into
existence among the younger portrait painters
something like a generally recognised style based
on the demand for the latter qualities. The pre-
pared scales of tints which Mr. Lambert would
seem to use offers a method admirably adapted
to rendering brilliantly and cleverly delicate
differences of color and texture, effects of sheen
and shimmer and transparency, the pomp of the
toilet. In The Old Dress in the present exhibi-
tion he attempts a tour deforce in this region—
loses his way slightly in the elaborate scheme, and 1
recovers himself by the use of a rather dirty glaze.
The face meanwhile is a somewhat perfunctory
detail of the composition, and not to be compared
with the two heads by the same painter (one of
himself and one of Mr. Derwent Wood) which are
among the best portraits here!” The fact that
Lambert has “arrived ” is indicated, not by the
details of the criticisms, but by the necessity the
art-critics feel so closely to scrutinise his work. 1
Liza of Bourke's, by Cyril Vaile (D. W. Pater-
son Go., Melb.), is a collection of readable short
stories of out-back which have already made their
appearance in various newspapers of the con-
tinent. The yarns are quite devoid of style,
somewhat diluted with sentimentality, but, on
the whole, they are faithful and interesting pic-
tures of Australian' life. Cyril Vaile might
consider the question of a novel.
Two prominent English publishing firms an-
nounce their intention of publishing novels in
England at the colonial price of lialf-a-crown.
An English review sees in the drop in priep an
increased difficulty for the unknown author in
finding a market: “At the most, his first book
(unless, indeed, he be exceptionally lucky) would
sell to the extent of from five hundred to one
thousand, and these at half-a-crown would admit
of very little plunder coming his way. In fact,
the publishers would be almost obliged to con-
centrate their efforts on pushing the important
man at the expense of those whose spurs are still
unwon.” We have heard that wail before. ' -
The North American Review has become an
enthusiastic convert to Esperanto—the language
that looks like a dynamited Tower of Babel
running amok—and means to promulgate it with
frenzy. In addition to articles upon the lan-
guage, it publishes in every issue instalments of an
Esperanto primer.
TTHE BOOKPELLOW, an Australasian weekly maga-
* zine, published every Thursday, price 3d.. 12s. a
year post-free. Poetry, stories, reviews, pictures, prize
competitions. Specimen copy free from A. G. Stephens,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.


A TOAST.
\ / r
o
o
v.n;
o
' ’
;
■■■/ t.
. .
*&* > ' z .
m m \
f
v'O^
ai
Qyv/ j
'JfyUilirS. -
ot inttmi*/
7, W\
MM mi
m
If
r /'*! C
7'*^
%
f»
I
r/
%
V
%
w&
M
it m. i
&
:
%
rtTONA
TONIC
i
Sinl
®4i7
Keepsy»u
Well ■
t /
ML
MMr
76
m
u i
M
/.
■ /
////
tig
M/if;
1
in
■
m
77/
m,
gs=s
it
/
i\ *
■
m
m
m
VITONA-TONIC
WILL GIVE. YOU APPETITE and STRENGTH
Thousands take it daily and Recommend it.
Write for Pamphlet and Testimonials
to S'. Lassetter (eJb Co.» Ltd.. Sydney.
VITONA
TONIC...
3/-
Post
Fre«
LASSETTER’S, Cheapside, SYDNEY
The Largest ••.
Universal Providers.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1907.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IPfF- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREBT.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd,
S Y D N ES Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N?S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
I EDWARDS'
HARLENE
size4 s
fo
K-s^6^4 , 6PERBomi
Of ALL CHEMISTS
and STORES
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer § Restorer
. ■■ The Fittest Dressing.
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 S 96. High Holborn, London, w.c. )
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade SuppliedJ
Incandescent Acetylene Burners* with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, GAS FITTINGS, &c. I*~Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
I and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s *
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
am
I
&ioo
a WeeK
Given
Away
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are'an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who cam prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to 1 introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Elec tine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES m Best *£* 0 * f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE. !
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. K£ r r
Passengers, Genera / Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,770
Steamer. Tons-
BEACON GRANGE - .. .. 6,770
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,500
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,420
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
MariS.Dß
PLASMON
The Food for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmon. Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, Sic.)
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
FRUIT
SALT
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Cmptult marked ENO'B 'FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have o
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Vnpartd only by J, O. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON. BNGK,
by J. C. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
i
There’s SECURITY in
BARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are


“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials the wonderful value of
Mger’s
'Cherry &eetoral
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought o£ us. Tour
money in full refunded without question
U not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hnbs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the worlij. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, usii« sufficient postage, tor tree art catalogues
and onr tueciol offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COa, Dept. 280 Liverpool •
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King- and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
M Herrings a ia Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU CET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
MONEY to LEND
PASTORAL LANDS
At Lowest
Bates.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
Tel. 4552.
IRISH MOSS
J*OR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUEN2A,
COUGHS,
Askfor Banning ton’s COLD bronCHITIS.
aim see uhatyou ge 1 1 C ASTHMA.
“ROCKY CREEK” and
“ CURRANGANDI,”
BARRABA DISTRICT, N.S. WALES,
SUBDIVISION SALE, by order of the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Executors of the Will of the late JOHN ARNDELL.
About 25 miles from Barraba, to which a railway is being constructed.
AVERAGE RAINFALL—26 INCHES.
The above Properties will be submitted to PUBLIC AUCTION at
Mechanics Institute, Barraba, on THURSDAY, 14th MARCH, 1907,,,
AT NOON, on the following liberal terms One Quarter Cash. One Quarter in Two
Years, and balance at end of a further period of Three Years, with Interest meantime
payable Quarterly at 4£ per cent., commencing one month from date of sale.
“Rocky Creek”
comprises an area of 3,207
acres, Freehold, with sub-
stantial Brick Dwelling,
Wood Shed, Hay Shed, Outbuildings and Yards, TO BE SOLD
IN ONE LOT. Homestead situated in charming position at
foot of large fertile valley, surrounded by large ranges and spurs.
Elevation about 2,800 feet. Climate and Rainfall, Good.
11 ft* €l nrli ” Subdivided into Fourteen
II Lots in areas ranging from
500 to 2,700 acres, compris-
ing Freeholds, C.P.’s and C.L.’s ; the various allotments clearly-
pegged out by the Surveyors. The land is eminently suited for
Mixed Farming. Watered by the Horton River and several
creeks and wells. Timbers— Box, Apple and Gum.
“CUKRANGANDI.” —Intending purchasers desiring to inspect should communicate
with Mr. S. H. Nicholson, at “ROCKY CREEK,” via COBBED AH.
For full description of each Block, see Lithographs. For further particulars apply—
Messrs. Hill, Clark & Co., Sydney.
Messrs. Garven & Cousens, Tamworth.
A. W. H. Bull, Bingara, or 1
0. G-. Williams, Barraba. J
Agents in
conjunction.
LIVE STOCK, PLANT AND FURNITURE will be SOLD AT “ROCKY CREEK” about Three Weeks later.
“There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one
CJRCULATION.” ; '
THE ... fp";-
Lambert Sny ‘
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTR)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
SSSr&KSK' °"'
Don’t Wait Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
_ t i. cf a u if■\T?Vwt.Qfnr ic tlip onlv ha)nd. Vibr&tor in the world th&t gives direct true vibr&tion.
“ d “
NO DRUGS. NO PLASTERS. NO F.LECTRICITI.
WHAT DOCTORS SAY.— Our Vibrator is used and
endorsed by many thousand physicians of all schools
of medicine. No matter how much they may differ
in their opinions about drugs, they unite in agreeing
that the Vibrator is a truly scientific apparatus, safe
yet powerful, and of unquestioned efficacy in practi-
cally all diseased and disordered conditions. Dr.
Lemons says “ Your Vibrator received, and used
with great satisfaction.”
AND NOW, HOW ABOUT YOU? You need the
Vibrator in your family. Stop taking drugs, and let
Nature’s true principles of Stimulation by; Vibration
cure you and yours. You will never regret the in-
vestment in a Vibrator. Apart from its.wide range
of effectiveness, it is practically indestructible, has
no electricity, no wheels, no cogs or springs, and it
cannot get out of order.
n . . ~ . ivnwnpßHTT, APPRIANOE is 15b., and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6 POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
/ (Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE ACCQRDEON for Country Residents.
HEINDORFF BROS
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 set's of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/ 6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel Price <£l 7s 6a;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musics! Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Top Booms.
The top rooms lie up many stairs
Where gloomy shadows frown,
Although the steps these people tread
Upon that road uncarpeted
Are nearly always down.
Their windows, poorly mended, give
A view of roof and sky ;
A prospect that is rather blue
And gives to many things its hue —
Life there is seldom high.
Yet there’s a compensation giv'n ;
The lip may there be curled,
And tenants living up so high
May, with a proud and scornful eye,
Look down upon the world.
The top rooms need not share the gloom
That hangs about the stair ;
They may be made the nest of hope;
Their airy height gives pleasant scope
For castles in the air.
Or with some friends from kindred planes
For jovial company,
Some merry hours may yet be spent,
Where bread and butter means content,
And cheese and beer a spree.
But though you say you’re nearer Heaven
Than are the folk below,
These and a lot of things may be—•
Alas, for sad humanity,
They’re seldom really so !
For women who up there reside
Sweat morn to eve, as slaves ;
And oft when labor’s at an end
They fancy that the dark stairs bend
Down —downward to their graves !
A sempstress, stale with toil, is there,
And, dry with loveless years,
Still bends above her ceaseless tasks
To earn the little that she asks;
She has forgotten tears.
And weary wrecks and work-worn serfs
Creep there to seek their rests;
The toil and want of many a year
Has shut the heaven that seems so near,
For ever from their breasts.
And if from some that lovely sky
Some upward looks would earn,
They, city slaves, to work must go:
They rise before its glories show;
’Tis dark ere they return.
’Tis this reward their strivings earn—
A cupboard up a stair !
They work the freshness from their lives
To honey make for others’ hives ;
And this is all their share !
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Till All the Bad Things Came Untrue.
By blacksoil plains, burned grey with drought,
Where desert shrubs and grasses grow,
Along the Land of Furthest Out
That only Overlanders know,
I dreamed I camped on river grass
In bends where river timber grew—
I dreamed I dreamed the days to pass
Till all the bad things came untrue.
I dreamed that I was young again,
But was not young as I had been ;
My path through life seemed fair and plain,
My sight and hearing clear and keen.
No longer bent nor lined and grey,
I met and loved and worshipped you—
I dreamed I dreamed the days away
Till all the sad things came untrue.
I dreamed a home of freestone stood,
With toned tiled roofs as roofs should be,
By cliff and fall and beach and wood,
With wide verandahs to the sea.
I dreamed a hale gudeman and wife,
With sons and daughters well-to-do,
Lived there the glorious old home life,
And all the mad things were untrue.
From blacksoil plains burned bare with drought
Where years are sown that never grow—
From dead grey creeks of dreams and doubt,
Through black-ridged wastes of weirdest woe
I tramped and camped with fearsome fare
Until the seascape came in view ;
And lo ! the home lay smiling there,
And all the bad things were untrue.
n.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
Crucifixion.
I had a carven cross of ivory, wondrous white,
And on it writhed a broken God in pain ;
It hung upon my wall, and when I woke at night
The vision purged my soul from carnal stain.
I have an evil love, whose limbs are wondrous
white,
A purple bloom of passionate desire;
A goddess worships she with strange and shame-
ful rite,
The Venus of the handmaidens of hire.
And so I sold my cross of ivory, wondrous white,
No more at dusk my spirit’s flame leaps high ;
But with the gold I gained I purchased my
delight,
And on her breast my soul I crucify.
N.S.W.
WILFRID MAILLER.


2k?
Mis* KELLERMANN
{the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer ) writing of
(CADBURY'S
COCOA
ABSOL UTELY
PU RE
Says “I find it more n sairishing and sustaining than any other.'
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
endurance,
r etc., it is imp,._„. - ----- .
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S (
because it is ABSOLUTELY PL EB. it gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous sys teni, and ait tho same
time can be absorbed with little digei. tiw*e
e 44 A Perfect Food.,”— Health*
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
COLD STORAGIB IN THE HOflE
... HOUSEHOLD ...
K€ MACHINE.
'T'HE loss of perishable goods in the sultry Summer
* Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
ith,e purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result-; but this
•would be unpracticable on account of its expense. It costs
very little with a BRUNSWICK—J-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
Sole Agents,
BUZACOTT & GO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
as
%
A
PE>
ALWAYS FIRST.
ItICHELIN TYRES were the first
notor Tyres made. They finished
first in all the big motoring contests
of the last few seasons, and to-day still
easily hold first position for speed and
reliability. The Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th cars in
the great Vanderbilt Cup race were all on
ilichelins ; and the Ist, 2nd, sth, 6th and Bth
cars in the Grand Prix owe their success to
the same make of tyres.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
City Depot,
226 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
rnri
1153!
¥1
M
O
Lb
SmSM
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SFECIM. LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
’S'
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
%
:
7t
A
NO CERTAINTY without
RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF lager beer
ALL LEADING HOTELS.-*! Pure and Wholesome.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty The King.
BOVRIL
contains the whole of the valuable stimulating and nourishing
properties of beef and is therefore of great value after acute
illnesses of all kinds. .
‘ Whenever appetite is poor try a cup of Bovril.
cnet
$
Sold bv
All Jewellers
fkaVc to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
.in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
\6 a9 \l 'BSe
-• //£ — <<\\ ~'"-*
\B* V 1892
%?
kOThesh Ans
m
&
Estate
175<X
i.l
m
gagg.B
m'sz**
gffiSi
«<v
i»«‘T
YOU recognise the value of improvements when selecting your farm
implements—why not exercise a little thought in the comfort of
your home ? The roofing of your house, for instance. Why will you
put up with the inconvenience of an iron roof when for less money you
can secure a RUBEROID ROOF ? Many of the finest country homes in
Australia are roofed with RUBEROID—not because of its cheapness,
but because of its goodness. It takes a plumber to fix an iron roof;
a handy man can lay a RUBEROID ROOF,
RUBEROD)
MAY BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL STOREKEEPERS. . . .
Wholesale: E. RICH & CO., LTD., SYDNEY & BRISBANE,
PM
■9
s
w m
s?'-S?S
111 oi cm
RUBEROIDgS
ROOFING
vs&*\
;;
”-, fllflillt MO i/ftf TO l« |i||
•:Vi l l, y Chnm e*, of TcV'P^"""*
NO TAB- j|||
.WnASTS TIN Sf-lf>« N
'IT '(HR I,WING, idiW 0 f
000 AfmRS m» T o ** fC 'Jin:
,fin rim fc» N'T’ .pw.
... ..mime »l!|l»0» | OJL«g^>>i
uf&H


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28. No. 1412.
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1907.
PillOli Go.
THE ALLEGED MAIL-CONTRACT DIFFICULTY.
Even if the Mail Contract falls through, what does it signify? It will only hasten the time when Australia
will paddle its own canoe.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tins Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription . for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
S/>ee.ial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, ,"wse sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllacfe anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
ivill be paid fur same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i-e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under rohich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin .can be obtained in London,
a.l ter the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and.
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson ds Co., 38 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egitt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6%in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
steTsbxzlZd&7l.
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1907.
A FEDERAL LOAN AHEAD.
It is the sign of the statesman, which dis-
tinguishes him from the mere politician, that he
is able to look ahead. All politics are, to some
extent, matters of expediency. Perfection in
legislation is never attained, and every princi-
ple, however true and well-founded, has to
submit to some occasional modification when it
comes to be put into legislative effect;. The
statesman recognises, whilst perhaps he regrets,
this. But in what sacrifices lie makes to ex-
pediency he takes care that no future good is
compromised for the sake of avoiding a present
inconvenience. He is ready to make the right
path as easy as possible—giving it, if need be,
a few curves and digressions—but not to take
an altogether wrong road because it makes
easy travelling to some wayside goal. The Aus-
tralian Parliament seems to be lacking now in
providence. It drifts rapidly and unthinkingly
on to the borrowing reef. The fact that the Aus-
tralian Parliament added nothing to Australia’s
indebtedness that, in fact, it indirectly reduced
the obligations to the foreign money-lender by
making provision for repairs and renewals out of
revenue—has been the one particular bright spot
in the otherwise sordid record of Australian pub-
lic finance. What good it has done it is almost
impossible to over-estimate. Apart from the
direct benefits conferred by staying the mad rush
of a flagrantly improvident people to the pawn-
shop, the non-borrowing policy of the Australian
Jrarliament has done much to purify and ennoble
Federal politics. It has tended to economy in
F ederal ad ministration. It has lifted election issues
from the ruck of road-and-bridge arguments.
If the Australian Government had been a bor-
rowing Government, without a doubt there
would, long ere this, have been found several
avenues (outside the Post Office and military
departments) through which Federal funds could
be scattered to attract unworthy support But
the only money coming in is ordinary revenue,
and that is narrowly—not to say meanly and
grudgingly—scrutinised by the States, all anxious
to get their share, and more than their share ; so
the Australian Government has always been with-
out the means of debauching the constituencies.
* * * *
Now, if borrowing is started, however reason-
able the excuse for the first loan may seem, the
good precedent laboriously established will be
broken for ever, and the way cleared for a Federal
extravagance which will be real, and not the
bogey of a partisan press. What is done once
with seemingly good excuse will be done later on
with a bad one, until Federal finance sinks,
under some future Governments, to the slimy
depths reached in the States, where the junket-
ings of politicians and the outfitting of their
pleasure boats and pleasure houses have been
provided for out of loan money. The duty of
dissent from a pernicious precedent is clear. The
Bulletin repeats that one, and only one, valid
reason can ever be alleged in favor of a national
loan, and that arises when war threatens the
national existence. But Federal administration
rapidly brings the Commonwealth to a position
in which the easiest way out will be a loan—in
which, indeed, there will seem no feasible way out
but a loan—and then the barrier against borrowing
will be swept away, ostensibly for very good reason,
really because the present-day administrators
are too lazy or careless to look ahead and see
the inevitable consequence of piling up ex-
penditure without making any extra provision for
revenue. By pursuing that.policy a little farther,
the time willcome when a deficit which no reason-
able measure of taxation would relieve will be
accumulated, and then “ the absolute necessity of
a loan’’will be mentioned. Yet that “absolute
necessity ” can be provided against now, if the
Australian Parliament will but look ahead.
* * * *
At present the Commonwealth expenditure—
through the growth of necessary Federal services,
and with the provision out of revenue of many
postal and military expenses which the States
used to meet out of loans—is rapidly approaching
its constitutional limit. The time when the fourth
of the Customs receipts will barely suffice for the
needs of the Commonwealth, without incurring
any new commitments, can be foreseen by
anybody with eyes good enough to see
one of Melbourne’s wide streets without taking
two looks. Yet the Government cheerfully incurs
new responsibilities. The Northern Territory is
to be taken over—a sternly necessary step—and
the extra burden on the revenue will be at the
outset probably £250,000 a year. Two trans-
continental railways, both urgently necessary, are
planned, and neither can be built without money.
Old age pensions are seriously talked of. Pro-
bably they are to be paid in cash and not
I O'-U’s. The duties of quarantine and of lighting
the coast will shortly be assumed by the Aus-
tralian Government. Lighthouses, doctors, and
the like cost money. A Commonwealth navy is
proposed, and warships, costing in all £1,000,000,
are talked of. The land defences are to be im-
proved, and, even if the sound and self-respecting
proposals of the National Defence League are
adopted, and military training is treated as a civil
duty and not as a hireling trade, the improved
army and the new navy will cost more than the
present non-existent navy and almost non-existent
army. In the matter of immigration, too, the
Government proposes to do something, and
though talk is the cheapest thing on earth, and
encouraging immigration seems generally to
resolve itself into sending talkers abroad, even to
encourage immigration costs something. Thus,
on all sides, drain-pipes leading from the national
Treasury are being laid. Some of them are small,
some large; the united flow of all represents a
huge depletion of financial resources, and makes
a Federal loan—accursed prospect!—inevitable,
if no inlet pipes are found.
* * * *
Meanwhile, there is no prospect of any very
great increase in the inflow from present sources
to the cash reservoir. True, Australia is pro-
gressing under Federation, and the Federal de-
partments are being, on the whole, administered
with an economy and efficiency unknown to the
States. But as the tariff—by far the largest
source of income—becomes more truly Protective,
it will inevitably become of less value as a revenue
producer. At present a vast revenue flows into
the Treasury, because of the stupidity and wicked-
ness which allows foreigners to make goods, the
manufacture of which should be providing work
for Australian citizens. To that folly a limit will
soon be set, and imports will dwindle as Protec-
tion becomes real. Allowing that the sources of
Federal revenue remain as they are, and giving
full value to the revenue improvements that will
follow growing prosperity, and deducting a fair
sum for the loss of revenue duties as they
merge into really Protective ones, and lose their
value to the Treasury whilst giving a new value
to the Nation—and the prospects are for a de-
creased rather than an increased Federal revenue
in the future.
* • * *
That position has to be faced. With a growth
of expenditure—a vitally necessary growth, for
the expanding limbs of the nation must not be
cramped—with no possibility of any large in-
crease, but a reasonable possibility of "a decrease,
in the revenue from present sources, Federal
finance drifts to a deficit, ’ and a Loan. Means
must be found now to replenish the Treasury
from other sources by using the powers of
direct taxation with which the Common-
wealth is endowed. In neglecting now to
propose that, the Australian Government
is preparing the way for a borrowing policy.
One of the first duties of the Australian Parlia-
ment when it meets again is to find something
like £1,500,000 a year more revenue—not customs
and excise revenue, of which the States will
claim three-fourths, bi t revenue which will
belong solely to the Commonwealth. The Federal
graduated land-tax, income-tax, and other im-
posts must come, and if the burden seems too
heavy, the extravagant State Governments must
learn economy, and make things even by reducing
their expenditure and abolishing some of their
State imposts. At present, N.S. W.—the horrible
example among the States—spends a million or
two more money annually than it did before the
Commonwealth relieved it of over a million per
year of postal, telegraph, military and naval ex-
penditure, and borrows gloriously in addition,
lhat is the direction in which there is room for
economy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Alleged Mail Contract Difficulty.
■This air is just now full of vague reports and
violently-contradicted rumors to the effect that
something has gone wrong with the new Austr.d-
English mail contract. The Australian Govern-
ment called in good time for tenders, specifying
that it wanted a swift service of large, first-class
vessels. The lowest tender was that of a gorgeous
English syndicate, decorated with names of men
great and eminent in the shipping world—names
that seemed good enough for the supply of any-
thing from a skiff to an ironclad fleet; and its
offer was naturally accepted. The new syndicate
hadn’t the ships, but it undertook to build a fleet
of vessels that would more than meet all require-
ments. Now it is persistently reported (and
denied) that the great syndicate is more or less of
a failure, and can’t raise the money—that it is
about £1,250,000 short of the £3,750,000 required,
and that its attempts to float debentures have
failed. There are also rumors (which are
denied) that it wants the Australian Government
to guarantee the debentures, and further rumors
that the State Governments have been, or may be,
approached to see if they will guarantee any-
thing, and that Bent, of Victoria, has smitten
hard on the fourth button of his weskit and pro-
posed that his State should go bail to the extent
of £150,000. So far, all these things are mist and
mystery, and look very like Tory inventions. But
already the anti-Federal papers, despite all con-
tradictions by the syndicate itself, hungrily take
the reports for granted, and rise in a tentative
sort of way to say that this is just the sort of
thing that might be expected from a Common-
wealth. The parochial papers were bound to say
something like that. If the Australian Govern-
ment hadn’t accepted the lowest tender it would
have been denounced by these same papers from
Sheol to breakfast for corruption and extrava-
gance. If it had adopted the only possible metnod
of making sure that it wouldn’t be left by an
English syndicate—that of refusing to consider
any English tenders—it would have been re-
garded as a lunatic and reviled as a traitor.
Besides, after hearing so much from the parochial
press about the splendid quality of British
goods, the solidity and reliability of British busi-
ness men, and the alleged fact that Britain is
the only place from which to get bishops and
infallible railway managers like Johnson, it
couldn’t be expected to anticipate trouble. But
even if the trouble that is alleged in such a vague
but violent fashion should really come to pass,
there is no reason why this country should turn
a hair. Nothing dreadful will have happened
even then. In such a case, there would be two
simple alternatives:—
(1) To let the contract lapse. To forfeit the contractors’
deposit. Then to call Parliament together in haste and
get authority to build a Federally-owned fleet, so that
Australia could carry its own mails, and thus put an end
to the periodical shindy with private steamship com-
panies. The worst trouble would then be that it w'ould
certainly be impossible to get the new fleet ready
in time. There would be a hiatus between the end of
the present Orient contract and the beginriingof the new
national service, and during that period Australia would
have to depend on the fortnightly P. and O. service, and
on the French, German and Australian-Vancouver lines in
between. This would be no hardship except, in a small
way, to the importer, and he doesn’t matter much.
(2) For the Australian Government to call Parliament
together in haste, and get power to take up (not to
guarantee) the £1,250,000 or so of debentures, which it
seems are to bear interest at the rate of 4& per cent.
The money could be found within a year or two out of
the proceeds of taxation, and if the new syndicate came
to utter grief, and failed to meet its interest, the only
result would be that the Government, as a preferential
creditor, would foreclose, and the fleet would become a
national asset, and Australia would have its Federally-
owned mail service.
With two such easy ways out of the alleged diffi-
culty, and the fact that there is only the (contra-
dicted) statements of the lying Tory press that
there is any difficulty, and the further fact that
even the difficulty it alleges is of no real moment
to anybody save the importer (who doesn’t
matter), the recent foam and fuss are quite
uncalled-for.
♦
The “ S.M. Herald’s” Craze for Imported
Men.
A few weeks ago, before the appointment was
announced of Johnson from England as N.S.W.
Chief Railway Commissioner, it was reported
that one Dent, a man with experience on Irish
lines, was to have the job. And the S.M.
Herald, in its cordial and enthusiastic readiness
to approve of the appointment of anybody, so long
as he was an imported man (and so" long as
Oliver, the eminently successful Australian
manager, who didn’t approve of free special trains
to carry the Sydney morning papers, was shoul-
dered out of his job), published a leading article
cordially approving of Dent. It probably had
never heard of Dent in its life before, but if he
had come he would have been an imported man,
and he would have supplanted Oliver, and what
more could anyone ask ! Under the circum-
stances, this letter, from a man who knows Irish
railways, has points of interest: —
There are 3312 miles of railway open in Ireland. It
takes to run these 3312 miles of line, 270 directors 37
secretaries, and 20 managers. Sir Georgs Findlay'de-
clared that he could do in four days a week all the work
done by all the Irish managers and directors, and spend
the remaining two days fishing in the Shannon. The
ordinary Irish railways (according to Clement Edwards
the author of a recent work on Railway Nationalisation)
have received in Government subsidies about £4,000,000.
Same writer says of the Irish railway system—“ Not
only has it all the evils of preferential rates, but in
a much greater degree than in England. Its rates and
fares are higher than in England, which are much above
those on the Continent. Its deficiencies in facilities and
accommodation are nothing short of scandalous. Its
management is the most wasteful in Europe. And finally
its complete acquisition by the State has been recom-
mended by a Government Commission.
“Rates are so prohibitive that a large amount of
merchandise is carried by road. For instance, there is a
regular weekly, traffic by road from Magherafelt to
Belfast, a distance of 42 miles, the rate being Bs. per ton
whilst the railway rate from Dungannon to Belfast fonlv
40 miles) is 12s. 2d. per ton. *
“It is cheaper to send cattle by road than rail, and it
is cheaper to carry goods to England, and have them re-
shipped to Ireland at through English rates, than to pay
the local rates. Goods are often shipped from the
eastern seaboard of Ireland for Sligo and Badina, on the
west, via Glasgow. A witness before the Committee on
Irish industry stated that it was the common practice of
soapmalters to send their goods to England, and have
them reshipped to Ireland, in order to get the benefit of
the through English rates.
“ The chairman of the Dairy Farmers’ Association
stated, in 1904, that to haul a ton of Irish pork from
Dungannon to Belfast (40 miles) costs 15s. lOd ; a ton of
American bacon from Belfast to Dungannon costs only
10s. Bricks can be carried from England to Dublin
cheaper than from Kingscourt to that city (50 miles) The
Armagh fruit industry has been destroyed by railway
rates. The flax-raising industry has been destroyed in
much the same way. Belfast and the other factory
towns get nearly all their flax now from the Continent
and the West Indies, because, whilst it costs £1 is 8d
to bring- a ton of flax from Stranorlor to Belfast by" rail
(86 miles), it could be landed in the same town from
Ghent (Belgium) for 18s. Bd. per ton.
That was the school in which Dent, the proposed
new Chief Railway Commissioner for N.S.W.,
was trained. As it happened Dent wasn’t
appointed, but when his name was mentioned the
Herald, in its haste to get an Australian out of
his billet, rose enthusiastically to say that the
appointment of Dent would be Just The Thin"-.
Apparently its policy was anti-Australianism
pure and simple. It would probably have ap-
proved of a new' Eskimo manager from Greenland
so long as its countryman, Oliver, got the sack.
*
The Quick and the Dead.
Consider the dead places, and the live ones, and
the reason of their life or their defunctness. The
old town of Bathurst (N.S.W.) is among thedead
It is a sorry place these days. It is shut in by
big estates which have been rack-rented to such a
degree that the farmer had to tear everything out
of the soil in order to pay the landlord. Now the
impoverished land only yields enough margin in
many cases between its possible output and the
amount of the landlord’s demands to support a
Chinaman, and even the Chow looks hungry. If
Bathurst were deprived of the artificial support it
receives through being a great railway depot it
would sink to the level of a dead-and-gone mining
village. The population is decreasing. The
number of business establishments is diminishing.
Bathurst, Picton, and other dead towns are hor-
rible examples of the strangling effects of big
estates ; and all the dead agricultural centres are
victims of the same trouble. Toowoomba (Q.) used
to be in the same case, and equally dead. But some
time ago there was a considerable cutting up of
the great estates thereabouts, and Toowoomba
resurrected, and now it is on the top wave of pros-
perity. It is inflated with pride about its splendid
hospital, its old people’s home, and other charities,
all locally supported. Its business premises are
all occupied, and it is building more. Its princi-
pal hotel generally tells the stranger that it is
full up, and he has to go to one of the other 14
principal hotels. The population has more than
doubled in 10 years. There are eight State
schools, and a dozen other schools, including a
technical college. Likewise there are over 20
factories of one kind and another, waterworks
and swimming baths, and a tramway system is
projected. But these and a multitude of other
things are the mere inanimate circumstances of
the case; the really remarkable feature is the
people. Everywhere there is joy, confidence,
vim, brag, and cheek; There is joy and cheek
enough to qualify the place to give back-talk to
St. Peter at the Jewelled Gate. Toowoomba,
in its exuberance, reckons on soon being the second
city in Queensland ; it was about sixth four years
ago, and is now third. It doesn’t even despair of
being first one of these days. Meanwhile,
it lets off its superfluous energy on Saturday
nights by street preaching— two or three
sects preach, by the braying of a brass band,
and by running refreshment stalls in the streets,
in addition to going to the theatre, and having
drinks at the 15 principal hotels and the numerous
inferior ones. And on Monday morning it hires
a cab and takes the stranger within its gates to
see the splendid public gardens, and the £lO,OOO
municipally-owned School of Arts, and the gaol
that has been turned into a concert hall, and the
reservoir, and the view from the range, and it
flaps its arms for sheer exuberance. Yet before
the great estates began to be broken up, even
wretched dead old Picton, in N.S.W.— Picton,
with its streets and its look of silence and re-
pose, as if it were always Sunday afternoon there—
wasn’t much deader than Toowoomba.
♦
A Tasmanian Syndicate.
Premier and ex-sea-captain John Evans, of Tas-
mania, was the recipient last week of a document
which should make even that mild old master
mariner boil with indignation, if there is any boil-
ing capacity in him. It was the prospectus of a
company, just floated in England, and called the
Tasmanian Investment and Trust Co. There is a
boundless assurance about the Tasmanian Invest-
ment and Trust Co., and an off-hand way of pro-
posing to deal with other people’s goods which,
if the co. suggested carrying on its operations in
the territory of Premier Price or Premier
Kidston, would make these fiery Democrats long
to get to close quarters with the promoter, and
give him a hurried passage through the window.
The concern proposes to obtain from the Tas-
manian Parliament the right to construct,
and work for its own profit, a railway
from Glenora to Zeehan, and' thus con-
nect the West Coast mineral field with Hobart.
It also proposes to obtain (it is great at obtaining)
from the same Parliament the right to construct,
and work for its own profit, branch railways to
Gormanston coal-fields, to Hamilton, and to
Lake St. Clair. It likewise proposes to obtain
(it is a perfect whale at obtaining) from the same
Parliament, for its own sole benefit, a grant of
490,000 acres of land subject only to a 2J per cent,
royalty on gold and other minerals won from
the ground—in other words, it intends to ask for
a, present of one-thirtieth of the State. The land
is to have a railway frontage. And on top of this
it proposes to obtain (its capacity for obtaining
seems illimitable) from the blessed” old Parliament
already mentioned the right to annex six rivers
gratis, and use them to supply electric power,
which it proposes it should have the right to sell
to the people in any part of Tasmania. The co.
apparently offers not a copper of cash in return
for all this obtainment—only the honor of its
presence in the island, and the favor of its
patronage, and the gleam and lustre of its
top-hat. Tasmania has been foolishly addicted to
dealing with cheeky foreign syndicates in times
past, but still it has its Y.D.L. Co. and the
V.D.L. Co.’s almost untenanted estate still on
hand as a warning; and it has the dreadful,
privately-owned Emu Bay railway, where the
first-class fare is about 3d. a mile and the pace is
about three miles an hour, as an example; and in
view of these things, it will surely decide to have
no truck with the co. which asks for a present of
six rivers and one-thirtieth part of the island.
——♦
The Yic. State Labor Party.
Prank Anstey, M.L.A., of the Victorian State
Labor party, writes about the sins of some mem-
bers of that party in connection with the Licens-
ing and Gambling Acts (B. 24/l/’O7) :
As to the Licensing Act, it is said a majority of the
members fought the Bill, and stonewalled in the interests
of Bung. The Bill provided that no person under 21
years of age should be a member of a club ; but it placed
no restriction upon the age of those to be employed in
such clubs. Twenty-seven members (amongst them
Swinburne, Murray, and Graham) voted that under 21
was too young to be a member of a club, but not too
young to pull and serve the poisonous juices.
During the debate on the Bill, William Hutchinson,
member for Borung, acted as Parliamentary mouthpiece
for the Victorian Alliance. In the majority of divisions
upon the Government proposals, a majority of the Labor
party voted with Hutchinson. A majority of the Labor
party voted more often with Hutchinson than did cold-
water Swinburne.
The Bill proposed to extend the monopoly in the license
to the grocery shop owner, and compel the tenant to
meet the extortions of the landlord, or lose the license.
It proposed to extend drink facilities on the railways.
It permitted the tied-house iniquity to continue, repu-
diated fair rent courts, and made a present to the re-
maining owners of the added monopoly value created by
reduction of competitors. The booze on the Bay on Sun-
day, and escape of the breweries from taxation, were sup-
ported by Swinburne and opposed by the Labor party.
Yet the Labor party is held up as the Eighteen Devils of
Perpetual Swill.
The Victorian Parliament consists of the Speaker,
Chairman of Committees, one sick man, six dead men
(never speak), seven members of the Government, 18
Laborites, and 34 others. The indexed utterances upon
the Bill are 819, towards which men outside our party
contributed 610. Seven followers of the Government
(Watt, Murray, Gray, Boyd, Gaunson, Hutchinson,
Keogh) were on their feet more often than the 18 mem-
bers of the Labor party. Next to Prendergast, our most
frequent speaker was Billson, of Fitzroy, a life-long
abstainer, a member of the Rechabite order for 20 years.
This man is said to be the advocate of Bung.
The discussion upon the Licensing Bill occupies 4io
pages of Hansard, or 209 yards of talk, of which one-fifth


was contributed by Bent, Gillott, Mackey, and Swin-
burns in 145 efforts to explain one another. John Murray
designated the Government “ lightning' change artists.”
Peacock (13/12/’O6) said: “ God knows what has been
done ; I don’t.” Swinburne explained. Watt denied
the accuracy of the explanation. Mackey was not
sure, but “ he was under the impression ” that Watt was
correct, and that his colleague’s explanation was so much
fudge. The Government amendments on its own Bill
measure 9ft. Its supporters helped with another 6ft.
The 11 members of the Mackinnon party contributed Bft.
of amendments. The 18 members of the Labor party
contributed only 7in. The Labor party averaged less talk,
moved fewer amendments, and the majority of its mem-
bers voted more often with Hutchinson, of the Temper-
ance Alliance, than did any other section of the
Assembly.
The Gaming Bill was seven Bills in one. The Age said
of it that it carried “condemnation on its face.” The
Anti-Gambling Association (2/10/’O6) said that it drew
invidious distinctions between rich and poor;” and
Bent said he “ didn’t know the silly things were in the
Bill —and, of course, none of them were vital. The dis-
cussion occupies 700 pages of Hansard, or 311 yards of
talk. The indexed utterances are 1080, of which 776
are contributed by members outside the Labor party.
The Government brought in yards of amendments upon
its own Bill, withdrew them, put in others, and withdrew
them and put in others. Bent, Gillott and Mackey put
in 192 explanations of their fluctuating - opinions.
On the 16th Parliament re-assembled. On the 17th the
Age came out with its usual attack upon the obstructive
tactics of the Labor party, and charged it with delaying-
the Gaming Bill by incessant talk upon the Boilers’ In-
spection Bill. It coupled the name of Boyd with the
obstructives. Boyd raised the question under privilege.
It was pointed out that our party had not occupied an
hour of the previous day’s sitting. No publicity was
given to our statements. Upon the Boilers’ Inspection
Bill three Labontes spoke, and occupied 25 minutes.
!~P 01 ? ie Gaming - Bill two Laborites spoke, and occupied
20 minutes. The debate of the 16th occupies 42 pages of
Hansard. Labor members occupy five pages out of the
4- let next day we were denounced as obstructives.
A section of the Labor party did oppose many of the
provisions of this Bill, but not more so than did many
members outside the party. The men who were most
prominent on the Gaming Bill, no matter to which party
they belonged, were the men who are most prominent on
every other measure before Parliament. The record of
the most prominent “obstructive” in the Labor ranks
can find his record matched by the utterances of members
outside the party ; and any one of them of any party can
name other Bills upon which they have been equally
prominent. The majority of the Government supporters
said very little ; the majority of the Labor party said the
! ame -. When at last the Government had some proposals
to which it adhered, the majority of the Labor party in
nla J° nfc y of divisions voted with the Government.
H hen they disagreed, it was from motives just as clean
as upon the propositions with which they did agree If
not, why not ? s “
The avowed enemies of the Labor party charge it with
being the agent of Rum, Wren, and Rome. The Bulle-
tin, in the role of candid friend, affirms the first two but
makes no mention of the third. Nevertheless, avowed
enemy and professed friend are alike in that both request
the general public to accept assertions as an ample sub-
stitute for facts.
In regard to the suggestion that the Labor organisa-
tion of Victoria should sweep out the present men and
put up fresh candidates—personally I have no desire to
be the accepted Labor candidate, either as an act of charity
or through fear of disruption. I shall neither ask fo- the
one nor cause the other. lam at the disposal of the
Central Executive to either go on or go off. I want no
position from the public as a kindness without considera-
tion of worth or fitness, and no nomination from any
body of men dissatisfied with my actions as a representa-
tive.
Anstey remarks, as to the Gambling Bill at
least, that “the record of the most prominent
obstructive in the Labor ranks can be matched by
the utterances of members outside that party.”
In other words, some Labor members were no
worse than some others who are not Labor mem-
bers. The Bulletin doesn’t say they were—
except to this extent, that it is infinitely worse for
a Labor man to lift a finger or wag a tongue in the
interests of Wren or Bung than for the other sort
of man. When and Bung are amongst the worst
enemies of the men whom the Laborites specially
represent ; “ the individual dominated by either
of them is a potential enemy of the worker.”
That was the ground The Bulletin took before
and takes now. And so Frank Anstey, whose
own record in the matter is good and clean,
doesn t disturb the conclusion then arrived at.
♦
For the Bosses’ Sake!
The remnant of the old Lyne-See party in
N.S.W. Assembly, which at the present time
follows Twaddell, is in a quandary. Quite by
accident, Premier Carruthers met Twaddell
somewhere, and it occurred to the mind of the
great Deformer that, after all, there was little
difference between his gang and the crowd that
allegedly followed Twaddell. Twaddell’s
crowd had backed the Carruthers Government
right through the Lands scandals, and had gene-
rally acted the part of the stick by which
the Government climbed out of the mud. A
general election is approaching, and it apparently
occurred to the versatile mind of Carruthers
that he needed Twaddell a great deal worse
than Bent required Peacock of the Laugh and
Donald Mackinnon. It was the rag end of
the Parliament, with only another brief session
ahead, and as Ashton and Barnabas O’Conor
were retiring, being absolutely sure that
they could see the scrawl upon the wall,
it seemed that some good business might
be done with the two vacant portfolios.
So Carruthers proposed that Twaddell and
Perry should join his Cabinet, and that the rest
of the party should join his gang. It is generally
understood that Twaddell and Perry, both
office-hungry, are agreeable, but that the party
cannot see clearly where it comes in. It doesn’t
want to turn on the bosses, now they’ve got an
offer of a decent thing, but when it looks at the
awful load of obloquy which it will have to help
to hump at election-time, it begins to wonder if it
isn’t too big a price to pay for the bosses’ salaries.
The Lands scandals alone are enough to break the
back of any party, but the hideous travesty to
which the administration of justice has been re-
duced, and the amazing fact that the British
Government had to call upon Carruthers
to take steps to prevent the crimping of
British seamen at the port of Newcastle,
make the load fragrant as well as heavy!
To Carruthers this amalgamation means a
lot—or at least he thinks it does. It has come to
be an axiom with the Australian Tory that Labor
wins through the dissensions of its opponents,
and if its opponents cease to have dissensions,
then he holds that it is all over with Labor. The
idea is comforting to Carruthers, but it is
doubtful if there is much in it. At the N.S.W.
election of 1904, twenty members, only seven of
them Laborites, were returned on a minority vote.
That is to say, the Laborites won seven seats,
Which apparently they shouldn’t have won!
through the disagreements of their opponents!
But, on the other hand, the Twaddell and
Carruthers parties gained 13 seats, to which
they weren’t fairly entitled, in the same way. On
these figures there seems just a chance that a
combined Carruthers-Twaddell party may
lose more than it gains, and may wish it hadn’t
spoken.
• ♦
Now or Never.
Peacock of the Guffaw on succeeding to the
shoes of poor old Sam Gillott, stated that one
Of his first duties would be to “ inquire into the
administration of the Gaming Suppression Act in
Victoria,” to ascertain what effect the new legis-
lation has had upon the totes and toters, and to
take vigorous action if necessary—ha !ha ! Bent,
when he was questioned on the subject, professed
to be well pleased with the working of the Act
thus far. He had been told that the unlawful
gambling places were "not running as in time
past.” But neither Peacock nor Bent cared to
attempt any explanation of the well-known fact
that the betting places in Melbourne, within a
mile radius of the Government offices, are as wide
open as ever to the punting world. In short, the
pair of shufflers would say nothing as to whether
they thought the police authorities had utilised the
new Act to take the action which, by their own
showing, they were unable to take under the old
Act. The people of Melbourne, who practically
accepted Judkins and Co. as their agents for
“reform,” without expressing any admiration for
Judkinism save as an antidote to Wrenism, are
not to be put off with official remarks concerning
the effect of the “reform” Act upon timid
puntgrs. They vfant evidence of its power to
move the police. When Bent and Peacock talk
of making inquiries re the reduced volume of
business which flows into the old unlawful chan-
nels, they are merely fooling with an all important
question. The avowed intention of Bent’s law
was not to scare some punters for a little while,
but to suppress all totes and city “hells” for all
time. As long as Wren’s unlawful establish-
ments are known to be in existence it is certain
that they flourish with the negative sanction of
the powers which ought to wipe them out. And
if they are not wiped out, they must soon be going
stronger than ever, making Wren richer than
ever in the means to fortify his position.
The Troubles of Tasmania.
Among a score of others (all of much the same
opinion) “Pym”is moved by some recent Bul-
letin remarks to offer Tasmania a hand out of
the bog:—
The key to Tasmania’s problem lies in opening the eyes
of the people to see that the Evans Ministry is in power,
by favor of the Council, to do the Council’s work and mis-
lead the Assembly into ditches, so that it may wallow in
the mud and not get to work on the Council. An openly
Tory Government is now impossible even in Tasmania, so
Evans pretends to be progressive, depending upon the
strongly-entrenched Council to kick out his Bills. At
each kick he smiles cheerfully, speaks of his own “ tact,”
and goes out to confer with Davies, M.L.C., proprietor of
the Mercury, who engineers most of the kicking. A Mer-
cury article is always a true prophecy as to what Evans
means ; he says what he means the people to believe he
means, but the Mercury indicates what will really happen
andwhatEvANSknowsiscoming. Forexample,inhisrecent
policy speech he promised (in very guarded terms, with
many exit-holes in case of danger) : (1) Compulsory pur-
chase of great estates, (2) Advances to Settlers, (3) Redis-
tribution of Council seats (Mercury Davies’s Council
electorate contains only 677 electors), (4) Deadlock pro-
visions. The Mercury, next day, announced that com-
pulsory purchase was nob necessary, thab advances bo
settlers “ would follow ibs predecessors and die in
infancy,” bhab bhe redisbribution of Council scabs would
“ cerbainly be rejecbed,” and bhab bhe deadlock provisions
should be bhrown oub on Evans’s own arguments. The
Mercury is quibe right. Whab ib says is exacbly whab
will happen, and Evans knows ib ; he has bo consulb
Davies or his minions before every move. In shorb,
Toryism in Tasmania has dropped from arroganb and
overbearing insolence bo pebby brickery, and will soon be
found oub ; and bhen wire-pulling Davieses and obedienb,
wormy Evanses, et hoc genus ornne, will be as rare as
aborigines, and bhe greab fighb wibh bhe Legisiabive
Council will begin. Until bhab is sebbled, Tasmanian
progress is a dammed river. Meanbime, bhe Council is
bhe same sorb of an oligarchy of ignorance and greed as ib
always has been.
4
Dam.
A couple of years ago, Engineer-in-Chief
Thwaites, of bhe Melbourne Board of Works,
suggested damming bhe Yarra ab Ivanhoe, aboub
three miles from bhe cib.y in a direcb line, and
making a big lake, from which water might flow
to generate electrical power. The conversion of
the Melbourne tramways into an electrical system
is only a matter of time, and not a long time
either, and the conversion of the suburban rail-
way system is already under consideration.
These demands, coupled with the development of
manufacturing, which will undoubtedly follow an
intelligent revision of the tariff, will call for an
enormous supply of electricity ; and, if Thwaites’
or some similar scheme be not adopted, elec-
tric power will have to be generated in costly
power-houses with expensive coal. The estimate
for forming the Ivanhoe lake, resuming the land,
erecting the dam—doing the whole thing, in fact
—is £322,000, of which no less than £lOO,OOO is
put down for electrical instalment, which will be
required no matter what systeqi is adopted.
Such a scheme would provide 8500 horse-power,
as against 4840 horse-power generated by the big
coal-eating power-house in Sydney. The cost of
maintenance would be a comparative nothing,
and the provision for renewals and repairs and
sinking fund would be much smaller than under
the power-house system. There is a constant flow
of water in the Yarra, and, unless all sheol got
loose, therb is no possibility of the supply failing.
Should there be further demands for electrical
power, Thwaites has worked out an extension of
the scheme, whereby the rivjpr may be further
dammed at different points higher up ; and, as a
whole, he offers, for about a million of money,
a project which would provide all the light
and motive power demanded by a prosperous
city twice the present size of Melbourne.
Other engineers of high repute bear out his con-
tentions, yet, so far, not one step has been taken
towards making even an official inquiry into its
merits. On the other hand, Premier Bent has
spent some thousands already in erecting a power-
house for his Elwood tram. He has further taken
step| to electrify the existing St. Kilda railway
line, and is arranging for the complete electrifica-
tion of the suburban system. When the St. Kilda
line is converted, either another power-house will
have to be erected or the present one extended ;
and the electrification of the remaining suburban
lines will mean that outlying Melbourne will be
dotted over with power-houses costing in the
aggregate infinitely more than the £322,000,
which would supply, not only sufficient electricity
for transit, but for almost every other purpose
for which it is likely to be wanted between now
and the year 1950.
■ ♦
The Cow and the Child.
There was what the daily press calls “a large
and representative gathering” of dairy-farmers
at Penshurst (Vic.), the other day, to inspect the
starting of a set of milking machines on a big,
up-to-date dairy. There were also refreshments
and speeches. And one of the speakers, a local
dairy-farmer, said that the milking machine
being now a proved success, steps should betaken
to do away with the employment of children in
cow-yards. The use of child labor, he urged,
should be made illegal there, just as it is in fac-
tories. From time to time The Bulletin has
condemned the infamous practice of using
children from the nursery or the schoolroom as
attendants on the great god Cow, but this is the
first time to its knowledge that a dairyman has
publicly denounced the custom. This paper,
therefore, feels more cheerful on the subject
of Cow than it has done for some considerable
time. Nevertheless the practice of child slavery
is still so general that, in the heading to this
article, the two animals concerned—the Cow
and the child —are placed in their respective
order of precedence with the farmer. All
oyer dairy-farming Australia, at the present
time, there are thousands of infants, varying
in age from eight to 14, who milk from five to a
dozen or more cows night and morning. These
children then go to school, generally travelling
long distances, where they promptly fall asleep
over their lessons. Some of them—the boy por-
tion—don’t even get the chance to fall asleep.
They are kept at home to take the milk to the fac-
tory, to clean out the cans afterwards, and to do
the dozens of odd jobs necessarv about a farm.
And these boys and girls are the future fathers
and mothers of Australia. If this condition of
affairs were the result of dire necessity—if our
land were so poor and butter sold so cheaply as
to practically compel it—it would even then be
necessary to consider whether it was all worth
the cost. But there is not the shadow of an
excuse for the enslaving of child (with a small
“c”) to Cow(with a big one). Our land is fairly
fertile, the climate is good, and the average
price of butter is so remunerative, that there
is no necessity for a single child under the
age of 15 to enter the cow-yard. There are
only two cases in which the child is, in a manner,
compelled to take its share of the milking. The
first, and most numerous, is where the father has
agreed to pay an exorbitant rent, or has contracted
—on the pernicious “ family ” system—to milk a
herd for a ridiculously low sum. In this case, he
has to sweat his family purely for the benefit of
the land-owner. In the second case, the necessity
is caused by a man paying a high price in pur-
chasing a farm. A farmer with a large family
will often pay £5 or even £8 an acre more for land
than it is really worth ; he reckons on the cheap
labor of his family to make it up, and if he doesn’t
buy it, some other farmer with a family will. He
sweats his family for the benefit of the land-seller.
So the result of legislation preventing the employ-
ment of children as attendants on Cow would be
that exorbitant rents would be reduced, and there
would be a bit of a slump in the prices paid for
dairying land. This, of course, makes it a difficult
matter to secure Parliamentary intervention
The average Parliament regards not only Cow’
but the dirt that Oow stands on, as sacred,
—+ —
“ A. 8.”: Went through the Abbotsford (Mel-
bourne) Convent, the other day, and am almost
persuaded to become a member of the Protestant
something or other Not that there was the
slightest evidence to back up the wild and woolly
yarns of Parson Tregear. On the contrary, the
place is a model of cleanliness and order. The
wards of the penitents are incomparably better
furnished and more comfortable than those of the
ordinary charitable institution—better even than
the dormitories of the Hawthorn girls’ school run
by Tregear’s particular sect. The washhouses
are perfect in their arrangement, and a model to
private institutions; though, of course, the peni-
tents may be worked hours in excess of the Fac-
tories Act provisions. Further, the alleged herding
of penitents and children is a plain, ridiculous,
dashed lie. The children are kept entirely apart;
even in church they can have no communication
with the ladies with pasts who do the washing.
What I complain about is the convent system
generally. A more intelligent and more sociglly-
attractive set of women than the nuns would be
hard to find, and here they are wasting their lives
inside stone walls when they ought to be outside
married to broad-shouldered citizens and assisting
to populate Australia. I saw one laughing-eyed
girl of about 20, who would have graced the front
row of J. C. Williamson’s best chorus, hiding her
beauty under a hideous cowl. The whole thing is
unnatural, objectionable, and opposed to national
welfare. These women could do just as good
work were they living “in the world.” The four
walls of a convent and the adoption of that form
of sex-perversion called celibacy, are utterly un-
called for, and the sooner legislation is introduced
to prevent a girl imposing lifelong imprisonment
on herself by reason of a sudden access of hysteria
the better for everybody.
♦
Another hard case—from Wellington (M.L.) this
time:—
The defendant, on leaving the Court, exclaimed that
the effect of this would be to drive him out of the coun-
try. He denounced the manner in which the country
was overrun by inspectors, who “ nearly worried him to
death.”
The trouble with this defendant—his name was'
Charles Henry Jones, and he was manager of
the Diamond Confectionery Co. —was that there
werefoundon his premises “576 tins of condensed
milk, the majority of which were ‘blown,’ while
some had burst, giving forth an offensive odor.”
The district health officer swore that this mass of
decayed milk almost certainly contained ptomaine
poison, and that no amount of cooking would kill
ptomaine poison; and the defendant explained
cheerfully that he used the stuff to make caramel
toffee. It was after he was fined £5 and costs,
and had his dreadful substance confiscated, that
he denounced the whole circumstance as another
attempt to drive capital out of the country. If
this is the kind of capital that is being driven
out, it ought most certainly to be washed before
it leaves, if not boiled.
4
“ Nux Vomica” : I reckon “ Locust” (B. 14/2/’O7)
is a modest man when he says that what he speaks
about may be considered “a small matter.” It
is an almighty big matter. The laxity which
prevails with regard to South Head forts also
prevails with regard to Henry Head and Bare
Island forts in Botany Bay. I have had it darkly
whispered in my ear that persons found in the
vicinity of either of these forts, with the imple-
ments of the artist or photographer in their
possession, are liable to be emptied out of the
said vicinity, and to have the said implements
confiscated. Now, lam an artist, and often
mooch around La Perouse way making sketches,
and I could, without any hindrance whatever,
have made sketches of the forts from all points.
I know people who have both photographed and
sketched them. What sort of military super-
vision is this? Further, up till very recently,
fishing permits were granted to people to fish off,
practically, the wall of Bare Island fort; and the
only thing that prevented one from getting inside
was an ordinary picket gate, which could be
easily knocked down by half-a-dozen invaders
with a few cannons and things, or even by two
men with a bit of broken tree. I don’t know who
is supposed to be in charge of these places, but
he doesn’t seem to be a person who takes his
military biz seriously. I think he must be a
contributor to the comic papers.
Gloomy prophecy by “Caber” from Queens-
land :
If you ask me, I am ready to express the opinion that
you are not attaching sufficient importance to Denham’s
scurry back to his Tory chums. Digby gauges exactly'
the political brew, and knows that the brazen apostacy
of the early Nineties is about to repeat itself. That was
the time when Glassey, Hoolan and Hall battled
against the Griffilwraith, getting a weak support from
the “Remnant”—seven all told—while the Tories, shap-
ing their policy to run on all-fours with the interests of
the big hindieates, called the weak-kneed Liberals to
heel. When the elections transpire, so will many other
events, which are now but seen darkly. It is quite on
the cards that when the Bananaland Parliament meets,
the Kidston Ministry will be ousted, and Robert, with
“ Janny ” Leahy, will have the control of the elections—■
an item worth at least half-a-dozen seats, if Janny’s good
right hand hasn’t lost its cunning. Bell can’t win
Dalby as a Kidstonite, nor can O’Sullivan win Warwick.
And writer cherishes a large-sized suspicion that neither
of them will try.
What Labor has to gain by its virulent hostility to
Kidston, Airey, and Blair is best known to the crowd of
irreconcilables who yell for “ Socialism in our time,” and
want Bob Philp to reach it down to them. But what
Labor will lose is plain reading. Since last election it
has lost Burrum and one of the Charters Towers seats.
The defeat of Jimmy Wilkinson and Dr. Culpin at the
Federal polls is a fair indication that S. Brisbane and the
West Moreton electorates are not safe Labor strongholds.
Any sane person would suppose that these little hints
should have hit something hard, but the Brisbane
Worker keeps jingling its cap and bells, while Philp and
Leahy beckon the Liberals over to their camp. Kidston
must go down. The writing is on the wall, and the Bris-
bane Worker is standing' on its head to read it.
«
N.S.W. Public Service Association dropped a
mild bomb when it announced in its Journal
that the P.S. Board was becoming every day
more like a creature of the Ministry in office, and
that political interference, which the Board was
appointed to kill, was once again triumphant.
The Association has been such a meek little worm
lately that the service began to suspect it of being
a creature of the Board ; and this announcement
does the service good. Of course, what it says is
true. Not only Ministerial, but ordinary Parlia-
mentary influence counts at the Board’s office.
In fact, the influence is once more applied
openly. Quite lately one of the Departments got
a letter stating unexpectedly that the Board had
granted the application of an obscure rank and
filer, and the letter began—“At the request of
Mr. Pull Ropes, M.L. A., the Board has recon-
sidered,” etc. It seems as if the Board lives in
dread of Parliament reducing it numerically, and
so is in a hurry to placate the Pull Ropes family.
Richard Arthur, M.L. A. (of Sydney), writes :
You call me, not unkindly, a fanatic. Ido not demur.
But it is a fanaticism the outcome of the coolest and most
dispassionate reflection on the future of Australia.
Day and night I have before me the possibility for this
community of the most hideous fate that has ever
befallen a white people. There are some who say that I
am agent for the capitalist and employer—that my secret
desire is to obtain cheap labor for them and assassinate
unionism. Fools and blind ! I am a true friend of the
worker, and the son of the worker. My solicitude for them,
and the ideal Commonwealth, makes me see that the
building of the ramparts must go before, or at least along
Justice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In microscopic particles our Equity is found
Secreted in disastrous abysses of the Law,
And particle by particle
That marketable article
Is smelted out, till it is free from all alloy or flaw,
By enterprising barristers and magistrates pro-
found,
And through their magnifying glasses scanned
and scanned again,
And when it has been clarified,
And purified and rarefied,
’Tis sold to dauntless plaintiffs and defendants by
the grain.
Those ponderous establishments, elaborately built,
Called courts, with grand interiors designed
majestic’ly,
Are depots where officials who
Have various initials to
Their names, to patrons offer many grades of
equity.
There suitors suing for divorce, and culprits
charged with guilt,
Are profitable customers ; and also heavy fines
Pay very well, though nearly all
The minor counts they merely call
(Like summonses for petty debts) “ the bread and
butter lines.”
This world of sameness wearies, and for innova-
tion yearns,
And connoisseurs despise the same old Justice
every time,
So vendors, to keep up the price—
On clients to heap up the price—
Devise new lines of Justice to experiment on
Crime;
The quality they call “Supreme” brings in the
best returns,
And all well-educated citizens quite understand .
If Justice they have bought to-day
Is an inferior sort, that they
Can change it at a higher Court, and get a better
brand.
A satisfact’ry revenue is Justice to the State,
A compromise for pestilence, droughts, strikes,
and British wars,
That taxes circumstantially
The populace financially,
And institutes a retinue of State Inquisitors,
Who keep the public spending money at a healthy
rate,
Promoting those progressive modern arts so pro-
minent
Called bluster and audacity,
Blackmail, and a capacity
For breeding Bills of Sale, and granting loans at
cent, per cent.
I always scrutinise commercial items in the news,
First stocks and shares and produce markets, then
finance and trade.
Then my attention I devote
To pending sessions, when I note
If J ustice any fluctuation—up or down—has made;
Large claims involving Capital to work them I
peruse,
And superficial “workings” called “Test cases,”
also scan;
And I’m convinced by various
Reports the most precarious
Of speculations is the claim for Justice worked by
Man.
VIC.
ALFRED E. BEIDGES.


It usually takes years to get a new invention on
the market, but the Tyree Spray has proved an exception
to the rule. Although this machine has only been three
months before the public, already over fourteen hundred
have been sold, and they are still selling rapidly. All
the Government Departments in Sydney, and the prin-
cipal business houses are now using- them.
The Tyree Spray is pronounced by all experts to be one
of the .most important inventions ever introduced to
public notice. It is being sold largely for, —
Spraying dairy cattle for tick.
Spraying sheep for fly-blow or maggot.
Spraying fruit trees, vines, potatoes and other vegeta-
tion with insecticides.
Spraying hospitals, gaols, asylums, schools and other
buildings with disinfectants.
Painting and white-washing dairies, butter factories,
creameries, piggeries, abattoirs, slaughter houses, poultry
yards, schools, factories, wool sheds, stock yards,
barracks, etc.
Killing prickly pear, gorse, lantana, briars, black-
berries, with arsenic.
Painting green skins for export with arsenite of soda.
Fire extinguishing and cutting out fire breaks as a
prevention of bush fires.
It works without labor, and does the work well. Send
for printed matter to W. TYREE, 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
with, the cleansing and beautifying of the city.
Assume a perfect social state, and each man come
to his own—nay, assume the spirit of altruism and
the golden rule reigning from north to south —
of what avail would all this be when the tide
of Asiatic invasion began to engulf us ? The Japanese
coolie works in the mines at Noumea for lOd. a day.
Does the Australian working man wish to run up against
competition like that ? If he does not, he will put the
immigration of white people, whose standard of living
approaches his own, in the very front of his platform.
And if they be agriculturists, they will do him no harm,
but rather great good. Again, there are those who
accuse me, in my rage for more people, of advocating the
dumping of the riff-raff, swept up from the Old World
slums and ghettos into Australia. This, because I sug-
gested a Jewish settlement in the North, which was to
be composed of picked emigrants, trained or
to be trained to agriculture. I still advocate
this, and also the allurement of suitable immi-
grants from every country in Europe. It is idle,
and worse, to talk as some do, about keeping
Australia for the Anglo-Saxon. In England there is
neither the quantity, nor the quality, sufficient for our
needs. Any policy that looks askance at a man because
he does not speak the English tongue and share English
beliefs and prejudices, will help to invite the disaster
that menaces us. Finally, I cannot do all things. It is
not my business to say what is to be done with the people
when they come here. That is for those in authority.
Sufficient for me if I blow the trumpet of warning with-
out ceasing.
♦
A scheme is afoot in Sydney to give a great send-
off to Oliver, the retiring Chief Commissioner of
N.S.W. Railways. The State owes Oliver a big
debt. Under his management the railways
reached their highest level as a paying concern ;
fares and freights were steadily reduced, and
accidents were almost at a minimum. And
he was not in the position of Eddy, who was
allowed an enormous amount of loan money
with which to do mere maintenance and re-
pair work ; instead, he had to do everything out of
revenue, and also pay off Eddy’s repair and main-
tenance loan. And Oliver toiled under immense
disadvantages. He was called Chief, but legally he
was only one of three, and of the other two one was
old and unmanageable, and the other middle-aged
and cantankerous. Hemade enemiesof Private En-
terprise by his efforts to prevent the Lithgow Coal
Association getting a monopoly of the western
coal contracts ; by his objection to giving con-
tracts for engine-building to private concerns at a
price greater than the figure at which the State
workshops could do the work ; and by his inability
to see why morning papers, owned by immensely
rich proprietaries, should be carried by special
train at the public expense. The S.M. Herald
in particular pursued him with unscrupulous
ferocity. Oliver’s goods rates were far lower than
those of Tait in Victoria, and the Melbourne
Age was much addicted to publishing the two
rates in parallel columns as a protest against
what it called Tait’s exactions ; but even this
evidence didn’t prevent the brutally unscrupulous
Herald, clamoring for Oliver’s discharge so that
he might be replaced by some imported person
who would reduce N.S.W. rates to the Victorian
level. The capable Oliver, with a splendid record
behind him, retires as the victim of a shameless
conspiracy—he retires partly because of the
craze for imported men, and partly because he put
the State’s interests always first. Under the cir-
cumstances, lie deserves well of N.S.W., and it is
up to N.S.W. to hold out a large friendly hand to
him before he goes.
4.
When a quantity of white tiles were wanted, a
while back, for the new Melbourne railway
station, the Mitcham (Vie.) Tile Co. got the con-
tract at £1862, which was 7-2 per cent, over the
lowest English tender, though the Vic. railways
got some of that 7\ per cent, back in freight.
The other day Tait asked for tenders for another
lot, and the Mitcham Co. tendered at exactly the
same rate, although the freights on coal and clay
had in the meantime been about doubled.
The English companies saw a chance to
smash an Australian industry, so their tender
was for £941 13s. 2d., as against Mitcham’s
£1257 13s. Bd. That is to say, in order to knock
out the Australian producer, and have the market
to themselves for the future, they cut in with a
price 25 per cent, below the'Australian’s, or 17J
per cent, lower than their first tender. And the
foreign Tait gave the foreigners the contract!
Now the Mitcham Co. is arguing with Bent, and
pointing out that, though he may pay a few
hundreds more for his tiles, yet as Railways
Minister he gets it all back m freights on coal,
clay and tiles, in workmen’s fares and in other
ways, and as Treasurer he more than gets it back
pi revenue from taxation on men who otherwise
would only harass him as unemployed tile-makers.
Bent is consequently now reconsidering the
matter ; but if the Australian Parliament knows
what is good for Australia, it will save him, by
means of a proper tariff, the trouble of considering
any such situation in the future.
:
Nothing less than marvellous is the S.M.
Herald’s reverence for Johnson. Johnson is
the man who has been engaged in England as
N.S.W. Chief Railway Commissioner, to take the
place of Oliver, the eminently successful Aus-
tralian who didn’t approve of free special trains
to carry the Sydney morning papers. The
S.M. Herald probably doesn’t know Johnson
from a wallaby or a blue giraffe, but it just wor-
ships him. One day recently he crawled into two
successive leading articles. One was about the
scarcity of available State lands for settlers, and
the old paper lamented that there wasn’t a man
like Johnson in the Lands Office to put every-
thing right, and produce land even if there wasn’t
any. The other was about an alleged shortage of
locomotives, and said this among other things
The most sanguine of our business men hardly antici-
pated such a recovery as we have experienced in’the last
three years. The development of the pastoral and agri-
cultural industries in the time has been phenomenal, and
the way in which mining has been encouraged by the
high price of metals has reacted upon our railways at
every section of the system. Even an Eddy would have
been excused for not grasping the possibilities after such
a drought as the one which terminated in 1908. But the
question of importance now is what is to be done ? There
is a definite shortage of locomotives ; and another two or
three good seasons, with a spirited immigration policy
to push on the settlement of our lands, may easily lead
to serious dislocation. Fortunately, Mr. Johnson will be
here directly, and his experience should be invaluable.
And poor old Johnson, coming from a country
where there are no droughts, and no sudden re-
vivals, and where a railway manager never finds
himself expected to carry li million bushels of
wheat in 1903 and over 27 million bushels in 1904,
will doubtless know all about it. Next day, it was
announced that there was no “definite shortage” in
the Railway Department, that the engines aren’t
really being worked so hard as they were two
years ago, and that it is only proposed to order
new ones by way of looking ahead. But that
made no difference in the Herald’s worship of
the great god Johnson.
*
N.S.W. Premier Oarruthers at Tam worth
One estate of 1350 acres, which under sheep employed
part of the labor of an overseer, one casual hand, and a
few shearers at shearing time, now employs 24 men all
the year round, and 43 at harvest time. Land which
under sheep, returned Bs. to 10s. per acre, under barley
now returns as many pounds. . . . We should get more
into line with France and Denmark, where 80 per cent,
of the people own their own little farms.
But as to the Danish Act, which makes the holding
or aggregating of large estates an impossibility,
Carruthers, as is usual with that indefinite and
unfinished person, was as discursive as an oyster.
Meanwhile, the report of the cry for land in
N.B.W. reads like this:—
For the 14 farming blocks at Brookong a total of 1112
applications has been received. It is expected that 70 per
cent, of the applicants will be sent to the ballot.
Nevertheless Anderson, of the Intelligence
Bureau, states that there is plenty of land avail-
able for immigrants, and instances the fact that
blocks on Myall Creek are still unsold. Of course,
there is plenty of land available—at a price,
mostly a hopeless price. In fact, it’s only the
price that stops people from staking out a bit of
land bounded by, say, George, King, Market and
Elizabeth-streets, Sydney, and ringbarking all the
hotels, and setting to work to grow wheat.
♦
“ Nulla’s ” opinion :
The reason why Germans (and others) hold aloof from
Australian national sentiment is probably because they
ha ve got tired looking for it. And why blame the Ger-
mans for clinging to their old-world traditions, when
Australians (so-called) set the example ? From an Aus-
tralian national standpoint there is little to choose
between the men who shout “ Hoch ! ” and talk of “ Der
Faderland,” when well primed with lager, and the men
who wear green ribbons in their coats on the 17th of
March, or yellow ones on the 12th of July, the men who
wear prickly vegetable and ridiculous clothes at High-
land gatherings, and the men who yell “ Gorsave ” on the
slightest provocation, and speak of a place 13,000 miles
away as “Home,” said “Home” being a spot which
very often neither they nor their parents have ever seen.
As for the prevailing Australian sentiment that
which consists of howling itself hoarse over the
efforts of a man to smite a small ball with a
lump of wood, or of frantic bellowings over the
chances of a weedy horse carrying a mosquito weight
over six furlongs—well, naturally enough, that doesn’t
appeal to the practical Squarehead. Germans and others
became Americanised, and fought and died for America
in its trouble, because they found in Sam’s country a
virile, national sentiment unmarred by the mildewed
monk and monarch superstitions of the lands they
left behind. Until Australia proves—by making the
<£40,000,000 worth of goods it imports every year, by
routing the handful of big landlords who blight the
country, by treading with a heavy hobnailed No. 10 on
the moth-eaten traditions of the Dark Ages, and by pro-
viding means for self-defence—that it has national aspira-
tions, it can’t blame Germans for, in a manner of speak-
ing, marking time.
THE LONE HAND
Foundation Subscribers.
The “Foundation Subscribers” for The Lone
Hand in States other than N.S. Wales were
determined on March 4. The list reads :
Dr. Mclnkrny, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Miss Stevens, Cromwell House, 139 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
J. Bear, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.
J. P. Jones, 4 Royal Arcade, Melbourne.
W. Ross, G.P.0., Melbourne.
J. Denholm, Yannathan, Victoria.
Harold Cox, District Surveyor, A.M.P. Society, Wan-
garatta, Victoria.
J. D. Miller, Heidelberg, Victoria.
A. S. Gkrrand, Accountant, National Bank, Wanga-
ratta,Victoria.
Ernest Gome, Nhill, Victoria.
T. J. Tampion, junr., Lalbert, via Boort, Victoria.
Librarian, Cable Station, Doubtless Bay, Mongonui,
Maoriland.
Mrs. G. H. Campbell, 36 Heriot Row, Dunedin, Maori-
land.
Richard Ford, Otautau, Maoriland.
A. St. Omer, Beach-street, Queenstown, Otago, Maori-
land.
Arthur Cerutty, c/o Huddart, Parker & Co., Auckland,
Maoriland.
W. J. Hawkins, Bruce Bay, South Westland, Maoriland.
W. B. Smith, Telegraph Department, Auckland, Maori-
land.
F. W. Champion, Government Offices, Port Moresby,
British Papua.
Staff-Surveyor Bedford, Government Survey Camp,
Toowoomba Queensland.
T. Nicolls, Bundaleer, via Cunnamulla, Queensland.
Miss E. Teskey, Girls’ School, Mount Morgan, Queens-
land.
A. S. Powne, Mackinley, Queensland.
T. P. Kelly, Lake-street, Cairns, Queensland.
C. D. Fletcher, Elmina, Charleville, Queensland.
Oswald Pryor, Moonta Mines, South Australia.
F. H. Mildren, Cockburn, South Australia.
David Daniels, Glen Road, Eastwood, South Australia.
Miss M. Gardiner., Sunnyside, South Australia.
S. H. Chinner, c/o Atlas insurance Co., 28 Pirie-street,
Adelaide.
J. Griffiths, Murrin Murrin P. 0., Westralia.
C. Woods, Inspector of Police, Menzies, Westralia.
Thos. Holt, c/o‘Acraman Bros., Burtville, Westralia.
C. B. Webb, Never Never Land Hotel, Yerilla, Westralia.
A. C. Davison, 223 Elizabeth-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
Dr. Elkington, Hobart, Tasmania.
R. J. Allen, Zeehan, Tasmania.
J. Lilley, A.C., H.M.S. Psyche, Australian Station.
W. H. Jefferson, Cocos Island Station, Indian Ocean.
Each of these will receive The Lone Hand free
for life. Papua was grouped with Maoriland ;
but to subscribers from places outside Oceania
our special Foundation Subscription was allotted.
Chance sent it to Cocos Island, Indian Ocean.
The waiter’s story :
“ Pietro? No, he not here to-day. He ’way havin’
holiday. Why ? He got oyster fever—too mooch dam
oyster. Las’ night, when no business doin’, Pietro he
start rushin’ up an’ down stair five, ten, twenty time,
howlin’ lika somethin’ awful! The boss he busy, you
know, not notice Pietro fora bit. Then he sing out,
‘ Stoppa ! What the hella you doin’?” Pietro he yell
an’ run upstair lika mad, you know. The boss he say.
‘ Shoot up, you ! ’ An’ run upstair after him, you know !
By-um-bye we hear g-r-reat crash upstair an’ strugglin’,
an’ then Pietro cry an’ say : ‘ They was chasin’ me !
Ev’ry tima I was go upstair the oysters was throw dere
shells at me an’ joomp on my heada. When it is all dark
they will eat my hair. Letta me oop, I tell you ! ’ Then
the boss he say, ‘ By kripe. yon wanta long holiday. You
go an’ sit in the Pitzroy Garden for two, dree days, an’
get your head fix ri’.’ So it is lam here. Did you sav
feesh ?”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Robin Hood.”
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Mr. Hopkinson.”
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. Dreamland.
♦
“ Robin Hood,” the drama in which Julius
Knight brings his legs Superbus back to us,
transpires in an atmosphere of such artificiality
that, once you get in sympathy with it, you take
anything and everything for granted. That it is
“pretty” goes without saying; Julius Knight’s con-
nection with it, backed by J. 0. Williamson’smeans,
is guarantee enough for that. But, if “pretty,”
it is also often as absurd as melodrama of the sort
in which the chief villain conspires with the
second malefactor in a loud voice, in the most
public place, alongside the pie-stall kept by the
“ comic relief.” More than once it is necessary, in
order to bring the right people in the way of
getting married shortly after the fourth act, to
assume that some of the characters have been
struck with sudden deafness—as, for instance,
when Maid Marian’s Mary Ann seizes a chance
(in itself flagrantly impossible) to send off her
John Little with a message to the invincible
Robin that the heroine needs rescuing.
MISS ELBERT-ORTON as Lady Marian
in “ Robin Hood," at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
When time and space are things of no con-
sideration, such a brittle substance as history
naturally presents no difficulties to these drama-
tists. As Robin Hood is mostly romance, with
some alleged 12th century Ned Kelly for a
central fact, the dramatists are entitled to do
what they like with him. It has taken only 25
years for us to make Ned Kelly the perfect gen-
tleman who takes off his hat 10 times to a lady
and is a lamb with children, and the world has
had about thirty times 25 years to put a polish on
the Sherwood bushranger ; so at least the modern
person who makes the Sherwood bushranger a
picturesque hero can claim that he merely takes
him at a valuation now centuries old. But with
Kings and such like it is different. King Richard
of the Lion Heart is in this play presented as a
man worthy to be the hero of the hero. He is
the 16st. fairy who arrives in the fourth
act—and a very fine picture did Harry
Plimrner make of him framed in the door-
way of Friar Tuck’s hut. But the thing
doesn’t hang together. Robin Hood is above all
things represented as the friend of the poor, the
enemy of the oppressor, and the most stalwart
Saxon of them all; and Richard is his model—
this King whose awful exactions produced “ Long-
beard” and the first revolt of the “common
people ”in England ! On the other hand,
Eleanor, Henry ll.’s Queen, gets probably worse
treatment than she deserves. John says she
plots with him against Richard, but whether it
is for love of him or hate of Richard he doesn’t
know. Yet it was this same Eleanor who, at this
moment, was scraping up the heavy ransom that
bought Richard out of an Austrian prison. The
drama leaves you to suppose that it was Richard’s
own prowess that got him out of that scrape as it
got him out of others, whereas it is pretty certain
that the Lion Heart’s quarrelsomeness and vanity
got him into the scrape, and Robin Hood’s Saxons
had to bleed money to buy him out of it.
* » * *
These sacrifices are not counterbalanced
by any brilliance in the dialogue. The love-
making passages are especially poor, and Miss
Elbert-Orton, the new leading lady, does little to
rescue them from being obviously commonplace.
A very fine, clear voice she has, though—a voice
that carries far even when she whispers—a perfect
enunciation, and a “presence” that sometimes
recalls our own Mabel Lane, and sometimes
Nance O’Neil. Julius Knight is vigorous and a
trifle husky; also he is picturesque, of course.
All things fall out for the glorification of Robin
Hood, and Julius Knight accepts the special
downpours of Providence in the spirit of a man
who knows he deserves them. And it is the right
spirit; why, anyhow, should Robin start to raise
doubts about the romanticism which it has taken
seven centuries to weave about him—especially
when the romanticism is a paying proposition?
Of the new men who arrive with Julius Knight,
Hubert Willis as Friar Tuck, Gordon Macintosh
as John Little, and H. J. Bentley as Prince John
hit eye and ear hardest; Willis, as the gorman-
dising friar, extracts almost the last ounce of
comedy out of the part, and Gordon Macintosh
(who stage-manages the production) supplies
most of the rest of the “relief.” Harry Plimmer’s
appearance as Richard is so fine that it has forced
itself into the first paragraph, and the little he
has to do is done artistically. With Mias Elbert
Orton come Miss. Mary Godfrey (Eleanor, widow
of Henry II.), in a part in which one dare
not judge her; and Miss Dorothy Sidney, who
turns Maid Marian’s 12th century Adela into a
keen 20th century travelling companion. Walter
Whyte’s three songs are so strong a feature of the
piece that, if the good things deserve mention
first, these shouldn’t have been left till now— bis
singing of “Richard, my King,” and the little
scene that follows, supply the most genuinely
dramatic five minutes in the piece ; and the
scenery and effects keep step with the picturesque
character of the principal robber.
*** * *
To the patriotic Australian who likes his
bellowdrama cast amid local scenes, where the
hero, instead of dying in a huddled heap in a
snow-storm, wanders through a bush-fire with his
tongue hanging out. the news that the Drought
will definitely stop Breaking at Sydney Royal to-
morrow (Friday) night is distressing. The Hurri-
cane Club will be dissolved and the building
presumably let as a mission hall to the Chows
who frequent Paddy’s Market. Also, the
doctor’s gorgeous flat, where the painted lydies
came in for champagne breakfasts, will also be
available, at a reduced rental, till the character of
its former tenants has been lived down. A revival
of that fine play, “White Heather,” will bring
the Blandolt season to a close with a gallop of
seven nights only.
** * *
Out at Wonderland City (Sydney), Asiatic
weddings and nugget hunts have given place to
buck-jumping and wrestling. Jack Prendergast,
who will be remembered as one of the victims of
Bobs when Martini’s show was running in Syd-
ney, has a squad of outlaws in the city, and also a
bucking mule. The bucking mule is a great
institution. Prendergast also offers the owner
of any horse that can throw him the sum
of £5. for the fun of watching it done.
Bobs is at present far away, and, presum-
ably, when he draws this way that offer will
be off, or Bobs will be barred. The wrestler is
Ben Hur, described as a “pocket Hercules.” His
weight is 9st. 21b., and he offers prizes to anyone
under lOst. 51b. who can wipe the floor with him.
His offer was promptly accepted by Tom Curnow,
the lightweight champion of the State, and the
contest, under catch-as-catch-can rules, was
maliciously arranged for Tuesday night, just as
this paper had fled to the press.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli programme is the same
mostly song-and-dance programme that it was
last week, except that Annie Laurie has arrived
to make it more so, and Selbo, the plate-juggler,
has gone, and that has made it more so, too.
The foregoing sinful verses are by way of
emphasising the fact that “The Squatter’s
Daughter” is an unabated success at Melbourne
Royal. For three more weeks the lurid villains
will be put to shame at the end of every act, and
the scenery, the stock-whip cracking, the dead
snake and the alleged bull-ants will continue as
before, also two Australian shearers will shear a
couple of Australian sheep, what time the ex-
cited supers applaud, with hands and feet, as
though they were assisting at an Irish jig contest.
** * *
“ Mother Goose ” has reached the Last
Nights stage, and from various inland and coastal
towns of Victoria the local populace is being en-
ticed to Melbourne by means of “ Mother Goose ”
excursion trains at special panto, rates. A visit
to the panto, begins to present itself to patriotic
minds as a somewhat solemn duty to the State.
Every right-thinking farmer and grazier feels
that “Mother Goose” is the Naples of theatri-
cal attractions. He must see it and die happy.
A first-class'M.G.E. ticket entitles him to a ss.
view of the panto, one supposes. If a second-
class passenger ranks as a throe-shilling sitter at
the panto., it naturally follows that the back seats
of the pit and amphitheatre are reserved for
humble agriculturists who booked themselves as
mere live stock or luggage. The penalty for
travelling on a Mother Goose ticket and not see-
ing the panto, is vaguely understood to be some-
thing awful, without the option of a fine.
** # *
At Melbourne Princess’s the twenty-first
and last night of “ The New Clown ” falls due on
Friday of this week. On Saturday, the lines of
the Willoughby-Ward Co. will be cast in a
comedy by ft. C. Carton, author of “Lord and
Lady Algy,” “Liberty Hall,” “The Tree of
Knowledge,” and other capital plays known to
this country. “Mr. Hopkinson,” the Cartonic
comedy in question, will put the co. on its mettle
jointly and severally for the last weeks of the
season. In the meantime the ad vt. promises an
undoubted popular success for “Mr. Hopkinson.
*& * #
Last Bulletin should have mentioned
that Madame Marie Narelle to give a
series of four concerts at Melbourne Town Hall-
But for the heat it would have done so. The
third and fourth reappearances of the Irish song-
stress are fixed for Friday and Saturday this
week. Melbourne, at time of writing, is favorably
impressed by the musical sound of the performers
names on the bill. Marie Narelle assisted by
Chester Fentress and Constance Brandon Ushei
—with Sheelah O’Donnell for accompanist.
*■ # * *
At Dreamland by the Beach of Hobson s
Bay the Salambos in their “electrical act are
now added to the joys of the circular shilling s-
worth. At Princes Court the management is
letting off fireworks on stated occasions, and when
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Miss Duggan, the Squatter’s Daughter,
Expensive raiment wore ;
She tempted Cross to court her,
Whilst Dunbar scowled and swore ;
For when he tried to thwart her
She frowned on him the more.
He plotted to estrange her
From Cross. He called her “ jade.”
In league with Ben Bushranger
A trap for Cross he laid.
But the hero ’scaped the danger
Through dauntless Duggan’s aid.
Then Dunbar trapped the lady ;
He seized and held her fast
In a gully, wet and shady,
And the gods they gazed aghast—
For the gods were sore afraid he
Would “ achieve his end ” at last.
But Cross rushed in and shouted—
O, hero of renown !
The bdshrangers he routed
By knocking of them down ;
And Dunbar, crushed and clouted,
Cried, “ Write my name ‘ Dunbrown.”’


Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Gets Thepe Quickest
->J>
in
3
FISHERS
PHOSPHERIHE
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/6.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares
on oath the following I suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue
g:ot a thick coating* over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
pShtoot rehef ', ?V fc in three weeks FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of
’''S’ . Flve t° ten drops of FISHER’S PHOS-
FHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth,
and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone
know of my case.” •
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEM AIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney.
SPEEDIEST CURE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNESS.
a few showers of sparks are added to the ordinary
every-night illuminations the Court is a remark-
ably festive spectacle for the outside world. It
looks like the work of an incendiary.
*# # *
At the Opera House somebody will be
arriving this week to take the place of brother
Chanti, now departed. In other respects the
programme remains as before, and the Saturday
night rush for admission explains why no sweep-
ing reforms are imminent.
*# # *
“ Cinderella ” is doing heavy business at
Adelaide Royal—especially it is doing heavy
matinee business —in spite of the heat. John F.
Sheridan has most of the comic relief; the other
people whose business it is to be funny don’t
work overtime at it, so to speak. A semi-
public controversy is going on as to .whether
Heba Barlow imitates Nellie Stewart’s manner-
isms ; general verdict that there is no possible
doubt whatever. Irving Sayles has brought back
himself and his cheerful smile to the Tivoli; the
Coleman sisters are at the Hippodrome ; Broncho
George has 50 buckjumpers out on a vacant city
allotment every night; and the military forces
put in an evening on the Exhibition Oval, showing
how at Rorke’s Drift a rampart of flour-sacks and
biscuit-tins was successfully held against the
Zulu—whom nobody calls our Colored Brother,
though he is one of the best of the savage races.
Swimming “carnivals” are frequent, and are the
form of entertainment best suited to the recent
Adelaide weather.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Indignation is gathering round the head of a leading
musical critic on a big paper in a big Australian
city. Not content with criticising the performances of
any young lady who desires to appear on the concert
platform, this dreadful person criticises her personal
attractions, and decides how many kisses he must have
before the youthful artiste can hope for a favorable notice
in his column. A recent refusal to grant “just one kiss ”
was met with a criticism of the lady’s ability quite
sufficient to spoil her professional chances for years.
The musical critic’s advances have of late been more
ardent, and a public scandal is about due.
The advance booming of George Musgrove’s German
Opera Co. includes a painful allegation of humor on the
part of the principal tenor. The newspaper story, w'hich
is fully six inches long, states that when Musgrove and
the tenor were dining together at a Melbourne hotel
there was no lager beer on the premises, so the manager
proposed to order a barrel of it from the German steamer.
Whereupon the humorous tenor remarked that a steamer
which had carried fifteen German opera singers for some
weeks couldn’t possibly have any lager beer left aboard.
It doesn’t sound like a very judicious puff paragraph.
The Australian musical public is not likely to form high
expectations of an opera co. that is accused, even in jest,
of such an enormous thirst for beer.
“Peacock”: The Melbourne panto. girls have several
swimmers in their ranks. Besides Miss Inez Stach
(mentioned by “0.K.” some little time back), there
are two famous swimmers—Miss Mabel Simmons and
Miss Ruby Dolby. Mabel, besides being dainty on the
light fantastic toe, is the winner of many races, and
Ruby, although she has not competed in a race y'et,
makes Mabel use the whip at the finish. Ruby, although
still very young, is also the possessor of a voice which
has been pronounced by experts as exceptional.
Five Kelly Gang biographs are now operating in Aus-
tralia under the management of the Taits. If Ned Kelly
were not dead he would be entitled to charge a commis-
sion.
“ J.A.0.” :Re “ Ruddigore” par. (B. 28/2/’O7). The
opera cannot fairly be regarded as a “ conspicuous
failure ” ; on the contrary, it had a considerable measure
of success. The principal reason why it was not often
produced out of London was the very costly setting of the
second act, where the ancestral portraits became ani-
mated, and descended from their frames— vide advt. for
Somebody’s Whisky. Again, it required a tenor who
could dance a sailor’s hornpipe, but that was a difficulty
which could be got over—Durward Lely, who some years
ago gave Scotch entertainments throughout Australia,
made special saltatory studies for the first production,
and leaped in the air to the satisfaction of a large audi-
ence.
“ Hamer” : The “ Kelly Gang” will never be the stand-
by for the despairing Thespian that “ East Lynneis,
because it takes more people to play ; and the despairing
Thespian only plays “East Lynne” when the soubrette
has announced that she has packed her trunks, and the
comedy man has sworn to be funny no more without
gold, and the old man has determined to cease the supply
of bank notes to his spendthrift son until he has himself
been paid at least ss. “ Kelly Gang” won’t meetcircum-
stances of that sort. “ East Lynne ” can be played with
five people, and that’s its merit. One actor-manager
played it with four.
THE LATE JOHN YOUNG, President of
N.S.W. Bowling Association.
Adelaide Photo. Company, Sydney.
The London music-hall strike originated entirely in the
interest of the “ small ” people—that is to say, the low-
salaried performers, the scrapers of fiddles and blasters
of trumpets, the stage-hands, and the Gibeonites of the
profession generally. As already hinted in these columns,
the trouble was caused by the matinee-chucked-in
iniquity. A noteworthy feature of the situation has
been the large contributions to the strikers’ fund made
by costly stars who don’t care whether the managers
like it or not. Many of those stars joined the strikers
and refused to appear, thereby losing big money. For
instance, Joe Elvin and his company, and Arthur Roberts
and company, were receiving, respectively, £175 and
£l6O a week for two halls nightly. Among those known
to. Australians are Marie Lloyd, receiving from two
houses £l5O weekly; Alec Hurley, one performance
nightly, £B5; Little Tieh, two shows, £150; and Paul
Martinetti and troupe, £llO. Mrs. Brown Potter didn’t
want to be torn from the shekels, and still continued
doing her “ turn ” at the Oxford. The strikers’ com-
mittee wrote to her, pointing Out the error of her waj's,
but with what result is not stated. On the other hand,
the managers, in voices choked with emotion, declare
that they are ruined by the vast salaries they have to
pay, and it seems that they only keep open out of philan-.
thropy.
“ G.T.” : Lalla Miranda, noticed in the cables t’other
day, is the same Lalla who for years charmed the neigh-
borhood of the Bluestone Mansions of Nicholson-street,
FitZroy, with her “practising,” and who 15 years agone
sent Melbourne crazy with “ After the Ball.” The song
has long since been given Christian burial. The melan-
choly push, with its dirge of “ Harf-tertheßor-r-r-r-r-rll,”
killed it deader than the egg Confucius had for breakfast.
“Melfc.”: Pardon me, but I do think that Pastor
Carey’s baptisms in the Collins-street church, last hot
Sunday night, ought to be impounded by a dramatist as
a new and vivid situation. The marble tank sunk in the
stage was duly repleted with water, and it was a delight-
ful baptismal night, hot as Calcutta. In went Carey, up
to his waist, amid the lovely green ferns and fronds
which made a sweet Palestinian Pool of Siloam. Six
young ladies were severally baptised. Number one, in
black with white collar, was tenderly led forward by an
experienced young lady in white. Firmly the acolytess
stepped into the water with nary splash. Carey had his
back to the people.' The girl stood sideways. With con-
summate tact Carey ducked her right under backwards
and up again to a superb choir and organ accompani-
ment. Out she went dripping, through red curtains, at
the other side of which she was seized with the prompti-
tude of lady attendants in a Turkish bath. I declare that
none of the plays have anything to show so touching and
beautifully dramatic.
A one-time bosom friend of the great actor declares
that he perpetuates and emphasises his familiar chin
dimple by sleeping with a grain of shot in the ravishing
indentation. The shot is held in place with a bandage.
Some years ago, when he was theatrical critic for the
Saturday Review, George Bernard Shaw made this con-
fession : “ With the single exception of Homer, there is
no eminent writer, not even Sir Walter Scott, whom I
can despise so entirely as I despise Shakspeare when I
measure my mind against his.”
“ Kodak ” : This is the age of peculiar amusements.
Nowadays the ordinary girl loves to get on board a Sadly
Circulate (miscalled Merry-go-Round) and revolve
slowly, at enormous expense, for about five minutes,
while a steam organ shrieks “ The Belle of New York.”
If she doesn’t care for the Sadly Circulate, she has a
passion for slithering down a steep incline —at fearful
expense—and getting her sacred hair-pad dashed with
spray. If she doesn’t fancy either the Slither or the
Sadly Circulate, she loves to go—at horrible expense—
into the Tangled Tomb, and have her complexion blown
off in flakes by an artificial wind while she squeals and
clutches in the dark. Finally, if none of the foregoing
sports appeal to her, she can pay some more money,
climb up a long stair, and fall down a polished trough.
Isn’t this sort of thing destructive of the national dig-
nity?
It is now said that George Castles, brother of Amy,
and something in Marie Studholme’s co., acquired his
billet in the Vic. Agent-General’s office by the grace of
Tummy Bent, at the instance of fairy godfather Robin-
son, the R.C. cleric. The young man had no specific
qualifications except his relationship to the songstress.
Nevertheless, he was given a generous salary and
easy duties. Tummy "evidently regarded his good
action as a questionable one, for, though the public
pay George’s screw', no mention of him appears in
any available list of Taverner’s expenditure. Castles’ pro-
fessed reason for desiring a berth in London and inci-
dental perks, was his brotherly desire to be near Amy 7.
Naturally, such beautiful family affection W'ould appeal
to a model citizen like Papa Bent!
Said the magician : “ For some weeks after we opened
in Maoriland we played to crowded houses—turned away
money. Then a Bulletin par. disclosed my identity with
a certain political aspirant at the last Victorian elections.
After that the local rag in every town, on announcing my
arrival, copied thisinformation, and business immediately
slumped. The remainder of the tour was a frost. While
my stage-name caused people to imagine that I was
imported I coined money. As soon as they discovered I
was a mere local product the large audience mostly
stayed at home, or patronised shows in which the artists
performed some of my feats, and joked in broken English.”
Marie Hall, a girl violinist who learned from Kubelik’s
master, and is said to produce something of the same
“singing” tone that has made the boss pupil famous,
will start an Australian tour in May.
“ Cockaigne ” : Very delicious is one Douglas, who re-
places T.P. ably on “M. A.P.” Douglas says Tree’s exuber-
ant lusciousness of staging helps Shakspeare. The Bard
is like King Edward. Suppose he went to the Coronation
in a hansom, what would be the good of it? So give
Shakspeare every pomp, and he is the better. Reminds
me of the Due de Noailles, in the time of Louis XIV.
Says the Due : “ When I see the Monarque at Mass, my
thoughts of le Bon Dieu rise higher. This gives me, as
it were, to measure Him by.” Your Briton
thinks of the greatness of Nedkins. Then he mounts on
those glorious shoulders, and what a view of Jehovah he
h s !
American interviewer Vance Thompson tells of a Bern-
hardt experience. He was once sent by his New York
editor to ask Sarah to write a Christmas story. She
agreed, remarking, “ You will arrange the details with
my secretary.” Said the secretary, “Let me have a
copy of it in French as soon as possible.” “In French?”
“Yes, she will want to read it before she signs it.”
Thompson realised the situation, told his editor, and was
allowed a few days off to write the story—a pathetic
little thing called “Noel.” Sarah read it, approved,
and it was printed in both French and English,
with Bernhardt’s stunning signature facsimiled. Years
rolled by, and Thompson had forgotten all about
“Noel.” He had occasion to call on Bernhardt
in Paris. While waiting for her appearance he wandered
to and fro, looking at busts and statues—by the great
actress. He picked up a book, an edition de luxe. It
was charmingly illustrated—by the great actress. It
was “ Noel.” The interviewer was staring at it when
Sarah came rustling in. “ Oh,” she exclaimed, “have
you read it? A little thing, but real. It was an event
in my own life that haunted me and haunted me until
I simply had to write it—a fragment of my childhood.
Ah, those days, those days ! ” “It touches the heart,”
said Thompson. “You like it?” she asked brightly.
“ Madame, it is your masterpiece,” he said —and he meant
every word of it.
When Edwin Booth returned from Sydney, in 1856, he
played an engagement at Detroit. The manager showed
him a draft of the playbill, with profuse adjectives.
“ Oh,” said Booth, “ I can’t have this rot. Simple Edwin
Booth will do.” The playbills appeared all over the town
with—“ Engagement for One Week Only of Simple Edwin
Booth.”
“N.L.”: I think the actresses who are raised (or fall)
to the peerage ought to be spoken to severely. They
and other healthy plebeian damsels who marry titles are
only prolonging the agony of the old nobility. (The
modern “beerage” is left out of this discourse.) The
real blue-mouldy nobility would have perished of inani-
tion long ago if it had been left to marry among its own
class, as it had got into the way of doing before the craze
for actress or American wives caught on. Why doesn’t
the dramatic profession look after its self-respect, and
exclude stage peeresses from all parts of the theatre as
blacklegs ?
The mask idea in minor vaudeville business is just now
being considerably overworked. The notion seems to be
derived less from the old harlequinade than from novel-
ettes, in which the younger son of the Duke of Fitz Cra-
yfish has to earn his living by warbling in the streets, to
the guitar accompaniment of the lowly maid whom he
has rashly married against his stern parent’s wish. Of
course the duke accidentally hears the musicians, pene-
trates their disguise, and forgives all. This is all very
well in the Empress’s Halfpenny Novelette, but some-
how the hearers of fifth-rate variety performers at a
suburban hall don’t seem able to believe that they are
listening to five wronged earls and two crushed coun-
tesses. In fact, some masculine members of the audience
go so far as to assert that “ those toms must be blamed
ugly,” and also cast grave doubts on the sanity of anyone
“ wearin’sich a nose-warmer on a ’ot night like this.”
Still the masking continues, even when nearly everyone
present knows that the mysterious ones are merely
Gerties and Harolds from an adjacent suburb.
“Cockaigne”: Tree’s sumptuous “Antony and
Cleopatra ” provokes thought on how the cuddle and
hugger-mugger have got into the drama. Vicious as the
days and plays of Wycherley, Etheredge, and so forth
were, their audiences would never have endured the
squeezedom of the modern play. We have reached the
stage of the girl who sat on a log, and was grabbed by a
grizzly bear from behind, when she exclaimed “Squeeze
me harder, Charley 1” the said Charles having scooted up
a tree. A crisis of perspiration is substituted for one of
passion. How obviously Cleopatra stood in the eligible roles
of Mrs. Siddons ! Yet she never acted it. She said “If
should feel degraded if I acted Cleopatra properly.” Nor
would Mrs. C. Kean act it, though she and her husband
were so cut out for Cleopatra and the weak Antony. The
human compression in the part didn’t appeal to them.
“ Kodak ” : The days of the naughty-sporty serio-comic
are evidently numbered. Every time I have been to a
variety show lately I have been loaded down with good
advice by the girls who, a few short years ago, used to
advise “ every mother’s son of you t’ have a rare old
time—ah !” or words to that effect. Here are a few of
the things serios have recently told me :
(1) Walk on the sunny side.
(2) Be good to mother.
(3) Give and take a little hit.
(I) Be careful.
(5) Take the latch-key.
(6) Pay the rent regularly.
What is the reason of it ?
4
The fault of Bruce Smith is, not only that
he goes among Japs and Chows for information to
enlighten Australia, but that he doesn’t collect
the right kind of information from these sources.
Now, why has he not drawn attention to the
Mikado’s new Constitution ? It may be remem-
bered how valiantly B. Smith fought against pay-
ment of members in N.S.W. Parliament, and
how, when the measure was passed, he professed
to refuse, for a while, to take a penny of his
salary. Well, the Mikado seems to have had a
few like Bruce. Accordingly the new Constitu-
tion lays it down that any member who refuses to
accept his salary, “through pride or other
reasons,” shall be subject to fine and dismissal
from Parliament. Why doesn’t Bruce Smith find
out Jap facts like that ?
A woman sends this
I was threatened, cajoled, forced into joining an artists’
picnic party. I wasn’t warned, though, until well on the
journey, that most of the odd pairs were kindred souls.
“ Kindred souls ” means that two people with an approxi.
mate lack of physical attractions, and an identical
degree of talent, hold hands surreptitiously, and
talk platonism with their noses almost touching and
moist, glistening eyes. Beside the souls, there were two
couples with gross ideas, a lugubrious male, and I. When
we reached the idee-al glade which was our goal we pro-
ceeded to feed. I had brought a salad, which the sepul-
chral personage devoured appreciatively. He unbent to
me a little after it. The star of the party was a lady who
looked like a water-carafe bound in green lustre, and who
was on the point of converting her twin-spook into a mere
matrimonial mate. She was horrid. She wouldn’t talk.
She’d only quote from Yeats’ “ Land of Heart’s Desire,’’
and try to look like Monna Lisa. She wouldn’t eat—she
scorned every edible, from draught beer to my salad.
Ocasionally, she said, she partook of an olive with a
little cayenne.
Presently they all drifted out of sight—in opposite
directions—to renew their investigations into Plato.
And the dejected one and I were left alone. He
brightened up a trifle, and said things about “the won-
drous purple in the brown, brown earth.” Also, he asked
me if I made the salad. He said that although I was
plump, and did my hair like a danseuse, he was in sym-
pathy with me, and “understood.” (What. I really
can’t guess.) He said when he was old and grey he
would like to retire to a delta in a river marsh, and die
sitting on a rush chair with his feet in the water. On our
way back to town, he confided to me that in the cup-
board of his life there was a skeleton—who played the
’cello !—and asked if he might call on me. I told him I
lived in Brisbane. Then I fled at the first opportunity.
Never again will any human lure induce me to join an
artistic picnic party. Never 11
A modest little improvement on present
Australian railway and tram services would be a
“complaint box” at the various stations, into
which travellers could drop their tales of sorrow
about unpunctuality, incivility, and the hundred
and one other ills that now keep them prancing
up and down the stairs of newspaper offices. It
would save the newspapers trouble, and produce
many precious records of language hot off the
stove, so to speak. The complaints would be
written against dirt bins, on leaves torn out of
pocket-books, on the backs of old letters—on any-
thing, in fact. The aggrieved railway traveller
would serve up his grievance strong and fresh,
and garnished with curses, and it would be very
different from the pale, anaemic thing he writes
when he gets home, and sends to the press. That
may look violent enough, but compared with the
shriek written in the pub. at the tram terminus-
written in blood and beer, so to speak—it would
be as a moonbeam is to a burning kerosene bond.
“ N.L.” : Be par. (B. 14/2/’o7)on woman’s
reluctance to adopt the masculine fashion of horse-
riding. It is not so in all localities. A Gippsland
(Vic.) girl tells me that she and her sister have
attained notoriety as the only two equestriennes
within a wide radius who cling to the old style of
riding. After some recent straddle-seated ex-
periments, they, too, have decided to abandon
the uncomfortable side-saddle and its frequent
accompaniment of “needles and pins” in a
numbed limb. The divided riding skirt is also
fairly common in parts of Western Victoria.
From a Fat Man’s diary :
I had just alighted from the tram this morning, and
had called to mind that I bad again forgotten to pay my
fare, when a rough-looking person touched me on the
coat sleeve. I brushed the spot quickly, and turned
round to remonstrate with the fellow, or, if he were im-
pudent, to give him in charge ; hut before I could do so,
he removed his hat with a respect that might be copied
with much advantage by the whole of the laboring
classes, and handed me a sovereign, which he
believed I had dropped in leaving the car. I could
not help being impressed with the fellow’s
honesty, in spite of his clothes, and after making
a few remarks appropriate to the occasion, I took the
sovereign and rewarded him with sixpence, and resumed
my walk to the warehouse. No doubt he had mistaken
me for someone else, but his intentions were good, and
my duty in the matter was clear. Qualities of upright-
ness deserve every encouragement amongst the working-
classes.
The incident, coupled with the fact that I had just
read in the papers that, the Gas Company was about to
pay al5 per cent, dividend, put me in good spirits. A
distressing scene followed, however. As I reached
my business-house, I was accosted by a thin,
shabby woman, who either shivered with cold
or pretended to do so. She, too, plucked at my arm.
Recalling the previous incident, I turned to her
pleasantly, and said, “ Well, my woman ?” She blushed
slightly', and, grasping my hand suddenly, she poured
out her story, which moved me deeply'. Her husband, it
appeared, had been in my employ for 20 years, but had
been killed in a lift accident 12 months before. Since
then her family of six young children had depended
entirely on her exertions for existence, and she was now
too weak, from want of food, to work any longer. They
had not even the means of making a fire on this cold day.
I was deeply' moved, and, feeling in my pocket, handed
her a match., I could not bear to think of the poor
people being cold. Her tale was probably exaggerated,
but I had no time to inquire into its merits, so acted on
the spur of the moment.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report : —At last
Monday’s and Tuesday’s wool sales akeen demand existed
for all descriptions, with an upward tendency in values.
Although very little wool is now arriving, there is still a
fair volume on hand to be disposed of. In the absence of
many buyers at the Brisbane sales, transactions in local
scoureds and passed-in lots during the past few days
have been on a limited scale. In accordance with roster
arrangements, our next sale is fixed for 11th March, when
we anticipate offering about 1000 bales, comprising many
notable Queensland brands.*
“ Kodak ” : Going down Bourke-street,
Melbourne, the other day, I saw a happy-looking
derelict smiling like a sleepy cherub at a heavily-
laden lorry climbing the hill to Menzies’. The
lorry was ai’ranged like an altar to Bacchus.
Next the driver was a cask of ale, and the rest of
the space was tightly packed, with pretty well
every variety of bottled joy. The liquidator
stood for a moment speechless on the kerb, then
raised his hat and solemnly remarked “Hurrah!”
It was the finest tribute I have ever seen paid to
Beer.
THE PATHETIC BALLAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The experienced playgoer always knows when the
pathetic balladist is due. The orchestra commences to
churn slowly, as if an evil spirit w'as pouring out the
accumulated musical dregs of 20 years. Then the singer
strides on to the stage, wearing a depressed expression,
and remarks in a high nasal voice :
The Old Man Bowed His Head.
Ist Verse.
Or. night, when walking down the street, an agfed man I
saw,
Who held a crust of bread in either hand.
I knew that he was famished as the food I watched him
gnaw,
And I asked him, as before him I did stand, ,
“ Oh, why are you so hungry, dad, and why are you so
cold ?
The Summer and the Autumn both are fled.”
God knows what dreadful narrative that old man might
have told,
But instead he gave a sigh and bowed his head !
Ist Chorus.
When the Summer and the Autumn days are fled,
Then it is I wonder what he might have said ; '
But he sat there in the cold,
He was hungry—also old (pause),
And he gave a sort of sigh and bowed his head.
2nd Shrielc.
The years rolled on. In foreign lands I made a fortune
large, «>
And, coming home, was walking up the Strand,
When suddenly I heard a voice say, “Take the man in
charge !
The old one with the bread-crusts in his hand I”
“ No, no!” I cried, and laid my hand on the policeman’s
arm.
“ The man is old, as all of you can see.
While I have strength old Daddy here shall never come
to harm,
And all of you can take this tip from me ! ”
2nd Chorus — (very proudly).
When the Summer- and the Autumn days are fled,
Then it is you will remember what was said.
When you sit there in the cold,
And you’re hungry—also old,
P’r’aps you’ll give a choking sigh and bow your head !
3rd Shout.
I looked about and saw the tear-drops stealing down each
cheek.
The pTeeceman cast his eyes upon the ground.
I saw that he was sobbing, and I knew he could not
speak,
Nor could any of the people standing round.
But, in an instant—so it seemed—l heard a voice, “Stand
back 1
I will not see my father want for bread 1 ”
And there he knelt, that bearded man, and cried, “ Oh !
Dad—it’s Jack ! ”
The old man gave a cry and bowed his head.
Last Chorus—(very tenderly).
When the Summer and the Autumn days are fled,
Then it is t hat we remember what was said.
Ah ! he sat there in the cold,
But (impressively) he had a heart of gold !.
And he gave a hero’s sigh and bowed his head !
First Violin —Bow-wowed his head !
(Furious Applause.)
Vic.
KODAK.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine,
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Head the following statement: —
Tub Hon. Joseph Blumenthal (Tax-Commissioner),
writes : —“ lam pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises,
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years.
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to you,
and can hardly express it irgwriting. Before using your
‘ EAROSCOPE ’ we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, aifd concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
THE “ EAROSOOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt Sc., Sydney, N.S.W.
Ii those Afflicted with Sore Eyes
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.
HAVE YOU TRIED . .
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion.
The great Australian Remedy. This marvellohs
preparation is ail absolute specific for Sandy Blight
and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout
the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note
for 1/9 to the
Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO.,
531 George St., Sydney.
W BEWARE OF THE WAN WHO HAS SOMETHING JUST
AS GOOD.
I’ve Got
You!
A REAL CAMERA
is
THe TICKA
Watch PocKet
CAMERA.
FILM TAKES 25 PICTURES.
TUB (( TIP If A resembles, in size and shape, an ordinary Watch. It is
■ ■ Ivllft made of Nickel. It produces clean photos. Simple to
work, can be carried in vest pocket always ready for a snap. Fitted with a
Rapid Lens, Time and Instantaneous Shutter. Price 12/6, post free.
Spool of Films for 25 exposures, 1/3. Instruction Book Free.
We stock CAMERAS, LENSES and GENERAL PHOTOGRAPHIC
SUPPLIES from the Best of the World’s Manufacturers.
fPF“If you require anything Photographic drop us a line for particulars.
HARRINGTON (SL CO., Limited,
12/6 SI
386 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
93 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The doctrine that one Chinaman is like
every other Chow was exemplified in a Sydney
police court last week, when the master of a Ger-
man steamer charged a Mongol with having
deserted from his ship a few months ago. The
German captain said that all the heathens on
his steamer were alike to him, and admitted that
he really couldn’t swear that this one was his
missing Asiatic. On the other hand, cer-
tain witnesses were pretty sure that the de-
fendant was very like a Buddhist they
knew who had resided in Bathurst for
years. The case vanished in a haze of
uncertainty and costs.
John Findlay, who was some weeks ago
acquitted of the murder of Mr. Rennie, a school-
master at Papaltio (M.L.) was subsequently con-
victed of burglary at Rennie’s house about the
time of the murder, and sentenced to five years’
imprisonment. The Judge went out of his way
to say that a verdict of guilty on the burglary
charge practically convicted the accused of the
murder of Rennie. But there are cases on record
where a man, intent on one crime, found that
some one else had been before him with a more
serious one. Jonathan Bradford, landlord of an
inn in England, conceived the idea of robbing a
wealthy traveller sleeping under his roof, and,
going to his room, found that the man had been
murdered, and a dagger left sticking in his breast.
Other lodgers were attracted by the noise, and
found Bradford standing beside t' e bed with the
gory weapon in his hand. Bradford was hanged,
declaring his innocence of murder, but admitting
that he had gone to the room with the intention
of robbery. Some time afterwards, the dead
man’s servant, when himself dying, admitted the
murder, but his statement made no difference to
J onathan Bradford, who remains deceased to this
day.
♦ » * *
Chief Justice Darley, of N.S.W., got on
the high horse last week with disastrous results
to a cocky. This individual found some sheep
running about on vacant land, and impounded
them. The owner not appearing, he shore the
sheep and sold the wool, under a mistaken idea of
the law re mislaid sheep. Later, the owner
turned up, and Judge Docker gave the cocky six
months. His attorney handed in two written
objections to the conviction, and the case came
before the Full Court in Sydney on a point of law.
The Chief flung the case out without waiting to
hear counsel in opposition, remarking that
it was like someone’s impudence to submit
such a ridiculous point to him. Two days
later barrister Boyce humbly appealed to
the C.J. to hear the case again. Defendant’s
solicitor had not been notified, and the two points
of law he had taken were quite different points,
and they hadn’t been heard at all, and the point
submitted to Mr. Darley was some derelict point
that had been washed up on his Honor’s doorstep
by mere accident. As regards the real points,
Mr. Boyce now asked, quite friendly-like, that
they be discussed there and then. The Chief
then flounced with rage, bounced on Boyce,
trounced the attorney, and announced conviction
confirmed, all in one breath. Amid all this con-
fusion the cocky remains in possession of his six
months.
In the fashionable suburb of St. Kilda
(Melbourne) a policeman recently found something
against a fence in the dark, and could hardly
decide whether it was a boy or a vulture. It was
five feet high and said it was nearly 20 years old.
It also said it intended to commit suicide. It had
neither boots, hat nor shirt, and it had large
callosities on its knees, and tremendous claws on
its feet. Also it was dirty, and it said it had
only been allowed out of the house twice in 18
years, and then only for the dissipation of getting
its hair cut. It was plainly the policeman’s duty
to arrest the apparition, and as it could hardly be
charged with bigamy the case was called one of
insulting behavior. Inquiry revealed the fact
that the name of the spectre was William Spillane,
that its father was a grain dealer and its grand-
father a wealthy jeweller. Its sister, aged 17,
admitted that the apparition had to do all the
cooking, scrubbing, etc., for the family’s seven-
roomed villa, and that it picked if*own meals in
the scullery. The sister thought it had exagger-
ated its case, but on further consideration she
apparently couldn’t remember any occasion in the
last dozen years when it had been allowed out
except to have its hair cut. The pathetic object
was temporarily remanded to the Neglected
Children’s Department, which seems to leave the
unfortunate family rather short of a domestic
servant.
* * * *
Gent One has been so frequent in the
Sydney courts of late that it is time he was called
Bloke Numerous.
* ¥ * *
Victoria lately had a burst of tropical heat
for the first time this year, and Baracchi, the
Government weather prophet, got a chance to be
more strikingly inaccurate than usual. He didn’t
see the heat wave coming, but, when it had
arrived on the Saturday, he ventured a confident
prediction that it would stay until Monday,
when a thunderstorm and cool change would
ensue. No thunderstorm happened. The Mel-
bourne temperature rose on Monday to 104 in the
shade, whereupon Baracchi mopped his brow,
and predicted further warm weather. This was
the cue for the entrance of a “ cool change,” after
which the unhappy prophet became hopelessly
demoralised. The weather shows no considera-
tion for Baracehi’s forecasts. It seems to have
“ got him set,” and heaps scorn upon him.
« • • •
A youthful lawyer in Adelaide reckons
that his luck is altogether too bad. He took the
family housemaid out for the night; and next
day she came and poisoned herself in his office—
which was a consequence not fairly to be looked
for. That evening he poured his troubles into the
bowl-like ear of a friend. “It was not I who sent
the girl wrong. No, she did not want me to
marry her. ... I am a regular stay-at-home, and
if I stayed out at nights it was only to please
her. (!) Thousands of fellows have done worse
than I have done ; but did anyone ever see such
bad luck? ” A startling column interview in the
Register was the outcome of this conversation —-
or so it is alleged ; and certainly some of the talk
doesn’t look as if it was meant for the public
eye.
ON THE BALANCE.
“Be careful ’n don’ upset me—Em full up.”
STILL ANOTHER EGG JOKE.
“ Here , waiter , take this egg out and screw its neck.”
Barristers and their fees were discussed
last week in Sydney Supreme Court. Reid, K. 0.,
said he knew of a case in which a member of the
bar didn’t get paid, and went into long and
harrowing details. The Chief Justice said that
if the profession insisted upon getting its fee on
the delivery of the brief dreadful things like that
wouldn’t happen. Mr. Reid said he would make
a note of the valuable suggestion for future use.
Nothing was said about barristers who get fees
and never appear in court.
* * * *
Like Brother Lawson in N.S.W., Brother
Chelmsford has been involved in great bitterness
of spirit, owing to that portion of the Queensland
community which wears embroidered pinnies and
ham-frills round the neck. Briefly, a large num-
ber of Queensland Freemasons decided td'east off
the old-world trammels and form a Queensland
Lodge, and the idea caused much bickering
amongst the older fossils —the ammonites and
trilobites, and the paleozoic remains, and the
extinct arthropods—and great doings amongst the
Brethren. Then Chelmsford, a potentate of the
English section, cast in his lot with the
Queenslanders, and was made Grand Boss, and,
after that these “Brothers ” started to skirmish
like the cats of Kilkenny, and excommunicated
each other, and the English lot took to airing
their alleged grievances in the papers (orfe advt.
in the daily press occupied four columns), and
cables to and from the “ Mother Lodges” were
daily occurrences. At time of writing, the Bill
Goat is in a state of great excitement, but Chelms-
ford sticks to his gun, though he admits he didn’t
know it was loaded with quite so much bad egg
as there appears to be in it.
The snobbish S.M. Herald reprints this
from the fulsome, oily T. P. O’Connor’s
“M.A.P.”
, There is always something- pathetic in the sight of a lad
still in his teens succeeding to the family honors. This
fate has befallen the new Lord Congleton, a bright-faced
Etonian, who in no wise recalls the most famous member
of the house of which he is now chief—the late Charles
Stewart Parnell. Lord Congleton is just 16, he has two
brothers younger than himself, and a sister who is a year
older, and who will therefore be 01 e of the debutantes
in 1908.
And, on the same principle, it’s most amusing
when a lad still in his teens succeeds to the family
poverty, and it is quite hilarious when a bony
widow succeeds to the job of breadwinner for 13.
O’Connor isn’t so much to blame —he lives in the
atmosphere of snobbery; but the S.M. Herald
ought to know better.
* * * #
Says Brisbane Telegraph :
The new President of the Methodist Conference sent
his audience into roars of laughter last night at what
was intended to be one of the solemn portions of his
address. He was speaking of the fate of a party of
young ministers who had arrived in Queensland 19
years ago, and he said : “ One of them is in Heaven,
and another is in Westralia.”
Oom Forrest will secesh for sure after this.
* * * *
“ S.” writes :
I witnessed a block in Little Bourke-street, Melbourne,
on a recent Monday, when the mercury was touching
104 degrees in the shade. The suspension of traffic was
occasioned by a small, shaggy man who had leaned up
against a pole on the shady side, and drifted into a
drowsy state, being full of beer and borne down with
weariness and atmospheric pressure. Presently a lorry
came along, and, as there was a procession of banana
vans occupying one-half of the narrow' roadway, it W'as
not possible to pass without driving over the sleeper’s
feet. The lorry driver yelled at the leaning citizen,
who presently opened his eyes and blinked a
bit, but did not move. A delivery van pressed
behind the lorry, and a spring cart came after. Both
drivers added their objurgations, Chinamen came out
and passed shrill Asiatic opinions, and a boy with a truck
tried to set his dog on the impediment against the post.
It was only when the lorry-driver came down to fight the
leaning citizen that the City Council was found to be the
real offender, the beery man against the post being
guilty only of contributory negligence in having gone to
sleep standing on a coat of the Council’s nice new tar.
The inebriate couldn’t shift to save himself, and the
drivers had to drag him out of his boots before traffic
could be resumed. Then they drove over the boots while
the suaggy man stood shoeless on the pavement.
» * • »
From the domestic hints in the kind,
motherly S.M. Herald (27/2/’O7)
When you are choosing lobsters, be careful to select
those that have their tails curled up tightly to their
bodies, for then you will be sure they are fresh, and were
not cooked after death.
Kind old “ Mr. James,” who goes to church, is
anxious that we shall get the lobster that was
boiled alive. We will know it by its tail curled
up in agony.
THE JOYOUS COMET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A comet’s tail, over-charged with oxygen, would
send us all mad with liveliness and activity for a time.—
Vie. Government Astronomer Baracchi.
Do you hear the joyous news ?
We’ll be tight on airy' booze,
And Life will be a reckless honeymoon ;
We’ll be drunk, but not on ale,
When we strike that comet’s tail,
And we pray that dancing firework’s coming soon.
We’ll have a skinfull then
Of champagne oxygen,
Exhilarating as a Bacchic hymn ;
Nor heed our solemn teachers,
Sedate, sin-shifting preachers,
Nor prophets dour nor Worralls small and dim.
Oare quits us with a thud,
And, clad in beer-leaves, Jud
Will act the giddy goat and gay buffo n ;
All Pleasant Sunday moans
We’ll plant ’mid bones and stones,
Oh ! we pray that cheerful comet’s coming soon.
We’ll dance and sing and revel,
Casting Oare unto the devil.
We’ll forget our sleepy psalms and laugh at Fate.
This world’s colossal razzle
Begins. Lo ! See that dazzle ?
Hurrah ! the comet’s sprinting up the straight.
Can’t you see yon bucking star
(God’s beauty-bright cigar),
It’s whisking tail’s already past the moon ?
We’ll all go mad with laughter;
Who the h cares what comes after ?
And we pray that joyous comet’s coining soon,
vie.
LOUIS ESSON.
THIS ANIMAL BITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A paternal councillor of Wodonga (Vic.) is endeavoring:
to induce the municipal authorities to hang;-posters on
the walls of the township, warning: young- men to have a
care when strange females seek to allure them. Apart
from the fact that the woman whose hair is artificial
gold and whose tresses are a snare wouldn’t make bread
and cheese in Wodonga, and would have to take out the
wages of sin in pumpkins, the suggestion only shows how
little some people have learned of human nature since
Adam’s time
When Eve appeared on Adam’s run,
She raised an everlasting fuss,
Although he had a hint to shun
The animal as dangerous.
It was the hint that lured him on—
At least, so much we understand—
And Eve, ere many hours had gone,
Had Adam feeding from her hand.
So ’tis to-day with man. The cuss
Is contrary. If, to deter,
You mark a woman dangerous,
He straight will run away—with her f
Vic.
S.S.


m
16/6
A PAIR
YOU RUN ...
NO RISK ORDERING
THIS BOOT BY MAIL.
Add 9d.
for
Postage.
If you order this splendid Boot by mail
and do not like it, we will refund your
money without demur ——!
IT is made of real Box Calf, which is long wear-
-1 ing material and polishes beautifully. It is
made in a way that gives its wearer the maximum
of comfort and satisfaction in addition to style.
Write to-day for a pair, and remember our
guarantee of money back.
Please state Size when ordering and
whether Broad, Medium or Narrow Toes.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
MEN’S & BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney
“ V.L.T.” : Yesterday, while playing on
the Albert Park beach, rny youngest brother
picked up a beer bottle, tightly corked, contain-
ing a folded piece of paper, cast upon the sand
by the waves. He brought the prize home to the
mater, whose thoughts went at once to wrecked
sailors and sunken ships. She removed the cork,
and, with great care —“in case the document
would have to be sent to the police station ’’—ex-
tracted the following :
on 17/2/’O7
Stranded on Peir at Williamstown no fish and no beer to
Hell with Judkins yours &c
Henery Smith.
THE NEW PATIENT.
THE HOSPITAL NURSE : “ You have got pyjamas, I suppose ?”
PATIENT : “ Maybe, ma'am, but ’twas hydatids the doctor called it.”
The additions to the Union Bank, Pitt-
street, Sydney, have necessitated the demolition
of some very old buildings in Hunter-street.
Away in the thirties they were occupied by
Flower, Salting and Co., merchants, with which
firm J. H. Challis, the Sydney University bene-
factor, was connected. The corner was a place
of interest, however, before the Flower-Salting
era. In March, 1814, Captain Richard Brooks,
who had previously made voyages to N.S. Wales,
arrived in his brig Spring and harnessed the vessel
to Circular Quay. He sold the Spring, and pur-
chased a house and land at the corner of Pitt and
Hunter streets, the allotment now covered by the
Union. Bank and the old buildings that are being
■demolished. The Captain opened a store at the
head of Cockle Bay (now Darling Harbor) with
the cargo which he brought in his brig. He
resided for 10 years on the corner. The Union
Bank originally started at the N.E. corner of
■George and King streets, Flower, Salting and Co.
being directors. It soon moved to the point
adjacent to the stores of the firm, and has
remained there ever since.
* * * *
Evidence given last week in a Sydney
court: “ The door was open that much, and I
heard a voice. It was on the stair in its night-
dress.” 8
* * * *
Your complexion, as well as your temper
is rendered miserable by a disordered liver Bv
both 1 * Chamberlain ’ 8 Tab lets you can improve
“Kaylee” : The authorities at Adelaide
have changed the name of the street in which the
late Mr. Habibulla of Afghanistan slew his wife.
Now it isn’t Bristol-street, and no doubt the
name was altered chiefly because Fat owns most of
the house property in the district. If all the
house-occupiers in Bristol-street had owned their
premises, the name might have remained ;* but,
in any case, nothing better could have happened
than a decision to wipe Bristol-street right off the
map. No one would live there for choice.
I know one young man who lives in Angas-street,
which backs onto Bristol-street, and lie told me
that he’d got his rent reduced one-half simply by
going to his landlord and complaining in a pained
voice about the character of the neighborhood.
* » * *
Hanging runs in families. There is (or
was) a family in Albert Park, Melbourne, which
demonstrated the fact beyond argument. In
10 years seven members of this family suspended
themselves, and if strangulation no longer runs
in the family, it is because there is no more
family left to asphyxiate.
* * * *
There is not going to be much rampage in the
Vic. elections. T. Bent will not fight “ on his own ” for a
progressive land policy, but is going to open his mouth
and shut his eyes, and take what the Council will give
him. Now, if the Council would only take an extra nip of
D.C.L. Whisky, which is the spirit of human kindness as
well as wisdom, every intending settler would soon be
fairly fixed with an allotment of land. D.C.L. in politics
supplies the touch of inspiration which makes progress
a joy and altruism a possibility.*
“Shellback,”' ©n a maritime matter :
South. Coast Co.'B new steamer, Moruya, met with a
little mishap en route from Liverpool to Sydney, by
stranding'on.the Victorian coast in the vicinity of Port
Albert. Information supplied to the dailies states that
a “ general chart of the world” was in use at the time.
Whilst professionally sympathising with the skipper
in his misfortune, I suggest that a general chart of
the world is scarcely a suitable one for close coasting
navigation. Captain. Lecky in his “ Wrinkles ” (and I
doubt if a more practical navigator ever stood on a ship’s
bridge) points out that only the largest scale
charts possible to obtain should be used in
coasting navigation. He further adds the word
“Admiralty,” and that’s another point. The naval
hydrographical office has done and still is doing
invaluable work for the sailor-man. Its charts are as
absolutely correct as it is possible for human agency to
make them. The chart to which is attributed the un-
fortunate error, causing the Moruya’s stranding, is
probably (of course, I cannot say for certain) one of
the variety known as “blue-backs.” These are, as a
rule, the great stand-by of the sailing-ship master, who,
by custom, is compelled to find himself in navigating
gear. These “blue-backs” are issued by private firms,
and so far as they go are very excellent documents, in
that they give the shipmaster a lot for his money. But
they lack the official stamp of accuracy. The cause of
the stranding was the change of color in Cliffy Island
light. (The newspapers got it Seal Island ; they really
meant Deal Island, in Hogan’s Group.) If I remember
rightly. Cliffy Island light was changed from a revolving
red to revolving white light soms 18 months ago, if not
earlier. Further, I remember reading the official notice,
advertised some nine months before that. Such official
notice would, in due course, reach the Admiralty chart
office, and be incorporated on the sheet to which it refers.
Now it is just possible that Private Enterprise missed
this information, as at times it must do, since all
official sources are not open to it. Hence such change
might pass unnoticed in even the latest “blue-back”
publications. The moral is, when taking any ship between
any two ports, use only Admiralty charts and those of
the latest date, in preference to any publication of Private
Enterprise. This advice sounds like Socialism, but it is a
good thing to keep off the rocks with, anyhow.
♦ * • *
Healesville has a shire council that is the
weirdest, cussedest, most divided shire council in
Victoria, and that is saying a good deal. It is
split into two sections and a secretary. One
section thinks the secretary does his work well;
the other thinks he does not. A casting vote
separates the two, and, as a result, the secretary
is always being either sacked or reinstated. Just
at present one-half of the council maintains that
the secretary is no longer the secretary, having
been dismissed and paid off early in February.
On the other hand, the secretary is still sitting
beside the president, who, with his casting vote
and the other section of the council, says the
secretary has not been sacked. The secretary
himself says that he has not been paid off or been
sacked, and offers, when he can make himself
heard above the tumult of the council chamber,
to produce counsel’s opinion to that effect. Any-
how, no shire business has been transacted for
ever so long. As soon as the council meets, the
sight of the secretary leads one section to cry out
opprobrium at the roof and turret of its voice,
and the other section yells in reply, and every-
body shouts at once till the meeting disperses.
Last meeting screamed at the uttermost pinnacle
of its voice for about four hours, and used every
epithet known in the gardens of Billingsgate.
* * • *
Melbourne is the most tarry city on
earth, and threatens to be blacked out if the
City Council is not put under restraint. The
other day a team of horses actually stuck in the
tar in Flinders Lane, and had to be thawed out.
There is some hope that one of these days a fat
alderman well get bogged in the tar, in which
case citizens who have lost many suits as a result
of the lavish outpouring will hasten to cover his
confusion with feathers.
A fire broke out in the R.C. church at
Maryborough (Vic.) the other Sunday, and in
their terror the choir girls, who were placed aloft,
started jumping from the gallery. Fortunately,
as the newspaper scribe baldly puts it, “ their fall
was broken by some active young male members
of the congregation.” How ? Present scribe once
offered to catch an eight-stone girl jumping off a
12ft. embankment, and was subsequently taken
home on two saplings. Now on the question of
the momentum of falling bodies he knows, and if
a plump damsel offers to throw herself at him
even off the level, he exercises the utmost pre-
caution. Yet none of the active young male
members of the Maryborough church are reported
as having been crumpled up. Either the gallery
was low, or the girls were mere skeletons, or the
R.C. young men thereabouts are as powerful as
gorillas.
* * * *
The trade of Pretender has fallen away
sadly of recent years, and the world to-day hasn’t
enough Pretenders to secure registration as a
union under the Arbitration Act. Still, one has
turned up in British Columbia. She is an
almond-eyed yellow lady of Manchu origin, is
married to an Englishman, and claims to be a
direct descendant of the third Duke of Chow, or
something of the sort. This gives her a better
right to the throne of Crockery than the Dowager
Empress. The lady, according to recent reports,
is trying to float herself into a limited liability
co. to secure the capital necessary to assert her
rights. Which recalls the fact that an Australian
pressman, who was in China during the Pekin
squabble of five or six: years ago, thought out a
great scheme for seizing the Chinese throne
and making himself Emperor over 300 million
people. Want of money to acquire the necessary
throne and reigning apparatus blighted the pro-
ject, and he still struggles with his old job.
* * * *
Some notions :—
There’s many a slip ’twixt the Oup and the tip.
A rolling stone gathers no mildew.
Never throw down your cards—a scror g bluff often
beats a full hand.
Be kind to the fool. Without him you mightn’t get a
living.
Every mite looks upon his cheese as the world.
It is not necessary to use a muck-rate to cultivate the
mind.
Honesty is the best policy to impress on your friends.
The hen is mightier than her lord.
Men are gregarious animals; if you want to make
enemies try to get out of the ruck.
Patience sits upon monuments ; men lie upon them.
Luck is the thing that sticks to the other fellow.
Death reaps with the cookery book.
N UI.LA.
From a paper printed for the instruction
of English boys :
It is interesting to note that Australian mail carriers are
garbed in pale green uniforms with a red girdle about
the waist. The mounted carriers wear long green coats,
high riding boots, and strapped to the saddle is a brace
of pistols for protection, and a bugle with which to
inform the patrons of the carrier’s arrival. The mounted
carriersare usually accompanied by several fierce-looking
dogs, as a still further means of protecting the postmen
and the mails they carry.
But it would have been still more interesting if
little John Bull-pup had been told about the
Australian telegraph messengers—how, dressed
in alligator’s feathers, they fly through the
country mounted on specially-trained turtles, and
often deliver a message within a week. Perhaps,
however, the most interesting thing of all about
the Australian Postal Department is the school
where they train kangaroos for the parcel-post
delivery. For many years the pouch of the kan-
garoo was one of the great wasted natural resources
';of the country, until at length the Governor-
General offered a prize of two dozen wombat
skins for the best suggestion to utilise this curious
provision of kangaroo nature. The prize was
awarded to a bright boy from Manly, who sug-
gested that kangaroos should be trained to serve
as parcel-post carriers. The suggestion was in-
stantly adopted, and the Little Boy from Manly
thus became so famous that his picture is printed
nearly every week in the newspapers.
* » « *
Agricultural Show committees are wearing
a worried look over the provisions of the N.S.W.
Gaming Act. With trotting events, where Style
and other things are taken into consideration" as
well as speed, it is thought taat the Act won’t
interfere ; but the purely record-breaking events
have been pronounced illegal. At Bathurst they
have a £lOO prize always on the programme
for the breaker of the Australian record—
Almont’s 2.121-5 at Ascot (Vic.) in 1903—but
at present it looks doubtful whether the event
will be risked. Parliament, however, is noto-
riously kind to the producer of the prize pig and
the bloated pumpkin, and already several politi-
cians, who barracked hard for the Gaming Act,
have been explaining that they didn’t know it
was loaded ; so, presumably, the local trotters
will raise the dust as usual.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
OUR GALLANT DEFENDERS.
An Australian Barrack-Room Ballad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Six naval and military bands took part in the display.
About 180 performers played and marched together with
admirable precision. The performance was held in the
oval, and was witnessed by thousands of spectators.
After the band performances there was a brilliant dis-
play of fireworks in the arena.— News Item.
“In time of peace prepare for war,” my father used
to say—
He’d writ it in his copy-book in England, far away ;
And Dad would often skite to us, when he’d had several
beers,
About the way he’d fought for us when in the Volun-
teers.
And we listened enthralled,
And Fame to us called ;
We were fired by his patriot story !
And we said that same day
We would follow the way
That had led him to milit’ry glory !
When Bill grew up, his martial soul no longer could with
stand
The call (the papers called it) to defend his native land.
He had an eye for elegance, had Bill, and so he chose
The band that wore the strikingest and beautifullest
clo’es.
On the ophicleid, Bill
Keeps Australia safe still.
And he plays like a Triton or Merman,
In that glorious band
They blow hard for their land,
And despise both the Jap and the German.
At eighteen years of age I felt that wild, resistless thrill
To rally round the bandmaster—the same as brother Bill.
I knew my country needed me. I felt contempt for
Death.
I said, “ Upon her altar I will lay my last, long breath 1 ”
Ah ! how I was lauded !
How mother applauded!
How all the girls crowded to kiss me !
And now with the cornet
I face Death—and scorn it,
Though I know that 1113' country would miss me.
When rumors of a trouble coming somewhere from the
North
Excite dismay, we bandsmen brave march jubilantly
forth.
So well we play and look so gay when tramping down the
street
That folk take heart again and say, “ By God ! they can’t
be beat! ”
Why bother with rifles,
And other such trifles ?
Why worry for warships or navies ?
Australia’s main stay
Are the men who can play,
And fellows who know what a stave is !
Vic.
O. O. CABOT.
Who WILL get the CLOES
(&sV)ey crqe <A\ed clones oJcre cut u\j a njotj^Yofyer
I • \«y a VicV.Sa«jaVorwn2.)
ind life fejf,
Sind future
® h a a J
BLnd a erfeid^ are croWchV? roorrd cjer
'\ffaitm’avixiouslill^er
Xben tier knoos ll a\\ 4aff <\cratob\n
n ll x oJ> rr^>
amo &3 \ c\oe^.
ner
s\\\)V\y’ rownt f i)e
one ai/oftyer
f 7
ILn atneir \\ he
first wnose
Seart\iem w\f\rj\xj
If earin' cloek.
jdS&S*. cZb*
‘B)ep \j car era
bjjd bediiplo frte e^e
irne cusyi
j^er \o^ iioare
a Qaid 'em
Whenbirm \ogT
Her rr?n blessed box kembta
Sind cloeg^


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’B Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English She-p D r o. Pearn’s English Piimns r„oi
SSfiPS?.". * S?ns’ Engirsi, M i.ls_ 1 1 grind everitLg.Steel I Ralls.
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
W:
ROBEY’S
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith and Go., Ltd., an inter-State
ship-owning co. which began six years ago with a good-
will item of £40,000: —
Dividends Depreciation
(5 p.c. pref., Written
Dec., Profit. 10 p.c. ord.). Off. Deficit.
1901 .. £57,734 £18,782 £20,668 £21,716
1902 .. 50,435 28,864 19,626 19,771
1903 .. 51,443 29,133 19,536 16,997
1904 .. 52,418 29,721 20,466 14,766
Reserves.
ions / 57,348 30,334 22,436 \ 1(!QQ »
w \ Profit on wharf resumption £27,181 / ’
1906 .. 67,488 30,792 25,728 17,961
That’s how it looks for the year, following the profit and
loss account. But during the last couple of years the
form of the balance-sheet has been somewhat altered
(apparently there was an idea that the public might go
into the co. a bit more freely if it knew more about it),
and in 1905 for the first time the liabilities were divided
up, and this item appeared—“ Fund for depreciation of
steamers and plant, replacements, renewals, insurance,
and contingencies, £219,731.” This year the item has
grown to £275,419, an increase of £55,688 ; so that the
£25,728 shown above, and provided for depreciation in
profit and loss account, amounts apparently to less than
half the actual provision made. What may be called the
cash position can be followed like this: —After paying
£30,663 during 1906 the assets increased by £131,416,
made up as follows: —Capital, £2663 ; increased debts
and overdraft, £71,969: profit (including provision for
depreciation and insurance reserve), £56,784. So (add-
ing the dividends paid during the year on to the
last item) the revenue in excess of working ex-
penses comes out at £87,447 for the year. What is a
fair thing for depreciation everybody has the right to
say for himself. Steamers and plant are in at £534,211
(against £413,457 in 1905); 5 per cent, a year would
call for £26,710, and, as shown above, there was
£56,784 available for this and insurance, &c. Assets also
include “ shares in other cos., £142,265,” against £64,039
in 1905. In the latter year the cos. in which the stocks
were held were at least named—coal and wharf cos.
mostly—but this year the £142,265 is represented by the
bald, unadorned line quoted above. So a sixth of all the
assets are a pig in a bag. The total paid capital is now
£410,894, of which £202,823 is 5 per cent, cumulative pre-
ference ; and a cumulative preference dividend that runs
to £10,145, and might run to more if all the pref. capital
were called up, is something for the others to think over,
even though at present the profits are so much in excess
of dividend requirements.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd., another
of the companies to which the N.S. Wales Parliament
gave concessions for doing things which it should have
done itself (the table starts from the issue of 13,500 new
shares at a total premium of £3379): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £14,116 15 p.c. = £15,000 £26,457
Dec., 1901.. 10,250 10 „ „ 10,000 £250 26,707
June, 1902.. 11,386 10 „ „ 10,000 1,386 28,093
Dec., 1902.. 13,200 10 „,, 10,000 3,200 31,293
June, 1903.. 12,893 10 „ „ 10,000 2,893 34,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,421 5 „ „ 5,000 —• 30,607
June, 1904.. 9,456 5 „,, 5,000 4,456 35,063
Dec., 1904.. 12,080 10 „ „ 10,000 2,080 37,143
June, 1905.. 15,622 10 „ „ 10,000 5,622 42,765
Dec., 1905.. 16,197 10 „ „ 10,000 6,197 48,962
June, 1906.. 21,579 10 ~ ~ 10,000 11,579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., 1906.. 21,796 10 „,, 10,000 11,796 72,337
This co., whose rights extend for only 28 years, 16i of
which have expired, has for some time been building up
a reserve, nominally for contingencies, really for the
return of capital; and a total of £53,500 having been
reached in June last, it was then decided to repay ss. per
share (£50,000). This payment was made in October,
after the last of the half-year’s dividends was declared,
so that up to the present the 10 per cent, dividend rate
is unaltered. There now remain of more or less liquid
assets that will not have to be handed over in 11J years
£55,505 in excess of liabilities—say £50,000, allowing for
certain assets that are not very liquid. The capital is
now £150,000. This means tbat£loo,ooo must be earned
in 11£ years plus interest. To wipe out that debt a sink-
ing fund of £10,500 a year, invested at 4 per cent., must
be provided. Six per cent, interest on the principal calls
for £9OOO a year ; total interest and sinking fund £19,500,
or £9750 a half-year. To get 8 per cent, and sinking fund
a profit of £11,250 per half-year would be needed. Look-
ing at the history of the co., that seems easy. Certainly
£50,000 worth of securities having now been sold, the
revenue will, for a time, shrink a little. To make up for
that, however, the co. is now collecting the maximum ss.
per 1000 gallons for water used by the mines, the mines
having lately got a Bill through, authorising them and
the Council to form a Trust to bring in a supply of their
own. This independent mine supply will seriously affect
this co.’s revenue. It will probably cut it down nearly
one-half, for the mines have taken three-fourths of the
entire consumption. Means may no doubt be adopted to
encourage Broken Hill to use more water ; but if it does,
it will want it for a good deal less money. Meantime,
while it has the supply in its own hands, the co. will put
a bit up its sleeve to provide for the knocks that are
always liable to fall on a mining town.
* » » *
The Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Re- not
duction reckoned
Dec., Profits. Dividends, of Deficit, an asset).
1897 .. £3,550 Nil £3,550 £407,752
1898 .. 5,647 Nil 5,647 402,105
1899 .. 15,524 Nil 15,524 386,581
1900 .. 15,533 Nil 15,533 371,048
1901 .. 26,712 Nil 26,712 344,336
1902 .. 21,443 Nil 21,443 322,893
1903 .. 11,024 3 p.c. = £837 10,187 312,706
(£4OOO added to goodwill.)
1904 .. 17,788 3 p.c.= 956 16,832 299,874
1905 .. 4,911 3 „ „ 1183 3,728 296,146
1906 .. 7,612 3 „ „ 1183 6,429 289,717
The net profit for the year was £10,724 ; but under the
Victorian Licensing Act of 1906 a fund has to be created
to compensate owners and licensees of hotels closed and
to be closed under the Act. This fund is raised by charg-
ing the licensee 3 per cent, on the dutiable liquor
which he purchases; and two-thirds of the total
the licensee deducts from the rent. This co. therefore,
for this year, puts aside £3112 as its contribution, as
owner, to the fund. Further, the directors sav—“ The
tax prejudicially affects the value of hotel freeholds, and
provision has to be made towards this depreciation. The
directors have decided to set aside £3680 for this pur-
pose.” No doubt it is the brewing co.’s correct policy’ to
squeal; and this is an effective way 7 of doing it. The
fact, however, is that the pub that is shut up will be
compensated in money, and the pub that isn’t shut
up will get a return for the money it contributes
to the compensation fund by the extra trade it
will do. If six pubs out of 12 are closed, the six
that are left open will certainly be worth more.
That’s why they have to contribute to the fund!
But this co. not only charges against profits the
amount of the contribution to the fund (which is reason-
able enough—the only other way would be to write up
hotel properties), but it writes down hotel properties.
Of course, in this case it really doesn’t matter two
straws. Every penny that the co. earns after paying
dividend is needed to write down inflated values ; and at
the present rate it can go on for a generation pouring
surplus profits into the hole without filling it up. The
co. can make a song about providing £3680 for deprecia-
tion if it likes ; but it would have to provide just as much
if it didn’t make any song. With a shareholders’
capital written down to £40,287, goodwill still stands
in the books at £154,000 ; and, apart from goodwill,
there is a deficit of £135,711. If, as the directors assert,
the Licensing Act has further depreciated values, then
there is a still bigger deficit; and the 3 per cent, divi-
dend on capital that is more utterly lost than it was be-
fore, is more superfluous than ever. The present debts
amount to £743,399, including £544,631 of mortgage de-
bentures, which are being reduced by the amount of
half the profits annually. An item, which may possibly
be a reserve, appears in the balance-sheet, “ Freehold
property realisation account, £1376.” Possibly this
ought to be deducted from the deficit shown above ; but
its real nature is not yet apparent. It may be a profit
made over book values on the sale of a property affected
by the Licensing Act of 1906—that Act which the direct-
ors say knocks out hotel values. But that can’t be said
for certain.
* * * *
The Industrial and Provident Permanent
Benefit Building and Investment Society (Sydney)—
what a long tail our cat has got!: —
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1897 .. £5148 6 per cent. =£5519 £8,395
1898 .. 3457 6 „ „ 4248 7,604
1899 .. 3627 6 „ „ 3857 7,374
1900 .. 4271 6 „ „ 3695 £576 7,950
1901 .. 3211 6 „ „ 3400 7,761
1902 .. 2994 6 „ „ 2975 19 7,780
1903 .. 4447 6 „ „ 2800 1647 9,427
1904 .. 3104 6 „ „ 2743 361 9,788
1905 .. 2961 6 „ „ 2628 333 10,121
1906 .. 3080 6 „ „ 2628 452 10,573
The share capital, which stood at £113,525 in 1895, and
at £60,065 in 1900, has been reduced now to £43,800.
The deposits are, however, steadily mounting up ; down
to £4344 in 1900, they have now reached £25,429,
an increase of £14,155 in the past 12 months; but
an overdraft of £5153 has been wiped out.
Except for the society’s building (£7500) and
£2529 in cash, all the capital, reserves, and deposits are
represented by mortgages (£71,354). The latter have
increased by £BO6B in the year. On the mean of the
advances, interest earnings were at the rate of £7 11s. 9d.
per cent., and expenses (apart from interest) were £2 2s.
Bd. per cent. ; leaving £5 9s. Id. per cent, for interest,
profit, and contingencies. The reserves are now suffi-
cient to protect deposits and capital against a slump in
advances and property equal to 2s. Bd. in the £, while
capital and reserves combined protect the depositor
against a slump of about 12s. in the £ ; so the depositor’s
position is comfortable enough. The reserves to protect
capital are, however, none too substantial in view of the
recent rapid growth of advances, which mean risks. A
very great deal depends, of course, upon the margin
required between values and advances in the first place ;
and, as to that, all that can be said is that an average
interest return of £7 11s. 9d. per cent, doesn’t suggest
many “stiff” securities, while the co.’s record for the
past 15 years at least has been very satisfactory.
* * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1902 £2083 3J p.c. = £1875 £2OB £7812
£12,500 capital written off.
July, 1902 2583 6 p.c. = 2500 £5054 2841
Jan., 1903 3214 5 „ „ 2500 147 567 3408
July, 1903 2584 5 „ „ 2500 84 3492
Jan., 1904 2604 5 „ „ 2500 104 3596
Aug., 1904 2513 4 2-7„ „ 2500 300 3309
Feb., 1905 245 2£ „ „ 1250 2304
Aug., 1905 1639 3* „ „ 1666 2277
Jan., 1906 2736 6 „ „ 2500 236 2513
July, 1906 3577 5 „ „ 2500 1077 3590
Jan., 1907 3956 5 ~ „ 2500 1456 5046
With which read this :
July, 1902. July, 1906. Jan., 1907.
Mortgage loan .. £69,500 £67,500 £67,000
Other debts .. 15,761 19,307 21,982
Real estate, etc. .. 110,000 113,981 114,000
Stock .. .. 59,736 58,120 61,634
Book debts.. .. 20,616 20,795 20,894
Gross profit ’.. 16,298 17,302 18,572
Trade expenses .. 11,936 11,648 12,540
Five years ago it was announced that the heavy debt was
to be steadily reduced, and the firstcolumn above shows,
among other things, how the matter stood after capital
w 7 as written off and the freeholds written down to
correspond. Since then frequent mention has been
made of the repayment of the mortgage loan; but
while in four and a-half years that liability has been
reduced by £2500, other debts have increased by
£6221, mostly, it is true, on account of goods in
transit. The real estate, etc., shown above includes furni-
ture, fittings, etc. Presumably something is being
written off these ; yet they stand in the books at £2600
more than they did in 1902. In a concern where mer-
chandise stock, mostly of a perishable character, repre-
sents £61,634, the shareholders must depend very much
on the management ; and a miscalculation to the extent
of thousands isn’t impossible. A statement showing the
depreciation allowed for would be some help, perhaps ;
certainly, in the absence of it, the reserves in such a con-
cern can’t be relied upon absolutely. And, of course, if the
reserves are open to some doubt, so are the profits as set
out above.
- * * *
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Build-
ing Society (Launceston, Tas.):—
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1899 .. £lBO2 7 p.c. = £1347 £455 £14,051
1900.. 1782 7 „ „ 1335 447 14,498
1901 .. 1595 7 „ „ 1462 133 14,631
1902 .. 1745 7 „ „ 1633 112 14,743
1903.. 1733 7 „ „ 1613 120 14,863
1904 .. 1612 7 „ „ 1501 111 34,974
1905 .. 1453 7 „ „ 1341 £2236 12,850
1906.. 1122 7 „ „ 972 150 13,000
The rate of dividend is stated approximately. For some
years past the share capital has been dwindling, and the
deposits have lately been again increasing. The following
shows the movement in that and some other respects
1900 1904 1905 1906
Share capital .. £20,871 £20,568 £17,323 £12,041
Deposits .. .. 47,643 17,708 15,354 20,563
Other debts ... 216 550 Nil 444
Mortgages, etc. .. 82,537 52,567 43,958 45,753
Cash, etc 718 1,132 1,469 196
Expenses .. .. 1,181 1,005 1,016 896
Like most Tasmanian institutions, this society is suffer-
ing from dry rot; its mortgages have shrunk' by nearly
one-half in six years. Under present political conditions
it seems that Tasmania has less need for a building than
a burying society. Emigration from the island keeps
steadily in excess of immigration. As the young men
grow up they quit, and some other State gets the build-
ing of their homes. Between 1892 and 1901 it lost
5091 more people than it received, and in the four
years to the end of 1905 it lost another 6145.
This society, in the face of the shrinkage of share capital,
tries to make itself believe that it has the confidence
of the public. No doubt it has, so far as the Tasmanian
public can have confidence in anything Tasmanian ; but
observe that, instead of fixing £5OOO or so into shares,
the public has taken that amount out of shares and put
it on deposit. The deposit is, comparatively, a temporary
affair ; moreover, it has the security of the shareholders’
capital behind it. It thus looks as though the Tasma-
nian public isn’t satisfied now with the security of a
depreciating Tasmanian mortgage alone. In 1905 the
society had to write off £2236 from its foreclosed secu-
rities : and that was significant. It reduced the reserves
lower than they had been for years ; in other words, it
proved that for some years past, after allowing for depre-
ciation, the dividend had not been earned, and on pre-
sent appearances it looks as though it will have to be
reduced. And that will be merely 7 another pa tof the
price Tasmania must pay for its political misdeeds and
for its political apathy, which is almost worse than
misdeeds.
* * * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney)
Pastor-
Loss alists’ Writ- Added
on Busi- Sudsidy ten to Re- Re-
ness. Received. Off. serves. serves.
Dec., 1901 £3544 £4749 £1205 £63,810
Profit.
June, 1902 280 4827 - 5107 68,917
Loss.
Dec., 1902 3732 3222 £5OOO 63,407
June, 1903 4366 3718 5000 57,759
Dec., 1903 9494 5581 53,846
June, 1904 7824 4028 50,050
Dec., 1904 4367 4549 182 50,232
June, 1905 6315 3019 47,536
Dec., 1905 4390 4529 139 47,675
June, 1906 4229 4401 172 47,847
Dec., 1906 4949 5663 714 48 561
This co., consisting of men with meat to sell, has an
agent at every fat stock sale in Sydney, and his business
is to see that the other buyers don’t get any bargains.
The other buyers have to bid above him, and what he bids
he doesn’t in most cases have to pay 7, because of the special
rebate allowed on his purchases; as shown above, last
half-year’s rebate, or bonus, ran to £5663. The co, pays
no dividends ; shareholders get their profit through, in
this way, compelling the public to pay more for their
meat than they would often otherwise do. Occasionally
the public seems inclined to kick ; and the people who
run other meat works, and who have to crowd through
without any subsidy, also, at odd times, pass remarks.
But the co. has been going on much in the same way for
30 years, and it has got case-hardened now. Naturally 7,
as the supply of stock has increased, it has had to pur-
chase more heavily in order to keep the market up to
what the stock-owners reckon a proper level; so that,
whereas in the latter half of 1904 it bought only £48,496
of live and slaughtered meat, its purchases in the past
six months reached £113,883.
The Assets Realisation and General
Finance Co. (Sydney):—
Loss Written Loss Recovered Total
on Off on from Debt Net Visible
Busi- Pro- Property Written Visible De-
Dec., ness, perties. Sales. Off. Loss. licit.
1897 £l3lB £844 £2162 £67,470
1898 1293 521 1814 69,284
1899 1089 294 £6949 8332 77,616
1900 808 490 1298 78,914
1901 242 442 3670 ' 4354 83,268
1902 631 539 1170 84,438
1903 532 904 £784 652 85,090
1904 1230 334 1588 3152 88,242
19Q5 744 620 106 1470 89,712
1906 764 521 1285 90,997
This mournful co., which was born in the perilous days
of 1887* and hadn’t cut its wisdom teeth when the boom
took it on the rocks, caught its last fleeting glimpse of a
dividend in the middle of 1892. By the end of that year it
found itself with a paid capital of £25,000 (of which
£14,528 was already regarded as lost), and total liabilities
of £152,651. The unfortunate shareholders have been
well drained since those days ; the paid capital is now
£151,317, less £22,024 of unpaid calls (“ of which about
£21,500 is bad”). The total liabilities are £19,015.
Against that are advances, properties, &c., which last
year brought in £1169 gross, worth about £26,000 if
capitalised at 4J per cent. But they may be worth much
more ;it depends upon the kind of assets they are. An
empty suburban block, worth £lOOO, doesn’t bring in
decimal 07 per cent. On the other hand, the liabilities
have been reduced during tlie year by nearly £3OOO
“ from the proceeds of realisations,” and no loss on
realisations is shown ; so there are assets, it seems, now
written down to market value. Still it is about time
there w 7 as a cleaning up. On a re-valuation shareholders
w r ould know for certain if there was a penny to come
back to them; if not, then depositors and mortgagees
might just as well face the situation and get the un-
pleasant corpse out of the way. It is such a small corpse,
anyhow, to cost over £BOO a year to keep above ground.
TheKootscray Gas Co. (Vic.), which is this
month offering present shareholders a new issue of shares
in the proportion of one to five now held :
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1903 .. £8528
1904 .. £2055 6 p.c. =£1440 £539 £76 8604
1905 .. 2341 6 „ „ 1440 512 389 8993
1906 .. 2816 7 „ „ 1680 608 528 9521
For the past half-year a 7 per cent, dividend has been
declared. The reserves consist of—Meter renewal fund,
£lOOO ; wear and tear reserve, £647 ; reserve for repay-
ment of deposits, £4OO ; depreciation, £6458; and
undivided profit, £lOl6. The amounts shown above as
written off are probably amounts spent on repairs and
renewals ; there is no charge otherwise on that account.
That, being so, the depreciation fund is not the best
sort of a reserve, if it is a reserve at all; for a patched
plant isn’t as good as new, so the depreciation is
in whole or part a set-off against actual and not future
depreciation. Reserve fund (just created) for the repay-
ment of deposits is a new idea, and not a bad one. The
deposits amount to only £l5OO ; but they and all the
reserves, as well as the capital, are sunk in plant, &c., and
the best way to repay them is out of revenue, and then
write down assets to correspond. But if this reserve
goes into plant like the rest (and it has, so far), how is it
going to pay off the deposits—unless the depositors take
it out in gas-pipe? Which isn’t likely. On the whole,
seeing that all the works, buildings, &c., are still in the
books at cost (£31,624), it looks as though the real profits
have been fully disbursed, and that the amount put to
reserves no more than covers depreciation, including
meter depreciation, for nothing has been written off
meter renewal reserve for some years.
* * * *
The Farmers and Dairymen’s Milk Co. (N.S.
Wales): —
Unex-
plained
Addi- Total
tions Added
Trading to Re- to Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves, serves.
1900 .. £667 . Nil £516 £llB3 £4,237
1901 .. 874 Nil 656 1530 5,767
1902 .. 396 Nil 800 1196 6,963
1903.. 1038 10 p.c. = £163 403 1278 8,241
1904 .. 1025 10 „ „ 146 612 1491 9,732
Taken
from
Reserves.
1905 .. 312 10 „ „ 145 90 77 9,809
Added to
Reserves.
1906 .. 727 10 „ „ 142 897 1482 11,291
There is a formal reserve of £47lB—the auditors refer to it
as “ various reserves.” It moves up and down without
explanation, and its real character is not disclosed. It
may be only a reserve against wear and tear, &e. Some-
thing is alleged to be written off for depreciation ; what
that is isn’t disclosed either. In spite of the 10 per cent,
div., capital continues to be forfeited, and the circum-
stance calls for more explanation than the inadequate
published accounts afford. It may be on account of a
heavy liability on shares, but even that isn’t discoverable
from the balance-sheet.
* * * *
Beg a Co-operative Creamery Co. (N.S.W.):—
Divs. Suppliers’ Written Re-
June, Profits. (5 p.c.). Bonus. off. serves.
1903 .. £934 £177 £319 £302 £BB6
1904 .. 1381 179 290 1798
1905 .. 383 179 694 267 1041
1906 .. 803 179 277 242 1146
Dec.,
1906 .. 732 112 1766
Of the reserves (and the profits) £357 represents id. per
lb. of the butter made for local sale during the last three
months and held as a guarantee fund against loss on the
butter exported, and another £l4 has dropped from
somewhere into the same fund. The more of the butter
that is exported the better for the man who makes for
the local market; so the local supplier has to pay id. per
lb. to guarantee the exporter against loss. There is
another way of looking at it: the local consumer pays an
extra id. per lb. to guaran tee the success of a scheme whose
result is to make his butter dear. Still, until Australia
can eat all its own butter (and it won’t be able to do that
until it has a much bigger manufacturing population),
it will have to export some; and this scheme seems a
very fair and sensible one for the butter-makers to fix up
among; themselves. Meantime, of course, until account
sales are received, this special reserve is not of a fixed
character. The depreciation allowed for and shown in
the table is at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum on
■buildings, plant and machinery.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Aus-
tralia’s greatest metal producer
Ore, Silver, Lead, Gross Divi.
tons. oz. tons. Profit. dends.
Nov., 1900..293,451 2,780,937 21,855 £167,795 £120,000
May, 1901..296,389 3,009,164 27,869 102,505 120,000
Nov., 1901..305, 628 2,683,946 30,457 56,293 48,000
May, 1902.. 308,878 2,554,169 32,289 68,236 48,000
Nov., 1902..334,709 2,798,020 33,522 73,459 48,000
May, 1903..289,263 2,419,367 32,029 77,963 48,000
Nov., 1903..283,282 2,462,776 30,808 91,999 48,000
May, 1904..305,512 2,525,576 34,280 126,874 120,000
Nov., 1904.. 324,535 2,564,342 35,552 158,274 96,000
May, 1905..297,827 2,705,929 34,747 170,149 144,000
Nov., 1905..309,971 2,896,585 34,479 227,300 144,000
May, 1906..229,247 2,202,364 27,865 253,473 192,000
Nov., 1906..293,271 2,413,066 29,383 345,622 240,000
From the gross or workingprofit £31,336 was last half-year
written off for depreciation. The grade of ore treated was
apparently rather lower than usual during the six months;
the recovery works out at 8‘240z. silver per ton, and 10 - 02
p.c. lead. In the previous half-year, when work was much
interfered with by the fire underground, the output was
at the rate of 9'610z. silver and 12T6per cent, lead; but
that was altogether beyond the average. Anyhow, the
profit per ton made in that previous half-year was clearly
not a reliable guide to the future ; the past half-year’s
figures are much nearer normal. Several Bull papers
have, however, published estimates of the value of the
mine based on the figures issued six months ago. They
had better recall them promptly and sub titute some
others.
* * » „
Boulder No. 1, Kalgoorlie, is still more or less
under a cloud, although tributes continue to get very
good returns from the 200 ft. level, and manage to keep a
5-head mill going. The lode they are on may turn out
to be a branch of the Perseverance, or Morty, lode, which
is being worked in the South Kalgurli and Hainault.
Returns run from 30dwt. to 40dwt. per ton, including
gold won from tailings and concentrates ; but the lode
is much further east than anything being worked fron
the Hamilton shaft in the Great Boulder.
* * * *
Boulder Deep Levels, Kalgoorlie, which has
been hung up for some months, is to be re-sampled on
behalf of some of the biggest holders. The outlook is not
very hopeful, but still there is a chance. All one can
say is, that the 1100 ft. level showed the best results,
though it never justified the wild gamble that the sensa-
tional assays inaugurated.
* * * «
Cumberland, Norseman (W. A.), has been again
in the public eye. For years the co. was a disastrous
failure ; but in 1905 it paid three divs. of 6d. each, or
£6OOO, and repeated the dose in 1906. On August 81,19C6,
the co. had a cash reserve of £4200, and since then has
made profits of £3400, and paid divs. of £2OOO. It has,
therefore —or ought to have —somewhere about £5600 in
hand. In addition, on September 30, it had ore reserves
estimated at 10,200 tons, worth 85s. per ton ; and, apart
from fresh developments, it should have fully 6500 tons
in sight, or nine months’ supply. In view of the fact that
the Coolgardie-Norseman railway is to be started within
a month, the possibilities of the Cumberland should not
be lost sight of.
* * * *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), has started its 10-
head. mill, and Manager Henderson is confident that
revenue will meet expenditure. The opening up of the
350 ft. level is awaited with expectancy if not with
anxiety, as, should it prove equal to the two levels above,
the future of the co. is assured. Each 100 ft. is estimated
to give 20,000 tons of ore, and if this maintains its value
of 60s. per ton, the position of the co. is all right.
« * « »
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), does not
improve its position. On October 15 ore reserves were
estimated at 13,900 tons, worth 635. 9d., and as at
January 31 they are given as 9790 tons only, of the same
value. In the interval 3000 tons have been treated, so
that something is wrong somewhere. The position of the
mine is very precarious, as the crosscourse, which cut off
the reef to the south, has flattened out so much going
north that it is probable it will cut the reef off altogether.
» * * *
Great Ophir, Davyliurst (W.A.), has had to
pause in the erection of its plant for want of funds. This
is a pity, as the prospects of the property were hopeful;
but, unfortunately, the promoters of the show, Mandel-
stam, Trott and Rodway, “ bit off more than they could
chew ” when they floated the North End, Rothschild and
Ophir, all of which are at a standstill. The Ophir is esti-
mated to have 40,000 tons of 365. ore in sight, and looks
good enough, but has been hampered from the start by
weak finance.
■» * * *
Augusta, Laverton (W. A.), once run by Menzies’
Golden Rhine, is now held in 14 shares, some of which
have recently changed hands at a shade over £2OOO.
Between 1897 and 1903 the co. treated 15,500 tons for
11,0000 z., and then, on a report by “Boulder” Hamilton,
which probably didn’t justify that course, the property
was abandoned. It was acquired by a local syndicate,
which soon opened up a good supply of high grade ore,
and began to coin money. Manager Bower reckons that
there are 18,700 tons of ore in sight, worth 955. per ton, and
enthusiasts say that it is one of the best mines outback.
Anyhow, it is in a pretty strong position.
» * * *
Whitford’s Reward (W.A.) has a fairly good
chance of coming out on top in its new venture, the
Callion, near Davyhurst. This mine was long worked by
a Bull co., but was abandoned as exhausted on the peter-
ing out of the first lens of ore. Subsequent development
suggests the existence of a series of long lenses of
various depths, the beginning of each lens lying on the
top of its neighbor’s tail. The new main shaft, destined
to go to 200 ft., is down over 100 ft., and should reach the
required depth next month. The new lens now being
opened up from No. 3 shaft maintains its width and
value of about 60s. per ton, and prospects are pretty
hopeful.
* • • «
Gwalia Consols, Wiluna (W.A.), looks like
making a name for itself. It has so far been equipped
with a 10-head mill, and up to date has treated 56,000
tons for £60,000. So far there has not been much profit,
as work has been on too limited a scale ; but an extra 20-
head is now going in, and when it starts to hammeritis
expected that 6000 tons will be treated monthly, at a
profit of at least £15,000. There is a big lode on the
leases ; it is estimated that there are 117,000 tons of 30s.
per ton ore developed above the 100 ft. level. According
to all tests, t his is one of the most striking properties in
the West, and, if properly handled, will be easily in the
front rank. The management hitherto h .sn’t helped it.
• IT * *
Phillips River (W.A.) has made its first ship-
ment of 25 tons of copper matte, valued at £l3OO,
or about £52 per ton. This co. is controlled by G. 0.
Klug, formerly of the Fremantle Smelter and Boulder
Perseverance, one of the best metallurgists of the -State.
Regular shipments of copper may be looked for in the
future from the group of mines under Klug’s super-
vision, and the current high price should leave a very
good margin.
* * * *
Oroya Black Range (W.A.) is worth watching.
The contract for erecting a 20-head mill and 8-drill
compressor has been let, and the mine should come on
the list of producers in the next three months or so. Ore
reserves are estimated at fully 40,000 tons, worth 70s. a
ton, on which there should be a fair margin of profit. The
fly in the ointment is the life of the mine. The Sand-
stone Development Co. reckons that, it has the com-
paratively shallow “ deep levels,” and if this prove to be
the case, the latter is the best holding. Shafts are now
being sunk to prove this, and a very 7 short time should
settle the question. r
Concerning the West Kimberley mineral coun-
try, mentioned in B. 28/2/’O6, G. J. Poulton, F.R.G.S.,
writes:—On April 26, 1906, under agreement with the
Narlarla Hills Co., of Adelaide, I visited the West Kim-
berley deposits, originally discovered by me in 1901. I
was accompanied this trip by J. H. Grant, the co. s
representative, whose instructions were to test samples
on the ground. Mr. Grant sent in a very favorable
report, with recommendations, which, hoyvever, were
not followed by the directorate. On May 2 and 3
showed Grant the copper-bearing country at Mon-
dooma, where he pegged off two leases for our co.
I parted from him at the Robinson River on May 3,


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by VV. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * ■* «■ .
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
• » * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has onlv one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2Jin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [<-']
The “Insurance India” (London) in its Sep-
tember, 1906, issue writes “We have to congratulate
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society on a re-
markably excellent report for, the year ending 31st
December, 1905. From a new business point of view, the
year was the most successful that the Society has ex-
perienced for a long time, the new policies issued
numbering 3687 and assuring £922,401.”*
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
COBAR. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* • it *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbero and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* # *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
■coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
'New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
■and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* • # i
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
■Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
*** * ,
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
■England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
■and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
■opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where,fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
■ Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
■on order. Australian Office—Hayiuarket, Sydney,*
* * * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
■do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
■Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
. * * »
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
and proceeded north on a flying trip into uncharted
country. On Mnj f 13 I discovered a fissure lode
about 40 miles from Mondooma and 70 miles from
Narlarla, and much nearer the coast than either place.
This quartz lode proved to be about 1£ mile long, and I
found two shoots of copper. I took samples into Derby;
some of the specimens assayed 60 per cent, copper. I did
not, however, mark off the ground, wishing first to ascer-
tain by work more of its value. Grant and I visited the
place shortly afterwards, and he at once pegged two
leases for the Narlarla Co. On June 30 I discovered,
about two miles from the last-named place, an immense
copper lode, traceable for miles. We here marked off
live leases, and the ground is now held by the
Obagooma Syndicate of Adelaide. This mine, judging
from surface indications, has big possibilities.
Of course I am aware of the many adverse reports pub-
lished respecting these properties, and the West Kim-
berley mineral belt generally ; but I care nothing for
“expert” opinion given on surface undeveloped shows.
I rely upon the miner’s pick. Some bad errors have been
published in Perth over the name of Mr. Woodward,
Government Assistant Geologist. He says the Narlarla
deposits were opened and worked by R. B. Pettigrew years
back, but were condemned and shut down. I contradict
that absolutely, Pettigrew' was never in the district,
and consequently never saw the mine ; moreover, no
person at all had ever put a pick in the ground
Grant and 1 did so on April 20th last. I know of other
large deposits of mineral that, on being tested, may prove
to be as valuable as those belonging to the Obagooma and
Kimberley cos.
•* * * *
Some private shows on the Murchison (W.A.)
are turning out well in a little way. At Mindoolah,
50 miles N. W. of Cue, Bertram and party have crushed
153 tons for 5530 z., with another lOOoz. expected from
the sands. But the stone had to be carted all the way to
Cue ; so it is only the rich stone that gets to the mill.
The property is under option to a co. Reef is of the
string-of-sausages variety, pinching in from sft. to sin.
At Tuckanara, Judy’s Gift crushed 71 tons for 3600 z.;
and from 173 tons the Union Jack got nearly 900 oz.
From another show in the same locality a small party
of working miners split up 3550 z. from 120 tons. The
Golconda, at the Island, 20 miles the other side of Cue,
was abandoned. by a Bull co., which spent something
like £70,000 on it. Now a working party has dollied
84oz. from a ton. It is still the same old specimen
show, no good to a big co. Island Queen, in the same
locality, has given 2520 z. from 45 tons, and 86 tons
from the Day Dawn returned 200 oz.
* » » «
The Poseidon (Vic.) rush from the inside :
“North and south runs a low ridge straggled over by
stunted box-trees. It is the Woolshed reef. About six
or eight chains west, a chock-and-log fence marks the
boundary of Wemys’s paddock. A panel pulled out of the
fence forms the ‘ Golden Gate,’ and the shaft alongside is
where John Porter started last Cup day to sink what for
all he knew' was to be another in a long series of duffers.
Away down the paddock the Poseidon lead or gutter, no-
w'here more than 20ft. wide, has been slowly traced for
about half a mile. A few' claims below the fence are
good, then they are fair to poor, but the claim on the
lower fence has given good returns. The gutter seems
to freshen up here. Below this, Law' blocks work. There
is about this part of Poseidon lead nothing more in-
spiriting than a lot of mullock heaps in a scrubby pad-
dock. It is the head of Poseidon that is remarkable —the
part where the township has sprung up. Just inside the
‘ Golden Gate ’ is a hessian shanty, where a compact little
man, known to some N.S.W. miners in connection with
the Frenchman’s reef, dispenses fruit, soft drinks, and
The Bulletin. The Frenchman and his son are musical,
and a platform has been erected hard by, whereon free
al fresco concerts are given vvhat nights the boxing
‘saloon’ does not offer greater attractions. The visitor
will probably look in vain for the saloon, w'hich is merely
a circle of poles standing in the ground, to be clothed on
exhibition nights in a hessian gown. Near by is the
Poseidon Cafe, where the big ’bus twice daily deposits
its load of pilgrims. The ’bus, however, is not sent
empty away, for, besides the mere sig’htseers, there is
already' a steady stream of those who, recognising the
hopelessness of searching over a mile or so of country for
the incomprehensible slug, prudently take a bob’s worth
of ride whilst they yet have the bob. Many others, less
prudent or more sanguine, spend their last coin and walk
away.
“From Jackson’s claim to the prospector’s
shaft (20ft. deep) it is roughly estimated that £20,000
worth of gold has been taken from five claims ; and,
although the gutter is narrow, there is still a lot of
ground to work. Porter, the prospector, is blocked each
end by injunctions obtained by alleged ‘ miners,’ pend-
ing an appeal from the warden’s decision. And across
this golden gutter the pilgrims troop, with scarcely a
glance at the shafts from which small fortunes have
been hauled.
“What came they out for to see? A flat, the
soil and clay of which are being- broken, and the fine mul-
lock heaped up as by a thousand colonies of giant ants ?
As far as eye can see, figures, pick in hand, are bobbing-
up and down like marionettes, and of the hun-
dreds of men on that flat not 5 per cent, get
a pennyweight of gold in a month. Poseidon
is a wonderful and an incomprehensible field.
From 6in. to I2in. of harsh loam, one to two
feet of reddish-yellow clay, and then bedrock. Limestone
it is called locally, though probably it is, geologically, a
slate. And not a pannikin of gravel in a tub of dirt.
Even where good slugs, 101 b. or 121 b. weight, containing
much quartz and ironstone, have been found, there has not
been a stone within yards. Up on the hillside, where the
900 oz. piece was found, it is stonier and shallower ; but
there is no “ run,” no line, no indication. It is a pure
gamble.
“It was a matter of comment that of all the
nuggets got not one had been ‘christened.’ Well, one
Saturday morning, one of the outsiders, chains away
from the golden claims, pulled out 111 b. w'eight of nearly
pure gold. He was pretty well ‘ stumped,’ and that
morning a pound or two—perhaps a shilling or two—
would have bought his interest. Within an hour of
getting the speck, a barrel of beer was set up on the con-
cert platform, and served out to all hands. On the fol-
lowing Tuesday, his mate picked out another piece about
the same weight. Was it luck, or is Poseidon a friend of
Bacchus ? ”
* * ■* *
Adelaide investors have been chasing a will-o’-
the-wisp in the Tyson’s mine, Bendigo. They floated a co.
to re-open and unwater a neglected shaft on the strength
of a yarn that, when sinkingin the old days, a night shift
picked out £79 worth of specimens and quickly timbered
up the hole and went on with the sinking. For years
the mine was neglected, till an ancient male with a long
memory persuaded the Adelaide people to take up the
abandoned lease and put up money for pumping
machinery. The water was easily lowered below the
point where the reef was said to be, and the slabs were
removed. The reef was there, but it was quite barren !
Not a color was met with, and the stripping of more
shaft has not afforded the sight of gold. So much for
the old miner’s imaginary bonanza. The Adelaide share-
holders will, however, be foolish to give up the quest for
some sort of a reef after having done so much prepara-
tory work.
* * * *
In the North Woah Hawp, Ballarat, Harley
and 00. got into one of those rare patches that stick in
the minds of tributors and make it possible for Ballarat
cos. to get a third of their development work done on a
percentage basis that generally works out at about half
wages. On one day (Feb. 25) the North Hawp party got
out 500 oz. of specimens, and for some months past £2O a
man per week hasn’t been unusual.
* * * *
North Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), is plugging
down to catch the Lord Nelson shoot, and has just got in
further capital by raising the 36,000 shares from £1 10s.
to £2. W. G. Williams, lately manager of the Lord
Nelson, has been empowered by the North Nelson co. to
prepare plans, &c.,ofthe Lord Nelson workings for the
information of the North. It is understood he favors
sinking the North shaft to 2100 ft. before crosscutting,
instead of 2000 ft., as originally intended. The chance of
the North getting the Nelson shoot is better than
middling.
* * * *
* ‘Victor’s Quartz is the hope of Woods Point
(Vic.), and shares, which once were as flat as tied-house
beer, now have a sparkle. This all arises from the work
of the tributor. The co. was in extremis, when the useful
tributor determined to try his luck. And his luck proved
to he in, for he alighted on a fine shoot of stone, out of
which he has taken excellent crushings. Grumblers cavil
at the tribute, but the co. was in a sore plight when
it let the odd man in. Also, it has collected a fairly stiff
royalty all the while. Local people thought the shoot of
stone pitched south into the South Victor lease, where
J. B. Mackenzie and others sank a lot of coin. Local
opinion was probably wrong ; but the deepening of the
main shaft will clear up the point. Not long since Victors
were at 505., and if they hit good stone as the result of
the new sink there maybe another spurt. But Woods
Point is a tricky locality, regarding which the Stock
Exchange maxim is to take a profit, and let the others do
the mining.
• * * *
Berry Consols Extended, Creswick (Vic.), has
to date eaten up £78,000 in calls and £400,000 worth of
gold to pay £70,000 in divs. Spring Hill Leads has swal-
lowed about £120,000 of contributed money and all the
gold won, and has never paid a div. Berry Extended
looks like being worked out save for its 2000 ft. northern
ground, parallel to the Leads boundary, and the Leads
has nothing left save a block of the gutter still farther
on, and towa ds the Berry United boundary. Neither
show has the least chance of getting any money back, if
they work as at present. But there is a chance of a
few divs. if the two amalgamate. Spring Hill
Leads is top-dog just now, because the portion of the
gutter that the Berry Extended owns cannot be worked
at a profit, save from the Leads shaft. It pays that co.,
therefore, to sit down and wait. But it would not pay it
to do so for an hour if the Berry Extended shareholders
decided to go into liquidation, as the pumping would hit
the Leads’ purse in a weak spot. The Berry Extended
ought to make up its mind at once to amalgamation or
to be absorbed. There is no sense in continuing calls
when there is nothing ahead. If the amalgamation card
doesn’t turn out trumps, the thing is liquidation, to
bring an end to a mine that has never been much more
than a costly duffer.
* * * *
When word came recently that “highly-pay-
able coarse gold” had been struck somewhere in the
Mikado mine, Daylesford (Vic.), everyone agreed that
the existence of the show was justified. What else
could be thought even by the most inveterate
“ specker ” ? So the stock was given a rest, whereupon
from the legal manageress downward there was great re-
joicing. But just as Katisha found that something more
than a dimple on the elbow was needed to lure coy man-
kind, so the directors of the Mikado now realise that
something more substantial than a phrase is required
once the battery gets to work. Skimming through the
Mikado reports since the New Year, it can be seen that
the mine, like its namesake, the little brown man, has
been a rare deceiver. The first week of January brought
a report of “payable gold” ; and then there were 3ft. of
stone, “highly mineralised,” showing “gold freely.” Thus
on they read until the crowning message given above.
The battery telltale now shows an average of only sJdwt.
to the ton, exclusive of the mineral. Therefore the
manageress writes that as the yield was so “inconsis-
tent ” with the good quality of the stone reported, she
has called the directors together to investigate. So
“ the sex ” finds that mines are deceivers, too.
* * * *
A. B. P. B. Bayne, of Kalgoorlie, is to help the
new Bethanga mine, Bethanga (Vic.), to its third advent.
Bayne’s report deals only with the Gift and the Martin
shafts. Here a lot of work was done, first by J. A.
Wallace, and later on by the Bull crowd. In the Gift
block, Bayne sampled one body of auriferous copper ore
and reckoned it worth £32,400. He tells of other blocks
that he has skimmed over, but, like a wise man, he only
deals in detail with that one, and two or three trifling
ore bodies left in the stopes. Bayne throws on one side
the chlorination idea. In that he follows Harris, who
wound up his tribulations at the Bethanga by urging the
erection of smelters, and got left on the dump-heap in
consequence. Bayne, in plumping for smelting to a
matte basis, sets 355. per ton of ore as the outside cost.
But here he may set the figure too low, for he has a very
complex ore to handle. Every other method has been
tried, and if smelting won’t answer, then the mine had
better be scrapped ; for it has cost more money in ex-
perimenting than almost any other show in Australia.
* * » *
Chairman Patterson, of the Broken Hill Prop.,
said at the half-yearly meeting that, a reserve fund of
£250,000 having now been built up, the whole profits will
be available for dividend purposes. Last half-year the
net profits rah to £314,284, and the dividends absorbed
£240,000 (ss. per share), so there was enough left over for
another Is. 6d. per share. But it is pretty certain that
the amount written off for depreciation will have to be
heavier in the future—or, what comes to the same
thing, more works will have to be paid for out of
revenue. A heavy expenditure on zinc plant is
pending ; the chances are that, as the co. is only groping
its way, much of it will have to be scrapped before long,
and at best there is the certainty of very heavy wear and
tear in connection with retorts, acid works, etc. For the
moment the promise held out by the chairman looks very
attractive ; but, after all, though the cash, refinery pro-
ducts, etc., on hand exceeded the liabilities on November
30 by £435,051, that represents the accumulation of 21J
years.
* • * *
Here is a comparison of the recoveries of silver
and lead at the concentrating mills of those Broken Hill
cos. which, publish their records. The figures are taken,
or worked out, from the cos.’ last half-yearly or yearly
reports; and milling costs are added: —■.
Lead. Silver. Costs.
North .. 76T p.c 54'87 p.c. 4/7 per ton.
South .. 71.3 „ 53-2 „ 4/0-3 „
Sulphide.. 67‘2 „ 47'6 „ 4/6'9 „
Block 10.. 65-69 „ 36‘47 „ 4/11 „
Block 14.. 62-5 ~ 38‘4 „ 6/4'2 „
Broken Hill mills differ in details, but most of the
remarkable variations in the recoveries are due to differ-
ences in the character of the ore. It is a fatal mistake to
suppose that, because these mines are on one lode, they
have tlie same problems, and that their ore is worth the
same. It is on account of the refractory nature of its ore
that the Junction North, for instance, has hung fire
hitherto, though as to both the quantity and metallic
value only good reports are now possible. In short, it is
not what is in the ore, but what can be got out of it, that
counts.
* * * *
‘ Shares in Queen Bee, (N.S.W.), sprang
again last week on the report that the optionists had
paid up the first £lOOO ; and that was taken to mean that
the £125,000 (50s. per share) is going to be paid. Fact is
that, under the agreement, £lOOO had to be paid to get
an option for a month ; the agreement was absolutely
binding as to this first £lOOO. If the next £3OOO or so is
put up it will mean something—chief! 3' that Corbould, of
Lloyd’s, who, it is understood, is to report, thinks well
of the prospects. The fact that Corbould is the optionists’
expert indicates that the big money is to come from
England, if anywhere.
* * * *
“ Interested ” : The old dispute of the Budgery
lode strike had a flicker last week, when the directors,
taking exception to some remarks by the Daily Tklk-
grapii, wired from Cobar to say they still believed the
strike of the Budgery lode to be west of north. As the
mine has now been working 12 months, and the hanging
wall has been cut in three places, and the foot wall in as
many more, it is about time they were able to speak
positively on the point, and say it is so-and-so or it is not.
What between the new shaft, the battery at
the Eleanora section, and the electric power scheme, the
New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.) has its hands full. No
doubt the expenditure is justified ; for the enrichment in
the levels coining in from Baker’s Creek mine proves the
gold shoots to live down to No. 16 level, and to enter the
New Hillgrove. Nevertheless, the co. needs to have a
deep pocket to see it all through.
* * * *
Lightning Ridge (N.S.W.) opal field never had
much of a bottom, but what it had is falling out. Many of
the old hands who have clung tight to it are at last desert-
ing it, and now, although the dailies have had pars about
400 people being on the field, there are in reality no more
than 130, including those in business. Of course, some
fair parcels have been won at the place ; it is alleged that
Bishop and Son, the most successful party, sold £2500
worth. But the stone is too scattered, and the man who
goes there with a tenner or so has about the same chance
as he would have in Tatt.’s, only some of Tatt.’s prizes
are larger. On the whole, the cheapest way to get opal
is to buy , « «
After an almost Homeric fight against adverse
circumstances, the Aberdare Co-operative coal mine,
Ipswich (6.), has gone under. The miners, in 1893, took
it over from Lewis Thomas ; he had been working it at a
loss, and offered it to them at Is. per ton royalty, with a
minimum of £lOO per month. The men struck little but
disaster. For a start they had to purchase a pump cost-
ing £l5OO. Then there was a fall in the mine. After
that a fire broke out. Next another fall blocked the air
passage In 1906 a new shaft was sunk to a depth of
150ffc. without coming- to coal. But Lewis Thomas’
royalty was the heaviest burden the mine had to bear;
in 12 years it amounted to £40,000. Despite all its
troubles, how-ever, the mine had a record to be proud of
in one direction ; only one fatal accident occurred during
the 00-operative Co.’s tenancy, and, strangely enough,
that happened the first week the co. had it.
• • • *
Charters Towers is in a bad way. It neglected
development work shamefully, until lately it has been
forced irito it. Now it wants all the help it can get.
Especially it wants outside help ; because the man with
money doesn’t, as a rule, stay in the Towers. For a long
while the outside reputation of the Towers’ “ mining
crowd ” has been that it picks the bone very clean, and then
passes it on. Just when the field most wanted to knock
out that idea, trouble has arisen over the Carrington, the
best mine the district has dropped on to for years. The
people who have had it have been either fools or frauds,
and outsiders have fallen in badly over its in-and-out
running. Now there are things in connection with the
issue of 60,400 shares that will have to be explained if
Towers’ mining people want to be trusted. A
Towers’ mining man puts it this way:—“We
have a property here called Carrington’s. It was
likely to turn out good, so we reserved 50,400 shares ;
18,000 of them were paid up, and 32,400 contributing.
The co. has a capital of £60,000, in 240,000 shares at ss.
A man went out and pegged out some more ground ;
and we bought that land off him for £9OO. The
directors seem to have had doubts whether it was
worth the price; anyhow, they made him take
18,000 fully paid up shares (55.) at Is. each. That took
the £9OO purchase money from him again—and gave him
18,000 shares at Is. Then he signed an agreement that
he would take up 32,400 contributing shares at sixpence
each ; that came to £BlO. After he had fulfilled his con-
tract by lifting the contribs., the directors declared a
three-penny dividend. So we placed the whole of the
50,400 reserved shares locally, and they only cost the
men who took them up £lBO for the lot. The
transaction was practically carried through some months
ago, but nothing was announced with regard to it, and
the public has dealt in the stock, not knowing that the
reserved shares had Deen issued, or the extraordinary terms
upon which they had been issued. Finally, it is only
necessary to say'that even contributing shares are now
worth about 6s. 3d.; and, though they have been worth
a little less, the question is whether they would have
been worth less if the mine had been rightly worked.”
If the directors have got an explanation, it will be well
for Charters Towers and for themselves to uncork it.
* •* * »
Warden Linedale, of Cloncurry, on the Celestial
Copper and Options Co.’s properties, which Melbourne
has got excited about:—“ On the Celestial . .. judging
by surface indications and the material thrown over the
tip, I should think the formation is largely quartz, im-
pregnated with copper, and slightly interspersed with a
little glance and carbonate ore.” And of the Specula-
tion, the other show :—“The deposits of copper appear to
be impregnations, and there is a possibility of the ore-
bearing rock being displaced by barren quartz at a com-
paratively shallow level.”
* * * •
“Mainshaft”: Re the Melbourne reports on
which the Celestial Copper and Options Co. is being
boomed. The Horseshoe doesn’t adjoin the Daisy, which
has turned out 30 per cent, ore, and will turn out some
more if the 9in. or lOin. of good stuff on the hanging wall
holds out. If copper-stained quartz ever becomes worth
£lO7 a ton, the Daisy will be able to sell ore from a lode
6ft. wide ; but that won’t make the Horseshoe adjoin the
Daisy, and it wouldn’t do the Horseshoe any good if it
did. There are plenty of good shows on Cloncurry to be
got by looking for them and paying for them, and it’s a
pity for the field’s sake to see these heaps of painted
silica eating good money.
* * * *
The snarl with which the Mt. Lyell Consols
(Tas.) board received the bone thrown down to it by
T. Coleman and Co., of the London Stock Exchange, has
ended their relations, save of a solemn business kind.
Idea was to lump the Consols and the Tasman and Crown
Lyell into one co. with 300,000 shares, mostly of 7s. 3d.
each, to be cut up in various ways. As the deal is off, it
is not necessary to go into details ; but it looked rather a
soft snap for the Tasman and Crown. Tom Hills, of the
last co., made out that the reconstructed show would
have a capital of £lB,OOO. Even if his addition,
division and multiplication were right, and if there
were no big algebraical cc in the calculation, there
was in one sense not much to cut up between two
shows, and in another sense there was far too much. The
Consols is an extension of the Lyell Blocks copper
clays, and it has to be shown to the investor that the
Lyell Blocks has returned capital, much less paid in-
terest. Tasman and Crown Lyell so far is not anything
except a gamble. The man has still to show up that can
profitably concentrate the minerals out of the Lyell
schists. North Lyell and Lyell Tharsis had a shot at the
problem, and went a “cropper” despite close picking.
However, as the Consols would not hitch on to the Cole-
mans’ motor car, a new rig-out is to be found for the Tas-
man and Crown. What the inwardness of the change is, no
one quite explains. Perhaps as Tom Hills was able to
elucidate the amalgamation problem, he now can solve
this other one.
* • * *
“Vigilans”: Anywhere but in the Northern
Territory, Brocks’ wolfram mine, at Wolfram Creek, would
be a great concern, with copper at £lOB per ton and
wolfram over £lOO. Some tons of grey ore have recently
been bagged going 50 per cent, metal. The wolfram is
neglected. It is sometimes amusing and sometimes sad
to watch the four Mongolians pounding away with spring
dollies, and two Ah Fats manipulating the old-fashioned
sluice box, while a weary moke, driven by a Pagan, does
the winding.
* • * *
The Citizens’ Life office is thinking over two
schemes for its improvement. One involves profit-shar-
ing with its staff, which would be an extension of the
principle on which the office is founded ; for guarantee-
ing to keep expenses below 15 per cent, of the income,
the shareholders take one-fifth of the profits, and the
idea is now to cut up part of that one-fifth among- the
employees, who, to a very great extent, make the low
expense rate possible. The other scheme, only just
suggested so far, is to let the policy-holders elect
trustees, who would make an annual report about the
securities. Policy-holders in general want two things
—good profits and safe securities. The Citizens’
shareholders, who manage the business, are per-
sonally interested in se.eing that the profits are good—
they get one-fifth of them—and the appointment of
trustees would be a safeguard against the directors-
getting large immediate profits at the cost of probable
heavy future losses. Up to now, certainly, they haven’t
shown any disposition that way ; on the contrary, the
office’s holding of what are reckoned the safest Austra-
lian securities (public stocks) is exceptionally large. The
appointment of trustees ought to do something to keep-
it like that.
Julius Matton, an authority on|thelead market,
says in his circular that the decreased consumption of’
lead in England during 1906 was due to stagnation in the
building trade. This will come as a surprise to those
who have been led to believe that high prices are due to-
ad-round increased consumption. Still, the large increase
in protected countries compensated for the stagnation
in England. Lead touched six cents a pound (£2B per
ton) in New York at the close of the year ; and, in spite
of the prohibitive duty, the Americans purchased 8000-
tons from the English market —a most unusual proceeding.
* * * *-
M.R. : “F.H.R.” supplies this address—“ Au-
stralian Smelting Co., Booth-street, Balmain.” But ap-
parently the works are not there yet...,J. Hendy :
Don’t know, but it is most likely all that. Doubtful
whether the directors’ fees are “exceptionally high”
(for head-office and branches they amount to" £1800).
Anyhow, they,are included with expenses : and expenses
are exceptionally low.
* * * *
The Heskett-Moore people, who have a patent
for a direct iron-manufacturing process, have started
litigating with an American inventor, whose Australian
patent they lately opposed. The Commissioner of
Patents decided against the Heskett-Moore people, and
gave costs against them, holding that “ one very great
difference between the two processes is that in the Hes-
kett-Moore invention the reduction of the iron ore to the
metallic state and the fusing of it are two distinct opera-
tions, whereas in the applicant’s process the reduction
and fusion are carried out in one process.” The case is,
however, to be carried further—the High Court is the
next step.
■*•***
Proposal to generate electricity at
the Barron Waterfalls (N.Q.), considered as a State-
owned enterprise, should be viewed with caution. There
is a tendency to shove the State into the unprofitable
undertakings, and then howl about Socialism. Queens-
land has a railway right alongside these Barron Falls, and
this power, handy to the line, suggests electrification ;
but such a scheme would have to extend right across the
country, and the traffic revenue would not warrant it.
For the State to use the Barron Falls to light up Cairns,
which is already lit, or to take power to a distant sugar-
mill, is assuming a big risk,' with very little chance of
profit. As to the manufacture of carbide of calcium, or
the generation of power for electrolytic works for
refining copper, it should be noted that Mt. Lyell,
Wallaroo, and Cobar are the largest copper producers,
and that a refining co. to cater for the rest has been
formed. !
* * * *
A Melbourne co. is being formed to again
tickle the Kamarooka quartz reef, 20 miles north of
Bendigo. This line, 20 or 30 years ago, gave a lot of
people a bad taste in the mouth. One co. got a few good
crushings ; then it was said that the reef was petering
out. A slump followed ; and a few people sucked up the
shares. Then one day the men were put on to another
part of the show and got ounce stone ; also, it was stated
that the co. had got stuff on the surface that had been
left by a former co. This had been tested, and was esti-
mated to go about 3oz. Shares sailed up again, and the
men who had got in got out at a fine profit. When
experts examined the big heap of stuff that was to go
over 3oz. to the ton, they said that there would be more
gold in a set of teeth, and, in disgust, the mine was
abandoned and the flash machinery sold. It has taken
over 20 years to get anybody to look at the district since
that experience, and there’s some reason to expect that
the district didn’t quite deserve so much neglect.


HALF -A-GUINEA for Nothing'.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything thajj|: can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
LITERAL.
OUR NEW PARSON : " Have you ever met ray
wife, Mr. Hayseed? ”
HAYSEED : “Ho, I ain't; but the first day we
kum 'ere I wuz goin’ down to Jinkinses on
the old gray mare, with eggs, an' I overtook
’er."
A Tasmanian sawmill got a whole family
thrown in its teeth the other day. The letter ran
like this
Dear Sir, —Please if they are any prospect of a Family
of 4or 5 getting employment at your sawmill. Please if
their is a Job, please send immediate reply at once, and
tell me the most couvient way of getting there. I
William Johns Senior is a bit accomplished at timber
handling and Willie Johns Junior is also fairly good at it.
John Johns is a little bit good, and used to a paling
bench or dust hole or timber handling ; and Alfred Johns
is just the same as John Johns. Fred Johns as gone
away at present, an don’t know were he is, but he may
be able to follow soon.
William Johns Sen. get .. .. 6/- per day.
William Johns Jun. 5/- ~ ~
John ~ ~ ~ .. .. 4/- ~ ~
Alfred 3/- ~ ~
Total 18/- „ ~
18/- shillings is our ordinary wages per day.
P.S.—Fred Johns is a bushman.
“Veldt”: “John Moran” (B. 7/2,/’O7)
flings a big stick at “ The Prooshan,” and misses
him badly when he says that the carpet snake
never slimes its prey previous to swallowing. If
“ J.M.” took the trouble to visit a sixpenny hash-
house he would see one hundred and two speci-
mens of the genus homo eating in one hundred and
twenty-seven different ways, from the Domain
resident who hogs his food with his fingers, to
the semi-genteel has-been, who uses a soiled
handkerchief for a serviette and his tumbler for a
finger-bowl. The same, or different, differences
may apply to the carpet snake. At any rate, the
snake 1 knew didn’t know the rules of etiquette laid
down by “John Moran” any better than he knew
the Odes of Horace. One day, after washing up
the dinner things (in a camp not far from
Grafton), I went to the tent f®r forty winks, leav-
ing the tin dish resting against the wall, hollow
side outwards. An hour later, hearing a slight
noise, I looked into the back kitchen and found
the aforesaid dish lying on the floor face down-
wards, and the camp kitten sitting close by with
a dazed expression on its face, and slimed on
one side from observation point to base. On lift-
ing the tin I made a sudden grab for a gun, and
blew the carpet snake that lay coiled up under-
neath into several pieces. Now, I didn’t see the
snake slime the cat, therefore there was no proof
of guilt, but I had sufficient circumstantial evi-
dence to do Jedburgh justice on the snake.
* * * •
“Shingle” : Count me in as one more
witness in “Prooshan’s” favor re carpet snakes
sliming their prey (B. 21/2/’O7). I have had con-
vincing evidence on several occasions that
“Prooshan” is right, and John Moran wrong,
with respect to Southern Queensland snakes at
any rate. When Rosewood Scrub, near Ipswich,
was being first settled, in the "sixties and early
’seventies, carpet snakes were very numerous and
attained to a considerable size. The largest I
ever had a personal encounter with measured
13ft. 2in. When 1 came across this fellow he was
just about to swallow a full-grown ’possum, which
he had crushed until it was nearly half as long
again as its usual dimensions, and considerably
reduced in thickness, and it tv<is slimed all over.
I have seen several other instances where young
wallabies and other animals and birds were either
being swallowed or prepared for swallowing, and
in two other cases, at least, there could be no
doubt about the sliming. By the way, I killed a
goanna in that same scrub, which measured 7ft.
from tip of nose to end of tail. It was too fat
and bulky to move, except very slowly, much less
to get up a tree. Its skin, after being tanned,
made two very fine saddle-bag fronts. [About a
dozen other letters, all supporting “The
Prooshan’s ” statement, are crowded out. As for
John Moran, he doesn’t seem to have a friend
any where.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
“The Mooch About” on some famous
eooks:—
No shearers’ cooks were better known through the
parching West than “ Jimmy the Rambler,” old “ Scotty
wd ,Y.'' inkler ” (Phil Mowbray), “Jimmy the Rooster,”
Soldier Green,” “ Jacky Without a Shirt,” “Caring-
ton,” “ Blackguard Brummy,” Lady May,” &c. Ail
hard cases, and loaded up to the brim with eccentrici-
ties. “ Jimmy the Rambler” was an excellent cook, but
a terrible “ nark,” and would rambleoff on the slightest
provocation. Above all things, he hated to have his
bread or brownie picked at before it was cold. “The
Wrinkler” took on cooking occasionally. Scrupulously
clean, and methodical in all his work, he was a fair
dough-banger, but objected to associate with the shearers.
In one shed, his bile rose high when a shearer invited
him to take a hand in a game of crib. “Scotty’s”
hair stood up as he addressed the shearers : “ I want'you
all distinctly to understand that I’m engaged to cook for
you, and not to cater for your amusement. When I’ve
filled up your hungry innards I have done with you, and
I don’t wish to see or hear you.” “ The Wrinkler ” was
not a popular shearers’ cook, but beloved by the whalers,
and full of wrinkles. At spinning yarns I’ve never heard
“Jimmy the Rooster” beaten. His cooking was just
so-so ; but once he got in it took something bo move him.
He was a rooster. “ Soldier Green ” was the champion
of all cooks. Had been in the army'. Made big cheques,
and used to go to Melbourne with them. No lambing-
down in a stringy-bark shanty for the “Soldier.” He
would land in Melbourne with from £6O to £BO, and “ do
it in” on “beer sparrers” in Plinders-street. Run in
once, the arresting policeman told the Bench that “ The
Soldier’’was a terrible nuisance once every year. “’E
makes all Flinders-street bloind dhrunk in "a jiffy, an’
give the perlice lots o’ throuble an’ broken "ribs.”
“ Jacky without a Shirt ” was good and generous. Once,
years ago, a Sydney pushite came to Jacky without bags.
Jacky promptly took off his shirt, tore off the sleeves,
filled them with tea and sugar respectively, filled the body
of the shirt with flour, handed them to tlie boy from “ the
village,” and continued working. That’s how he got his
name. “ Carington ” was “ flash.” Used to carry fancy
yeast, coloring for sauces, etc., and “ once cooked for Lord
Carington.” “ Brummy ” was a middling dough-banger,
but a marvellous linguist. Burnt his hands once, and
swore so hard that a dressed sheep on the gallows twisted
loose and cleared. At least so “Joe the Whaler ” says.
* * * *
“The Prooshan ” : On walking over some
newly-ploughed ground one day, I saw a large,
grey, swamp crane, standing very still, gazing
down a furrow. On my approaching, the crane
didn’t shift, and soon I saw a big brown snake
slowly creeping towards it. When the brown
oppressor was within two yards, the crane started
to tremble and flap its wings, but didn’t leave.
On my shying a dry clod at the snake the bird
gave a loud “ Yah ! ” and flew straight into a
wire fence, some fifty yards away, crippling
itself badly. Apparently the clod broke the
spell.
* * * *
“ Philo ” : The Australian larrikin is won-
derfully expressive at times. I picked up this
slab of language on a Sydney corner :
“ Micko’s in quod.”
“ Garn ! ”
“ Fair dinkim.”
“ Wha’ for?”
“ Went on the shick and stoushed a trap wot tried to
snare ’im.”
“ Serves the cow right. ’ow long ? ”
“ A sixer.”
“ Straight?”
“S’elp me, be cripes !”
“ Gawd’s truth ! My oath, that’s’ot. Strike me pink
Gor’ blime, that is 'ard moz. Who pinched ’im ? ”
“ That big cow, Fairy, the nark.”
ONE POINT OF VIEW.
FIRST NATIVE : “ Wot’s Sydney like, Bill?”
SECOND NATIVE (just returned): “O, it's orl
right, on’y yer carn’t see the place fer houses.”
“ A. 8.” : Ptatriotic Victorians should pro-
test strongly against the tendency to Anglicise
the few aboriginal names left to different towns.
In Vic. Jim Bruk has become Gembrook—a
title that suggests an old water-wheel turning in
the background, and half-a-dozen lambkins frisk-
ing in charge of a person in knee-breeches.
Korumbura is beginning to be called “The
Borough,” after a particularly disreputable
quarter of London, and, in a few years, will
probably appear on Government maps as “ Coram
Borough ” ; while Carlsruhe, Kilmore and half-a-
dozen other Vic. townships bear titles that are
simply European names bearing some slight
or fancied resemblance to the original names of
the districts. I fully expect that by the time the
Barren Jack (N.S.W.) reservoir is completed it
will be gazetted as “ Sterile John.”
* * » *
“ Duroc ” : “ Batlow ” (B. 14/2/’O7) says
horses’ homing instinct is marvellous.
I’ve been among them all my life, and
have come to the sad conclusion that for
crass idiocy a horse is the limit, and
that a sheep has more of the instinct
“Batlow” mentions than the “ noble
steed.” I’ve tried that game, “leave it
to the horse ’’—tried it in America, in
Europe, and scores of times in Aus-
tralia, and never once has the horse
brought me right or anywhere near right.
I own a horse now which has been
ridden and driven, in and out for years,
to and from the nearest township over an
ordinary bush track (horse always stable-
fed). Started out from town one black
night, and trusted to the horse. (Same
old game.) In the grey light of a
very-late-risen moon the horse came to
a house I had never seen before. Found
myself and horse up against a homestead
three miles off my track. Yet that horse
is far more intelligent than ordinary.
Again, when pumping water from a
station bore to fill sheep-troughs, have
seen a mob of brumbies come into the
trough paddock to drink, as there was
no other water on the run. There was
only one gate to go or come by, and there
was no feed whatever in the paddock.
Yet I have seen those brumbies actually
unable to find the gate they came in by.
This I can verify by five witnesses, in-
cluding the station-manager, who turned
out the witless beasts after they had
done a three-days’ starve. I have bred
and sold and bought horses, have ridden
and driven them under all sorts of condi-
tions ; and I will back bullock, donkey,
or mule (especially mule) for all-round
intelligence against the average moke
every time.
* » » *
Quite likely that in the course of
a few years people in the tlloncurry (Q.)
district will be pulling down their houses,
now in course of erection, and selling
the beautiful silky oak of which they are
largely built to cabinetmakers. Even
sheep-gates in the locality are made of silky oak.
■* * * *
“ Stony ” : “If such a thing as a Hebrew
bush m an were possi ble, ” says so m eone in B. 21/2/’O7.
I once met a horny-handed Chosen Person who
was a bushman, if ever there was one. I first
struck him at the old Calcifer (N.Q.) smelter, on a
blazing day, when I was unloading a fodder-
waggon. He came up with a swag on his back to
make inquiries—a man with a Hebraic name and
a large Hebraic nose, through which he spoke,
and a huge, black beard. What’s more, he got
work on the mine, and my first impressions of
him as a bushman were borne out by my later
observations. There are bushmen of every human
kind.
* * * *
“Jeff”: Re records in bailing up and
milking cows (B. 14/2/’O7). Here’s mine. Dad
roused me up at 5.30 to fetch in our milker.
Returned without her at 8 (breakfast time). Dad
mentioned something that would happen to me
if I came in again without her. Chased her all
day, slept that night in the barn, then “bor-
rowed ” a nag, and had her in the bail by 7. My
record in the Book of Time stands thus: “To
bailing one spotted cow-devil, 26| hours.”
* * * *
When you wake up in the morning with a
bad taste in your mouth you may know that you
need a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets; for they
will sharpen your appetite and strengthen the
digestive organs.*
“F.L.J.”:
A sample of
N. S. Wales
financing. A
gatekeeper
employed on
the tick fence,
attheQueens-
land border,
has a 400-
gallon tank to
supply him
with water
for domestic
purposes and
for making
the mixture
with which to
spray horses
crossing into
N.S.W. The
tank holds
about a three
weeks’supply
of water, and,
unless rain
happ e n s
along, water
has then to be
carted. The
man who
carts the
water charges
the State ss.
per 100 gal-
lons. Last year,
and it was an ex-
ceptional one for
rain there, water
was carted 11 times,
which meant £2 15s.
pa’d out. If a dry
spell comes along now,
£1 a month will not
cover expenses. A 1000-
gallon tank, with the one
at present at use, would
ensure a couple of months’ supply of water, and
the large tank can be delivered at the gate for
£4 10s. But Joseph Carruthers imagines that
it is cheaper to make payments of £2 15s. or
more (it is never likely to be less) per year than
to make one final payment of £4 10s., and have
an asset that will at least realise £4 for the next
five years.
* * * *
“ Boosef ” : One Sunday, driving in the
bush, with the thermometer at about 115 in the
water-bag, and the flies averaging one million
and fifty-one to the man, I came across a be-
whiskered individual, accompanied by a young
fellow and a cattle dog. They were carrying
respectively a crowbar, a shovel, and a sore leg.
He (Whiskers) informed me that he was captain
of the Wattergumbla Cricket Club. They had
been playing that afternoon, and the ball had
been hit into a rabbit burrow. He had thereupon
walked to his place, a distance of two miles, and
was returning to dig the ball out. After getting
a drink and a match, and remarking for the
seventh time ‘‘lt’s ’ot,” he left me wondering
whether to recommend him for the Victoria Cross
or Callan Park.
WASN'T LOOKING.
BOB (gleefully): “My! What sort of a lookin'
cove gave yer the bottle?”
SAMUEL: “ Don't know. ’E wasn't lookin’ when
I got it.”
“8.D.5.”: When opal-seeking at White
Cliffs I ran across a strange party. Fred’s work-
ing mate was a Salvo bloke, by name Henry.
Now Henry had assumed the leadership of the
concern, and was wont to divide the spoil, lie
had three bags—one for Fred, one for himself,
and one for the Lord, who was alleged to hold a
sleeping interest. Dividing the opal into three
parts, and placing each in one of the bags, he
would say, “That’s for you, that’s for me, and
that’s for the Lord.” And he took possession of
the last two portions. This went on tor some
time,' and they had won altogether perhaps £1
worth of gem, when, one day, a lucky strike pro-
duced £3OO. That evening the division was made
as usual, but Fred reached over, and grasping
two bags, gently said, “ I’ll take the Lords
whack this time, Henry!” adding, reassuring y,
“and I’ll see that He gets it.” bhortly after-
wards a dissolution took place.
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business.
THE TALE OF SARAH JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is up to someone to write a poem on Sarah Jones.—
B. 31/l/’07.)
Then here’s a poem on Sarah Jones,
Our kitchen girl was she.
When Sarah sang, her heavenly tones
Made richest melody.
Last night our local cop. was bent
On making love to Sal,
And for a moonlight stroll they went
Down past the hospital.
They wandered in the shadows dim,
They rambled arm in arm,
Then sat them down—a lover’s whim—
Upon a bull-ant farm !
They talked of flowers, of wedded bliss,
Of spangles in the sky—
With now and then a stolen kiss,
And now and then a sigh.
But all the bull-ant army rose
And all its hordes did stir.
She screamed, but folks did but suppose
The Law had tickled her.
The whole night long the folks did hear
Most melancholy groans,
But no one sought to interfere
Twixt Love and Sarah Jones !
The mopokes moped most dismally,
Sad was the plovers’ fret.
The crow awoke within his tree—
Methinks I hear him yet !
At twelve, since Sarah was non est
(Her couch unruffled lay)—
Upon a hurried, anxious quest
We took the lockup way !
And there the drunk upon his bed
Was howling dreadfully,
But not a sign of Trooper Z
Or Sarah could we see.
The place w'as roused, the tidings sped,
As in the gloom we groped ;
The witches of the hamlet said
That Sarah had eloped 1
But when the early danvn was red
Behind the ranges black,
We found that she and Trooper Z
Had gone the heavenly track.
Upon the bull-ant farm there lay
Nought but their whitened bones—
Grist to the bull-ants’ store were they—
The cop. and Sarah Jones !
VIC.
NYM


“SHOW IE
HER RINGS
and I will tell you her
character and the family
history.”
It sounds presumptuous—yet is there more truth than is supposed
back of it?
A woman’s taste shows in her Kings ;
A family’s exchequer appears in Rings ;
A man’s thoughtfulness or selfishness is related by his
wife’s rings.
RINGS OF GOOD VALUE. RINGS OF RARE TASTE.
RING DESIGNS OP UNIQUENESS ARE PART
OP OUR LIVES.
See our Ring Stock—it’s an Education !
Special Jager Diamonds, £5O.
3 Pink Tourmalines and
small Diamonds, £7.
FAIRFAX and ROBERTS,
The Oldest
Jewellery
Plain Figures.
- Cash.
House in Sydney,
23 WUNTER STREET.
Goilden Sapphire and Diamonds, £l6.
Pink Tourmaline and Diamonds, £l5.
3 Different Sapphires and Diamonds,
£l2.
Selected Jager Diamonds, £45.
1 Pink, 1 Green Tourmaline, and rest
Diamonds, £l2 12s.
1 Ruby and rest Diamonds, £25.
Hergott and Innamincka (Central S.A.)
report widespread rains, varying from 4in. to
13in., the best, in some cases, for 20 years. The
Cooper and the Diamantina are in flood, and
mailmen go in peril of their lives, and have had
to abandon their coaches in several cases.
A STRENUOUS LIFE.
BILL (to Mr. Johnson who has appeared in a
collar): “Ho! Are yer a blooming torf
now? ”
MR. JOHNSON: “ No. Him a ’ ard-worked had-
vertisement agent. Walks about all day to
hadvertisc the ole woman’s laundry .”
“Cict”: Be “Prawn’s” porcupine-slay-
ing dogs (B. 17/l/’O7). I will back “porky” to
duck his head (that’s his bill) under him some-
where and commence sinking before “Prawn’s”
dog can get within turning distance of him ; and,
by the time the dog is close enough to commence
operations, he’ll have nought but a lump of spiny
stuff to nibble at. True, as “ Prawn ” has it, the
overturned “porky” is absolutely defenceless
when before a dog ; but, in nine cases out of ten,
it takes a big lift to upend him, even when a
stick is forced clean under him. The tenth case
is when “porky” has started burrowing on a
rock. None but the most unsophisticated pup
will look at a porcupine.
♦ * * *
“T.W.D.” : A Hawkes Bay (M.L.) town-
ship had its first agricultural show the other day ;
and among other “ novelty ” items was a chain-
stepping contest. Entry a bob ; prize a guinea.
A Maori woman won. Later, at the pah, with
many grins, they told me how. Our unsophis-
ticated sister had tethered her ankles with a cord,
which enabled her to step a yard exactly, and
her petticoats had hidden the fraud. There was
much waipiro at the pah that night.
* » * *
If you feel dull after eatiftg, use Chamber-
ain’s Tablets, and you will get quick relief.*
SAME THING.
PHILANTHROPIC CALLER : “But, my dear Mrs. Squibs?you should heap coals of fire on your
husband’s head.”
MRS. SQUIBS : “ Well, mum, I ’aye tried of water.”
‘ ‘ Edyson ” : This is a convincing, work-a-
day romance, in which only the names are
fictitious. It comes from Kyroot (Vic.). The
belle of Kyroot was a beautiful, black-eyed,
raven-haired, rosy-cheeked Methodist maiden of
20, whose father was a hard-headed, hard-fisted
Cornishman named Kershaw. Kershaw," of
Kyroot, was one of those unreasonable Christian
parents, who cannot perceive the natural advances
of young men towards their eligible girls without
wanting to break with the teachings of religion
and the restraints of law. He regarded his
daughter as a working asset, and declined to lose
her services. When he had knocked the fiery
ambition out of three aspirants for Miss Kershaw’s
favor, a decided coolness towards that very
desirable little lady manifested itself amongst
the young men of Kyroot. Then Ball opened
a grocery at the Old Road, and fell in love
with Nellie Kershaw at church on the
following Sunday. He paid Miss Kershaw
some attention, and collided with her father
one night after seeing Nellie home from
prayer-meeting. Then Ball believed the
current reports about Kershaw, senior.
He rested from his labors, and got
well, but he meditated vengeance.
In the course of a fortnight, an
assistant appeared at Ball’s store.
He was a young man, splendidly
set-up, rather good-looking, allow-
ing for a crumpled" ear and sundry
facial damages, and his name was
Dan Corcoran. Dan went to church.
Dan fell in love with Nellie Kershaw.
The fall was so sudden it seemed deliberate.
Dan offered Nellie his services as a gallant,
and Nellie seemed pleased with them.
People ran to tell Corcoran to insure his life,
but he only smiled a wan smile, and said he
would bear his cross like a man and a
Methodist. He and Kershaw met in Car-
ver’s paddock, when Corcoran was holding
Miss Kershaw hard round the waist, and
hostilities opened immediately. Nellie was
sole spectator and ten-seconds-check. The
fight lasted four minutes and a half, at the
expiration of which time Mr. Kershaw was
bleeding in seven places, and slowly regain-
ing his mental perspective. Corcoran was
quite uninjured. The joy of the young men
of Kyroot when they heard of this pleasant
surprise was so great that they gave Cor-
coran a smoke social. Ball paid Corcoran
according to contract, put on his clean collar
and a nice tie, and prepared to resume
operations with Miss Kershaw. Alas for
human frailty ! He struck trouble again,
and this time it was with Corcoran. Dan
licked him first, and informed him after-
wards that he (Dan) intended remaining at
Kyroot to maintain the courtship so auspiciously
commenced. Corcoran married Nellie, and old
Kershaw weloomed him as a son-in-law, and gave
him a partnership in the Kershaw farm. The
moral is that a father-in-law can’t be properly
licked by deputy.
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: Be dog endurance. The
loneliest and most cruel use man puts the dog to
sheep. I have seen dogs, tethered by
a chain and a ring attached to a long piece of wire
stretched between two posts, keep sheep back for
months at a stretch. Certainly they were looked
after in a way. A boundary-rider might come
round every second day, and throw the dog
(which often had more intelligence than the
boundary-rider) a sheep’s fry, and fill a tin with
water; but if anything happened to knock this
over, the poor animal went short, and all the sym-
pathy he would get was a kick and “serve yer
right.” Once, going across some abandoned
country out from Miandetta (N.S.W.), I found an
old hut with the grass growing inside and waving
through the windows. In an outhouse I came
across an old, rusty chain, the collar of which was
still fastened round the neck of the skeleton of a
dog. Don’t know how he came to be abandoned,
but I thought it the saddest sight that I ever
looked upon. How long that dog endured before
the haunting crows stepped in and finished his
sufferings will never be known. I hope his ghost
haunts the fellow who left him.
* * * *
Never take harsh cathartics to move the
bowels. They do more harm than good. What
you want to use when needing a purgative is
Chamberlain’s Tablets, for they are mild and
gentle in their action.*
“ Mallarapoonie ” on bird-snatching :
The desert-bred native tribes of N.-W. Australia prac-
tise a quaint method of capturing the common brown
kite. On desert country, where stones are rare, a large
termite nest is selected and scooped out, chimney-fashion,
until the hollow is large enough to receive a native in a
crouching position. In stony country the blacks build
up a hollow cairn of stones some 4ft. high by 3ft. inside
measurement. In one of these receptacles a native
crouches, armed with a dead goanna, while his mates
place a few cross-sticks and leaves over the openingabove
his head. The mates then fire some adjacent patches of
spinifex, and retire to await results.
The kites congregate to the smoke in search of prey—
half-scorched locusts, lizards, &c. —and while circling
round, their attention is attracted to what appears to
them to be a large lizard fooling round among some fallen
brushwood. Forthwith they begin to swoop down and
snatch at it. For the first half-dozen swoops the nigger
inside just acts the “passive resister”—that is, he just
hangs to his dead goanna with both hands, and sits tight.
Then he gets to business. With the go. gripped firmly
in his left hand, he bobs its head up through the opening
always keeping his right hand ready to snap. A hawk
swoops down, snatches, and for the fraction of a second
gives a clinging tug, but that space of time is sufficient
for the nig. He seizes the bird by the hind legs and
jerks it violently down through the aperture. Then he
wrings its neck, drops it among his feet, and goes on
bobbing the goanna for the next bird. The snatching
propensities of a brown kite are astounding. They have
been known to snatch a chap’s breakfast steak off the
camp-fire, and it is stoutly alleged they could snatch a
lost soul back out of Tophet. But it has never been
correctly ascertained whether they ever snatched a dead
goamia from a Mootburra black.
Was riding over spinifex country on the Sterling, one
day, and noticed about 6CKhawks circling round a cairn
of stones. Saw two disappear hurriedly, so I rode up
closer and said, “ Hullo there !”in a firm voice. Then a
large blackfellow violently burst off the lid and lit out
for a belt of scrub like a wasp-hunted land-agent. There
were 14 dead hawks in that cairn.
■» * * *
“ Goolwa ” : I read recently of a man who
had a soft spot in his heart for Asiatics. After a
recent visit to an Afghan, or Hindu, camp at
Dunolly (Vic.) I’m inclined to think he has a soft
spot in his head. In any case, he should be
closely watched for further symptoms. A dozen
of the dusky Khans, with their white Australian
Dulcineas, and a dozen or so any-colored picanin-
nies, form the population. Houses are made out
of battered kerosene tins, with mud chimneys,
and peace and stink reign supreme. The camp is
situated, above all places, at the rear of the local
hospital. A cordon of hawking vans surrounds it,
and an apparently-Kaffir woman seems to be the
mistress of the emporium. One turbaned coon
proudly informed me that she was married. Then,
I take it, the white Australian girls are not.
These girls are obtained from Melbourne, and I
am told there is no trouble experienced in getting
them. As I gazed on the miserable, God forsaken
scene I thought of many things, and not the least
of them were Bruce Smith and the fearsome E.
W. Cole, of the monkey-house. Anyhow, can’t
the law do something ?
« * » *
“Cecil P.” : Be sandhills which are all
abrupt on the northern and sloping on the
southern side—by some “mysterious law of
nature’’ (B. 21/2/’O7). Isn’t the mystery very
simple, and don’t the prevailing winds explain
it ? They do, a good few hundreds of miles to
the sou’-west of the country spoken of. They
also give the sandhills, over large tracts of
country, one general “run ” or direction.
TUMUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is far away at Tumut where the terraced mountains
rise
To o’erlook the fertile valley where the dreaming town-
ship lies,
And their snow-caps in the winter shine like silver
diadems,
As if Nature capped their glory with a crown of pallid
gems.
Like the bones of perished gods are they in wild disorder
heaped,
And in their lore and legends all my dreaming soul is
steeped.
It is far away at Tumut where the rolling hills of green
Ever smile upon the valleys lying slumb’ring in between,
Where the timber rears its columns, and in verdant
masses waves,
Tangling in a leafy chaos, making dreamy architraves,
Where the paths w’ind thro’ the woodland—O, I’ve often
lingered there
For an hour alone W'ith Nature, free from sorrow, strife,
and care !
It is far away at Tumut where the wind sings in the
wheat,
Crooning strains of mellow music that are ever strangely
sweet;
Where the festal robes of orchards gleam before, around,
behind,
And the song-birds shyly utter secret meanings of the
wind;
Where the wild vine weaves its tendrils, and the bush-
birds flit and sing
’Mid the thickets, where in garlands blossoms weave, and
sway and cling.
It is far aw r ay at Tumut where the winter tjreath that
chills
Comes with giant, unseen shoulders, striking mountains,
brushing hills,
Where the summer breezes, wand’ring from the scented
wilderness,
Lightly touch the maiden’s dimples, like a roseleaf’s soft
caress ;
Where the morning rifts of sunshine with the noonday
sunrays vie,
And the gleams of evening linger for an hour before they
die.
Towards the lotus land of Tumut, aye, my future course
is planned,
Lying westward from the ocean—far from city’s lethal
land.
When the sweet fruits swell and redden, and the fragrance
brewed from rain
Wafts from corn and wheat crops waving, I shall visit
there again.
And I’ll listen to the voices whisp’ring “Linger here and
rest ” ;
And I’ll heed them, and I’ll bid a long farewell to further
West !
N.S.W.
GEORGE F. BRIGGS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Gr.C. : Description of Cloncurry boils (or fries)
down to the fact that it is a hot little town with copper
deposits round it Barefoot Jimmie: Don’t know
whether it’s meant for unrhymed poetry or blank prose.
J. H. Bunn (Wellington): Received (and didn’t read)
your insufficiently-stamped tale. You Maorilanders seem
to think your penny stamp will carry anything anywhere.
Allan L.: Eminently fitted for backpage (backest
page) of Family Herald C.T.8.: Re “Lyre.” Can’t
decide whether you are a dubious poet or an inspired
madman....F.H.B. : Please wrestle with your growing
tendency to put a penny stamp on a heavy twopenny
letter....B.P. : “Lay” small and obscure E.C.K. :
The troubles of Slinger and Selina are not very interesting.
.... Paul de L. : We can’t rise to that godlike species of
literature. It is too “ tremenjous.” Ugly Duckling :
“Natural Instinct” doesn’t explain itself. Do you
mean that the white hates the Chow because
the white is mosquito-bitten and the yellow isn’t?....
John Brew : The alleged humor lies solely in the fact
that the speaker is Irish T.N.Q,. : It’s all profane
language Boh: Missed it this time. Try again
H.O.G. : “Prospectors” merely states, in ordinary
verse, that the job is precarious... .8.Y.: “Analogy”
only a very small thought by the sea shore.... J.H.M.:
You can’t write political verse Short Fellow (or Brief
Cove or something) : Gone to join the unfit.... Tamar-
ama: “Compensation” too much on the lines of 1000
other poems.. ..Quiz : “Religious Scruples” fails badly.
Ju'm : It was the effort to rhyme “kindred” with
“ hard bed” that killed it H.B. : “Cigarette” only
fair to medium Nameless : None of them have any
semblance of merit G.O.N. : The worm joke is 50
years old, and that makes us dubious about the 10t....
G.M.R. : Yes, but why should we present a picture of
Pat Macky and Dill Moran rolling downhill together?
What’s the cause of it? What’s is all about? Ajey :
Such expressions as “ there is to be found this frightful
being battening its awful soul with insatiable maw” are
picturesque but too powerful.... Vick R. : Can’t get the
hang of your brief poem R.J.J. : Wild screech in
reply to “ Clodd ” is inconclusive. On your own showing,
purchasers are giving £6 10s. for land that Government
valuers say is worth only £5, and, in one case, £26 for
land valued at £ll, and that either means unjustified
boom prices, or a fool valuation. “Clodd” said it
pointed to boom prices, and this paper is inclined to
agree with him....Wangi: Quite unsuitable....W.L. :
He’ll work five days and get 255. lOd. and pay 9s. for
keep, so he’ll net 16s. lOd. If he worked full time he’d
get 31s. and pay 95., so he’d then net 225. The difference
between 225. and 16s. lOd. or ss. 2d., is what he would
lose Samara: Travels over old ground. So many
people have been there and struck far more picturesque
disasters M.V.R. : No good Relay: “Autumn”
doesn’t fetch us. Poem to best girl should be sent to
her direct Big Boomerang : Tottery verse D.A.0.:
A recital of the number of people who fell off one horse
hardly amounts to a story G.R. : Even the noble sen-
timent of “Pro Patria” won’t carry it Alastor:
“Concertina” joke smells familiar Phyx: Had that
eel item before O. T. J. Lloyd : There is no chance at
all for verse when you divide a small sheet of paper into
three columns, and then crowd eight [long verses into a
column. It would require a microscope and a blood-
hound to trace things.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.A. :“ Consternation in Hades” hardly worth the
trouble Frank G. : Rather r<jugh art, and the gags are
mostly the back alley variety oLgbuse M. : Caricature
can’t be achieved by fjimply putting a huge head on a
small body J. Ryan : Declined E. Clinch : None of
them near the mark E.C. (Kiama) : If you were even
a tenth part of the semblance of an artist you would
know that it is no use sending such things to any paper.
Even the War Whoop wouldn’t look at them G.B.
(Melbourne): Will consider one as a suggestion Algie :
Drawing inferior, and one joke had to have insecticide
shaken over it....A.H.W.: There is promise in it, but
the style is youthful and amateurish as yet. Persevere.
A medical item from “ Struggler ”
In our little way-back town threeyoungdoctors are wear-
ing their pants thin waiting for someone to cure or kill,
while an old Chinese quack is kept busy from daylight
till dark giving “ adviee.” They all flock to Dr. Ah Hem.
He is a marvel, this dirty, little, yellow Asiatic. He can
cure nearly anything with a penny and the white of an
egg. Went to see a sick man one night. Beads of
perspiration stood out on his white face as the old man
with the slant eyes and dirty paws rubbed him down
with a penny dipped in the white of an egg. I tried to
get him to call in a doctor, for he was very ill; but no,
he would not take anything but Ah Hem’s “medicine.”
Ah Hem told the missus make it herself—
cockroaches boiled to a pulp and mixed with rum': two
teaspoonfuls to be taken when required. And he took it.
Moreover, he is alive ; and the three pairs of medical
pants are wearing thinner.
When troubled with constipation try
Chamberlain’s Tablets. They are easy to take
and produce no griping or other unpleasant
effect. #
“ Hassan” : If you wish to take a lesson
in the art of stalking, let me recommend as
teacher one of thos'e little jumping spiders which
live in the cracks of walls. The disinterested
way in which he will saunter up to an innocent
fly is simply Machiavellian. He radiates good-
humor, his largest eye blandishes while the other
seven judge distances. By the time the fly begins
to think of that appointment, the spider is within
range. It then attaches a thread to the wall
and launches itself into the air. Sometimes the
fly is too quick off the mark for it, in which case
it stands picking its teeth and looking at the sky,
chatting benevolently to the other flies about the
weather, or the cricket match. And sometimes it
tackles a fly a couple of sizes too big for it, and
they both fall off the wall and scrap enthusiastic-
ally in the dust. But when it has done the trick
neatlv it has the victim by the back of the neck,
and bitten to death in a flash. Then it walks off
to a crack, winking at the other prowlers as it
passes with its meat. One of these abandoned
villains lives in the keyhole of my door, and
murders a fly regularly every day.


M r J)esk'n 7O
•'fe S yAneJ .
f^e*]
Sv
v
"Bents policy 't&,Kes ryjor'a.
ZfCo onl~ of Csi
0&t~ vi\*\ of whsl~
.i ... desires J
[a^s]
We — L^no^
Sho«U omk ba-fferfly ?’
I
Who'll you ~ts!£e , ?
SjjJeynVi'—" fl-je VJ ' you §■*«
Informal Sf M/o
V L<cjc«4
of €,r ,C S
x is'to be fr«Vcd AS
The Ar & ttS '
' P**ry Saturn
outer j>li*rry
(OUiviVy _ SVWJ^
HVi^w o fife-
lAMMUMKtorAl N.
J>l2kC« - H*/« £
jldu Wiitfionfc*^.
£ 'Hi, nwrV,c
fk'l'X"ic ’(f
W «S
sa*'|»ns€S £Atr^s]
# "%■ jOAPtO RipLE-
-1 epidemic
; .^f^(A>x s o3r
cu JUT w v fw «'' ms 1
'Tne Engl'iV Sbtyiw"»s ' s
"K MW I " JV-!!' •'
rAg<o r"
W L * Cutter'
foser.by.'— HaJlo- Vfljafe’ lf?i s ?
— r ' Rifle !
V«K S U S goodie
Aav :~ " Well, * J r ' ll
gj.aT yoM .
FROM HOBSON’S BAY.


MORE “MIXED” THAN EVER.
A new element has been added to the excitements of “ mixed bathing, ” at
Manly. Fishermen along the beach throw In their baited h ? 0 * 8
bathers—doubtless with the idea that the latter make good burley for sharks.
AUSTRALIAN TORPEDO BOATS.
"1 have,” says the Minister for
Defence, “ welcomed the arrival of so
able and experienced a naval architect
and engineer as Mr. Esplen. Mr.
Esplen has generously offered to sub*
mit what he believes would be tiro
best method of bringing about the
naval construction scheme which the
Government has in view.”
Excited Bather :“HI 1 HI! Slack off, that’s my wife
you’ve hooked I ”
King Edward has ordered a luncheon'
to be given at Westminster Hall in
honor of the visiting Navigation Com-
mission.
B II Lyne : “ Oh, don’t go to all that trouble, your Majesty.
We are simple in our ways. Just supply us with o bottle
or two of hop beer and a few dog-blscults, and let us go
for a picnic to St. John’s
Wood, or somewhere.”
The S.Af. Herald, these times, can hardly
write about any grievance without saying that
what we want is a man like Johnson, the new
Imported N.S.W. Railway Commissioner who
hasn’t arrived yet, to put everything right.
Expert (after painstaking explanation
of plans): i trust that I make
myself understood?”
Minister: ” Oh, perfectly—leastwise In
that part where you say you A
charge nothing for your _jfl
advice.”
Bill Lyne has taken 16 of the-reports of the Tariff Com-
mission to England for light reading on the way.
Tasmania s National Ass Is dead, and a new fresh
Ass, the Tasmanian National Progressive League 2
orn in Its stead, and brays at the Old address.
PASSING EVENTS.


mnaummmm
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The late John Young, of Sydney, is
commonly credited with having formed the first
bowling green in N.S.W., but in the old days of
the Woolpack Inn, Mr. Payten had a green for
the use ©f his customers. Also, bowling greens
were in use in Melbourne in the sixties.
fAtrifdtt McKinley perpetrated the one
joke of his lifetime during his recent trip to
England. He shaved off the lemon-colored
whiskers, Which were generally regarded in Mel-
bourne as Paunch’s insignia of the true humor
—the kind that has a scream of laughter blown
in the bottle.
A unique figure among present-day poli-
ticians of the Commonwealth. . . . An orator who
can throw a halo of attraction around the orifice of
Hades. . . . The one Australian statesman who is
indispensable alike to the Commonwealth and to
the Empire.— M. H. H. Macartney, on Alfred
Deakin , in the National Review.
H. S. Webster, head office manager of the
A.J.S. Bank, who got severely handled at the
Crick trial—-W. P. Crick kept an account at the
A.J.S. while he was Minister for Lands—has
entered into business on his Own account ” A
man who has spent even half of Webster’s 43
years with the sepulchral A.J.S. deserves a
brighter ending than that.
A DISTINCTION.
"An' ef you want a bit o' gard’nin’ done, there's
me 'usban’s bin off the beer this six months,
Miss."
"Off the beer, Mrs. Brown! Why, I saw him
drunk on the road as I came along."
“ O well, it must 'a’ bin whisky; that's all I can
say, Miss."
A veteran lifeboatman crossed the bar,
at Adelaide, recently, aged 80. W. T. Hook
served in the British navy and mercantile marine,
and then joined the pilot service at the Sema-
phore. He was one of the rescuers of the crew of
the wrecked Admella, some years back, and got a
breastful of medals for his work. Also he was
himself wrecked, and came ashore on a raft, the
only survivor from the Corsair, sunk in St.
Vincent’s Gulf.
Melbourne daily papers report that ‘ ‘ Mr.
Frank Hennelly, of Ararat, who has been work-
ing there as a laborer for many years, has come
into a legacy of £lB,OOO by the death of a relative
in Ireland.” That’s the difference between
getting a legacy and a sunstroke. “Mr. Frank
Hennelly, of Ararat, who has been working as a
laborer ” gets the legacy : “a corporation laborer
named Hennelly ” would get the sunstroke.
Mr. Godbehear, candidate for Geelong
(Vic.), struck a patch of bad luck that is almost a
record. He called a meeting of his friends and
supporters,, and about 12 attended. When he
had explained his views, his chief supporter (in
the chair) urged him to retire. Three other warm
supporters asked him to retire. A vote was
taken, and all the warm supporters requested him
to retire. Then Mr. Godbehear retired. What else
could he do ?
The late Colonel Henry S. Olcott, presi-
dent of the Theosophical Society, did one thing
in Australia which merits a sprig of green. A
spooky convert, old Carl Hartmann, of Too-
woomba (Q.), was so struck with Theosophy
that, when dying, he bequeathed his lands and
other possessions, valued at several thousands, to
Olcott, leaving his own family almost destitute.
The mystic warrior left off his chase after the
unfindable mahatma long enough to hand back
the property.
Rev. John Penman, the Recently elected
president of the Methodist Conference, com-
menced life doing a bit of droving up Rqckhamp-
ton (Q.) way. He acted as cook to the camp forj
a time, but says that his services were dispensed
with because he had forgotten to put baking 1
powder in a damper, the size of a cart wheel.
“ Percole ” : Juddy, of Melbourne, is
possessed of a modesty that surpasseth under-
standing. Recently, addressing the Brunswick
(Vic.) electors, he exhorted them to vote—not for
plain him —but for the glory of God and the good
of mankind. What superb being is this who
deigns to tread the mortal earth ? I herewith
start a subscription to buy him a halo, new if
obtainable, second-hand if unavoidable.
Barnum Powell has discovered that he is a
lineal descendant of Captain John Smith, who
founded Virginia, and was the best boy of the
brown girl Pocahontas. At a recent shivoo in
London to celebrate the sailing of the First
Fleeters to America, 300 years ago, Barnum of
the big hat was there beaming. But the affair
turned out to be a poor sort of a maffick after all,
and all the interest centred on one Admiral Rolfe,
who turned up with documentary evidence to
prove himself a descendant of the famous
Pocahontas herself. Powell is understood to
have left in disgust. But aren’t the descendants
on the female side of Montezuma 11. still around ?
Their connection with America is nearly 100
years older than that of Mrs. Pocahontas Smith.
“ Caber ” writes :
Meston is going to run for Warwick. It brings up
reminiscences of the seventies, what time Archie livened
up men and matters in the Ipswich Observer, and John
Irwin, who edited the Queensland Times, used to pick up
the “ reptile contemporary ” in just about as cautious a
manner as a swag-man would his blanket when he knew
a seven-inch centipede was in its folds. Every Limestoner
read “ Smiles,” and Archie managed, at least once a week,
to “ smile ”at Covenanting John. Meston sat for Rose-
wood during nearly the life of one Parliament, but gave
a non-party vote on the “ steel rails ” business. That
vote closed th° political career of the “ Sacred Ibis,” for
in a few days the Rosewood seat was vacant, owing to the
insolvency of the sitting member. t was a fishy piece of
business on the part of the Great Liberal Party, but as
the principal actors have gone where P.N.’s are not re-
coverable, it matters little now.
This is the Victorian record since 1873 of
Arthur Diggs for larceny, housebreaking, and
burglary:—
1873, 1 month : 1874, 3 months ; 1875, 3 months ; 1877,
3 months; 1878,5 years; 1886, 12 months; 1887, 1
month, 1 month, and 2 years; 1889, 5 years; 1894, 1
year ; 1895, 7 years ; 1900, 2 .years ; 1906, 3 months; and
1907, 5 years, repeated three times, concurrent.
One doesn’t know which is the worse failure—the
law as a reformer, or Diggs as a burglar. The
biggest trouble with Diggs is that we know now
what ought to have been done with him in 1873,
but nobody knew for certain at that time; and
that’s one of the snags the theoretically-alluring
indeterminate sentence idea bumps against.
The “bravery” of Queen Wilhelmina’s
husband at the wreck of the Berlin, on the Dutch
coast, stirs Edward VII. to confer the Order of
the Waslistand (or something like that) on the
royal ’ero. The “bravery” will probably boil
down, later, to the fact that the reckless ’Enery
got his feet wet while holding a lamp, or some-
thing. All accounts picture the noble ’Enery as
a brutal lout. His marriage contract with the
Dutch Queen stipulated that he should resign the
job of husband if the union failed to provide an
heir within five years. So far, the heir hasn’t
transpired, though the Queen has suffered two
miscarriages—the first, six months after marriage,
through terror, because s drunken ’Enery tried to
storm the Queen’s apartments to demonstrate her
condition to half-a-dozen intoxicated friends.
This intention was only suppressed because the
guards threatened to slay the crowd on the costly
royal carpet. Perhaps ’Enery is playing to the
gallery for an extension of his engagement as
husband.
“ Henry ” writes :
It is customary to regard champion Bill Squires as a
poor, hard-up fellow who suddenly sprang into opulence
by discovering that he could put his fists to more profit-
able use than work. As a matter of fact, Bill occupied
one of the top notches of the aristocracy of labor, and his
earnings in the pit exceeded those of many a professional
man. Expert coal-miners are always well paid, and
Bill stood out as one of the most hefty hewers
in the Newcastle district. When the Pelaw Main wasn’t
idle through strikes, Bill was one of the cracks who could
knock out 15s. to £1 a shift. Before he took on coal-
mining he was certainly working- for a railway contractor
at ss. a day, but even then -he was worth a lot more.
The only thing that Squires takes a pride in is the work
he has done. Pugilism is a small thing to him. It is
har i to get him to talk about his career as a
boxer, but there’s no stopping him if the conversa-
tion is turned to the quantity of coal that can be
heaved out in a given time. The suggestion to run Bill
as a Labor candidate for the Senate next time isn’t
by a long way the subject for amusement that many
imagine. He is a hard-headed, sensible man, and stands
as much above the average pug mentally as he does
physically. Personally, he is more presentable than half
the sitting members, Labor and Anti-Sosh alike, and he
has been a unionist and a Laborite ever since he knew
how. Bill certainly can’t talk, but that wouldn’t be a
drawback in a place that wastes whole years in conversa-
tion. He would gain, in addition to the direct Labor
vote, a solid bush vote. A proportion of rouseabouts,
and milkers, and rabbiters may be apathetic about
Labor, but they would walk 10 miles to the booth to vote
for Squires. If Bill returns from America with the
championship, he ought to be Senator Squires in three
years.
John Young, of Sydney, the “father of
bowls,” is dead, to the regret of all who knew
him, at the ripe age of 80 years. He was born at
Eootscray, in Kent (England), a rural spot, which
presents no resemblance to sprawling, busy, un-
kempt, bone-mill-haunted Footscray in Victoria,
where they are always boiling down something
aged and horrible. He was a draughtsman at the
construction of the Crystal Palace (London), and
also did work in New York, Paris, and elsewhere,
before coming to Australia and setting up as a
contractor. His work here was immense and
varied, and included St. Patrick’s Ca hedral,
Melbourne"; Ballarat Gaol, Sargood’s store, the
Congregational Church in Collins and Russell
streets, Melbourne, and many other churches and
villas. In 1859 he commenced St. John’s College,
Sydney, and built St. Mary’s Cathedral, Hobart,
and the Cargill monument in Dunedin. In 1866
he came to Sydney to reside permanently, and
commenced St. Mary’s Cathedral. He built the
General Post Office, and the 1870 Exhibition Build-
ing at Redfern. He also built the old Redfern
railway station, Farmer and Oo.’sshop, Pitt-street;
Dalton Bros.’ premises, in Pitt-street; the Lands
Office, in Bridge-street; and the Garden-Palace.
Mr. Young is credited with having given Henry
Parkes one of his Kent villas, at Annandale, rent
free, in the latter years of his life, and certainly if
it wasn’t given rent free, the rent was never col-
lected, for in those days Parkes was penniless.
Parkes named the house Kenilworth, and died
there. Mr. Young was Mayor of Sydney in 18S6,
and had the credit of having introduced wood-
block roadways to the city. He made several
attempts to enter Parliament, but he had no very
definite politics, and the electors signified their
feelings in the usual manner.
THE FRUGAL McALLISTER.
M ACK: “’ Tis threepence Fm owin' ta ye, Meenister. The fact is, I’m a conscientious mon, and
I pit naethin’ in the plate on Sunday. The smallest I had wi’ me was a saxpence, and
I didna theenk the sairmon was up ta it.”
William Farmer, the head of Australia’s
well-known softgoods firm, now visiting Sydney,
has been many years “Mr. Sheriff” of the
Corporation of the City of London. London
sheriffs are personages. It is Mr. Sheriff’s
duty to present petitions of the City rate-
payers to the House of Commons, and
to attend at the Bar of the House and
address Mr. Speaker. He is a return-
ing-officer at Parliamentary elections,
and it is his custom, at each of the twelve
annual sittings of the Central Criminal
Court, to entertain the Judges and the
Bar at dinner or lunch. Sheriff Cowper,
of Sydney, used to do some of these
things, as did his predecessors, but of
late the hospitality of the Sheriff has
dropped off.
“ Quan” : The Bulletin has said
of ex-Mayor Crase, of Brisbane, the de-
served term of reproach so often that I
want to put in a good word for him. He’s
the father of an Australian-born family of
16. He, Opposition leader Philp, Queens-
land Chairman of Committees Jackson, and
J. D. Campbell, M.L.A., the chief speakers at
the A.N.A.’s annual dinner in Brisbane the
other day, count 40 Australian-born children
arnone- them.
Joe Charles, the man who gave “Tatter-
sail’s” sweeps the stiffest run they ever had,
died in Melbourne the other day. Charles went
across to Westralia from Sydney when Cool-
gardie was booming, and started a land agency.
Some of his specs, turned out well, so he then
started his “consultations,” appealing to Wes-
tralians to keep the money in their own State.
They were apparently honestly conducted, and
soon became popular. Then Charles waxed
wealthy and ambitious. Leaving Jim Gardiner
in charge of the cheque book, he went up to
Shanghai, and started Melbourne Cup and other
consultations there —his circulars, attractively
printed in Chinese on imitation bank-notes, were
distributed by hundreds of thousands. But the
Chow did not bite, and, after several months of
hard battling, Charles returned to Perth. His
representative, during his absence, went in for
politics, became M.L. A. for Albany, and subse-
quently State Treasurer. Charles became, in the
meantime, involved in various land transactions;
his consultations got besmirched, and he was
compelled to abandon them. At one time he was
a shareholder in Perth Sunday Times, and it is
believed he had something to do with the famous
article, that was never published, denouncing
Judge Parker (now Chief Justice).
Superintendent Brennan, who has just
retired from N.S.W. police force, tells a tale
about the historic medals that Slippery Charley
Cowper struck to commemorate the heroism dis-
played in crushing the bushrangers of the ’6o’s
and ’7o’s. Cowper, then Premier, announced that
he would have gold and silver medals struck at
the Mint for presentation to those who had
signally distinguished themselves. Five years
later the medals were distributed, but the gold
ones were presented to Cowper’s political friends,
while the cheap, silver objects went to the police.
Even Walker, who brought down Thunderbolt,
only received about 2s. worth of silver decoration.
AMERICA IN FUTURE.
“ Ancestor?”
“ No. That’s my great-grandmother Seraphina
Jamieson’s pet society pig Mary.”
Tom Hughes, Sydney’s Lord Mayor, was
born in a house of many fortunes in Elizabeth-
street, where now the plague rat is industriously
chased for 4d. a head. He was early sent to
England, and later picked up law wrinkles from
Tom Slattery and Louis Heydon.
Premier Price, the stonemason, is surpris-
ing S. Australia. Even his friends took him
for a Welsh “ local preacher,” who could
say things, but needn’t be expected to do
anything big. But, besides doing some good
work in an administrative way, he has com-
pleted .the Adelaide Tramway purchase, which
had been dragging on for 10 years, has done
something definite with the Northern Terri-
tory, and has settled the Murray River trouble if
Carruthers can be got in a reasonable frame of
mind. Yet he is absolutely no “diplomatist,”
and he says apologetically, “ I was never much
good at details.” But that is just where he
seores. He takes in the big aspects of a big
question, and doesn’t pursue the trifles with a
microscope. That sort of man often makes what
looks like a bad bargain; but the other sort of
man makes none, and, in the end, his successors
have to make far worse terms than Price gets.
A VAIN TASK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The comet came, a fiery curse
Directed at the universe,
And love, and hate, and hope, and mirth
Were dead upon the quaking earth.
For each man knew that all was done,
The world’s long, weary course was run,
And soon the whole must he destroyed,
Earth’s fragments scattered in the void.
One man alone with heat and weight
Did scream against the law of Fate.
’Twas Judkins on a mountain set
Beneath his ti-tree coronet.
“ Destroy the world,” he cried, “ what spite 1
And just as 1 had set it right! ”
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.
THE FATHER OF BOWLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
vic.
Surely the genial game of Bowls
Is good for bodies as for souls.
His life is long, his smile serene
Who bends the knee upon the Green,
And raising Heavenward his eyes,
Takes whisky with his exercise.
If aged men indeed be old,
It is because they haven’t bowled.
In New South Wales the moneyed game
Won honor through its parent’s name :
For eighty years the sun had shone —
A bowl of light—on Father John
Before his parting knell was rung—
And then good Father John died Young.
O.K.


It isn't £ Shop, it’s an Institution!
Customers Served Daily at the New Palace
In. h»h j ■
mßßtSSsm™
-
m
sa
m
\t/A
MM.
m
I
.
■
m *-! »*»’!• 5:
K'Bft
■Bil
ten
sss:
uni 11
SS3HBS
111
■e
SB
uiiu
HOLUIIU
Pin
9
111
rot
SwajSlfc
ANTHONY HORDERN L SONS, ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. SYDNEY N.S.W
Tools of Trade
Anthony Hordern’s
Famous Low Prices.
USEFUL and LABOR-SAVING VICES.
THe Universal Pattern Makers* and
Wood Workers* Vice.
The Standard and only Vice for
Pattern and Wood Work.
A peculiar characteristic of this Vice is the celerity in which
it jumps about into a variety of positions, presenting the
work always in an attitude to the workman that he can
operate with comfort, as the illustrations show.
With this vice you need never twist or bend yourself to
suit your work, but just let the vice turn the work in any
position or direction and hold it to suit your comfort.
It has six pairs of jaws, so that it is adapted to grasp any
kind of work without regard to irregularity of form. The
workman who has the use of one of these is as thoroughly
equipped as though he had access to a dozen different vices in as many different positions without being obstructed and encum-
bered with the presence of a lot of useless tools. In this quality it stands among all the tools in a pattern shop without a peer.
The Universal Pattern MaKers 1
and Wood WorKers* Vice.
No. I—Jaw, 7in. xlBi"n., opens 14in., weight 861 b., G2/G
No. 2—Jaw, sin. x 14in., opens 12in., weight 561 b., 53/G
BLOCKS with
TAIL VICES,
3 1 /z to Jaw, S«L lb.
Extra Screws and
Boxes, 9d. lb.
The Universal Tool MaKers* and
Machinists* Vice . . .
With Patent Adjustable Jaw
and Swivel Bottom.
THE ACME OF SUCCESS. INDISPENSABLE IN THE TOOL ROOM,
No. sa— Tool Mahers' and Metal Worhers' Vice,
2in. Jaw, opens 2fin., weighs 121 b., 30/-
No. 6a— With Sin. Jaw, opens sin., weighs 451 b., 43/0
This vice is to the machinist, tool maker and all-round metal worker what
the Universal Pattern Makers’ Vice has proven to be to the wood workman,
and is so constructed as to be used in any conceivable position. It is supplied
with one set of groove jaws to hold all classes of round work, one set of jaws
which will hold any class of taper work, one set to held copper work, and one
set to hold any size ring. It is also supplied with a rough jaw for cast-iron
work, with one smooth jaw for finished work, and with pipe jaws.
6
Handy Parallel Vices.
No. 00 0 1 2 3 4 5
Width of Jaw 2J 2J 3 3J 3§ 4j 5| in.
Will open ... 2J 3 3| 4J 4| 5 6J 7 in.
Weight ... 6 8 10i 19£ 30 50 70 90 lb.
Price... 6/- 7/- 8/- 12/6 16/6 24/- 32/- 46/-
TOOLS OF ALL TRADES, Illustrated
Catalogue Post Free on Application „
ANTHONY HORDERN (& SONS
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS & &
Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


“ Petramos ” : When I was a callow clerk
in a house agent’s office I was acquainted with a
bailiff named Bill. Bill had red whiskers grow-
ing wild on his face, and I’m certain that they
had a deal to do with his great success in life.
There was something hypnotic about Bill’s red
whiskers. They frightened and fascinated. I
have seen him enter a house and, after taking up
the passage carpet, calmly order the tenant to
bring him a cup of tea into the drawing-room.
Bill always got the tea. He also got it in the
drawing-room if there was one. I have seen his
red whiskers sweep against the fair young com-
plexion of Miss Tottie Twolegs as he informed
Madame Twolegs that the “ gent for whom ’e was
actin’” thought Tottie wasn’t religious enough to
live in one of his houses. Even when a large,
villainous-looking gentleman loomed suddenly
into view, scowled heavily, and asked Bill what
he meant by coming into the Twolegs house with-
out Tottie’s express invitation, Bill merely
pointed his red whiskers at the new.comer’s eye
and bade him lend a hand at shifting the har-
monium into the street. When Tottie wept, Bill
brushed her with his red whiskers again, and
asked her to join his Wednesday evening Bible
class. Bill was marvellously successful. I don’t
think any other bailiff—even one with green
whiskers—could have done better.
BEAUTY CHATS, by Helena Rubinstein. The
Structure op Your Skin.—You know, of course, that
your skin is pitted with myriads of little pores. But do
you know that the function of these pores is both to
breathe in pure air and to be the passage way for the
escape of waste products of the body ? If the pores are
clogged the skin is stifled. To ensure their activity they
must be cleansed ar.d all impurities expelled. If not, a
“bad complexion” is certain, with a crop of wrinkles
and crowsfeet as its attendant. Now, Valaze first cleanses
the skin of all impurities, and then it sinks hungrily into
the pores and is absorbed by the skin cells, and gives
them nourishment. You’ll sometimes feel a tingling
sensation of the skin when you first use Yalaze—this is
when your skin has been very neglected and the cells are
starved. And how quickly Valaze does beautify the com-
plexion—how it braces up the tired skin, making it as
clear and radiant as a child’s—soft and caressing as vel-
vet, smooth as satin. Your chemist sells Valaze in 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jars. Get a jar and see how it will improve your
skin. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure cures the
most obstinate cases ; approved by medical authorities.
2s. 6d., posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, beautifully
cleansing and purifying, made from almonds and rare
herbs, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair-killer, for the
home removal of superfluous hair ; won’t harm the most
delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe, 55., postage
3d. it your chemist tries to press another Skin Food on
to you, write direct to me for Valaze, adding 6d. postage
extra. Tiie Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
DYMOCK’S CIRCULATING LIBRARY is with-
out doubt the best institution of the kind in N.S.W. All
the best books are received by post from the publishers,
in more than adequate quantities, to meet any demand.
At other libraries it is found that members have often to
wait weeks for a popular book, but Dymock’s supply the
books asked for at once. Country members may have a
parcel of eight books exchanged as desired for the sum of
£2 12s. 6d. p.a., or £llls. (id. for six months ; city and
suburban members, two books and two magazines daily
for the sum of £2 2s. p.a., or £1 ss. for six months;
one book and one magazine, £1 Is. p.a., or 12s. 6d. for
six months ; larger parcels and shorter periods at propor-
tionate rates. Every section of literature is represented,
including Fiction, Travel, History, Reminiscence, Belle
Lettres. All volumes are clean and fresh, each is covered
in a neat green cloth. Write for Catalogues to Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Your Cough will go. -When the inflammation
caused by a cold invades the tissues of the lungs and
bronchial tubes, we have a cough. The way to cure a
cough is to allay the inflammation. And that’s just
what Senior’s Black Currant Balsam does—it gets at the
seat of trouble and removes the cause. A cough will not
last long with this treatment. Try it if you are cough-
ing. It’s the most pleasant tasting remedy you’ve ever
tried. Obtainable everywhere. Price, Js. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s Pharmacy, 246
George-street, Sydney.*
!o
Sr
V
4
“ Goutez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE*’
WHISKY
9
§y
“<2R ANNETTES”
Are the Ideal Rubrics
for
RAI INCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 6, 1907.
My Dear Arini.—
The weather is a scallywag ! Their Federal
Excellencies the Northcotes, if it were not for the
weather, would now be staying at “Hill View,”
the Moss Vale residence of the State Governor.
But Saturday afternoon was a certain hail-storm’s
day out. And it broke 127 windows of “ Hill
View,” and flowed over the rooms that the North-
cotes were to inhabit. Hail-rocks (’twould be
cowardice to call ’em hail stones) also killed
cattle and scattered fruit, and did other damage.
Mr. John Young, whose name is rarely men-
tioned without the affectionate sub-title “Father
of Bowls,” died last week at his beflowered and
foliaged home, “Kentville,” Annandale. Mr.
Young was 80 years of age. He was a successful
builder and contractor, and churches and other
important buildings were erected by him in this
city, in Hobart, and Maoriland. In his Euro-
pean and Asiatic travels he collected many good
or curious works of art. He and Mrs. Young
were great entertainers, and all visiting bowlers
and local players got the glad hand and a welcome
to their dinners and garden parties. Mrs. Young
and two sons and a daughter survive him.
A great contingent of Sydneysiders left these
smiling if moist shores, last Wednesday, by the
Marmora. The W. P. Martins (she is one of the
smartest of dressers), a quartette of Knoxes, the
Gerald Brownes (he is married to the daughter of a
former Governor of Westralia), Mr. and Mrs.
Waterhouse (daughter and son-in-law of the late
Verv Rich Man, Eb. Vickery), and the Hamilton
Gordons and the Comtesse de Meirelles. Last is
a sister of Mrs. Gordon, and a Portuguese. She is
a Hebraic-looking young party, who puts on no
side, but how. a section of Sydney loved to
have her at its afternoon teas and ask her, in a
raised voice, “Two lumps, Countess?” “ Cream,
Countess, or milk?” The “Countess” word
wasn’t allowed to rust in penny trams or Pointer
drawing-rooms. One glory ahead of the Marmora
passengers: the Duke and Duchess of Connaught
and Princess Patricia will join at Colombo.
Miss Tittell Brune has forwarded a cheque for
two guineas to the hon. sec. of the Child’s Study
Association. Miss Margery Mac Masters and
Mr. Arthur Mason also send cheques for the like
sum, and a hidden donor forwards ss.
Miss Elbert-Orton, one of the two leading ladies
towed here by Julius Knight, is a fine example of
middle-aged beauty. Her dressing is knocking
the Hotel Australia flat. She is rich, very rich,
and a widow, and the stage is her distraction.
She has adorned it for a few years only. Imagine
taking up hard labor by way of distraction, when
you might simply have the light job of being a
rich widow!
Julius himself stumbles into Jean’s for the pur-
pose of making floral the buttonhole of his grey
coat. “Grey clothes and an asp-green tie,”
reciteth the chronicler who mostly wears a river
hat and the muslin frock of the ingenue, “and he
chose a fat pink"; bud, and •wouldn’t have any '
maiden-hair around it.” Doesn’t the fierce light
beat upon a mummer as well as upon a throne ?
Last Wednesday, by the Jap liner, went the
J. R. Woods of Newcastle (the Essie Jenyns
Woods) and their children. They have taken
their motor with them, and intend to motor
through Mikado-land.
Mr. Owen Cox returned from South Australia,
Melbourne, and other foreign and hostile parts
last week. I’m sick of mentioning the go-aways
—it’s only fair to show that someone has had the
patriotism to come back.
That all-conquering widow, Mrs.- J. T. Toohey,
and her step-flock, were at Bowral recently, spin-
ning through the- landscape in the. thousand-
guinea motor they brought out with them
recently. Mr. Maurice Toohey, who is in better
health than the kind he hasn’t enjoyed lately,
was to go to Tasmania to escape this hot-wet-
blanket weather.
Miss Marion Poritt, a Victorian singer with a
reputation for warbling Scotch songs, has been in
Sydney for a few days. Highland Society gave a
small, evening sing-song to introduce her to
Itself. Miss Poritt responded with some Cale-
donian airs, and all the members declared that if
she didn’t come over again to set the Thistle to
song in a bigger hall for the benefit of the public,
they’d have to go down to Melbourne to hear her.
Miss Marion Grey, of the new J.K. Co., was at
the last night of the Tittell Brune show, and
proved to be, in appearance, a very slender, very
tall creation, with blue eyes and a splendid head
of dark-brown hair that brightened to russet
wherever the light caught its coils. She is the
original of our Gallery picture, “Reverie,” by, I
think , F. Dicksee. Her face is a Burne-Jones
one, and has a kind of appealing thinness, but
also what the old hypnotiser said of Trilby’s
applies—it has “ beautiful bones.” She ought to
look a peach on the stage. She is a cousin of the
Fenners, of Melbourne, and of Mrs. Percy Chirn-
side. Miss Grey will make her first show here in
“ Raffles,” the next piece.
What a rogue night was that of last Saturday !
The rain was warm and the air was warmer, and"
when Sydney came in out of the wet to welcome
back Julius Knight at Her Majesty’s, the big
theatre was warm like an Ottoman wash. The
galleiy was so packed that somehow the crowd
suggested the work of a hydraulic press The
circle, also packed, looked shabby, but Lent and
the weather would have explained things if it had
been in rags. Stalls and boxes looked a little
smarter than the circle. Perhaps the stallites
and the boxers put Lent and the weather where
they are supposed to put Satan—behind them,
lne circle takes an absorbed interest in the
hairdressing of the stalls. It-the dressing of
the intellectual attic—is so much in evidence
mu i? S - e a ?°, ve at t(ie interest is not surprising,
-he hair of the woman who has “just come back”
is always of interest—parted in the middle, rather
flat at the sides over the ears, then outspread far
and wide, and built up on top with coils, or curls,
or both, and ornamented with millinery, creatures
from the Zoo, stuffed specimens from an aviary,
flowers, foliage or fruit. A damsel in Saturday’s
audience had a wreath of cherries and blossoms.
Another wore a great drooping osprey—the “ re-
versed osprey ” we see so much about in foreign
fashion journals. It has a most dejected expres-
sion, like a wet flag at half-mast, or the trailing
tail of a drenched fowl. But the lady with the
long, thin ostrich feather, its spine gilded and
dotted with tiny paste jewels, was very up-to-
the-minute. The stem was planted above her
left ear, and the feather journeyed, with devia-
tions, across and down the back of her head till
its tip tickled her ivory right shoulder.
A great outburst of green on the stage—Sher-
wood Forest all green, Robin Hood and his merrie
men all in Lincoln green ! Mrs. Geoff. Fairfax,
in the stalls, glittering as to ornaments in the
tone of green beetles’ wings ! The Burdekins,
back from mummied Egypt, made a white boxful.
A boneless Kelso King girl helped to fill another.
(You must not call a plump girl by that adjective
any more; you must call her boneless.) The
Lachlan Beatons and Miss Ruby Adams were a
blueand white-and-silverboxful, trimmed with vin-
dictive-lookingwhitenerinelilies. Mrs. Williamson
and Mrs. C. Deane’s pen wore the strictly-correct
Lenten sombreness. Mayoress Hughes, one of
the David Anderson dazzlers, and in fact most of
the first-nighters, were present.
After the Play.
Time : 11.15 ot first night of “ Robin Hood.” Place
Cloak-room of Her Majesty’s Theatre (Sydney). Persons :
Some sixty women hurrying into their theatre coats, and
all talking at once.
First Coat-Hunter : “ How did you like it ? ”
Second Ditto : “ Rather dull. Julius Knight’s legs are
thinner.”
First Coat-Hunter : “ Well, if they get fatter the
play will get brighter. Eh ? ” (She rushes out.)
Third Coat-Hunter : “ I can’t make up my mind about
the new woman, Elbert-Orton. She’s got a look—full face,
you know—of Mary Anderson and Maud Jeffries and
Edith Crane and Mabel Lane, and yet she isn’t what you’d
call beautiful.”
Superior Coat-Huntf.r (as she flees to the door after
collecting a mackintosh): “ All those had rather classic
faces; Miss Elbert What’s-her-name has classic lines in
her facial outline. Can’t say I care for them out of
marble.”
Large-sized Coat-Hunter (opposite mirror) : “The new
lady would make a splendid Lady Macbeth. (Takes
diamond combs out of her toupie and puts them in hand
bag.) A simply perfect Lady Macbeth. She’s got the
right voice and prizefighter jaw and figure and tragic
intensity. But she isn’t Maid Marian—not to my think-
ing.” (Gathers up her skirts and dives for the door).
Breathless Young Coat-Hunter (pinning motor-cap
on her outspread hair); “I’m certain Melba Horton —
isn’t that her name? No, I mean Elbert Morton, of
co,urse —well, she’s played Rosalind in “ As You Like It.”
When she came on in that doublet and hose she was so
coy and arch, and yet she made all the running—just like
all Shaky’s heroines.”
Hunter, who has put her Coat on, and is Waiting
for a Friend : “ I’m sure Julius Knight is a nice- minded
man. The way he kept Maid Marian’s shoe well-covered
against his heart in both hands, when he found it in the
forest —for it wasn’t a number three, not by several
inches 1 ”
Very Tall Coat-Hunter (snappishly): “ Well, she
isn’t a number three figure- She must be five feet ten
—and her legs are lovely.” ■ . -
Little Old Lady Coat-Hunter (in a whisper to second
ditto) : “ That is the second reference to legs in the same
minute. Young people to-day are—are—very —legumin-
ous.”
Brunette Coat-Hunter (butting her way through the
throng): “ Don’t care for the piece at all. I expected
King John to have Jews’ teeth drawn at least in one of
the acts. He always did that, you know, when he wanted
money.”
Languid and Drooping Coat-Hunter : “ Yes, they ought
to have something like that to make excitement. Per-
haps they will put it in later if the piece doesn’t take—or
an earthquake. I liked the earthquake in ‘ Parsifal ’ a
lot better than Tittell Brune.”
Debutante Coat-Hunter (winding a gauze scarf around
her hair) : “They say Tittell Brune has three children.”
Middle-Aged Coat-Struggler (apparently her mother):
“ Well, and if she has, it would be quite respectable.”
Stout Coat-Burster (stooping with difficulty to put on
goloshes): “O, they are always saying that about
actresses. Why, everyone who takes a trip to California
comes back and says that she saw the seven children of
that widow—you know the pretty widow actress—l
forget her name. Seven children, and all working.”
Belated Coat-Finder: “You should have seen this
room last night. Tittell Brune’s last night, you know.
Millions of hats ! ” (She waves an over-whitened arm
towards the four walls and the ceiling, and speaks
through teeth that hold a hat-pin with a ruby-eyed cat’s
head.) All the girls who adore Tittell Brune wear sailor-
hats with ribbon bands, or black, glazed calico picture
hats, with plumes that never grew on any bird that ever
was on land or sea.”
Voices of Departing Coat-Tails : “Doesn’t Plimmer
look ripping in that Crusader’s get-up ? ” . . . “Plimmer
—oh, yes, you’l' see all about him in that lovely book—a
little blue, al; le same—‘Richard Yea-and-Nay.’” .. .
“ I mean about the man he is on the stage, you know,
Richard Coeur de Lion.” . . . “ Wasn’t the forest lovely?”
. . . “Maid Marian’s riding clothes?” . . . “Oh, yes 1
royal blue and emerald green.” . . . “ Perfectly, sweet
contrast.” . . . “Sherwood Forest! Yes, it’s in the
histories.” . . . “ He’s made Earl of Huntingdon
in the last act.” .. . “Really!” .. . “Why, one
of the Wilson girls, of Ercildoune station, is married
to the present Earl of Huntingdon.” . . . “How abso-
lutely ripping to be married to a grandson—no, I suppose
much later than that —of Robin Hood ! ” . . . “Coffee !”
. . . “ Good night! ”
Mr. O. A. Waters, who lately married Miss
Rose Glenister, was given, in honor of the event,
a dinner at the Australia by some fellow-members
of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club. Yachts sailing
on seas of ices were handed round, whilst the
musicians played the “Sailing, Sailing” waltz.
That’s “featuring” a clubbies’ membership,
isn’t it?
Plan for Laurance Godfrey Smith’s recital is
now open at Paling’s.
Pretty little Mabel Taliaferro, who was here
lately with an American co., was married some
two months ago. The acquirer of the miniature
Venus is described as an actor-manager.
The quest for a wife. From S.M. Herald,
February 22 :
HIGHLY-RESP. middle-aged Widower, English,
* * com. home, holds fair official position, 2 girls,
15, 11, desires acquaintance v. matrimony, Xtian
Prot. domesticated Lady, not above work if req.
Superior domest. servant perhaps suitable No false
names. Write first to Sacred Confidence, General
Post-office, Sydney.
What sort of a domesticated servant lady is a
Xtian Prot. ?
Miss Dorothy Sidney, one of the company
roped in by Julius Knight, is much prettier
off the boards than on them. Also she
has achieved what I thought was impossible
in a woman with a thin, long, narrow face,
and a bony little aquiline nose—to coquette
gracefully, and be arclily yet naturally demure.
No doubt flirting in the twelfth century was done
very much as it is to-day, only the flirter dressed
differently, and said things, such as. “Wouldst
kiss me, varlet!” And the varlet said he would.
Miss Fanny Bauer, the Sydney warbler, has
been singing in Ireland and getting much eulogy,
and let us hope, some gold. She certainly had a
beautiful voice when she left here. The Galway
Observer speaks of her as “ a superior artist of
the first magnitude.” How’s that for high? as
the Yanks say.
Papers coming from English parts, and con-
taining accounts pf the Thaw trial, are enough to
give one a bad fit of disgust. Said accounts seem
to be wired across from America, but not once
does the enraptured newspaper man mention
Mrs. Thaw without prefixing “ beautiful ” to her
name. “Notorious” would be an equally
serviceable adjective, and would break the
monotony. And the murderer is carefully
and respectfully “Mistered” and “million-
aired.” That picture, “The Eternal Ques-
tion,” to be seen amongst the Dana Gibson
series at Angus and Robertson’s, is a profile study
of Mrs. Thaw, or as she was then, the artists’
model, Miss Nesbitt. It is not the Gibson girl—
simply the head, and one long strand of
hair curled at the tip to look like a note of in-
terrogation. The young party has lived with a
large L. She is even now only 21. She started
her “artistic” and stage career at 15, and
has done a lot of travel, been a co-
respondent, got her name tagged with that
of several gay dogs, and finally married a
plain dull dog and saw him shoot one of the
festive dogs, who is now the dead dog that is a
great deal worse than a live lion. So she has had
what you might call a crowded hour of inglorious
life. Murdered man Stanford White was a son
of Richard Grant White, the critic. Australians
who kept track of American literature may
remember the real distinction of his writing.
Voting for the lady to be crowned Queen of
Wonderland City is going on like a fire in dry
reeds; 1000 votes were polled last night, and
Mrs. Bland Holt is leading easily. But there’s a
“dark ” lady (dark in the sense that a horse may
be) who is expected to out-distance her when a
couple of thousand more voters get on to the
ballot
Grade Grahame, the pretty little white-faced
serio with the honev-colored hair, is the most
magnetic young bird the Tivoli has had this
many a year, in my slightly humble opinion.
Her “Waiting at the Church” seems to be the
favorite vocal lure. G.G. is the desperate young
party who, some years ago, when she was a be-
ginner at a London music hall, attempted suicide
by drowning because her one good, very own song
was stolen from her. She could not get justice
or an injunction, and the wrong preyed on her.
However, she was fished out and “first-aided,”
and the attempted tragedy ended in her getting
her song back and a rise of £2O on her salary.
Miss Rawson, vice-president for this State
the Aus. Ex. of Women’s Work, held a big meet-
ing at the Town Hall yesterday, and explained
the objects of the Aus. Ex., and the progress to
date. About 200 women were present, and a
large number of committees for the different
suburbs were formed. Mrs. Erancis Suttor, Mrs.
T. H. Kelly, and Mayoress Hughes were on the
platform with Miss Rawson.
German liner Bremen took, amongst hundreds
of other passengers. Colonel and Mrs. E. B.
Freehill, and Mrs. Walter Elkington and her
small son. Quite a new phase of leave-taking
was inaugurated by a few of the passengers. As
the vessel drew away from the wharf they
cast on shore reels of colored ribbon, retaining
one end. Their friends held the shore end,
unrolling the silk sometimes to the length of 30
yards. It was a case of pull friend, pull liner,
and presently the ribbons snapped. But it’s a
point of sentiment for the one who is going and
the one who is left behind each to retain his or
her end of the silk. It’s a popular way of saying
au revoir in America.
“ Victorienne ” writes from Perth (W.A.): —
What shall I say of this sleepy Western State ? That it
slumbers as usual ? Perhaps I am spoilt, coming from
the East ; but that the Western folks can be
proud of Perth surprises me. Business, you are
told, is almost at a standstill for want of enter-
prise. Saturday morning I went to town, and found
the place overflowing chiefly with loafers, hanging
on to the nearest pub, waiting for invitations to drink.
I only had two places to go to—one was said to be the
“swell” shop in the grocery line here. Well, I walked in,
sat down, and, after waiting a few minutes, a man
lounged up. I told him what I required, but whilst he
was attending me a much-befrilled dame entered. The
man immediately left me, and proceeded to take orders
from the befrilled personage. There was not even a
small boy to look after my wants; I was just a mere
something that didn’t matter. I went to another shop
for a small item which can be got at any place in Mel-
bourne. The girl looked at me in derision and turned up
her nose. “We don’t keep it; never heard of it before.”
Her pride in her ignorance was typically Perthian. What
the inhabitants of this township don’t know is not worth
thinking about, they presume.
One shining light of the Wesleyan ministry, who origi-
nally belonged to an eastern State, found preaching
didn’t pay whenaman had a large family of small Wesleyans
to rear. So he came to this State and took up an hotel,
much to the horror of his brethren and followers, who
forthwith shut their doors upon him. The worst of it is
he was a temperance preacher! Anyway, he is pros-
pering now, and his pubbery promises to be second to
none hereabouts. The Wesleyan ex-parson is the liveliest
man in the trade.
His Ex. the Governor paid a flying visit to Perth last
Monday, when he was met by the new commandanc
and staff officer. The Com. is a thin, military-looking
Johnny, disguised in an eye-glass. Rumor has it that he
intends to shake things up at the next Easter encamp-
ment. Perhaps his e.ve-glass misrepresents him.
Another naval engagement Mr. Miller, the
Admiral’s private secretary, is engaged to a
daughter of the Eric Mackys, a connection of the
Knox family.
I note that Miss Eleanor Manning, of
“Truganini,” Point Piper, was one of the first
five Sydney subscribers to send in her name and
sub. for The Lone Hand. So she gets the
publication free for life. The poor lady can’t read
or write, and has only two teeth. But she has
eyes like pansies and her hair promises curliness,
which latter item alone is something bigger than
a small mercy. Miss Eleanor is nearly a year
old, and is the infant of the Harry Mannings,
and granddaughter of W.P. of that name. Her
mama is the youngest child of the late Chief
Justice Martin. Eleanor is the youngest sub-
scriber for certain to the solitary-fisted paper,
and if her proud young parents don’t keep all
the back numbers and hand them over to her
when she’s of magazine-reading age—say twelve
years—they’ll be guilty of cruelty to curly heads.
My Brisbane correspondent writes
The ladies’ pair-oar contest took place on Saturday
afternoon, with splendid weather, and a couple of
hundred male and female enthusiasts to set off the
event. However, as the river is about choked with
water hyacinth, the struggle evolved itself into a sort of
obstacle race. But how those girls did buck in ! The
club entertained its 200 guests with tea, cool drinks and
doleful music under a marquee, on the river bank.
The Brisbane River has been a mass of water hyacinths
for the past week. Solid acres of the pest have floated
down from the upper reaches of both the Brisbane and
the Bremer. Coal barges and lighters have had to wait
until the tide and the floating heaps of vegetation chose to
go their way ; to fight through the hostile vegetable was
impossible. On February 28 the ferry was held up. Also,
the Humpybong Co.’s excursion steamer Emerald was
arrested below Kangaroo Point, and the passengers were
profane and foodless until the tide turned. Later the
same evening an attempt to run a down river excursion
ended in dismal failure, and the trippers had their
shillings returned to them. Year by year there is talk
of eradicating the pest, and year by year nothing is done ;
and each succeeding wet season sees a bigger lot of
hyacinth drifting down. It’s all very well to say that the
salt water kills the plant. It undoubtedly does, but it
takes three months to accomplish the work, and a lot of
anger and profanity can happen in three months.
From England comes the news that Mrs. D. T. Seymour
has been the victim of a very bad chest attack since her
arrival among the fogs, but the sufferer is now able to
resume her bridge blouse once more, and to hold up the
Australian end of that incurable vice.
Notices are out for a meeting at Hawstead to further
the interests of the Free Kindergarten, to be run in con-
nection with the Institution of Social Service, promoted
by one L. L. Wirt (sometime of Newcastle, N.S.W.). Miss
Cooper will dispense tea and food to those philanthropic
souls who are prepared to support the good cause.
The William Beits, of Ascot, Toowoomba, having
dumped their family down with their grandmother, have
packed their belongings, and departed for London by the
Marmora. Little Beit, as indefatigable a collector of
clothes as the historical Mr. Toots, is expected to return
with many samples of the newest thing in vests, and to
make Queensland totter on its basis with his tie.
Col. Lyster has returned from his Maoriland furlough
to-day. Daughter Phoebe lingers longer in the south.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOUR NEXT HAM 1
Buy the Q.M.E. Brand for a change
—any good grocer will supply you.
Equal to ANY brand of English
Ham—sweeter—more tender—
juicy—with a flavor that is
all their own. Make up
your inind to have the
best Hatn your money
can buy and let it be
aQ.M. E. They
cost no more than
the ordinary
kind.
HAMS and BACON,
n.iae
ryJomi o /¥ie
ran
.
tT
Warn
m
Sp tc IALA pponrt***
to His Majesty King Edward Vll.
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold I
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Si Co.
Lombardi Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
low
(Dress
Shields
For Outdoor Costumes, a Perfect stockinet.
Anatomically Made*
Full Sizes.
“KLEINERTS.”
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 4, 1907.
Mr Dear Yarrie,— .
The rally, at Lady Northcote s bidding, to a
conference on the approaching Exhibition of
Women's Work (meaning feminine industry in
all its non-menial branches, save character-wreck-
ing and money-making at Bridge) was a large-
sized one. All the dames of great social tonnage
transpired in their most frivolous apparel. _ Dame
Northcote chaired the meeting in reminiscent
mauve. Owing to dog-bite she wore a surgical
trimming of white silk on her left hand. The right
member was gloved —to keep the Busy Bees off
the grass in the aesthetic sense. Dame lalbot, in
leopard stripes of black and white silk, sat on her
whole-hand side. The Cliveden Dowager was
ensconced on t’other. Mrs. Landale, Mrs. Eel.
Miller, Mrs. Urquhart were a trio most adjacent
to the starring Exes.
This She-conference was a day of urbane com-
pliments and gentle flatteries. The Stoningrton
Ex. uirfolded her prim mind, shook out the
thought draperies awhile, and flung a gossamer
of blarney over her comments. Her rigidity
softened into warm, frank cordiality. Her
eulogy of the Federal Ex. (who bobbed and
smiled at every honeyed allusion) was spirited.
Then she commended the Dowager Clarke;
thirdly, Dame Madden ; and, finally, her compli-
ments spread indefinitely to the working bees,
who could scarcely restrain themselves from
fluttering forward, and sobbing their gratitude
on her stately shoulder. When the President
read the promises of half the world’s princesses
and highnesses to help the exhibition, the con-
ference nearly choked with emotion.
The Chief Judicial dame is looking haggard.
Sickness and the turmoil of travel have left her a
very wan and pallid person. Those who fare-
welled her at Port Melbourne, early in 1906, de-
clared that she looked then as young and crisp
and lovely as her daughters. Now she’s looking
like their grandmother, and medical prescriptions
are part of her day’s programme.
It has become a mark of distinction not to fly
pennants and Union Jacks and the Tricolor from
one’s top-mast of straw. Every Mary Ann has
streamers of scarlet, red flame, or washing blue,
and Claudia is at last compelled to veto the hat-
tail. The neat chip that banks all its material on
the crown or thereabouts is now the toniest of
thatch decorations. The effect is almost old-
maidish in its orderly tail-less state.
The white lounge hat made of felt—the woman’s
nearest approach to the broad-rimmed cricketing
hat of mankind—has become so voguey in Mel-
bourne, that the Austral Mills are now helping to
supply the demand for "‘lady lounge” headgear.
The light and sporty-looking thing is essentially
Australian in its adaptable character, and
promises to be the forerunner of many styles. A
felt hat can lounge in various poses, and the
opportunity for a catchy title is very obvious. r l he
latest Anderson Australian drama suggests a good
business name for woman’s crowning glory—
which is her hat. Why not “The Squatter’s
Daughter ? ”
A correspondent tells a story of the Ballarat
theatre what time lovely Julius was appearing as
Robin Hood. It was at a matinee, and a young
bride was having an afternoon off with two girl
friends. Suddenly the situation became quite
too romantic for the bride. She clutched her
friend’s arm and said, pathetically, “Oh, I do
want my Billy!” Sweet are the uses of an
heroic actor. He can inspire a newly-married
girl with a yearning for her Billy.
In Germany, there is a custom amongst pro-
fessional singers, actors, actresses, and others
of getting up early in the morning and walking
in the dew. From 5 to 6 a.m. is supposed to be
the best time for dew-trotting. Some of the
members of Musgrove’s Grand Opera co. have
the habit. For the next few weeks, therefore,
sundry slumberous policemen will be startled
into consciousness by snatches of “Lohengrin”
disturbing the silly air at dawn. This news
should prove invaluable to the man who misses
his last train and tries to sneak home with the
milk in the morning. He can now look the old
wife in the face and tell her lie has been out all
night improving his voice with the gentle dew
from heaven.
The comet scare, for which the Herald is
mainly responsible, so far as Melbourne is con-
cerned, has provided me with two glimpses of the
female mind. I heard an Albert Park citizen
reading the thrilling particulars to his wife in a
tram. She was horrified, her face paled, her eyes
rounded with apprehension. “My gracious!”
she exclaimed, “ and I’ve only worn my new blue
hat five times ! ” The other glimpse was provided
by a bunch of matrons in a cl rawing-room. They
were discussing the comet over tea and biscuits.
Most of them were very anxious, and appre-
hended universal disaster. Then the eldest and
wisest chipped in. “ Now don’t you let it bother
you, dears,” she said. “ The thing doesn’t come
for a week or two, and Mr. Bent is bound to do
something.” Then confidence was restored.
Surgeon Thomas Fitzgerald and daughter Kath-
leen have just steamered for England. The
eldest daughter married into the navy, lives in
England, and is on speaking terms with countesses.
The youngest flower, Grace Fitzgerald, is spend-
ing her time during the family’s absence staying
with various and assorted friends. At present she
is at Port Arthur (Tasmania), where the early
settlers used to wear ironmongery when they
took their walks abroad.
Aide Lukin, that dandiest of shawl-carriers, is
on the wing again after a brief stay in Melbourne.
He cultivates the figure 8 waist, and a double
comma sort of moustache, and a Family Herald
air of the dashing Marmaduke. With a little
more encouragement from the Talbottles, the
gallant aide would have waxed gay, hut en-
couragement of that sort might as well have been
expected from an Egyptian mummy.
The mice got playing while the cat was away
at a certain Institute for Human Repairs. Ihe
lady who is in command shouldered her kit tor a
holiday, and left a kindly-hearted subordinate in
charge. Immediately tilings grew lively ana
flirtatious. Result: Two engagements betvveen
doctors and nurses. The matron was aghast on
her return to find how fast the march of events
had been—and rather disgusted. No young
people ever got engaged in that establishment
while her eye was on them. People who have
seen the eye say that they couldn't.
Golfers are interested in the threatened mar-
riage of Michael Scott—an English Johnnie with
a blue-blood prefix to his label. He has just
returned from a trip made, presumably, in an
effort to kill his affections with ship-biscuit, or
give them some other fearful blow. They were
adamant, and he returns to woo the young
charmer of his choice, an ex-chick of the chorus.
Mr. and Mrs. Jefferson, a couple of expert
sports, are off by the Bremen for a tour embrac-
ing—well, everything that comes their way.
Colonel Bridges is once more anchored here,
after a year’s circulation in Europe. On lhursday
the martial expert broke bread at Stomngton at
one of the Octave dinners given to slow music at
the Malvern quarters.
A star foot-lighter, who prides herself on her
shapely limbs, is constantly at the beauty-parlor
for toe-trimming. But she doesn t anticipate
baring her extremities for a r6le like I ruby, or
exposing them at all to a gaping audience. Her
feet are for private circulation only, and are
made beautiful for the bath-room and perhaps
occasional Aspendale paddling. Most of the sex
neglects its toes. Out of a host of nice girls in
my own chummy circle, there aren’t two who
have ever let the light of day or the electric glare
of publicity beat upon their bare feet. Small shoes
have cramped the one-time pretty “piggies that
went to market,” and they’ve grown twisted and
gnarled and corny through disregard. I have
known airy, fairy Lilians to expose sans blush
strips of leg and random ivory patches of the rest
of them, while they concealed their feet by a
horde of artful strategies.
Perhaps if we had an expert toe-trimmer the
sex would see that the extreme south of its con-
struction was better cared for. There is a, call
for the she-pedicurist. She should arise, take up
her bag of tools, and start round on a pilgrimage
to make the sex self-respecting as regards its ex-
treme base.
A local bride of some importance broke through
all romantic bounds quite recently and deserted
the day-dreaming & deux habits of the newly-
linked to steep herself in brisk correspondence.
On the third day of the moon she set smartly to
work and scribbled business-like notes (with a
dash of patronage) to all the tradespeople who
had labored to make her marriage a fine spec-
tacular event. Hubby, meantime, was left to
play patience, or to dream beneath a blue sky on
his own.
The christening mug has gone right out of
date. A bachelor friend—on whom the present-
giving role of godfather was last week thrust
tells me that he searched in vain for the mug of
his childhood. Jewellers offered him a case of
bridge-counters, a fancy flask and a miniature
razor, till informed that the infant was feminine.
Then they spread a high pile of debut trinkets and
gew-gaws on the counter. The bachelor asked
querulously if they hadn’t any infant-baubles.
“ We’re out of them,” was the reply. “ Ever since
babies went out of fashion, we’ve not been stock-
ing christening gifts.” The bachelor retorted that
they hadn’t wholly gone out, and one shopman
remarked that for the exceptional baby the more
grown-up present of, say, a fan or a walking stick
was preferred. So the disgusted bachelor bought
a jewelled hair-comb for the poor bald she-baby.
These jewellers are absurd. Infants do still occur
to some extent—l saw two last month—and the
christening mug should be stocked.
Marshall-Hall, of the music-school, while abroad
exhibits his old form—the form he was in when
he advised the pig-tailed petticoats who scraped
violins under his supervision, to read Tolstoi’s
“ Kreutzer Sonata.” He is again in the frame of
mind which produced “ Hymns, Ancient and
Wooden”; wherein naked naiads were pursued
through rocky metres by “eupidous knaves.” He
is himself again ! He has a column and a half
in the Aegus each week. The effect of his ebul-
litions amongst the sober cribs from foreign
journals and silly criticisms of polite literature,
suggests a satyr's gyrations at a suburban social.
He is in Berlin now, and writes pleonastically of
Shakspeare in Germany, obscure performers, and
famous musicians. Some excerpts from him :
“English actors are handicapped in the natural
presentation of a character, by a long disuse of
their finer intellectual faculties.” “Footlights
barbarous abominations ! ” On Kleisler, a German
fiddler: “The chords were as clear as stained
glass—the pianissimo were like soft, deep, car-
mine velvet.’’ A rondo in G was. 4 a. miracle.
And notes “flew through the air like wind-
impelled bubbles of sparkling sound.” And he
finishes up with the admission that he esteems
piano-thumping more immoral than wife-beating,
“ because one hurts many—the other, only one ! ”
A comedy is being played by a St. Kilda marm
with a whole bunch of spare daughters. Among
the family acquaintances is a desirable person,
who had a misfortune to his heart and has looked
rather lonely ever since. Mommer has him
mentally fixed as the kind of moneyed mate suit-
able for one of her girls. She doesn’t care which
one Neither do they. The whole trio of sisters
are having a go for him—quite frankly and
unashamed. A large circle of friends look on, and
a few grin. The only one who knows nothing of
the chase is the hunted object. He isn’t even
warned of his danger. Perhaps he will see this
and fly the country, or dig a moat round himself
to keep the enemy beyond proposing distance.
There’s a Western girl at the Grand just now
whose industry is spoken of with awe. Always
she stitches. Waiting for the lift, between bites
of canarv pudding, while the coffee cools, during
an after-dinner flirtation —all the time she stitches.
Men may come and women go but she sews on for
ever. And she’s fetching. Her eyes, which she
fixes on her flying fingers, are so lovely that the
bystander, and the silent lover, and the envious
cat of the neighborhood, hang about disconsolately
to catch their stray beams. It may be merely
coquetry (which takes all forms), but it looks well,
The Cream gathered thick at Flemington on
Saturday. Every marm for once hung on to her
mate', ihe brute sex has to negotiate and back
the dead bird with the Bridge winnings. It
wasn’t an autumn meeting in the clothes sense.
The legion of great frill came out in its hot-season
rig—Dame Northcote heading the Terrace bat-
talion in dove grey, with a surmounting of
pink to make the hue of peace a gladder
effect. Mrs. Claude Macdonald wraithed along
the Terrace like a graceful smoked cloud—done
brown. Mrs. J. Fisken took farewell of the scene
(she sails by the Marmora) in touching black so
that the Cream understood, if it had tears, Mrs.
Fisken expected them to be shed just then. Ihe
two Chief Judicial chicks footed the Terrace tiles
softly in quiet raiment—one in nut-brown, t’other
(the gem of great price) in thoughtful grey. The
Cliveden dowager stuck to her bit of lavender,
and her chick was clothed in reflective dove
tones.
Mrs. Oswald Watt landed along here for the
gee-gee rally. Her contribution to the accumu-
lated Frill was a fussy cream in the company of a
Romney hat, with a graceful lid, large enough to
accommodate a prayer-meeting of goblins.
A moneyed Toorak marm has jibbed at the idea
of her final chick falling into the paw of some
penniless noodle. She doesn’t see why, because
there’s a scarcity of Man on the Market, her
much-dowered girl should drop as a plum from a
tree into the possession of any spare Gussie who
happens to playfully agitate the precious branch.
Rather, she reckons, let the chick wither on the
virgin stalk. But the Miss isn’t thinking that
way. She’s had the burden of gold for several
fashionable seasons, and has had about enough of
its hard glitter. She’s dead sick of being grand
and golden—she wants to be just glad in a com-
mon comfortable way, like Mary Ann.
Skating is billed to start in a month or two
with a “Poster” carnival. Husbands should
insist on facing a frozen fall with the wives of
their bosoms. Last season, the promiscuous-like
way in which she-skaters clasped male hands (any
that were going), and went dreamily or slippingly
over the frozen floor led to much trouble. Any
mixed couple which found its skating step the
same shape, or its love of iced waltzing of the
same temperature, became attached definitely for
the season. Then hubby, from the place where
the hot pipes are laid, got hot with rage as he
looked on.
A Toorak family of considerable cash and
cheek has invested in a new motah-cah. Pre-
viously the only cah in the family was owned by
one of the sons, who usually took an-hour-and-a-
half to do the trip out from Melbourne. Even
nowadays, the Blash-Hanks don’t often take their
cah out of their own suburb, preferring to let the
neighbors know that they’ve acquired a vehicle
worth having. The chief feature about their
lavish display of motor goods is the number of
people they have clinging all over the cah in its
wild careerings through Toorak. The usual com-
plement is ten, mostly girls, with the overflow
hanging on the step and sitting on the gauges in
front. Some day there will be an accident, and
the Blash-Danks will be fined for cruelty to a
dumb cah that couldn’t say a word on its own
behalf.
The girl who is tired of waiting starts to grow a
very miserable air of staid dignity. I looked on
one of her the other night in a grand crush, and
her beauty, weighted down by excessive decorum,
bruised my regard. Actually bruised it. You
see the girl lias a comely rose-and-cream .beauty
that should be all dimples and bewitching scrolls.
Instead, it fathers an expression of ecclesiastic
coldness. Youth has no relationship with
solemnity, and even waning youth should make a
gentle effort to keep gravity out of range until
disappointment and failure come and crush the
spirit of all endeavor. With the beauty in ques-
tion, youth is fleeing more from severity of
thought than the harsh burden of the years.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide: —
The wife of Senator Josiah Symon astonished the
natives, the other day, by sailing away to Britain, in the
Commonwealth, with her young son and daughter. She
is a quiet dame, with a number of quiet daughters, not in
the least addicted to chasing society and putting salt on
its hurried and elusive tail. The Symons have one of the
loveliest old places in the State, at Upper Sturt, where
they spend their days communing with Nature and doing
soulful things like that. They dwell in the hills up
against the stars all the year round, and don’t even pay
any attention to “ the season.”
The inhabitants of Norwood, a suburb that dreams of
the day when it shall become a city,, held an extensive
fete last week to raise the means to build cottage homes
for the aged, perishable, and impecunious. The affair
was engineered by the mayoress and some influential
committees, which spent a year manufacturing the stereo-
typed pin-cushion and the “ tidy ” that is guaranteed to
shriek on sight. Premier Price, backed up by the only
peerage of the neighborhood, Edwin Smith and his wife,
said the show was open, and the result proved that he
had guessed right first try. ...... „
Clvtie Hine, a youthful nightingale of Adelaide Con-
servatorium, has just grabbed a scholarship in the
warbling industry at Marshall Hall’s school of noise.
The maiden has a graceful presence, and a voice of great
promise, and her success in the next-door city i? regarded
as a whole ostrich farm in the humble sixpenny, hat of
our local institution. • n .
Herds of wild tennis players have been roving this
country vainlv endeavoring to pick laurels off the hedges.
The local players girded up their racquets and achieved
marvellous things ; and the whole girly element of Tram-
Horseville put on its helmet with a chiffon tail and went
forth io witness the deadly conflict. All this with the
temperature bobbing about in a manner suggestive of a
region never mentioned to polite Sassiety except twice on
Sunday. Miss Parr and Miss Payne, who have gathered
in most of the local tennis honors for some years, graced
the South Oss team as usual.
This State has followed its usual ridiculous habit of
choosing an already graduated student of the ’Varsity
for its Rhodes scholar. Latest victim is Dr. Ray, a
youthful medico just through his course. He has already
grabbed more scholarships than any other local student
of that profession which yearns to cut out everybody’s
appendix. His athletic record is also intense ; he has
played in St. Peter’s and ’Varsity matches of almost
every kind, and is reputed a champion footballer,
cricketer, tennis-player, rower, rifle-shot and runner. It
seems absurd to pour another scholarship on a man who
is already clothed with them as with a garment, and who
could make a tent out of his certificates, and retire from
public view inside his own laurels.
The statue habit grows on Adelaide. Having duly in-
stalled the image of Colonel Light where it can keep an
eye on King William-street, the committee began to look
round for another candidate, and fixed upon Captain
Sturt as the most deserving object of its attention. The
committee merely pushed the atmosphere with its hand,
and lo ! a first instalment of £5O appeared. This looks
as though we’ll have the whole statue before we know
where we are. But still Melbourne, by reason of its Joan
of Arc image, keeps ahead. What we want, to give us a
reputation for originality, is a statue of Tubal-Cain or
Rameses the Great—somebody really ancient and obscure
that no one else would think of.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
“Hassan”: Some adherents of private
enterprise : importers, bunco steerers, landlords,
anarchists, millionaires, burglars, parsons, book-
makers, daily newspapers, disqualified cricketers,
co-respondents, lawyers, peers, pickpockets, uni-
versal providers, Kaisers, roost-robbers, China-
men, company promoters, pirates, Flossies, and
tomcats.


Furniture
and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the CU3-.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantt.d.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PVt
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
- Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Chamberlain’s Tablets strengthen and in-
vigorate the stomach ; and many people have
found that after using them they could eat food
that previously disagreed with them.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C, FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
If troubled with weak digestion, belching,
or sour stomach, use Chamberlain’s Tablets, and
you will get quick relief. Sold everywhere at
Is. 6d.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS,
u
K
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS (opp. Hunter St.)
Also at Melbourne. BYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Stated that Melbourne’s reverend Judders,
Tregear and Woodfull, engaged a crowd of men
to go to Mildura (Vie.) and take the places of
fruit lumpers and factory hands who are on strike
on a question of fair wages. And Tregear is the
person who has long been posing, like a rabbit
rampant, as an opponent of sweating.
The luckless and dirty municipality of
Gamperdown (Sydney) has been taking stock of
its misfortunes. The bailiff has now been in for
four years, and in all that time the debt has onlv
been reduced by £B2O. There is still £lB,OOO due
b!f^ ay , 0r h ,°P es that b 3' 1911 there will only be
*.ll v . due > bat he expects that the bailiff will
stiff be in unless some other municipality takes
Gamperdown over and pays the bailiff out. And
if that happens Camperdown will feel lonely. It
is quite used to the bailiff now.
WE ARE TWIN SOULS.
T he most cordial good feelin prevails throughout
the Opposition.-REID.
In S. Australia there are the makings of a
» that isn>t often lial,le to arise.
SrS h i rd fe ® nate , sea t Crosby and Vardon ran
T d ", eck ; and Crosby, theLaborite,
was only displaced on a recount. Now a petition
has been lodged against Vardon, and it is alleged
that enough Crosby votes were wrongly declared
informal to give Crosby the seat again. But
meantime, Crosby lias died; so, if the High
Court unseats Vardon (the High Court is the
Australian Court of Disputed Returns), the State
Parhament, if it issitting, must appoints member,
and if it isn t sitting the State Government must
choose a stopgap to act until the State Parliament
does sit. Still whoever might be nominated in
such a case only hold the seat till the next
general election, when he would move out with
the three who, under the Constitution, retire in
rotation.
Ihe intimation of S’African High Com-
missioner Selborne to Prime Minister Deakin,
that he has appointed a staff-officer to assist the
Commonwealth in homing stranded Australians,
is well enough, as things are, But it helps to
u t , r , e ? s . k l . ct tha t the Australian’s work in
>3 Africa is indeed done—even so eminent an
authority as Cord Selborne can see that the best
thing lie can do is to “ get out,” and leave Africa
rnn le ;A low - Selborne, by the way, reckons that
000 or 000 Australians are anxious to “ get.”
“ P.A.G.” : George Fair bairn (B. 21/2/’O7)
says some alleged facts he quoted against
municipal socialism “had never been contro-
verted.” How does he know? Has he read
everything? If G.F. will look over a file of the
Clarion for 1906 he will see his assertion that
municipally—owned works in England yield only
Os. 3d. per cent, per annum knocked into a cocked
hat, and then the hat knocked half-way, or more
to perdition.
The Sydney Harbor Trust, aided and
abetted by the N.S.W. Crown Solicitor, has had
a disastrous defeat in its appeal to the Full Court
against a decision that the Trust can’t recover
wharfage rates on certain locomotives imported
for the N.S.W. railways ; and there is a gorgeous
bill of costs. Why didn’t some authority stop
the fool proceeding? When one State depart-
ment sues another to the last extremity of the
law it is exactly the same to the public whichever
wins, and the public loses the costs to a dead
certainty m any case.
The S.A. Register quite unwittingly put
one of the arguments for the transfer of the
-Northern Territory to the Commonwealth very
plainly, and rather forcibly, the other day :
The advocates of the policy of transferring the Northern
territory to the Commonwealth should carefully weio-h
the fact that by greatly , increasing the responsibilities
devolving upon the Federation they will necessarily-
enhance its powers, financial and otherwise, and rela-
tively lessen the influence of the State Parliament.
That’s just it. And the power of the Common-
wealth can’t be enhanced too much. Also,' the
influence of all the State Parliaments can’t be
lessened too suddenly.
Premier Tom Price had the pluck and
honesty to tell the Methodist Conference at
Adelaide that : (1) Barmaids number “some pf
the brightest jewels of women in the world,” who
ought to be married instead of listening to
.Johnnies’ loose talk; and in his Bill for abolish-
lng them he is going to allow four or five years’
grace, so that the present lot may have a chance
to get married and get out of it.” (2) “A sink-
mg fund for the buying out of brewers must be
established if licenses are to be cancelled.” (Loud
cries of No. ) (3) The time will come when
Parliament will think going into a mining syndi-
cate as bad as gambling on a horse. “Many
things we do to-day are as much gambling as to
put a bob on a horse,” said the downright Thomas.
Another leading Anti-Socialist has just
been heard from—Knox’s colleague, chairman
Harvey Patterson, of the Broken Hill Proprie-
tary. That almost fabulously wealthy co., which
° n L a^ tual ! )aid capital of about £20,000 paid
£240,000 in dividends last half-year, thinks it
niay be rather short of water ; wherefore said the
chairman at the half-yearly meeting:
I think that the Govfernment (considering the revenue
derived for so many years past) may fairly be applied to
to render some assistance, and I would suggest that it
be asked to do some boring for artesian water. Failing
this, R might be asked to provide a supply from the
Darling River.
A few minutes later the same Anti-Socialist
remarked that the B.H. Prop, had so far paid
£9,152,000 in dividends. What lusty beggars
these millionaires are !
Premier Bent shows his limitations in con-
demning Engineer Thwaites’s big scheme for a
park and lake on the Yarra, above Kew. He
perceives only that it would be a source of
pleasure and “turns it down.” The practical
side of the project—the one that would give Mel-
bourne power enough to light itself electrically if
not to drive its trams and trains as well, besides
doing away with much of the existing smoke
nuisance; m a word, the natural power that is
cheap, clean, and easily transmitted—that part of
the scheme Bent dismisses with the remark that
“there are millions of tons of brown coal between
Wilhamstown and Werribee.” M-yes, and who
owns the brown coal ?
“ Syloo ” writes
Consider the farcical administration by the Public
Works Department of the Unused Roads and Water
frontages Act, passed by Vic. Parliament with a view of
deriving revenue from unused public roads and water
, The , Act came into force on Ist January,
1904 but so slowly did the Department proceed to gather
in the rents, that in the shire of Ripon not one penny
was collected in 1904, though the possible revenue from
that municipal district for the year was £6BO. That case
is .typical, and , as the area of Ripon is about 587 square
nnles, whilst the total area of the other 145 shires is
87,000 square miles, one is able to estimate roughly the
tens of thousands of pounds remaining unpaid for that
year. This is now absolutely uncollectable : no -laim
can be made, seeing that no demands were made or
licenses issued in 1904. Furthermore, one of the
provisions of the Act declares that the rent must
be paid in advance, yet for the two following years
(1905 and 1906) only £774 was collected in Ripon
°J a possible £1360. And the occupiers upon whom
the duty of payment falls are not struggling settlers
with whom the Department, might deal leniently ; in
seven cases out of ten they are the owners of 10,000 acres
and upwards of freehold land. The mismanagement of
the Department in failing to issue notices in 1904 is on a
par with the present unsystematic method of collecting
the rents Occupiers within a few miles of each other-
are treated differently. Some have not been required to
pay rent at all; some have been requested to pay from
Ist January, 1905; others have been notified that the
rent commenced in 1906. Under the present Act, one-
half of the moneys received from this source must he
expended by the local councils on roads and bridges but
any council that has made an attempt to obtain some of
this money from the Unused Roads and Water Frontages
Fund has found that the Department is even slowe/to
pay out than it is to collect. There is too much circum-
locution in connection with the Act. The local council
usually sends in the return of the roads and frontages •
the Department sometimes notifies the occupiers • occa’-
smnaly it collects the rents, and nowand then it parts
with them. It is all sometimes, occasionally, and now
and then, also once in a while.
A NOXIOUS TRADES SITE.
FIRST: “And this is where the Federal Parlia-
ment meets."
SECOND : “ And what is that evil smell?”
First . Oh, that s George Reid’s principles.
They’ve been dead a long while now, but they
haven’t been shifted, yet.”
Again we hear of Spruce Myth’s colored
friends. In a recent Perth (W.A.) Chinese
•gambling case, one of the prosecution’s Chow
witnesses got seven days because his evidence
coincide with what he had previously
tQld the police. The interpreter then explained
that this diversity arose through a fear of being
suddenly turned into cold meat. The witness
had told him, that morning, that 100 of Myth’s
local Chow friends had formed a sort of anti-
evidence society, and, as proof of strict bad faith,
had appointed ten of their number to slay any
Chow who gave tetate’s evidence in gambling
cases: These ten supports of Private Enter-
prise received 15s. per week, with a promise
that £3OO would be sent to their sorrowing widows
should, their prospective victims happen to get
the drop ’ first. If they were injured while
slaying witnesses, then the society would pay the
medical exes, and double the' wages of the
cripples till they recovered. And it is also
alleged that the same sort of organisation has
been formed in Sydney, alongside Smith’s own
door.
British motor-car building never had
Protection in its early days, like most of the indus-
tries that are pointed to as triumphs of Freetrade.
It has had the blessings of Cobden pouring
upon it from its infancy,
and according to all the
yarns of all the Freetraders,
it ought to be something
extra-vigorous, and capable
of knocking out the “arti-
ficial products ” from
the “ coddled fac-
tories” of Protec-
tionist countries
with one blast of its
strong breath. But,
as usual,
bump against the
beautiful theory;
last year imports of
foreign (French and
American) cars to Great
Britain were valued at
£4,371,000, an increase of
£1,948,000 in two years, while the exports of
-British cars amounted to only £820,000 an in-
crease of £499,000 in the same two years. So the
increase of the exports from Protectionist coun-
tries into Britain was four times greater than the
increase of the exports from Freetrade Britain to
the rest of the world.
Another large hole has been discovered in
the new Vic. Licensing Act—grocers’ licenses may
be granted 1 by any old licensing court, without
any poll of the ratepayers being taken. Which
proves over again what a great thing it is to have
a second Chamber to prevent hastv, ill-digested
legislation. It recalls the gag that~an office boy
is one boy, two office boys are half a boy, and
three otnce boys are no boy at all.
The threat of Birrell, Chief Secretary for
Ireland, to declare that rack-renting absentee, the
Marquis of Clanricarde, incompetent to manage
hits Irish estates, indicates one of the reserve
powers which are held by Parliament over peers in
Britain, but so little used as to be almost value-
less. Another power, but one rarely exercised, is
that which disqualifies a peer on the ground of
poverty George Neville, Duke of Bedford, was
so degraded by Act of Parliament in the reign of
Ldward IV. The degradation was on the ground
that a peer, the landlord of estates, would if
pressed by poverty, be.tempted to extort unfairly
high rents from his tenants to maintain his posi-
tion. r
“ Crade ” : Consider the descent of Pea-
cock! Turner left a strong party, which looked
as if it would remain in power in Victoria for a cen-
tury orso. Peacock took charge, and thepartyheard
his wild laugh in the Treasury, and melted to about
18 or 20 members. Just before the 1904 elections
the remnant handed over the rickety throne to
Maclunnon, and made Peacock dishwasher. The
change did no good, and the party came back a
dispirited coterie of 11. Peacock has moped
almost silently for three years ; and now, on the
eve of another election, Bent gives a sudden snap
the once-strong party is swallowed, and Peacock
is given a subordinate position in a one-man
Government. Poor Pea-rooster !
There is slaughter. As the first tangible
result of the N.S.W. Lands inquiry, 108 improve-
ment leases have been cancelled in a heap. There
are quaint old place names on the list—Quam-
bone, Mungerbumbone, Mumblebone, Coppymur-
rinn till, and the like. Among the men who held
the leases the most numerous person seems to be
l b —hh C. Body—who had 15 of them,
while F. E. Body had six. Most of the other
people on the list also had several; apparently when
a man commenced to drink improvement lense
he usually came back for more out of the same
bottle. The next step will be the appearance of
Body and co. before a board to show why they
should get their leases back again, and on that
matter they can’t do better than consult Mr.
.Nicholas Willis, whose knowledge of the intri-
cacies of the N.S.W. Lands Acts is as good as ever.
Brisbane Courier, which bitterly opposed
Kidston’s measure to burst up large estates, has
just discovered in the Buderim district that there
. ar . e 11 1 Bch landlords there, except the financial
institutions, whose properties make a disgraceful
comparison with those of the energetic farmers
around.” These locked-up properties are
jungles of lantana and Noogoora burr, just breeding
grounds for these pests. The Canadian system, of com-
pellintf financial institutions to sell their foreclosed pro-
perties to the highest bidder within a limited period,
would apply with great advantage to the district re-
ferred to.
Well, having now seen the evil and admitted the
remedy, what does the Courier propose to do
about it? Is it going to support Philp, who
says he is opposed to every scheme, to do what
the Courier says would be “a great advan-
tage’ ? If it swallows Philp, it has also got
to swallow the “jungles of lantana and Noo-
goora burr.” In fact, as Philp’s policy produced
these jungles, more Philp will mean more jungles
almost for a certainty. Once more, then, what
is the Courier going to do about it ?
Speaking at Tam worth (N.S.W.) on the
urgent need of wresting the magnificent Peel
River Estate from its foreign holders, Joseph
Carrutbers chided the local folk for hollering out
so loud. All this hollering, said Joseph, has
convinced the co. that it has a choice thing on,
and in anticipation of the price at which it hopes
to unload to the Government, the co.’s shares
have risen from £lOO to £l5O. Joseph’s states-
man-like proposal is, therefore, to knock the co.
out, by heaving, not a land-tax, but a Stinking
Fish at it. The fact that N.S. Wales can’t heave
Stinking Fish at the Peel River Estate without
heaving it also at N.S. Wales doesn’t appear to be
of any consequence to Carrutbers, whose one plan
of getting land for the people is the pettifogging
attorney’s trick of crying that the land isn’t worth
having.
The natural effect of a closer settlement
policy unaccompanied by a genuine graduated
land-tax shows itself already in Victoria. In the
Wimmera and the Mallee, the rise in the price of
land has been so swift that local farmers and their
sons who want blocks are unable to pay the
price that Greed demands, and are flocking
to wider N.S. Wales and Queensland. To
attract population, Australia wants dear labor and
cheap land. The Tory ideal has always been
cheap labor and dear land, and the
result has tended to make the country
one vast sheep run.
THE MISSIONARY SHIP.
A Solomon Islands missionary having complained of
hostile treatment, H.M.S. Prometheus opened fire on the
natives with live shell: —Daily Paper.
NAVAL COMMANDER : "Don’t you worry, parson!
They shall hear the Terruth, or by
I’ll
Maonland just now affords the spec-
tacle pf an ex-strike leader, as Minister for
Labor, upholding the Arbitration Law by every
means in his power. The slaughtermen’s strike
started at Wellington, where trouble had been
simmering for some time. One morning the men
rolled up, donned the clothes they murder cattle
in, grabbed the knives, and took up their posi-
tions at the boards. Just before the starting
whistle blew the manager was asked if he would
pay the increased rate, and when he refused every
slaughterman dropped his knife, and walked off
the job. The receipt of the news in the South
Island was the signal for cessation of work there
also, and within two days the Maoriland frozen
meat industry was closed up,' Minister J. A.
Millar immediately announced that the law would
be enforced, and within 24 hours of the start of
the trouble the Wellington men were on trial for
having broken an industrial agreement. They
won the case, on the ground that the agreement
was faulty by reason of vagueness as to its
duration. It would seem that the law requires
all industrial agreements to be for a specified
period. By the time this is in print the Canter-
bury men will have been dealt with, but whether
they will be charged with breaking an industrial
agreement or breaking the industrial peace is not
known at time of writing.
HOLY POLITICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Hon. William Knox, although the Federal
flections are over, still interests himself greatly in the work
of tue Protestant Defence League, and presided when the
question of selecting- candidates for the Victorian State
• lections was considered. Dr. Keeper also spoke. Mr
Knox said that the League stood for God and Empire.—
6WS 1 t&lYl,
Oh ! William Knox,
Who stoutly forth for “ God and Empire ” stands !
The “Empire ” knew the facts,
Slowly, of all the pacts
Of that first floating of the British Blocks ;
And then the “ Empire ” had to kiss the rod,
But—where was God ?
John Knox we knew :
He died of—well—an accident long years agone
Did naught for “ Empire ” care,
Knowing he could not double service bear—
Kept only his peculiar God in view
His God and faith in just and kindly men !
No “ Empire ’’ then !
Oh ! William-we
Cannot accept such God and Mammon mixed !
Such holy greed !
For don’t we read
That Chillagoes were thirty-nine and three?
Away! Away !
Australia is the only call to-day !
MARTIN LUTHER.


Bandsmen
PALING’S
can supply any instrument
required from a
CORNET
to a DRUM
and all other Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free.
Paling'*s,
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
MUSIC MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS. * *
No matter where you live or
what your musical wants
may be, we can supply you
with best g'oods ( and at low-
est prices too.
We hold the largest stocK of
Pianos, Organs, Music, Musi-
cal Instruments, Strings and
Fittings in Australasia.
Your order may be a small one,
but we shall be pleased to
fill it just the same, Knowing
full well it will lead to larger
business in the future.
If it is only for a single piece
of Music or a few Violin
•Strings Kindly send it along
and it will have our prompt
attention.
We Import Pianos, Organs and
all Musical Instruments.
W. H. Paling' <SL Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE. ST., SYDNEY.
Talking'
Machines
at Paling's.
won.
Edison Phonographs.
Columbia
Graphophones.
Gramophones.
BEST QUALITY g^oods
at LOWEST PRICES.
Write for free catalogues.
Palmg'*s,
335 George St.,
Sydney.
89
n
M
\
V,ri>
H.
C h
ii
m
in
p *OiH
Man
PA wATtK)
52* Plat sP«wio^
6 v»V
JLtTM'* • *•"**
LAND}
i s
uKNE
SPACV
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
“ I give you * KOOMAH
SPA ’ ! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
• • • •
THe
Torturing
Twinge of
Rheumatism !
Did you ever feel the torturing
twinge of Rheumatism ?
Then you don’t need to be
urged to purchase something
that will actually relieve and
positively cure it.
The 0. and J.
Medical Battery
was devised for those
suffering from
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago,
Nervous Troubles, &c.
Tt is used by medical men all over
the world and is a sure cure—a
hundred times more effective than
the finest and most expensive
electric belt ever made. It can be
made weak enough for an infant or
strong enough for an adult. The
case contains the battery and a
number of appliances to apply to
the parts affected.
We will send it anywhere post
free for 355., and refund money in
any case of dissatisfaction.
Price 355.
Post
Free
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
" My
Opticians,’
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE
CT FACING
O 1 ■! ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian, principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOOR.
ts*
THIS RAZOR ISA
The Plum
Razor,
PRICE 10/6, Post Free anywhere.
Your Morning Shave
Haven’t you “ growled ” at the time
it takes you to shave ?
Try a Plum Razor, and you’ll be
surprised how quickly you will get
over it. There’s no pulling and no
scraping with a Plum—nothing but
satisfaction, and you get over the
** ground ” in marvellously quick time.
CRAIG &AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota " Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and," First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class O. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne anti Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Importers:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
Lance Skutliorp, the greatest horseman the
world has ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 160 animals, all
buclcjumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Snijjs. Both these horses can be backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*
CRIPPLED WITH RHEUMATISM FOR
15 YEARS.
Discharged prom the Hospital Walking on
Crutches. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Again Successful.
“ I was a perfect cripple with rheumatic gout
for 15 years,” writes Mr. William Rickard,
Albany Place, North Dunedin, N.Z., “and could
not walk without the aid of crutches. I was
under the best doctors here, but they did me no
good. I was also in the Lawrence Hospital for
some months, and was discharged incurable.
About twelve months ago I was recommended to
give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, which
1 did, and before I had finished the first bottle I
found they were doing me good. I continued to
take them regularly for three months, and I feel
quite a new man. lam quite certain that lam
now permanently cured, as I have had no attacks
for over nine months, and can now get about
without the aid of a stick. You are at liberty to
make whatever use of this letter you deem fit.”
Those who suffer from any form of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, or neuralgia, should use
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment, in con-
junction with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
These two remedies have been highly successful
in all kinds of rheumatism because one cleanses
the blood of all poisonous substances that cause
the disease, increasing the activity of the blood-
making glands, while the powerful, penetrating
influences of the Liniment, acting through the
pores of the skin on the nerves, bones, and
muscles, overcome the pain by relieving the effect
on the delicate nerves, causing the circulation of
the blood to be maintained through the affected
parts. Rheumatism, lumbago, and sciatica all
yield to the penetrating and conquering properties
of Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment, if used
in conjunction with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. This Liniment is on sale at all leading
chemists and stores, or will be forwarded, post
paid, on receipt of price (2s. fid. per bottle, or six
bottles for 13s. 6d.), by the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE * LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian! Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOITIONS
It would be hard to imagine a more ideal course
from the spectacular point of view than that of the
Nepean, over which Towns glided and Durnan struggled
on Saturday for the sculling championship of the world.
The course is a straight reach, and from the high banks
spectators with glasses could watch the race from start
to finish. It is said that there are some dangerous mud
banks and patches of weeds, which make it less attractive
to the scullers, and which moved the people who followed
the rfcce in motor boats to tears and curses. But to the
men on those high banks, watching the two specks grow-
ing larger as they came up out of the suspended, fulgent
haze of the afternoon, that didn’t matter. Of course, a
race on the Nepean is not the pageant that it
would be on the Parramatta. There is no gorgeous
homeward rush of hundreds of craft, lashing the smooth
water into waves. The 12,000 people scattered along the
three miles of Nepean course seemed a mere handful.
The race was due to start at 4 p.m., and, just
before that hour, the sky suddenly drooped, the distant
hills became a wall of Indian ink, and a faint, almost im-
perceptible, rain fell spasmodically. Umbrellas were
hoisted out, but hardly were they opened before the rain
ceased. A few sporting’ individuals walked up and down
the bank inquiring anxiously if anyone wanted to back
Durnan. Nobody did. A man in the centre of a waiting
group told how a friend of his laid in six gallons of beer
every Saturday night, and by church-time on Sunday
morning was “as dry as a rat’s back.” Men in shirt-
sleeves ran up and down offering “ chocolates, a penny
each, four for threepence—Sydney prices!” Nobody
took any notice, and the only trade done was by the
fellow who sold peanuts. On the clipped willows, men
with glasses were staring anxiously up the river, and, as
it was after four, concluded that their glasses were frauds.
The sky had receded to its natural position, the far-off
hills turned once more to purple, and a curious effulgence
filled the atmosphere. Down the long straight course
water and atmospheric haze gleamed bewilderinglv.
About 28 minutes past four a man, watching through”a
glass, informed the group around him that they were off,
and had been called back to make a fresh start.
At the start Towns shot to the front. Durnan
gave no sign of the wonderful burst of speed with which
he had been credited, and Towns continued to lead till
he ran into shallow water. Then he slowed down, and
Durnan went to the front. At half a mile the Australian
had again taken the lead, and at half-way was ahead by
several lengths. At two miles Towns allowed Dur-
nan to draw level, and settled down to hold
the Canadian for the final spurt, which commenced
about 300yds. from home. The difference between
the two scullers was enormous. Towns’ rowing
was good to watch. His body swayed back and for-
wards, his sculls flashed, and his boat ran on with amaz-
ing regularity. It never faltered as he bent for his next
stroke, always gliding along with the same unbroken
speed, cleanly and beautifully, as though propelled bv
some hidden machinery under the water. Durnan,
on the other hand, was rowing harder than the
Australian, but as his sculls lifted his boat seemed
to fall off, and rolled slightly. He made a desperate
spurt at last, and tore the water with the dipping
sculls, sending his boat along with a series
of jumps. The Australian seemed to row no
harder. His boat ran on with the same beautiful
motion, and finished about two lengths ahead of the
struggling Canadian. The way he rowed the last part of
the race and his finish suggested that Towns could have
won by a much larger margin than he did. Writer saw
him beat Stanbury, and there was a huge difference in
the way he sculled on those two occasions. On the Par-
ramatta he was pulling ail he knew ; on the Nepean he
was giving an artistic display that was worth going far
to see.
This is the third time that Towns has
asserted his right to the sculling championship
of the world. The first occasion was when he
won it from Jake Gaudaur, at Rat Portage, on the
Lake of the Woods, Canada. The second occasion
was when he recovered it from Jim Stanbury on the
Parramatta last year ; and the third w 7 hen he maintained
his pre-eminence against Durnan on Saturday. Up to
date he has been champion of the world three years
and eight months. Stanbury reigned altogether six
years four months and fifteen days. Gaudaur held the
honor five years ; Trickett, four years and four months ;
and the great Hanlan only three years and nine months.
* * * *
There are some crack operators in the Pacific
cable service, and they put up a good performance in
connection with the Towns-Durnan match that will take
a lot of beating. The Canadian papers were wild to get
news of Towns’ defeat, and in Montreal a procession was
waiting to start, with waving flags and screaming
trumpets, to where champagne was laid on. The special
correspondent of the Canadian press handed his wire
into the temporary office near the course at 4.54 p.m.
At 4.58 p.m. (Australian time) that cablegram hid
traversed the 10,000 miles of land and ocean, and knocked
the Montreal people flat. It passed through the hands
of at least six men, most of whom had to receive
it, and then re-transmit it, and any man who talks
about the “ Government stroke ” after that has not gob
the sense of the animal that spoke at Balaam.
* » « *
After Ebullition had won the Newmarket
Handicap, with his stable companion Step Out in the
fourth place, the man who “ knew it would win,” and
“ ought to have backed it,” was not so numerous as is
usual on such occasions. Outside of the followers of
Hickenbotham’s stable, very few punters gave Ebullition
a great chance, although the touts had marked the colt
dangerous on his track form. It may now be taken almost
for granted that the Newmarket winner was a consistent
failure at Caulfield and Flemington in the spring,
merely because he was raced beyond his distance. He
can stay six or seven furlongs under the severest sprint-
ing conditions, but he probably lacks the stamina to keep
him going with the best of them for a mile. Backed down
to 5 to 4 for the October Stakes at Caulfield, five months
ago, Ebullition finished 2J lengths behind Ellis, who was
receiving only 71b. In the Caulfield Guineas (1 mile) he
was' beaten easily by Booran. And three times during
the Melbourne Cup meeting the disappointing animal
was beaten out of a place. All things considered, the
only inducement to back Ebullition at 14 to 1 for the
Newmarket was the fact that the stable preferred him to
Step Out, who had a reasonable chance for this race on
his previous Saturday’s running.
Fifty yards from/ home Collarit appeared
capable of doing the trick for Crick, but the handsome*
burly colt had too much weight, and a little superfluous
flesh, perhaps. Ebullition and North Head passed him
in the final struggle, and North Head repeated his per-
formance of last year by running second with 8.9 up—or
71b. more than he carried as a three-year-old. Of those that
finished badly, Pompous, Ellis, and Istria were the only
ones that had ever been in front of the field. The
unluckiest of all was Decollette. The mare met with a
mishap in the morning, which caused her to be knocked
back to 25 to lin the betting. In the race Decollette
must have been galloped on, for she came back limping
to the “ birdcage,” and soon afterwards she was carrying
one of her hind feet as though afraid to put it to the
ground.
The Sires’ Produce Stakes brought out some
of the crack two-year-olds that battled in the spring.
And, for the fourth successive time, Scobie found one
good enough to beat him. Tangaroa, the winner, had
beaten him once before at even weights, whereas Boast-
ful, who finished third, was twice defeated by Scobie last
year. In the running of this trio of youngsters there
has been nothing for the finger of suspicion to point at.
And Poseidon, of course, won the Leger. Com-
pared with Antonious, his occasionally formidable rival
among the three-year-olds, Poseidon is an adorable crea-
ture. Antonious, beaten in the Essendon Stakes on
Saturday, has shown some remarkable variations of
“form” since September, without scoring one win.
Poseidon, during the same period, has won nine races in
ten tries. His unsuccessful try was when he ran second
to Solution in the Metropolitan Handicap. The hard-
faced bag-and-book crowd commonly refers to Poseidon
as the“’Baeca Trust horse,” and the term is most apt.
Baccas have good cause to trust him.
* « * •
The V.R.C. committee is being; made to look
more and more ridiculous by the seemingly omnipotent
John Wren. A year or two ago the committee refused
to accept Wren as a nominator of horses for races at
registered meetings. Thereupon Wren took in a number
of partners and nominated his horses in their names, each
partner being perhaps the actual owner of a few hairs in
the tail of every horse he nominates under the Tote
man’s directions. These notorious foolings with the
V.R.C. authorities are now thrown into the shade by the
fact that Wren, whilst blatantly proclaiming himself the
proprietor of two pestilent pony racecourses, is the
thinly-veiled boss of a racecourse which is registered by
the V.R.C.
* * • *
In making the publication of betting odds (in
figures) an unlawful thing, the Anti-Gambling Acts have,
perhaps, hurt the bookmakers, without worrying those
inveterate punters who are interested in early market
operations. The betting reports published under the
new law are sufficiently explicit to keep punting interest
alive without inciting casual readers to rash speculation.
For instance, public appetite for “ market intelligence ”
is sufficiently catered for by such paragraphs as this :
“ The most fancied candidates for the Newmarket Handi-
cap are Istria, North Head, Decollette, Collarit, New-
bury and Curtain Lecture in that order, and a good sum
was secured about North Head and Curtain Lecture.”
* ■» * »
Grade cricket resumed in Sydney on Saturday,
and, judging by the high scoring, the rest did the bats-
men good, or the bowlers harm. No less than four cen-
turies were made, and Norman Deane missed three figures
by one run only. R. A. Duff also had hard luck in failing
to reach the century, being bowled by Syrian Kerim when
he had reached 96. Alphabetical White, of North Sydney,
made 177 against Redfern, and in the same match and
innings Norman Deane carried his bat for the 99 above
mentioned. L. W. Pye, playing for Central Cumberland
against Middle Harbor, carried his bat for 168. M. A. Noble
scored 117 for Paddington against Sydney District. The
same match saw Trumper apparently regain form ; he
collected 110 before he was caught. Butin spite of this
great demonstration with the willow the leather also got
a fair look in. Robson, of Balmain, grounded seven of
University’s sticks for 46 runs; Bowden, of Glebe,
dropped six of Waverley’s for 38; L. P. Deane, of Bur-
wood, took seven of Gordon’s for 78; and Cotter, of
Glebe, captured three of Waverley’s for 49.
* ■* » *
Although Victor Trumper’s recovery of form
did not happen soon enough to save his face in connection
with certain recent bellicose utterances, it did arrive in
time to do some good for Padding ton cl nb. Carty was with
Trumper, and the pair made a fine display, smiting 151
in the first hour. Paddington closed the day with eight
wickets down for 378. Huge as this score was, it did not
top the poll on that willowy afternoon. It was out at
Redfern that the spectacular cricket was on view. There
Duff and White got together, and fell on the bowling as
the Angel of Death fell on the Assyrians. The hundred
arrived in 42 minutes, the hour saw 146, and so fast did
they score that in 90 minutes, when the partnership
dissolved, 259 had been made for the first wicket. Clark
made 45, and the not out men, Deane and Mackay,
accumulated 166 between them. North Sydney went
home feeling good ; it had scored 545 for the loss of
seven wickets. This was something like cricket. Central
Cumberland also did well, making 345 for six wickets.
* * * »
They all do it. Never a champion yet who
seemed to be able to keep out of the ring after having
retired on his laurels, with the exception of old Bill
Beach, the Australian rower. He left it in a blaze of
glory, and stayed out. In the fighting line, Jeffries, after
having retired, is bobbing about anxiously inquiring who
will offer 50,000 dollars for a fight between him and the
next best, whoever he may be. Jim Stanbury came back
to flutter a brief space in the limelight, and be bumped
out of it for ever. And now comes news that Major
Taylor, the black United States cyclist, will re-appear in
Paris right away, and next season will be found whizzing
round Australian tracks. Quite a crowd of old stagers
like Lawson, MacFarland, Taylor and Ellegaarde are
threatening to raid Australia next season.
* * * *
The Royal Sydney Yacht Club’s race for the
Commodore’s prizes was an exciting chapter of accidents.
First, the steamer with the spectators arrived an hour
late, and missed the best of the fun. Rawhiti arrived at
the starting line nearly four minutes late, and never had
a hope in consequence. Kulruburra’s bowsprit carried
away, and the yacht, drifted out of the race. Sunbeam
had two of the crew washed overboard ; they were picked
up by the boat Iris, after which the ’Beam retired. Then
skipper Doran ran the Bona aground at the Sow and
Pigs, and lost three or four minutes getting clear.
Saxton’s new boat, Awanui, came romping through the
hard, squally nor’-easter, and loped away to the front,
and stayed there till the finish, beating Bona by 2min.
56sec., with Culwulla in the third place.
* * * *
Schoolboy Frank Beaurepaire, of the Albert
Park Swimming Club, further improved his record by
winning a J-mile championship of Victoria, at the City
Baths (Melb.), t’other Wednesday night. The rival
starters were—Mason, who latelv represented Vic. in
Maoriland ; and Billy' Clegg, of Ballarat. The schoolboy
finished seven clear yards ahead, in 6min. 9 3-ssec.,
smashing the previous best time for the distance by
6 l-ssec., according to several doubtful watches.
* * * *
The long-delayed news of the Ormond-Daytona
Beach (U.S.A.) speed carnival tells of the repeated
success of the steam Stanley car, which won the world’s
five mile championship in 4min. 62sec.—a record. The
only car to get near the flying steamer was the English
Rolls-Royce car. It was said before the race that the
Honorable Rolls would drive this himself. Rolls is an all-
round man who experiments with balloons, aeroplanes,
motor-bikes, hydroplanes, and other things. The Rolls-
Royce car is practically his own invention, and is the
latest of English cars, and it will be remembered that it
was the same type of car, driven by the same man, that
won the Tourist Trophy race in the British contest, some
few months back. In addition to running recond in the
five miles, the Rolls-Royce car, although only 20h.p.,
pressed the 70h.p. American Mercedes in another five
miles race that was not a championship event.
* * * *
The proposal to hold another Paris to Madrid
autocar test has recalled to popular memory and indig-
nation the awful contest of 1903, which has passed into
history as the “Race of Death.” The French Govern-
ment stopped it at the end of the first day, when such
of the cars as were not wrecked had arrived at Bordeaux.
It was that disastrous contest which led the French
country people to form associations to shoot motorists
at sight, and for a time made it unsafe to drive a motor
car through France at anything more than 10 miles an
hour. Two hundred cars, many of them 90-h.p. racers,
were let loose at short intervals. Some were manned by
experienced drivers, but a huge proportion by men who
were practically amateurs. So great was the cloud of
dust raised that the drivers could not see the road, and
steered by the tops of the long lines of poplar trees
which mark the French highways. In that cloud of dust
tragedies were enacted, and the 342 miles between Paris
and Bordeaux were strewn with wrecked cars, smashed
vehicles, dead and injured motorists, pedestrians,
travellers, children and animals. The first section was
won by Driver Gabriel, who, mounted on a 70-h.p. Mors,
was the 168th man to start, and threaded his way through
the ruin and the corpses at over 65 miles an hour, com-
pleting the whole distance in shr. 14min. 31 l-ssec. The
most tremendous smash was where a 90-h.p. racer dashed
clean over a low-powered carin front and into an omnibus
loaded with a wedding party, and the whole mass rolled
over an embankment down into a ditch. Gabriel was
close behind, and though travelling at a lot more than
a mile a minute, cut down the opposite bank, and
regained the road without slackening speed. His
drive will probably stand as a record till some battle like
Chalons or Paniput is fought between armies mounted
on automobiles.
• * * *
As a reliability test, that proposed motor run
from Paris to Pekin will beat anything ever yet
attempted, and the car that arrives first will get such an
advertisement that the people who make it should all die
millionaires. The European portion of the trip should be
easy enough, but in Asia the only roads that an auto-
mobile could travel on will lie in Russian territory. Pre-
sumably the route would be from Paris to Vienna by any
of the score of routes available, thence to Moscow, along
the Siberian railway route to Irkutsk, across Lake Baikal,
thence once more along’ the railway and down through
Manchuria to the Chinese capital, where the Chinese
have now got an automobile club. The only other
possible route seems to be across Turkey, southern Persia
and Baluchistan to India, thence through Burmah to
China. But the car that runs that wajf will have to dis-
pense absolutely with roads for much of the journey', and
must be prepared to put up some fast runs with pre-
datory horsemen, and armored cars carrying machine
artillery might be necessary. To all appearance the
southern trip is only possible on paper. The expedition
is not likely to come off, though, by either route.
* ■* * *
Cyclist Liddle, on a tour round the world,
recently' made a stop of several weeks in Melbourne,
prior to his departure for Tassy. Liddle started from
Cape Town, dead broke. Working on the honor and
glory ticket, a polite way of battling “on the never,” he
has covered a fair lump of South Africa, and travelled
from North Queensland to Port Phillip, mostly on main
roads. At a cyclists’ smoker, t’other week, he said,
“I’m not allowed to beg.” But he frankly admitted his
ability to force an invite as a conjurer forces a card.
During his stay' in Melbourne he supported himself by
hawking post-cards—•“ My photo’’—interspersed with a
lengthy jabber, principally about African farm-burners,
at cycle-club meetings. Liddle hails from the Orkney
Isles. He went to S’Africa with a kilt cycle corps on a
despatch-carrying job. After the slaughter he took to
counter-jumping; till he struck the idea that he would
cease work and circle the globe at the expense of Kaffirs,
Chows, and any old thing that would spare a shake-down
or a feed. Liddle left Melbourne with a credit balance
and a number of favorable impressions. Compared with
trans-continental Birtles, who has lately been battling
with the drought and the sandhills in Central Australia,
Liddle is a fine sample of the Sunday afternoon city-to-
St. Kilda bikist.
A rowing shindy has broken out between
Launceston and Hobart. Launceston is the home of the
Tasmanian Rowing Association, but most of the rowers
live in Hobart, and the Hobart rowers decline to take
part in the corning Inter-Scate Eight-oar contest if they
are to be selected by a common lot of people at Laun-
ceston. The jealousy' between the two “ centres of
population,” as they fondly call themselves, is so violent
that each faction is in danger of being pushed off the
globe by the other. Even if Tasmania does not turn up
the race will still happen.
„ * * *
Everybody knows that the leading clubs in the
Victorian Football League pay fine, substantial salaries to
their leading players, but the amounts are always
charged as lemons, or bootlaces, or eucalyptus, and in
that way the League is able to still sound the loud
timbrel about its lily-white amateurism. Melbourne
Football Club has for y'ears been the most amateur of the
whole bunch. Sixteen out, of its 18 men did not
receive a bean. As a result Melbourne dropped to
the bottom of the premiership list, and lost sup-
porters and enthusiasm. A bold bid for promi-
nence and success was to be made this coming
season. Months ago the Melbourne committee told the
world at large that it was going to be honest and openly
pay its men. But the zeal for honest professionalism
sputtered out. The whole position is paradoxical. The
League is 70 percent, professional at the present time,
yet the following speech sufficed to squelch the honesty
purposed by the Melbourne committee :
“ After what was said at the last annual meeting of the
cricket club, everyone thinks the club is going to pay
players. If professionalism is brought into football in
Victoria this club will get the credit of it. (Sensation.)
Other clubs do it, and don’t make it public. They elect
a finance committee, and only the members of that com-
mittee know what is done. If you go on talking like
this you will have a difficulty in getting a single permit
through.” (Cheers.)
Being professional is not the sin; the iniquity lies in
openly saying that you are. The fact that people only
know you are doesn’t matter.
* * * *
~ Johnson-Lang fight in Melbourne last
Monday was an example of what the ringsider will put
up with to see a scrap. Twenty thousand of him rolled
up at Richmond racecourse, and stood in pelting rain,
which ran down inside the clothing and fairly spouted
from the boots, watching Johnson and Lang bash one
another on an elevated platform. And, after all, it was
not much of a fight for which the collective rin sider
risked pneumonia and rheumatism. The black man was
taller and a stone heavier than his white rival, and
when the disturbance started Lang was so debilitated
with stage fright, or something, that he could not move
properly, and acted something like the doll-wife in “La
Poupee.” A bash or two from Johnson effectually re-
moved that, and then Lang pulled himself together and
waded in to destroy. The second and third rounds saw
him put up a vigorous fight, only to discover that he was
over-reached, out-classed, and out-weighted. Attheend
of the third round he had shot his bolt, and thence-
forward became receiver-general. Johnson smote him
how and when he liked, he upper-cut him, he short-
jolted him on ribs and diaphragm, and for six solid rounds
the white man endured it, vainly hoping for a chance
to knock out his good-natured antagonist. Then he threw
in the towel. The fighting community is generally of
opinion that the fight has discounted Johnson’s prowess
considerably. He should have knocked out Lang in
three rounds, say the cognoscenti, and if it takes him
nine rounds to finish Lang he has no hope of walking
over Squires, although he might heat him on points—
always provided that Squires didn’t get in close and “hit
him with me hand on the jore !” As there is apparently
no one in Australia of his class just at present, Johnson’s
manager is considering the advisability of letting
him take on two men, one after the other, in quick suc-
cession. Which will be rough on the first man of the pair.
* * * *
“Snell”: The Olympic’s fight at Melbourne
Cyclorama on Monday night, Feb. 25, was Russell, the
youthful Sydney heavyweight, versus Fraser, the not-
too-youthful Melbourne middleweight. There was a
difference of quite l-J stone in favor of the visitor, and
Fraser had no option, when hard up against the slogger,
but to keep out as well as possible, and cover by all
devices within the rules. The Melbournian was miles
ahead of Russell as a boxer, and notched points in a
methodical way right through the fight. Russell, finding
Bob’s head too flighty to hit, contented himself with
slogging for the body, and, in the course of 20 rounds,
wore his opponent down by sheer advantage of weight
and strength. Finishing the fresher of the two, he got
the verdict. On points, Fraser seemed to have capped
the Cornstalk, but the referee did not see it in that light.
It is amazingly hard at times to understand in what light
referees do see it.
* * * •
“Snell”: A few words in reply to Referee
Basto, who, like all referees, gets very feverish when the
quality of his judgment is questioned. I never doubted
its honesty. Firstly, I don’t endeavor to hide my identity
under my pen-name ; the personality behind it is cer-
tainly better known to Bulletin 1 readers than Mr. Basto
is. If Andrews was not disgusted with Mr. B.’s decision,
w’hat was the meaning of his anguished protestations in
the ring? If his seconds approved of it, why did
they behave as if they had been kicked hard
in a tender place? If all right-thinking people
thought the decision absolutely 0.K., why the
frenzied hoots that followed its deliverance? To
be sure, Mr. Basto’s definition of the right-thinking
person may be the one who believes as he believes. Yes,
Griffen had superior strength in his contest with Fraser,
and won because the referee gave him a chance of proving
it after he had been down several times. The people who
crave to see a match carried to the point of inhumanity
are very few (and I’ve joined Melbourne crowds in yelling
to Mr. Basto to call tfie boys off before this), but there is
a medium in all things, and my opinion is that the
referee was squeamish in this case. His opinion is that
he was an apostle of humanity. Well, it’s a case of two
opinions. He’s paid to give his ; I’m paid to give mine.
* * * *
“ Yarrum”: Met. a cricket enthusiast t’other
day in Maitland (N.S. W.). When a boy, he tramped from
Nattai to Sydney—so miles—to see the first English
eleven play Australia. His father had “ tons of money”
at the time, but he looked upon cricket as a waste of
time, and wouldn’t part with the return fare from Camp-
belltown, which was then the terminus of the southern
line. My enthusiast can tell now of every ball that was
bowled—mostly “ under-armers ” —and of every hit that
was struck. The late George Thornton’s belltopper blew
away that day ; and he bought a dinner with the bob he
got for chasing it. Of all the men who played for Aus-
tralia then, he says there is but one, Nat. Thompson,
now living. The old fellow has played the game all his
life ; hut the most he ever put up in an innings was seven,
against Wingecarribee.


By a recent mail The Bulletin received a
letter from R. X. Stephens, a wandering Australian
journalist now located at St. Louis (U.S.A), who inter-
viewed Jeffries at his home at Burbank, outside Los
Angeles. “Bill Squires beat Jeffries? Impossible! In
the first place Squires would look like a baby beside
Jeffries, and in the second Jeffries is not only a great
fighter but a remarkably scientific boxer.. .. Jeffries is a
remarkable example of strength. Every muscle in his
face denotes strength. He has a pair of eyes like
Kitchener’s. He has a great big back, bulky shoulders,
thick neck—he wears al9 collar—and massive arms and
legs. And such hands ! They are as big as the feet of
the ‘Salvation Army Giant’ who some years ago carried
the banner in Bendigo (Vic.)... ‘ What kind of a fighter
is this Squires?’ inquired the champion. ‘ls he a
rusher?’ I admitted that I thought Squires could be
described as a rusher, one of the best Australia has pro-
duced since Joe Goddard. Jeff, smiled. ‘ I like these
rushers. When I’m fighting them I get close in to the
‘ Sons of Guns ’ and I make ’em let go at me and as soon as
they do I turn on lefts and rights. One of my first fights was
with a rusher—Tom Sharkey. I’ll never forget that
fight. He had several ribs broken, and I nearly
chopped his head off.’ Later on, he inquired what
were Squires’ height and weight, and when I told
him Squires was about sft. lOin. high and fought at
about 1721b5., he smiled. ‘I am about 260 now, and if I
agree to fight r.his Australian, I’ll do three months’ hard
work at handball playing and boxing. At the end of
that time I’ll be fit and well, and I’ll enter the ring at
about 210. At that weight lam always very strong and
active. Whenever I agree to fight, I train faithfully,
whether the match is a soft snap or not. I take no
chances, and, even for moving-picture considerations, I
won’t let the other fellow up. Has Squires beaten any
good men yet ? ’
• • • • • •
“‘Now, listen to me,’ said Jeffries, ‘and I’ll
tell you something. lam champion of the world 1 The
people who are promoting this fight want me to appear
in a championship of the world match in Rhyolite, so as
to boom it and place it on the map the same as Goldfield
was boomed through having the Gans-Nelson light-
weight championship fight there. The purse offered is
$30,000, 60 per cent, to winner, 40 per cent, to loser.
Now, understand it is money that talks to me. This
Rhyolite crowd must come through with the rhino. I
want at least $25,000, win, lose, or draw, before I will fight
in any of the Nevada mining towns. It would cost me
between three and four thousand dollars to train for a
fight, and the winning end of the purse, as the Rhyolite
people figure it, is $lB,OOO. I think I could wallop
Squires, and the $lB,OOO would come my way, but after
paying for sparring partners, &c., I would only have
about $14,000. Not me. They can give Squires what
they like, but I must have $25,000 for my appear-
ance ; and, let me tell you, I think $5OOO for
a man who has been fighting for $2OOO purses cut
into 60 for the winner and 40 for the loser, is a
very fair thing for him. Squires ought to be pleased to
come to America, and, without a trial, fight me for the
championship of the world. No, I want $25,000 win,
lose or draw, or they won’t see Jeff, in the ring. I’m not
hard up. I’ve 140 acres of land on this patch for w'hich I
paid $lOO an acre. I raise alfalfa on it. I crop it nine
times a year, and the average return per acre, each year,
is at least two tons. Alfalfa is $l5 a ton. No, I’ll fight
for nothing less than $25,000 win, lose or draw.” And
when on top of this demand by Jeffries a couple of ’Frisco
scribes “ roasted ” Squires as a man who had fought only
fifth-raters, the Rhyolite people were scared. That was
how Squires’ first match with Jeffries fell through on
New Year’s Eve, 1906.
In the light of the above conversation, the vague
rumors to the effect that the Squires-Jeffries match is
“on’’again are to be taken with considerable caution.
New York Police Gazette announces that if Squires will
go to America he and Jeffries may fight for a $30,000
purse, which means that either Jeffries has climbed down
from his attitude when interviewed by Stephens, or else
the Rhyolite Club is going to offer Squires a very small
end of the purse, win or lose. When Skinner, of the
Rhyolite Athletic Club, saw Jeffries, the champion stood
out for a $50,000 purse, but the promoter said it was
$30,000 or nothing. The Bulletin does not think Mr.
Squires has the remotest chance of fighting Mr. Jim
Jeffries for the championship of the world.
Most of the fine old Tories who talk
about the sacred rights of proputty, and the Con-
stooshun, and precedent, and add that a Britisher s
home is his castle —most of the fine old Tones
who mention these things whenever a land-tax to
burst up big idle estates is promised, dont
know that in 1534 an Act was passed in England
forbidding any grazier to have more than 2000
sheep. A tendency had set in to lay out sheep-
walks instead of carrying on agriculture, and as
danger was threatening 'from France, it was
feared there would not be enough men on the
land to successfully defend it against invasion.
The modern Australian statesman is far more con-
siderate. He proposes that Fat should be allowed
to keep 10,000 sheep if he’ll improve his holding,
and run them on a small area, and so give others
a chance to breed sheep and feed children.
The Earoscope is an American invention by
which the newly-discovered beneficial effects of vibratory
motion are applied to the delica e organism of the inner
ear. Strange as it may seem, the interior of the ear is
about the only part of the human body that cannot be
seen into during life. The brain itself has been
examined while working at full blast, and even
the remote parts of human anatomy usually included
by Billjim in the comprehensive word “innards” have
all been explored by some wizard with the aid of some
appliance that, a few hundred years ago, would have
earned him a warm death. The inner ear alone remains
an unknown territory during - life, and is inaccessible.
The “Earoscope” does not pierce the ear, or in-
terfere with it in any way. It is a vibratory
instrument, and soothes the troubled organ by
invigorating aural kinetics, which tune up the aural
cord, apply vitalising force to the delicate nerves of the
inner ear, and helping the “ossicles” to vibrate in their
usual manner. By this process an improved circulation
is set up, and diseased ears are benefited by the exercise
and the increased circulation of healthy blood. The in-
strument is sold by the “Earoscope” Co., at its Sydney
branch, 90 Pitt-street. 1 '
[Stands
fcai
m
PUNCTURE
\l /STOP
IMACULU
Docs Ivor
GfcsS
cc
Preserves
Robber
LIDDLE, round the world cyclist, travelled 3000
miles in Australia without puncture trouble. His
tyres were charged with MIRACULUM, and are
still good and firm. MIRACULUM preserves rubber,
and does not lift sound patches. If your dealer is
prejudiced against MIRACULUM because it reduces
nis repair trade, write to us direct.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS :
266 LATROBE STREET, MELBOURNE.
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
Posted, with injector tin, in N.S.W. and Vic., 5/3 ;
other States, 5/8.
Missing Friends.
TVJASSAU, GEORGE SIML’SON, or, if deceased, his
- L ' representatives should apply at once to Blake and
Riggall, solicitors, 120 William-street, Melbourne, or
money belonging to him will be divided by High Court in
England amongst next-of-kin.
Made
from
Nothing
So Qood
On Earth
For Skin,
Complexion,
Scalp,
Hair,
Skin Disease,
Chapping,
Redness.
Australian Fruits, Flowers
and Herbs. s*
:T'
-
ate
M
m.
m
11
i '
K.
Quite Unequalled for
Shaving'.
,lTT\2Kr\rv!r'lui
ure
HerW Jk ir\ Joxp be Okt
v * vl "■ * * v ’' l *" ”■*"■ ~ (- — ’ —
at 21 CkerrM/ly.DrApery <£ JforeKeepery.tKrou^kout
Su/iraJ «> JI a &t Sjf" per Box To/’ 3
If rvot Locally.
cs> «
||- | > f i/4,^>»• r » »✓» vr • ir %»v^ k lly • *mJ W M * '
, To/taJ Note orJt<*mpy to Value of&r*
to ike Proprietory. wker\ it will per riail.
soieT?o P nerory H-E-KUGELnMN <& COMPANY
WHOLE SALE-DKUeGiyXS-J.-fIANI/FACTI/RER/
PH6-OUCEN • ST'IiEL5 T 'liEL5 R "- t -?- 199 CLARENCE.
L And 24 APE LAI DE & E.RISBANEL ■
FREE SAMPLE sent on receipt of Twopenny Stamp.
Greener
IPG^ns
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. CREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Cun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
STAMMERING
can be cured by
correspondence.
Tell all about your
case and send £2 2s for complete course to
W. Phipps, Evening Echo, Ballarat.
Over 25 years’ experience. References given if
required. It pays to talk well, but a stutterer
is always at a disadvantage.
In his Brunswick candidature, Judkins is
giving addresses to “ women only,” though
women have no vote for the State Parliament.
But, even if they had, what has Judkins got to say
to Brunswick’s wife in secret that he hasn’t the
nerve to say to her with Mr. Brunswick looking
on? And, assuming that Jud. could ever be
elected, is he going to carry the scheme right
through, and address himself, not to Parliament,
but to Parliament’s wife ? If so, it doesn’t seem
necessary to send him to Parliament —he can talk
to Parliament’s missus quite as conveniently if
Brunswick keeps him just plain Jud.
“ Blister” : The passing of a police officer
who was one of the vanquished recalls the defeat
of an attempt made to coerce white with yellow
labor at the Lothair mine, Clunes (Vic.), in 1873.
The men, in the first place, went out because they
were refused Saturday afternoons off, and the
solid sympathy of the Clunes miners made it im-
possible for the directors to get other labor. So the
directors, including Premier Francis and (alas !)
Peter Lalor, threatened a Mongolian invasion. The
Clunes people got drunk with excitement, and on
December 8 held a mass meeting. At mid-
night, encouraged by the women, the crowd of
about 1000 enthusiasts destroyed the building
erected for the Chinese, and prepared to give
battle to the police on the following day. At
an early hour on December 9 the strikers swarmed
along the Creswick road, took possession of the
toll-gate, and, armed with pick-handles and wad-
dies, waited for the yellow and white invaders.
About 11 o’clock, a big van of Chinese and
police, under Sergeant Former, hove in sight,
but retreated when the rioters made a demon-
stration. .Lalor and the other mining politicians,
after thinking it over, gave way before the
force of public opinion, and the miners, having
effectually scared the few Chows who lingered
in the neighborhood, went back to work, victo-
rious.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
THE GOLDEN KING
Address —
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
&
&
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting .
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course .
&
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
&
do not boom my seif,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
Bankers
Victoria and Royal Banks.
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in 4i Tho
King Of Sport ” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: 44 King of Sport/' Collins St*, Melbourne.
Not the Comet,
but THE Star of
tbe Tyre
World.
t Dunlop
Tyres^
outshine all
others for
. Hard. .
ft Wear. M
*
"^ica.nised
For Comfort &
Durability.
Guaranteed .far 12 Honths.
Beware of Imitations.
THINK WELL
fidbrc purchasing Qjcte Ti|rc&
Our Vulcanised
fgiiiasEii
nay coot "you a few Shilling ran
but they arc worth It.
containing aattwcy do, the Highest
Quality of Hate rial tfte tiest
Mode of Manufacture uryter , \
Hydraulic Pressure
Am fouiM without this Trade ftotl
DUNLOP RUBBER C? OFAUX IT?
w
XT i
sr
rt
a
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.„
All States and N.Z.


h
X
s
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER, 255.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, £7
10-
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia
mond and Rubies oi
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
SOLID
SILVER,
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, 80s,
40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
SOLID
GOLD
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS., mm
These illustrations reveal some of the very
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
7
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
■white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O. ‘
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s,
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
85s. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and
£2
£2
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2.
A - SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£3
£5
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£lO
£l2/10
or Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald Centre
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£B/10
£l2/10
V /
or Sapphires £8 10s.
Diamonds £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
Keyless
Lever,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong:
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
Mmnmiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiii
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £f. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £S 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to £5O
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
Sydney's Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Opposite New
Railway Station,


“FT IFS
CARRY
DISEASE
.
»
t
/
<S)
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
/ EvferyTly is c*.
M&JV Killed
at He&rt.”
IT’S Hairy* body carries botH disease
and deatH. Having' its origin in
filtH, it brings witH it tHe badteria
wbicb breeds in filtH. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over tHe food of tHe table, flying from tHe lips of tHe sicK to
tHe lips of tHe HealtHy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were tHe wild beasts to primitive man.
THe HigH mortality among cHildren in tHe congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded togetHer,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
tHe fly. Infant diseases cHiefly prevail in summer, when tHe
flies abound.
IHSECTI
Is tHe Greatest KILL£R
of FLIES 3D. otHer Insects.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly 'efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale *
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy.
SYDNEY.


■
m
; \\ ■. - ,■ vv> i'v v
r.,-j
fit
$43
ii
u*’/;
1
lil
V . -.' ■' ■ *
::' f®fMs
i f#iK •lI'XJIK:
;
'si'rv.
*3
iw,
■ .
m
JK#W*
, ' ■ .’■ ' . V ' . .
ist-i
; :
Vi„* v t *>,l
, ■>* >• ' * *>* *1 I {
' . *
. , * * * ' M... J
m
mi
■its
WQ
>» V*.,; ' 1
*
;v
- . M
. .-. '■• |,\- •• V - ■ ' "
:.- - •
I
I
fe
-
m
> -
■. ■ 'a. ■ ...S' : ■ ...- , '■■■ .
■ ■
AvfA
...
St?
m
&?■?*>&
\
■
\ ■ -■
,
■ hr-. •• , " .;^VM
t- . •
a :
;
IMM
L
itc
Ml
¥ - J,
: :
• ~• : '
■ • •• ■
.• >!
lit
la
< c
%
fe>.
r"
c ami'
imt
:
tt>.' 1
■
IS
’ ;
1
lIS
V ' ,
• ••
SffiS J
: •” m
■r
.
.
• • .
:
*
* **' * 1 'i r
■ ' •■ . ; s - X .
.
u T r
, . * . ■ ■ ,i, ; . ■ .
’ *■ - '
’ .'a. •• .
.
-
sxmm
m
m
m
m
w.
“ WKat is tHe Best Smoke in town now ?
“ CAPSTAN.”
“So it is here; lend us your pouch! ”
99


“ Michael Carr ” writes :
The day’s work that is liable to happen to a Victorian
railway man : On Wednesday (16th Jan.), we left Sea Lake
at 6.40 a.m., which means that the guard signed on at 6
ain The train arrived at Wycheproof about 10.15 a.m.
On the journey, the guard had to handle the goods,
assist at shunting, &c., for, at intermediate stations,
such as Boigbeat, Kaneira, Berriwillock, and Nullavil,
there is onlv a woman—or at least an almost
honorary skeleton in a skirt—in charge. At 2.30 p.m.
this same guard, after fixing up his sheets and returns
(no small matter), started back to Sea Lake with a
train of 71 trucks, dropping trucks at each station.
Arrived at Sea Lake 6.10 p.m., and left again at 7 p.m.,
picking up loaded wheat trucks all the way down to
Wycheproof, where he arrived at 10.35 p.m. I was in
the train between Kaneira and Sea Lake on the last trip,
and saw him furtively eating. Perhaps he thought I
would report him to Tait for feeding in working hours.
He was a tired man when we got to Wycheproof, for it
had been a scorching Mallee day. Apart from any sym-
pathy for the poor baked wretch himself, what a menace
to the public safety! This man was on duty for 16£
hours, doing hard manual work, too, in a sun tempera-
ture that would have lighted Tait’s cigar, and making up
his complicated returns in a moving oven in between
times.
PO you LIVE
IN THE COUNTRY?
IF you do, buy an Edison Phono-
graph, and get at small cost
what people in the city pay
large sums to hear at the
theatres.
You can, at insignificant cost, keep
in touch with the world of entertain-
ment and music.
But be sure you get the Edison—
the original. Look for this trade-
mark—
NONE GENUINE
WITHOUT
THIS
TRADE MARK
fttovu*
Write now and ask us to send you
some printed matter which tells all
about the Edison Phonograph, and
the latest lists of Gold-moulded
Records.
THE NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, Ltd.,
Box B, 340 KENT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rev. A. J. Rolfe, Muswellbrook, "t'f.'S?.
writes with reference to the Golden Specific for
Drunkenness: —“ I am thoroughly convinced that
yours is the only genuine human cure for this
disease. . . I shall always in my parish work
recommend your treatment where the home life is
blighted by the curse of drink.V • It-can be given
secretly. The' Urtion Manufacturing Co., 299
Elizabeth St., Melbourne, will send particulars free
Rabbits now make up 50 per cent, of the
goods frozen for export in the Government Cool
Stores in Melbourne; and the quantity exported
from N.S.W. exceeds that from Vic., while
figures from S.A. and Tas. and Maoriland, all
look up. Last year the Cold Country took
1,039,371 crates from Australasia, equal to 16,000
tons of meat, or just 24 million bunnies ! That
meant £650,000 paid to Australia. And so far all
that Danysz promises in return for killing this
trade is that he may cause a temporary discourage-
ment of bunny—till the rodent becomes immune.
“ When shall their glory fade ? ” Thomas
White, 70 years of age, one of the very few
remaining survivors of. the Six Hundred, applied,
on January 2, to the Medway Board of Guardians
at Chatham (Eng.) for relief. He had been for
months on the verge of starvation. He was
severely wounded in the Balaclava charge, and
was invalided on 6d. a day for 18 months—in all,
the magnificent sum of 13 guineas. He was tem-
porarily relieved with 3s. 6d. and one loaf per
week.
The following advt. from the Melbourne
dailies offered a Bright lookout to the successful
candidate
The Bright Shire Council has decided to amalga-
mate offices, and is inviting applications for the
position of engineer, secretary, valuer, collector,
inspector of nuisances, inspector of slaughter houses,
district vermin inspector, and collector of pan fees.
What’s the salary for all that?
Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. 0. > WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
Magnificent Reception nightly accorded to Mr.
JULIUS KNIGHT and J. O. WILLIAMSON’S .New
English Dramatic Company, in the Picturesque
Romantic Melodrama—'
ROBIN
Prices as usual.
HOOD.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
HEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S Popular Aus-
tralian Melodrama, THE BREAKING OF THE
DROUGHT.
SATURDAY NEXT—Farewell Production of the Season,
the Brilliant Drury Lane Spectacle—
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
SWEPT BY OCEAN BREEZES.
JACK PRENDEGAST,
Australian Rough-Rider, with his Buckjumping Horses.
BEN " HUR,
The Australian Pocket Hercules and Wrestler.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES.
The Cream of Vaudeville Novelties. „ ,
Fun-Producing Devices Without End.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
Tues., March 26th, to Wed., April 3rd, 1907
HUNTING AND TROTTING EXHIBITIONS.
GRAND PARADE of HORSES and CATTLE DAILY.
NEW CATTLE PAVILION.
NEW CARRIAGE PAVILION.
NEW DOG PAVILION.
The Biggest Show in Australasia
EXCURSION FARES ALL LINES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. . H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Amusements.
yICTORIA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE.
POST MASON,
AND VAUDEVILLE COMPANY,
PLAYING TO RECORD HOUSES THIS WEEK.
TAM WORTH, WARWICK, TOOWOOMBA
to follow.
FRED DAWSON, Representative.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
KING and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
Mr. WILL LOCHRANE. Miss PHYLLIS FAY.
LITTLE LILLY GRIMSIIAW. Mr. HAROLD REEVES.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
Great Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Mr. FRANK G. KING, THREE GIBSON GIRLS,
MISS CASSIE WALMER. MISS FANNY POWERS.
SELBO, the Kins of Clubs. THE RAY SISTERS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SIGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing Dogs
and Monkeys. FRED CURRAN, Singer Quaint Songs.
LEONIE DIXON, Serio-Comic and Dancer.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers.
CORA CASELLI, Song and Dance Artiste.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
Plan at Allan’s. It®" PRICES —3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THIRD MONTH
and LAST 10 NIGHTS of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Pantomime Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
NEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FOURTH WEEK,
a Bright and Diverting Story- of Australian Station Life.
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in
the Great Drama of Australian Life,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
Depicting station life in the days of Ben Hall.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
THURSDAY, March 7, and FRIDAY, March B—Last Two
Performances of THE NEW.CLOWN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 9.
THE WILLOUGHBY-WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY CO., including Miss Grace Palotta, in
MR. HOPKINSON.
ass- PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Five acres covered with the
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAND,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to 11 p.m. ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
As supplied under Royal Warrant
to His Majesty the KING.
99
BRANDY
IS DISTILLED
WHOLLY FROM
GRAPE WINE
, a i - ......
THE LANCET" says: **lt is a sound and honest brandy, and of a Fragrance, Purity
and Quality second to none.”,


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
“F.H.”: A huge navvy arrived, and
gruffly remarked that he had come to remove the
verandah. It not being my verandah I raised no
objections, merely wondering how he was going
to do it without tools. Embracing the nearest
post in a bear-like hug he gave a colossal
heave. The support cracked ominously, and
a vase fell off the dining-room mantel-
piece on to the hearth. This brought
the landlady in a whirlwind of wrath,
but when she found the big stranger again
wrapping himself round the post, she fled to the
back regions, where she could be heard boxing
someone’s ears and sending for the police. On
her return she asked if I wasn’t going to do any-
thing. I was about to inquire “What?” when
the house-shifter got a purchase with his boots
and threw all his weight outwards. The post
snapped with a loud report, while the
navvy blotted out a bed of pansies with
the broad of his back. He was starting on
another post, when the policeman glode into the
incident. Realising the absurdity of trying to
arrest single-handed a person who tore up houses
by the roots, he began to talk weather, while the
landlady looked unutterable things through the
window. In ■ the course of conversation the
destroyer remarked that it was a big contract,
which he would never have taken on had
it not been for a very dear friend—
a publican in Flinders-street, who had asked
him to shift this particular verandah be-
fore he said good-bye. Here the workman
wiped away a tear and supposed he’d have to “do
a bit more.” “ We’ve got one or two things up
at the station that could do with a bit of shifting,”
said the cop, with the smile of a little child, “and
you could come back and do this when it ain’t so
’ot.” I followed afar off. Arrived at the lock-up,
the man in fustian at once saw what was wanted
—the cell door was a foot “ out.” As he stooped
to examine it, the guileless constable hurled all
his weight against him, and sent him sprawling
in, and the door clanged. A J.P., on being told
that a mad giant in d.t’s. had just been arrested,
came and held a court outside the bars. Then
four policemen and a navvy fell collectively into a
cab, which drove off to the gaol, sheddjjig its
windows as it went. It was only a working man
switched off his beer for a whole Sunday by the
new Licensing Act.
London National Telephone Journal
states, as evidence of the spread of the telephone
habit, that a clergyman recently surprised his
congregation by giving out, “Hymn double-six-
oh ! ”
Ma^estheSKlN
CLEAR. & ROSY
TRY IT ~
ATOUR EXPENSE,.
DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jar of Creme
Bw of Powder, and Cake of Soap, teil on
focdpt of 3d. in stamp* lo cover postage. j
JOUBetT * JOU&ERT, Melbourne; CUUOE tIEALV A CO.. AJ Fill SL. •
Srim } i or LOUIS JOUBERT, SIP Wellington Si.. Penh. AGENTS.
The Fuel of Life
—ELECTRICITY!—
Why You go on Suffering when You can be Cured Without Risk Is a Marvell
You are one of the many thousand sufferers who should have been well and strong long ago if
Torino r Ure<3 tt natural and rati<)nal remedy for your troubles. Weakness in the Stomach,
™rf« y Ar IV6 t earfc ’ Br f m . or other organs indicates only a lack of Nerve Life in those
Sl™..*? ® • fe J 8 Electricity, and when you are weak you have only to assist Nature to
restore the missing electrical energy, and, once this is done, you are well again. True ! it does
i en °ug , but it really takes time, and is a delicate matter. However, no matter
why or what caused you to suffer from Nervousness. General or Functional
TrouKl^« W ¥^?” eS f- (a<fe^ i, ' s ' tHe Bladder and Kidneys), Kidney
Sciatira ’ T Constipation. Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Runturt’ Insomnia, Sunstroke, WeaK Back, Varicocele or
4,1 •?, ~ * ec nci ty offers you a certain and lasting cure. So often have we demonstrated
tins tact that we are now prepared to do what has never been done before. We are willing to
give you a written guarantee to refund your money if
dr. McLaughlin’s electric belt
tw T e y T if W ® accept y° ur case as curable. (We reserve the right to refuse any case
M „T , r ° , ° are , to guarantee.) As we said before, you require only Electricity, and Dr.
f. 1 f\* VeS , Electricity to you in such quantities that your tissues and organs are
is restnrA/1 °w S 1 u* 1 '? re destroyed by everyday wear and tear ;in this way your strength
. orn while you sleep, this Belt performs cures which a few years ago would have been accepted as miracles.
SEND THIS COUPON FOR. FREE BOOK
FREE BOOK!
Our Book carefully describes
our Belt in every detail. Write
for it or call for Free. Consulta-
tion and advice. Hours—9
a.m. to 6 p.m. daily, including Saturdays. When writing to us
tell us what ails you, how you feel, and to what cause you
attribute your ill-health. We will carefully diagnose your case and
if we assure you that our Belt will cure you, we will back our
assertions with a ‘ cast-iron guarantee.” You need take no risks.
A written opinion costs you nothing ; write to us to-day. Delays
m the matter of health are always fraught with great danger.
Free Consultation. Free Advice*
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Rnr. 17.1 >O7 7
READ THIS LETTER.
N ervo-Vital Loss of Power and
Lumbago.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
DULAOOA STATION, Q.
Dear Sira,—l am pleased to acknowledge receipt of your letter, and
am glad to be able to inform you that your Belt has entirely cured me
and as several different people have requested me to relate my experi-
ences in the use of your Belt, you may be interested to know that I have
strongly advised all of them to write to you and have you diagnose their
cases. I always make a point of relating my experience with the Brisbane
doctor, who told me the Belt would be absolutely useless, and to purchase
one was equal to throwing my money into the street. It is really sur-
prising when an ordinary layman wakes up to what a little doctors know
and how very prejudiced they are against, and willing to condemn, some-
thing 1 they have never taken the trouble to investigate.
Thanking you for all past favors, I remain,
Yours very truly, F. H. VAUGHAN.
You are not asked to take
any Risk. You are assured
by WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
BOOKS YOU
I is EL i Cl
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s Cd posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. l)it. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boon Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and THE Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE 1 ItOM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
JMatoire as^ it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sandquestions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
j tneytcela delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
liage, winch makes i t a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
f’ rl n ICI J >ateS a )riy ' h i future, and wushes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its coi ers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
, SAILS!ACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
.ANY address for &EVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, SCO kinds, te 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS' —LOVE
Bus™ FUTURITY, &c„ with lull 1
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of I laa and, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working. H.r Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, s!h ~ Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is Sd.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. CMulle, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano ’Hies ing and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. 'Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. 'Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy Rivm, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Ma gig, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, 3s. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner,
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Wnfruß Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. On Our ‘New Selection, 6s 6d.
Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiie First
Fight, is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 20 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. ' NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassf.’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest song's, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post/ 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own."
MFANTSJNVAMS, anil the AGED.
BENGE It’S .FQOIfr, 13 SOLD .BY CHEMISTS, *c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


Black Splotches All Over Face
Produced Severe Itching—Year’s
Treatment by Physicians Did No
Good and Became Despondent-
Affected Parts hfow Clear as Ever
Alabama Lady’s
CURE BY THE
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“About four years ago I was afflicted
with black splotches all over my face
and a few covering my body, which
produced a severe itching irritation, and
which caused me a great deal of annoy-
ance and suffering, to such an extent that
I was forced to call in two of the leading
physicians of my town. After a thor-
ough examination of the dreaded com-
plaint they announced it to be skin
eczema in its worst form. They treated
me for the same for the length of one
year, but the treatment did me no good.
“ Finally I became despondent and
decided to discontinue theif services.
Shortly afterwards, my husband in read-
ing a copy of a weekly New York
paper saw an advertisement of the. Cuti-
cura Remedies. He purchased the en-
tire outfit, and after using the contents
of the first bottle of Cuticura Resolvent
in connection with the Cuticura Soap
and Ointment-, the breaking out entirely
stopped. I continued the use of the
Cuticura Remedies for six months, and
after that every splotch was entirely
gone and the affected parts were left as
clear as ever. I have not felt a symp-
tom of the eczema since.
“The Cuticura Remedies not only
cured me of that dreadful disease,
eczema, but other complicated troubles
as well; and I have been the means of
others being cured of the same disease
by the Cuticura Remedies, and I don’t
hesitate in saying that* the Resolvent
is the best blood medicine that the world
has ever known. Lizzie E. Sledge,
Selma, Ala., Oct. 28, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, S.W.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated,in vial of 60) may
be had of all druggists. A single set often cures. Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp.. Sole Props., Boston, Uo 8* A*
BOT* Mailed Free, “ Tne Cuticura Skin Book,’ 8
Addicts, K. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S* Wo
&
$
When buying
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made from cultivated limes.
“MONTSERRAT” is always
fresh and pleasaht to the
taste, and mixed with water,
soda water, or. other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
“ Montserrat ” is sold by all Chemists, Grocers, ere
IS THE
UnderwooD
Cold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limogf.s,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE ■oX7o*l* }
TYPEWRITER ♦
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood Is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT for its STERLING QUALITIES.
j FILE oa the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS : Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
105,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Autralia laughed .'III No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, Is
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
\i
/
3^2
I
III!! US
5
5 i ?
Wifi
o
%>
re
-n
V
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
1 Unrivalled for the Complexion. *
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & 80HH,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. i KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure-you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents : LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
• •
. . WEAR
BucKley & N unn's
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price.
No. lO 1C
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
Melbourne:.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI,
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of*TWEtVE ri ls, Packet of TEN, tOd
The Inky Way.
Queensland’s new democratic weekly, the Sun, edited !
by M.L.A. Kenna, seems to be rapidly supplanting' the
official Labor organ in popular favor. Editor Kenna,
by the way, is an ex-editor of the Worker and something
of a poet. Judging Worn the healthy democratic tone ol
his new paper, and the practical nature of its politics, it
should take firm rooti The SUN.seems to get a good deal
of exclusive political news, and is a sort of semi-official
organ of the Kidston party.
* * * «j»;
“ F.’* : “ Hassan ” (1?. 7/2/’O7) throws a too miscel-
laneous brick, when he says that the daily press “ is
ruled absolutely by its advertising columns.” The item
re girl-sweating in Melbourne, on which his noise is
founded, was printed by the Age. I have had a long ex-
perience of Syme’s rag, both as a reader and contributor ;
and the number of times tnat the Age has treated the
advertiser with a healthy disrespect is just legion. Some
examples. Every butter agent in the city advertises
in either the Age or Leader ; but, at the time of the
Butter Commission and since, David whaled them un-
mercifully, though he had nothing to gain from the co-
operative factories, which he was helping. The mail-
boats have always been advertisers, but the Age was re-
sponsible for taking the butter-carriage from them and
giving it to the outside steamers. The manure men in
Melbourne all advertise with David, and they must have
felt like cutting his throat when he fought for the
stringent Manure Act (safeguarding the cocky who
never even advertises his marriage) now in force. Syme’s
real offence is the unscrupulous manner in which he
uses his paper to help his personal friends, such as Simian
Phraser, Gillott, and Deakin, Deakin earns all the help
he gets, or, rather, deserves it ; but he would get it
whether he did or not.
* * * *
The country newspaper man who seeks a seat in Parlia-
ment will be apt to have trouble with one of the resolu-
tions carried at the Political Labor Conference recently.
That resolution binds him to pay union rates, or at least
Is. an hour, to his compositors. If he is found cutting
rates he is liable to expulsion from the party. The out-
back comp, is often as sad a scandal to unionism as the
cocky’s farm laborer. And now the ill-paid type-snatchei
will come home to roost, and will sit in his faded old clo’
between the boss and the goal of the boss’s ambition.
♦ * * -V
The gibes with which Melbourne Paunch now tries to
confute Socialism are to be found in Cruicltshank’s
“ Comic Almanack ” for 1843. They were sorry twaddle
even in their youth. Still, now that they have reached
their dotage, Paunch finds them just the thing for its
senile pages.
* * * *
“Philo”: “G.F.” (B. 17/l/’O7) may be consoled to
learn that the price paid him by William Randolph
Hearst, for his article in the New York Journal, was a
high rate in proportion to that paid by other American
publications. A few months ago I sent an article to an
important American religious print. It was given the
most important position in the paper, with a striking
headline, extending right across the page. The matter
covered nearly two pages. I got two (2) dollars for it.
Also, I have a friend who is correspondent for an American
weekly. He gets a dollar for the same amount of matter
for which The Bulletin would pay at least a guinea.
America may be a grand, country for engineers and hog
and lard speculators, but it doesn’t seem any too good
for writers.
* * " * •
“ The Hack ” does a general growl: I’ve been noticing
the frequency with which two or more journals publish
the same matter. In August last The Bulletin pub-
lished a “pome” by Horace Halloran, entitled “The
Correspondence Column”; same “pome” (slightly
altered) appeared in Steele Rudd’s Mag. for Octob r.
Another “ ponje,” entitled “ Two Feet of Stocking,”
appeared simultaneously in Steele Rudd’s Mag. for
December and Paunch Annual. Yet again, Steele
Rudd’s Mag. for June, 1905, published a story by M. For-
; rest, entitled ” A Wasted Cartridge.” This has just
appeared in the Pall Mall Mag. for January, 1907. A
personal experience : Submitted my first literary effort—
a “ pome ” —to The Bulletin. Correspondence column
duly notified : “ For print.” Waited three months for it
to appear: then wrote to ,inquire its fate. No reply.
Wrote again (somewhat Still no reply. Wrote
a third time (with great violence), and was informed that
it had been thrown out on re-consideration. Total wait
—six months. Dumped it into the Freetrade Arena in
disgust, and got a guinea for it by return post. The
Arena died shortly after its appearance. I don’t say
that “ Alone I killed it,” but, at any rate, the Protec-
tionist cause owe* Something to me. Another experi-
ence : Submitted a “ pome” to Steel® Rudd’s Magazine ;
received an equivocal reply, which I took for a rejeetioh.
Tried it on tpe Adelaide Critic. Four months later
“pome” appeared in Steele Rudd’s- Magazine. Six
weeks later still I received a note from the Critic editor,
drawing my attention to the fact, and hinting that there
is a law to punish impostors. My stuff had lain un-
acknowledged in Critic office for five and a half months
at the time 1 Hooray for Tortoise Town !
• ' * * *
“O’Fipp”: Why do photographers persist in making
a person suspected Of literary proclivities pose with the
forefinger of the right hand pressed against the massive
brow? I know of only one case in which the victim
really wanted to adopt the attitude. That was Johnson,
who once had a “ Sonnet to Distraction ” printed in the
Dairy Produce Record. The others, leaned the brain
i against the finger-nail because the beaming octopus in
the studio told them it was the correct caper. Why is it
the correct caper?
*■#■*■*■
Caf6 audiences, to whom young Leon Brodzky used to
expound his schemes for revolutionising Australian
journalism, smile when they hear he has settled down as
sub-editor to the British Australasian. Brodzky won’t
find much room for novel flights in that highly con-
ventional office; but since he is only 23, there is still
hope for him.
WHEN THE PAGANS COME TO TEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When my daily task of writing 1 little yarns and verses
ends,
There’s a glad reception waiting for my literary friends.
They are mostly incarnations of Bohemian paganree—
So it’s quite a happy function when the pagans come to
tea !
I’m, of course, the host and chairman when the Fourth
Estate’s “ at home *’
(Oh 1 I think of Julius Caesar and his pagan men of
Rome !)•
There are literary lasses (and their gods were drowned
at sea!) i
Just to give a finer flavor to the pagans’humble tea.
Are we sinners? Are we scoffers at the Titan who con- 1
trols?
No, my friend, we’ve something dearer than our puny
little souls.
There’s a doctrine nobler, purer ; and we ardently agree
How to set the world in order —ev’ry evening after tea !
And we talk of Evolution and the Socialistic Plan,
Plus the Bible’s dissertation qn the publishing of Man.
And we read the Book of Ages, writ in stream, and rock,
and tree—
A Vesuvius of knowledge are the pagans during tea.
But the world of men is calling, with a clapjor quite in-
tense 1
It is calling, calling, calling for my pagan audience.
Aye, it asks from one a story, from another 6ne a song,
And from each a fresh bombardment of the citadel of
Wrong.
So the godless lads and lasses have been drifting, one by
one,
From my office, where their poems and their paragraphs
were done;
But then other ones have hastened, in their stead, to bide
with me—
And I’ll never die of sadness while the pagans come to
tea 1
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


Sydney Harbor Trust wants tenders for
the purchase and demolition of the old landmark
in Windmill-street, Sydney, known as M‘Bride’s
Hotel—a place which has stood in solitary gran-
deur for half a century. In the earlier, times, the
M‘Brides kept it as a sailors’lodging-house. In
the ’mid sixties, it obtained a license, though a
building of very limited capacity, and the
M'Brides still kept it. In fact, the M'Brides are
there or thereabouts even yet.
“J.A.C.”: The great Australian language
is finding its way to remote corners of the earth.
Several members of a rowdy gang, known as the
“M'Glynn Push,” were summarily dealt with in
a Glasgow police court. The Public Prosecutor
wanted to know what “push” meant. A wit-
ness replied that it meant they “ go about push-
ing for all they are worth.” What is the origin
of the term, anyhow ?
Died last Friday at Coward-street, North
Botany (N.S.W.), Mrs. Mary Ann Lutherborrow,
aged 94 years. The old lady was born at Ryde, on
the Parramatta River, in the year 1813, Governor
Macquarie being in power. She was the parent
of 13 children, nine of whom live ; likewise she
was ancestor to 42 grand-children, 81 great-grand-
children, and one great-great-grand-daughter.
The Lutherborrows, her husband’s people, were
located at Kissing Point in the twenties.
Bananaland. has such a complete system of
local government that Parliament is responsible
for the maintenance of only one bridge in the
whole of the great State. This spans the
Mclntyre River, on the border, near Goondi-
windi. At the time it was constructed, 27 years
ago, the N.S. W. Government put a bridge across
the river at Mungindi, and agreed to maintain it
if Bananahtnd painted and puttied the other one.
LTD.
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY,
Head Office—MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
Directors—H. B. HOWARD SMITH, Esq., Chairman; O. C. SMITH, Esq.; W. G. SPRIGG, Esq.:
, HENRY HOWELL, Esq.
C. MORETON NEWMAN, Esq., Managing Director,
v- Solicitor—W. H. CROKER, Esq.
Auditors—WM. DENSHAM, Esq. ; EDWIN H. FLACK, Esq.
Secretary—J. K. LOTHERINGTON.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT.
Y'OUR Directors have satisfaction in presenting herewith the Audited Balance-sheet and Profit and Loss Account
for the Sixth Year of the Company’s operations, which show that th'e business has heen well maintained.
The Balance, including* £16,993 10s. 6d. brought forward from 4ast year, is .. .. .. £48,752 17 1
from which an interim dividend was paid in September last at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum on Cumulative Preference Shares, and 10 per cent, per annum on Ordi-
nary Shares, amounting to 15,360 10 11
Leaving available £33,392 6 2
from which the Directors recommend the payment of a further dividend at the rate
of 5 per cent, per annum on Cumulative Preference Shares, and 10 per cent, per
annum on Ordinary Shares, absorbing 15,431 5 3
Leaving to carry forward a balance of £17,961 011
In accordance with Clause 69 of the Articles of Association, three Directors, O. C. Smith’ Esq., W. G.
Sprigs, Esq., and Henry Howell, Esq., retire,,but being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
To the Shareholders of Howard Smith Company, Limited.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—We beg to report that we have audited the books and accounts of your Company for
the year ending 81st December, 1906, and do hereby certify that, so far as we are in a position to' form an opinion,
the Balance.-sheet and Accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts,
and present a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs at that date.
Dated at Melbourne this. 28th day of February, 1907.
WM. DENSHAM,
EDWIN H. FLACK,
j- Auditors.
STATEMENT and BALANCE-SHEET of
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT THE 31st DAY OF DECEMBER, 1906.
I, Charles Moreton Newman, Managing Director of Howard Smith Company, Limited, do solemnly and
sincerely declare
That the Liability of the Members is limited.
That the Capital of the Company is, as shown by the Balance-sheet, £1,000,000, divided into 1,000,000 Shares of
One Pound each.
That the number of Shares issued is 500,000, consisting of 250,000 Cumulative Preference and 250,000 Ordinary.
Of this number, 162,500 Cumulative Preference, and 162,500 Ordinary, were issued as fully 7 paid up to the
Vendors in payment for the business, and the remainder, consisting of 87,500 Cumulative Preference and
87,500 Ordinary, were issued to the Public.
That of the issue to the Public there has been actually and bona-fide received in money the sum of £85,894.
That there is nothing due by the Company on Mortgage or Debentures, or any floating charge on the General
Assets of the Company.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Company on the 31st December, 1906, were :
Dr. LIABILITIES.
To Authorised Capital—
-500,000 Cumulative
Preference Shares of
£1 each .. .. £500,000 0 0
500,000 Ordinary Shares
of £1 each .. 500,000 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
Of which there have been issued—
-187,426 Cumulative
Preference
Shares, fully
paid up .. £187,426 0 0
62,574 Cumulative '
Preference
Shares, paid
up to ss. .. 15,643 10 0
193,766 Ord. Shares
fully paid up 193,766 0 0
56,234 Ord. Shares,
paid up to ss. 14,058 10 0
500,000
To Fund for Depreciation of Steamers and
Plant, Replacements, Renewals, In-
surance, and Contingencies ..
~ Debts due by the Company
~ Cash due to Bankers, less cash in hand
~ Profit and Loss Account —
Profit £48,752 17 1
Deduct—
Interim Dividend
Paid .. .. 15,360 10.11
£410,894 0 0
275,419 0 2
56,862 7 4
67,780 15 0
33,392 6 2
£844,348 8 8
ASSETS.
By Real Estate at Cost
~ Leasehold Property
at Cost £15,139 10 2
Less Written off 4,624 9 3
~ Steamers and Plant at Cost ..
„ Shares in other Com-
panies at Cost .. £143,464 15 8
Less Written off. 1,200 0 0
~ Stocks of Coal and General Stores at
Cost ..
„ Balances due by Branches
„ Insurance Premiums prepaid. Claims
against Underwriters, Debtors for
Coal, Freights, Passages, and
Wharfages, and Deposits on Trade
Contracts, after providing for Bad
and Doubtful Debts
~ Debentures at Cost, Victorian Govern-
ment ai.d Metropolitan Board of
Land and Works
Or.
£7,600 1 2
10,515 0 11
534,211 9 8
142,264 16 8
21,848 9 11
.8,152 4 9
87,317 4 7
32,439 2 0
£844,348 8 8
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1906.
Cr.
To Overhauls, General Charges, Law Costs
and other Expenses £6J>,241 0 1
~ Depreciation—
Steamers, Plant, Leasehold and
Shares 25,728 7 3
~ Interim Dividend Paid 15,300 10 11
~ Balance 33,392 6 2
£139,722 4 5
By Brought Forward from last year .. £16,993 10 6
„ Earning's of Steamers, Wharfs, and In-
vestments, Profit on Goal Sales, less
Provision for Contingencies .. .. 122,728 13 11
£139,722 4 5
That the following are the Names, Addresses, and Occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the
Company at the date of the Statement
, H. R. DO WARD SMITH, Esq., Melbourne, Gentleman.
O. C. SMITH, Esq., Melbourne, Gentleman.
W. G. SPRIGG, Esq., Melbourne, Accountant.
HENRY HOWEIJ,, Esq., Sydney, Manager.
C. MORETQN NEWMAN, Esq., Managing Director.
I, CHARLES MORETON NEWMAN, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I am the Managing Director of
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, Limited, and that the above statement is, to the best of my knowledge and belief
true in every particular, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and bv
virtue of the provisions of an Act of Parliament of Victoria, rendering persons making a false declaration punishable
for wilful and corrupt perjury. r
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 28th day of February. 1907. before me—
W. H. CROKER, Notary Public, Melbourne. . ’ * 0< M . NEWMAN.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
We, WILLIAM DENSHAM, of 58 Queen-street, and EDWJ.N HAROLD FLACK, of 9 Queen-street, both of Mel-
bourne, in the State of Victoria, having been duly appointed Auditors of HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, Limited do
hereby certify that we have examined and compared the books, accounts, vouchers, and securities of the Company
together with the certified returns as received frotn the Branches for the year ended 31st December 1906 and do
hereby declare that, so far as we are in a position tq form an opinion, the Shareholders’ Balance-sheet the Private
Balance-sheet, and the Accounts of the Company have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Acts, and present a correct view of the Company’s affairs at that date.
We further certify that we have not observed nor become acquainted with during the audit any breach of the
Companies Acts committed by the Company, or by any Director, Manager, Employee, Auditor, or Shareholder
thereof, and that all our requirements as Auditors have been complied with.
Dated at Melbourne this 28th day of February, 1907.
WM. DENSHAM j
EDWIN H. FLACK f
Auditors.
We, HARRY BELLINGHAM HOWARD SMITH and WILLIAM GARDINER SPRIGG, of Melbourne, two of the
Directors of HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, Limited, do hereby certify, on behalf of the Board, that in our opinion
the Balance-sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Melbourne, 28th February, 1907.
Witness-W. H. CROKER, Notary Public, Melbourne.
H. B. HOWARD SMITH
W. G. SPRIGG
Directors.
CONSISTENTLY TRIUMPHANT.
m
&
$
ft
SSURK
??s£sJ
?VB£>
NikS.W. Reliability Race
THE FINAL RESULT
The final result of the New South Wales Relia-
bility Race has now been announced, and shows
another big' and emphatic triumph for the consist-
ently victorious Continental Tyres. Out of the nine
cars that were awarded prizes, four were fitted with
Continental Tyres,
and a fifth car that was fitted with Tyres in the
first stage of this comparatively easy contest had to
change the two back wheel tyres to Continentals
*** final stage o/ the Competition. On the nine
cars that finished there were thus
18 CONTINENTAL SHOD WHEELS
per cent, of the total number talcing part in the
contest. Other cars taking part in this competition
had to effe<fi tyre changes during the progress of
the race. This splendid performance by this popu-
lar brand of tyres demonstrates once again the great
superiority» the consistent reliability, and the
never-failing durability of Continentals over all
other makes of tyres, and repeats the performance
of this same make of tyres in the Vidorian Relia-
bility Race, when the
FIRST AND THIRD
positions, the fastest time performance, the Cup,
the Motoring Blue Ribbon of Australia, and the
Garland Cup, were all credited to Continental Tyres.
CONTINENTAL, TYRES have now proved their
sterling value in so many motoring contests, not
only in Australia, but in all parts of the world, that
they are now the chosen tyres of motorists who
Know, and have by far the
BIGGEST SALE IN AUSTRALIA
AX WAYS SPECIFY
NuL
TYEES
Sydney Depot: 225 Clarence Street.
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
SALT 0
“ THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says:-
It has an elegant appearance, white and granular, like sifted sugar, and is
certain ,y one °^^? e daintiest and most highly prized articles on the table. In
warm chmaies it is useful on account of its not readily clogging.”
Arents—Harrison Attwood. .Sydney.


Government Notice.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th February, 1907.
CLEARING OF PILLIGA SCRUB.
TENDERS are invited for the clearing of about
5000 acres of the Pilliga Scrub.
Forms of tender, plans and specifications, and
conditions may be inspected at the Information
Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney, and at
the Crown Land Agents’ Offices at Narrabri,
Moree, and Gunnedah.
Tenderers will be required to give alternate
prices—
(a) With plant supplied by Tenderer ;
(6) With plant supplied by the Government.
The successful tenderer will be required to pay
a security deposit of per cent, on amount of
tender on the execution of contract, and to enter
into a contract with His Majesty for the due per-
formance of the work.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under
Secretary for Lands, and should be marked
“ Tender for Clearing Pilliga Scrub.”
Tenders will be received up to and inclusive of
Wednesday, the 20th day of March, 1907.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Robert McDonald,
Acting Under Secretary.
6a90
CHARACTER
IS DESTINY
AND Astrologv is the best means by which we
can learn the real character, also all the
opportunities and possibilities of this life. Send
date of birth and Is. in stamps for a TE sT
HOROSCOPE calculated and written by R.
Herschell, who has supplied Horoscopes to the
late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Mr. W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money returned if Horoscope incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (of London)
Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria.
Private Address —Woodville, Mt. Albert.
The World
Wants
MEN
who can plan and execute ; who can
work and endure ; who have clear
brains and breathe deeply.
Such men require food that re-
builds waste brain and body cells as
fast as used up by work, and which
makes digestion easy.
That food is
Grape-Nuts
“There’s a Reason.”
Postuh) Cereal Co. Ltd., Battle Creek,
Mich., U.S.A.
DRUNKARDS
CURED
SECRETLY
ANY LADY CAN DO
IT AT HOME.
COSTS NOTHING
.... TO TRY
Gone Mad from Whisky.
WE ARE GIVING AWAY FREE SAMPLES of the
World-Renowned EUCRASY
FREE,.
nwri
•IF YOU MENTION
THIS PAPER.
We will send you Sample and Booklet on receipt of
6d. for postage. This is a genuine offer.
Address — THE EUCRASY CO.
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Aledicator, ilil
3i laches lone*
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and 'adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
_ Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
“Stony”: According to a Melbourne daily,
“lady-helps” are becoming more plentiful, while
maids-of-all-work are showing a poor drop. I saw
things, the other day, which made me wonder
why lady-helps haven’t the independence to be-
come servant straight out. A servant can at least
call her soul her own. A heavily-gilt specimen of
the moneyed class, weighty from continuous over-
feeding and lack of exercise, waddled down the
Prince’s Bridge platform to enter-the Hawthorn
train, with a lady-help to attend her. “Push me
up the step!” gasped the heavyweight. The slim
help made a game effort, and failed. “Get inside
and •pull me in, then ! ” and after a long, strong
lift the dame was seated. It was a fairly warm
day, and the windows were open. “ Shut the
window, can’t you?” fretted the moneyed person.
“ Shut all the windows! ” The help did so. As
the train approached Richmond the haughty
purse-holder began to bounce uncomfortably upon
her cushions. “It’s frightfully close,” she snorted.
“Open the windows! Open all the windows!”
And the poor devil of a lady-help had to climb
over a row of children and a tired, fidgety old
man with white hair to do as she was told, and so
go on earning her 9d. a day—l suppose she gets as
much as 9d.
Thus “ C.N - .”:—
Pastor Tregear, of Melbourne, has a charming idea of
fair-play. It is his habit, when engaged in denouncing
the awfulness of Rome, to quote numerous authorities,
but, as he usually omits to say where the quotation
ends and where Tregear begins, the audiences are left
with the impression that the shocking “revelations”
he makes on his own account are those of the autho*
rities mentioned. For instance, Tregear might say,
“ Listen to what the Chief Inspector of Factories says,
‘ I have visited the Abbotsford Convent.’ In that insti.
tution, children two years of age are flogged with a
cat-o’-nine-tails until they carry 2cwt. up a steep stair-
case 14 hours a day.” The people would cry, “Oo !”
in horror, not having the least idea that the words in
italics were all the Chief Inspector said, and that the
rest is Tregear’s own. One of these days, he will pro-
bably remark, “ Now, friends, have you heard what the
Prime Minister said? He said, ‘Ladies and Gentlemen.’
The Pope is a thing accursed. He is at the bottom of
all the evil in the world. If I had my way, I would
give him six months’ hard. He thoroughly deserves it.
Mr. Deakin also said, ‘ltis a fine day.’ Ah, friends,
you do not realise the power of Rome.” There ought
to be a law to compel public speakers to state where
their quotes begin and end. Tregear, for instance,
might hold up two fingers to represent inverted com-
mas when he gets to the end of what the other fellow
said, if the other fellow really spoke.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
ISCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature ol Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
BALANCE SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1906
Liabilities.
Capital, £1,500,000 ; less
reserve liability,
£3,000,000 ; paid up . .£1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund—
Invested in the names
of trustees, as per
contra, £1,000,000 ;
not specifically in-
vested, £120,000 1 .. 1,120,000 0 0
Balance of undivided V
profits .. .. 150,400 0 8
£2,756,406 0 8
Circulation .. .. 520,612 0 0
Deposits (including in-
scribed stock deposits) 18,176,248 16 11
Bills payable and other
liabilities (including
reserves held against
doubtful debts) .. 1,867,164 8 10
20,564,025 5 9
*%
£23,320,431 6 5
Assets.
Specie an hand and cash balances ..£4,202,748 9 4
Bullion and advances on bullion .. .. 208,327 17 1
Money at call and short notice in London 1,045,000 0 0
Investments—
Reserve Fund—
U usols, £650,000; local
loans (Imperial
Government stock),
£200,000; national
war loan, £150,000.. £1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments —
Consols, and other
stocks of, or guaran-
teed by, the Im-
perial Government,
£248,076 14s. 6d.;
India Government
sterling stocks,
£246,580; colonial
Govern ment and
mun icipal stocks
and debentures,
£135,888 13s. 10d... 630,545 8 4
£1,630,545 8 4
Balance of remittances and drafts in
transitu, and bills receivable at London
office 2,314,406 4 2
9,401,027 18 11
Bills discounted, loans and other securi-
ties at the branches and in London .. 13,283,680 4 8
Bank premises and pro-.
perty in the colonies ..£523,350 11 5
Less: —Appropriation
from profits .. 10,000 0 0
513,350 11 5
London leasehold premises 142,304 19 4
Reserves against same
and accrued interest .. 19,932 711
122,372 11 5
£23,320,431 6 5
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
£104,154 11 0
75,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of 29,154 11 0
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful
debts £309,977 5 1
Less :
Remuneration to local directors—and salaries and allow-
ances to the colonial staff .. .. £84,405 1 0
General expenses in the colonies, including rent, taxes,
stationery, &c 32,784 18 3
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors,
salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery
and general expenses 15,620 9 2
Income-tax 4,915 7 0
137,725 15 5
172,251 9 8
Balance of undivided profits on 28th February, 1906
Less: Dividend —July, 1906 ..
Deduct:
Appropriation in aid of bank’s guarantee and provident fund
Appropriation to write down bank premises and property in the colonies
Transfer to reserve fund
Balance of undivided profits at this date ..
201,406 0 8
20,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
35,000 0 0
65,000 0 0
£136.406 0
0. M. C. SHANNON, Accountant.
A. O. WILLIS, Manager.
ARTHUR FLOWER,
JOHN DENNISTOUN,
C. A. GALTON,
W. R. MEWBURN,
London, 10th Januarj', 1907.
Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of The Companies Act 1900, vve certify that all our requirements as auditors
have been complied with.
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and having examined the
same, and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and
fair balance-sheet, properly drawn up s<s as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs
as shown by the books of the company.
London, E.C., 10th January, 1907.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNEY, \
Chartered Accountants, /'
Auditors.
Wm
m
mwwX'J
SEND US 10/6 for
CAPIELARINE.
And if, after a trial, you don’t think it will give
you a strong, full-grown moustache, we will
refund your money.
There’s nothing like CAPILLABINE in all the
world for inducing a moustache.
Post Free 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
£3
mu.
A
£3
'T'HIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping, and
* is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
c unts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lolos.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“ BUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club,
T
Brisbane,
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS MODERATE.
Henry Skinner,
Clareiidon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10kS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
WIZARD REPEATING
LIQUID REVOLVER.
Fires from
10 to 20
successive
shots
without
re-loading.
5
Can be recharged in water, ammonia, or any
other liquid in ten seconds. Reloading unlimited.
Perfectly Safe, Silent, and Smokeless.,
Can be carried in the pocket and posit-
ively will not leak.
Will stop the most vicious Dog {or Man)
without permanent injury.
Invaluable for Cyclists. Automobilists, un-
escorted Ladies. Cashiers, Homes, etc.
The Wizard Repeating Liquid Revolver [
is not a Toy, and is a great improvement on the
cheaper Liquid Pistols (which we also stock). Lots
of fun can be had with the Liquid Repeating
Revolver.
PRICK, which includes carriage to any address
in the world, ss. Obtainable only from
A. J. SMITH (SL CO.,
14 Hunter St., Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist tor its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free. Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0. , SYDNEY,
Y. J. Daley’s “ Afc Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. Cd. fnr, all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, os.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
•Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mm,bourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck,£43.435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial fQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 4-21 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET' SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Haul Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. .. .. £500,000.
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
GRANTS DRAFTS
Bank of |)eiu South (Dales.
Establish kb 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. _ 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... ... .. 5,475,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uthkr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
• - General Manager
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED,
Capital Pully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £l,OOo|ooO.
Reserve Fund £165,0CX)!
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA—Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA—Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne. '
NEW ZEALAND—Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agencv
business. J
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSOHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fl»e Regal Rank of Queensland
LIMIT H I). “
Capital Paid-up .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
ai BUDGE .ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
10 Blanches in Queensland. A.aents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Accident and G-uarantee
. Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwadb.
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
OCEAN
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
♦Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ~ From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON Via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 16th MARCH,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and
PERSIC to follow.
FARliS—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: B'. 11. Godfrey, Esc).,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Ee'j.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
! 3£ Days to Auckland. 8£ Days to Samoa.
| 15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA. Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11,1 p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA Twin-screw, sails APRIL 1, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines,- American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, Jcc.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
Free
Accident insurance
Po/icies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury. .
txt.s.'w.
(Jlont deplete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
I
LNTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To Canada, United States, and
England,
NEXT SAILINGS—
MARCH 18th, APRIL 15th,
MAY 13 th.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th.
The Most Comfortable Vessel on
the Pacific.
43T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
♦
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES,
comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick (one
of the cleverest tricks to be found in our varied stock),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYD3XTBY.
Sbipplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE, ,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for-'
S.S. Yongala, Wednesday,
March 20.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
April 3,
Raven sthorpe Goldfields. ■,
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, l
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. '
S.S. Warrego, March 9.
S.S. Marloo, March 16
Best and Cheapest Bo ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ail
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
F^v EM m, N v TLE ’ coI GMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
Steamer
SYDNEY
ARMAND
BEHIO ..
YARRA..
NERA ..
Com
mander
Barillon ..
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne.
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
Mar. 25
1907.
Mar. 28
1907.
Mar. 30
Guionnet
Sellier
Schmitz
April 22 April
May 20|May
June 17 June
25 April 27
23 May 25
20 June 22
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7s*
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Principal Agent
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited „
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,130,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphbry, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - <£500.000.
Fire Insurances
effected cm all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks..
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHiC Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.


“HARNESS THE WIND’
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
op
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
‘ *v I
ACETYLENE LAMP
W
PRICE 2716
Mi
%
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Illustrated Price
List Post Free.
11l
MILLERS
re®
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
*/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcado’
Pitt Street, Sydney,
[Mention Thb Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
<M ™"> qhief'office hir 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN , ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
Will Andrape ™ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over AO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism. Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Tiie Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
- Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. Tub Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment,' Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
Howto Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, .etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
MODEL 1906 .32 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
j^Suma/msm
iMBPBBI
mm
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write -for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALEi STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL i A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Noveltfes.
The Demon Rattle Box XricK.
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Rings,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere. ..
The “Joker” TricK Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
a m a z e-
ment o f
your friends, upon re-opening the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Bex. Post free
anywhere for 1/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Babbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
I —thin people look
stout. The Laughing*
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price t/-, post free anywhere.
The Magic Ball
or Egg Trick.
The ball or egg placed in
the pedestal at word of
command passes through
the table, and is found
underneath, while the box is shown
empty. Full directions enclosed.
Post Free anywhere for 1/-
The Laughing Camera.
Write for Price List B.
NEW YORK
NOVELTY COnPANY,
H. V. HUTCHINSON
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
0
I;
e
P 5
1
1
A
ra
<s*
\J
<s*
<s*
V
Tromp Card
FROM
111.5
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
FROM
5.11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AicoouC" 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Wealt Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves,
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness.
Special Powerful Double
Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing: Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, NX mans ras
HERE’S A REALLY USEFUL NOVELTY.
3-BLADED KNIFE AND
RUBBER STAMP
For only
You couldn’t have a more useful Outfit than this
splendid Combination. Comprises 3-Biaded Knife
of the very best quality steel, exceedingly sharp,
also. Folding- Rubber Stamp, with your name in any
t 3 pe, and fitted with self-inking Pad, all ready for
use. The w'hole closes up and takes up no more
room than an ordinary knife. Made of nickel,silver,
and very pretty. Price only 4s. 6d., post free
anywhere.
Also in stock :
Combined Pen, Pencil and Rubber Stamp, Is. 6d.
Nickel Silver Lockets, with stamp, 2s. fid.
Aluminium Sovereign Cases, with Stamp, 2s. lOd.
Revolving Date Stamps (days, months and years
up to 1910), Is.
Rubber Name Stamps, any type, lOd.
Stamp, Ink and Pad, for marking clothing, Is. 6d.
Agents Wanted.
j\. if. SMITH & CO.) 14- Hunter-st., Sydney
K
\HFTO FE.CDVHG atv^
Wo Wol'cvet s\\ou\d \>e \n\W\o\x\; Vc.
\
OX\ TSCVOk&St..
/!propress/ve ct/ete/y ac/aptec/ to t/>e prcw/ftp ct/pest/Ve powers
suji/oufcojyjj/au/ao
IdNI P°°J MI!W
Milk Food N 92
from J to 6 /nonff/s.
Malted Food N 93
from 6 mooMs cpm/zte.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS* Melbourne# -
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
3955397 Hay S.T Perth
QUEENSLAND H
) Queens Edward Brisbane^
NEW ZEALAND
865143 Queen St. Auckland.
1 S 3 LambtonQuay.Wellington.
236 5233 HighS*
Princes 5 DowlingS'? DunedhTjU
I
CORNER,GEORCE <;t
/fits from
I Stewart Dawsohs
3 its good.
jfl Write the n
store nearest
you.
You can order anything on this page with every confidence—if it
does not please you in every way, return it and get your money.
Your request for return of money is just like a cheque on a bank.
We pay postages and guarantee safe delivery. Catalogues Free.
No. HB2s—l6ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll
Brooch, £llos
No. G446l—Strongly made Diamond and Ruby
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch, &‘i
No. G9OO3 —Secret Photo.
Pendant, 9ct. Gold, £ 117 s 6d
16ct. Gold and Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
No. G 6367 —15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond
Set Brooch, £2los
No. G7657—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Set Photo. Pendant, £2
Plain. Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
No. G9789—15ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Set Brooch, £5 10s
15ct. Gold Single Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
Swan Fountain Pen. All Solid Silver—Plain, 35s ; Chased, 455.
18ct. Gold-Filled—Plain, £2 ; Chased, £2 10s each, in Case.
No. G 6006. —15ct. Gold Two-bar and Filigree
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. G9395.—100t. Gold and Fine Pearl
Brooch, £2.
SKS^
No. G9922.—-Solid Silver Full Size Penholder, 10s 6d ; Plain, 8s 6d.
No. G 7331.— Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold and Greenstone Heart,
£1 7s 6d ; Plain Greenstone
Hearts, 11/6, 13/6,15/6, 17/6.
No. G7913.—9ct. Gold Muff Chain, New Style, £l.
No. F 9278 —18ct.
Gold King;, Half-
Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s.
No. G9755.—15ct. Gold and
Pearl Safety Pin, 30s.
‘No. F 5419 —2 Dia-
monds, 3 Sapphires,
loci. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold and Dia-
mond Engagement
King, £l2 10s.
:i--s*■ -j-
No. G 9280 —Faceted Link and Chased Bead 9ct. Gold Muff Chain, £4.
No. F3—lsct. Gold Rope Bar and Ball'Muff Chain, £9 10s.
9ct., £5.
No. G9l93—9ct. Gold Faceted Secret Rink Muff Chain, £4 4s
No. G 2520 —9ct. Gold Muff Chain, £2 17s 6d.
iipaii
No. H6l3—lBct Gold,
Diamond & Sapphire
Ring, £2 10s.
NO.FB7lB—lBct.Gold,
Gem Set, 5 Row
Ring, £7 7s.
Special Value Solid Silver
Match Box, 7s 6d.
Initials or Name, Is extra.
The Waterbury Watch for Men, Keyless,
Nickel Short Wind, 10s 6d.
No. G67s6—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold Heart, £2 ss.
H
No. G6996—Lovely
Sapphire Set 15ct. Gold
Locket, £3 10s.
Keyless Steel Lever Watch, Durable and
Accurate, £1 se.
No. G6742—9ct. Gold, Pearl and
Amethyst New Style Necklet,
£4 ; others, 455, 90s, 105 s
No. F4B37—Pearl and Turquoise Studded 9ct.
Gold Heart and Necklet, £4 10s.
No.' G67s4.—PeJarl Set
9ct. Gold and Enamel
Pendant, £1 10s.
No. GBB76—Fine Pearl
and Amethyst Pendant,
set in 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
No. H2o72—Nursery Rhyme Child’s Silver-plated
Cup. Sensible Style ; Substantial, and not
easily upset, 9s 6d.
No. Hls7l—Solid
Silver Vase. 51in.,
12s 6d ; 6Jin., 14/6.
Case of Solid Silver Hair Brush and Comb,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
The Grecian Key Gold Mounted Back Comb,
255. Other Styles, 16s 6d, ISs 6d, 21s.
No. G 9428 —The Thistle Sugar and Cream Stand,
Best Silver-plate, £2 10s.
Silver-Mounted Shaving
Tidy, 10s 6d.
When You Visit London!
Meet Your Friends and
Fellow Australasians at
Stewart Dawson’s,
19, 20 & 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
ONE of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART DAWSON & CO.
for the better reception of the many visitors to London from Australia. It is miles ahead of any building anywhere devoted to the Jewellery
business. Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and New Zealand Stores of all the new
things as they appear. There are Three Showrooms, Home Offices, Reception Rooms, Two Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
the least, a Bureau where you can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort, or have a glance at the Australian and New Zealand papers.
This convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addressed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will always be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


SißritMwstralasian
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A littlfe patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
- - - - J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
DIRECTOR -
IfYouWantTheßest
AsK for a
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
The qnly true and safe remedy for.CTout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229, Strand.
London. England
r«rT«l»k d
KNOWN THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The Pelman-Foster
System of Memory
T t i —mo-wmimi urn— mu i nii
(OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION)
Is Thoroughly Taught in Five
Postal Lessons.
MIND WANDERING CURED !
SPLENDID TESTIMONIALS.
Write for FREE BOOK which will tell you
all about it.
The Secretary, Box 402, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
ENGLAND—4. Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.
AFRICA, FRANCE, CERMANY, INDIA.
maker!
| TO I
[Askyour Stationer foraSampleof
William Mitchells!
THE
KING
IO MITCHELL’S
CDIS.T CLASS SHOULDER
NS9. First Cl/ks Shoulder Pen
the Original quality byThe Original maker.
A
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH,
Pace 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
HIGH-CLASS
CLOTHING^
To ...
Measure
€
l-Ji
W E have an immense stock oi
all kinds of fabrics from the
best mills of Great Britain and
Australia, suitable for making the
highest class of Clothing in all
styles for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
And we have a thoroughly ex-
pert staff of Cutters and Workmen
to make the garments, so that
gentlemen can rely upon complete
satisfaction regarding fit and style.
YOUR MONEY BACK IF YOU WANT IT
is our guarantee of the quality and
excellence of everything we sell.
50
Sac
Suits 1
For Business and Ordinary Wear.
The Money we save you
on these pays for Shirts
and Collars.
♦
We guarantee all garments made to order
to fit, whether the measurements are taken
in our Tailoring Department or the pur-
chaser sends them in ; if any alterations
should he necessary we will make them free
of charge, and guarantee satisfaction.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS AND
MEASURE FORMS TO-DAY,
And kindly mention this Paper.
Lincoln, Stuart Co.
244 TO 254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works :
Birmingham, England,
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
0
<1
0
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham. Enaland.
Ilivvy V! ■ vnwi r M tnigiuuua
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
COSTUMES
■r-
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Mukphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of grea&j
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the 1
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROFHENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
It is nice to do the <
necessary cleaning with !
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder !
That is obvious at once from its (
pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
freshness left in the mouth, and of 1
course you will soon see how j
splendidly, how easily, and how (
thoroughly it cleans. <
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
MEN ONLY!
Why be a Weakling ? Why be a failure when
health would make you a success in life ? Act
to-day. delays are dangerons.
The Homoeopathic Treatment
Cures Debility Restores Vitality
Banishes Weakness.
Renews Sprightliness
and Vigor,
Makes. Weak Men
Strong, and Strong
Men Stronger.
The Irving Homoeopathic Treatment
will cure you quickly and surely. Write
to-day, and we will send you FREE,
sealed, the sth Edition of our Brochure
“WORDS OF WISDOM,”
a valuable Medical Booklet. Address—
THE
IRVING Homteopatliie Institute,
Comer Hunter & Bligh Sts., SYDNEY.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George St., Sydney. ,
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY,
*
* w p
%
*lll*6
*Y£ S
%
#
FAT FOLKS
REDUC E
your weight
51hs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street. Melbourne.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOvS.
SEND POR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
—agamqeHßßßaßßßf 1 "■
SNAP.
1 11 "• -o
OUT" B 1 ■ ■"■GE
■eofeess
No. 200/16,
I
dSi
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14s
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes
4in«» 7/6 ea.; sin. f 9/0 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
ICANT
B
BEAT
HEARNEB
BRONCHITIS
CURE
Tlx© Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Thoso who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where "Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i+
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .||y„
NOTICE. HearneS BronchitiB Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning: of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the young;est child and the most aged person.
k*° r
s\)p
m
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRA "RANT,
NCm-POISCNOUS.
1/«
Pint Bottles.
Oxidant 8 Germicide
Indispensable in all Sick Rooms.
so 1/- Tins Powder*
1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
! Chemists and Storekeepers.
He “SANIT/W” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouae,
London.
POLICY FOB THE COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
Given
Awai
Fop
CORRECT
ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE
Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for
our picture postcards, we have devised this
simple method of advertising with the object
of making our name more widely known and
to introduce our new Catalogue, we offer
you a grand opportunity to display your in-
genuity, and receive the generous reward of a
Silver Watch (Ladies or Gents) or any articles
picked from our catalogue to the value of £i,
for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an im-
pression on your mind that you will
be compelled to talk about us to your
friends, and tell them about the extraordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be secured. By this plan, therefore,
we hope to greatly increase the number of our customers without adding to our expenses by awarding as
prizes many thousand pounds worth of Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing.
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO,
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows
nine squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place
a number on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall,add up to 15 in a
straight line in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same
figure. Our decision is to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, men-
tion whether you would like Lady’s or Gent’siPrize, This is an honest offer made by a responsible firm
The distance you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal op-
portunity for winning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash.
With 'your solution of this puzzle send postal note for 3/- for which we will send you six dozen
of the most artistic penny picture postcards you have ever seen. Everybody wants picture postcards, and if
you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances
who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of.ithus you get double the value
for the money you send with an excellent chance of 1 winning a Solid Silver Watch,
Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 35., and a stamped addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs, or Miss, and address
your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, 5 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
5
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOIiMI” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOLIN n ALUMINUM ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
IT WILL drive the humor from
your system, and make your 6kin
clean and smooth. Those Pimples and
Blotches which mar your beauty are
caused by IMPURE BLOOD.
They can be removed in a short
time, if you are wise and use the
great blood purifier, Sulphur Bitters,
TRY A BOTTLE TO-DAY.
Why suffer with Boils ? Why rave
with that terrible Headache ? Why
lay and toss on that bed of pain
with RHEUMATISM? Use Sul-
phur Bitters. They will cure you
where all others fail. The dose is
small —only a teaspoonful. TRY IT
and you will be satisfied. The young,
the aged and tottering are soon made
well by its use. Bemember what
you read here, it may save your life,
it has SAVED HUNDREDS.
If you are suffering from Kidney
Disease, and wish to live to old age,
use Sulphur Bitters. They never fail
to cure. Get it of your Druggist.
DON'T WAIT. CET IT AT ONCE.
Sulphur Bitters will cure Liver
Complaint. Don’t be discouraged;
IT WILL CURE YOU.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
_________ what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful‘book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
Proft R. H. BARRADEN, V 9 Pitt St., Sydney
me BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, la. PACKET OF TEN, lOd.
ON THE HOP!
Price 218. The Bulletin Office, Sydney


DYSPEPSIA
CANNOT EXIST
where the stomach is entirely
relieved of its work of diges-
tion. When the stomach has
nothing to do bat rest, it gets
Si iig'stvgilir* kl
Sheldon Dpuc Company. }s\[
e i.J6 Boston U.S.A. Sydney HA.W yj I
A vWisllfe/
well and strong in a natural
way. The perfect dyspepsia
cure, therefore, is one that will
digest the food and permit
Nature to restore the stomach.
Dr. Sheldon's
Digestive Tabules
do just this thing. No matter
how much you eat or what
the condition of your stomach
is, your food is properly and
perfectly digested and your
stomach regains its strength
and gets sound and well.
Sold Everywhere 2/6 per Tin.
PAIN.
Death is hastened by ignorance. Nature has endowed us with the sense of pain solely in order
that, by seeking relief, we may avoid playing into the hands of Death. When we feel pain we are out
ot health. lam long endured is a strain upon the system which Nature cannot withstand. Many of
us, however, go on suffering certain kinds of pain, just as if Science could not come to the help of her
sister .Nature, ihere is, for instance, no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Ancemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
The pains caused by this long list of disorders are but Nature’s means of letting us know that the
kidneys or liver are for some reason unable to perform their work efficiently, for all of these
disorders are produced by the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons, which would be
thrown off naturally if the kidneys and liver were doing their duty. Few people realise how import-
ant in the scheme of life is the healthy action of the kidneys and liver, therefore the following
description of the functions of those vital organs will be of the deepest interest to many.
? idne y s filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce!
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
£ li ieyS ’i rough either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proporrion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorderssuch as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Eright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if Darticles
float about m it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
s ’ 01 Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
'^ he^ i 7 er -^f n the J iv ? r v£ T ious substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
° f b A ] , e a r e t lus rn f f l° fro A. the blood ev , ery day ‘ The liver takes su gar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders. K ’ 1 iOWSnesB '
thi “ itis “ lraos ‘ impoffiibl6 *»
Warner’s Safe Cure.
wouW act equally* andmjon the necessa F y t° find a curative agent which
in the work of dealing with the bodvWa?te these or gans being so immediately associated
which possessed the required action m the and aftf r r I man 7 disappointments the medicine
Cure cures all diseases of the k IS™’*** legree wa ? at len discovered. Warner’s Safe
organs are enabled to rid the body thrSthelV r ®f t ° rin * their activity, these vital
the presence of which in the svstemare of the urinary and biliary poisons,
Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders Ana-mif. 6 t 6 °. f . Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and’fW^l Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache,
simply by removing the cause of the disorder l T m} ,dlky - , Warner s Safe Cure cures all these disorders
Cure are permanent cures disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe
[7]
Little Witch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
ALL the night was full of the scent
of flower-laden trees, and of the murmur
of the sea on the reef, and of the wild
sensuous glamor of the tropics, such as oversets a
man’s brain, and hurries his heart-beats. Thorold
felt it; felt it in every pulse of him, and he went
down the garden-track under the orange-trees
swiftly, glancing aside over the flower-beds for
the gleam of her dress.
But she was not there. Nor was she by the
little fountain ; nor back in the magnolia-walk,
where the fireflies shone. He lit a cigarette;
stamped it out ; lit another, and smoked it
through. And yet she did not come. And this
was bad for Thorold, for the love in him was
eating out his heart already, and his boat sailed
before the dawn.
But at last she came. Came softly through the
garden, with a long black cloak about her, and the
black hair brushed away from the delicate little
un-English face. For France had given her birth,
and Levuka had given her youthful day . . . and
Thorold had given her that which makes a new
w >rld for a woman when it first comes to her.
“I have been at my prayers,” she said, and
looked up at him, with hands hanging loose, and
eyes darkened.
Thorold laughed, stripped the cloak away, and
swung her up on the fountain-rim where the moon-
light flooded her straight dark dress and her pale
hands ana face.
•‘See me at mine, then,” he said, and
d lopped on his knee, laying his lips to the hem of
her skirt. Then he caught her to him roughly.
“ You now ! Kiss me, love. Why have vou kept
me waiting, you little witch ? Or are you a Puri-
tan, with your hair brushed like that ? ”
She twisted from him, and her voice was choked.
“N 0... no. There are things.. . I must say
them to you ..
He loosed his hold, and tilted her chin back
with a finger.
“ It’s the same little witch,” he said. “Who
taught you that kisses grow sweeter by keeping?
What do you want to say ? Have I seen any
pretty girls since I left you? Yes; a hundred.
But none like my magnolia-flower. Have I kissed
them ? Little witch, when a man is far from the
lips that he loves, he —faith, he makes up for lost
time when he gets back”
But something of the hush of her devotions
clung round her still, and he recognised it vaguely.
“No,” she said, and turned her head ; and he
laughed, half-irritated.
What then ? ” he said, watching the sweet
curve of throat and chin, and the beating of the
little pulse in her neck.
“They say”—she was steadying her voice with
difficulty, and he knew it, looking on her with the
half-smile in his eyes. “ They say that... you
have done many things that you would not tell to
me. That.. .in the Islands... yoi have done —
wrong ” —■ —
“They say? Who say?”
There was a queer glint to the smile now. And
the man who had spread the story would not have
cared to see it.
“I. . . heard. Ah .. . tell me that it is not
true !”
He laughed. But he was thinking of the man
who had told.
“Silly little one; what has that to do with
you ? I love you, sweetheart. I love you ! Look
at me, and give me the kisses that I’ve been sick
for all these months ”
She held him off, with her hands against his
oreast.
“ They say that you have ... killed. That you
go not sober sometimes on your trading-station,
that you”
He stopped her mouth, and she did not guess
at the desire that was rising in him to kill again.
“Little witch, you want to know too much.
Ihe life that a man lives to himself has nothing
to do with a woman. Look at me and say je t’aime
•.. beaucoup ... toujours ...”
“ H° w •• • your life not to do with me? Because
that I love you lam in your life. Can you sin
and I not suffer?”
“Sin!” Thorold gripped her arms, holding
her back from him. “No man says that to me ”
he said. .
(( “ But I say it,” she cried, with a flash of fire.
I say that to kill and to do other evil is sin.
Listen then ! You can hold me here close—close.
Ho you think that you can so hold my heart ?
You can kiss me because you are so much more
strong than I. But can you make me kiss you
back ? Ah-h ! Indeed, I think there are things
that you cannot do. And you cannot make this
not to hurt me—if you do evil ”
The fire in her fired Thorold.
“This is the way to answer you,” he said
‘ And this way... and this ! Can’t I make you
kiss me back? By heaven, but I think that I
can! ’
There was a fibre in her that he had not guessed
at. She looked at him, and her lips did not
quiver.
“ I love you better than my life. But I must
take myself away from you ... for always. Be-
cause it is that I must suffer too ”
Thorold bit off an impatient oath.
. “ w ho taught you that talk ? I can foot my own
bills, thank you. There is nothing for vou
to pay.” J
She looked up at the reckless, well-featured face
with the light in the eyes that were dear to her
and her words came gropingly through pain. ’
“I—did not say payment. But I too will
suffer. And... he say that there is suffering for
you .. . ah-h .. . mon brave . .. .”
. Thorold clipped her close to him, and he laughed
m his throat as her lips touched his cheek.
You little bit of thistledown ! How many
prayers did it take to key you up to all that ?
sweetheart, I shall have something to say to the
man who told you. And I think I know who
he is.”
The ring of exultance in his voice made her
shiver.
“ Ah-h ! What... to him, then ? ”
“I shall take some satisfaction out of his hide
1 Littl e witch, it was Hamilton told you’
a . nd , h T e , . have to allswer for it to me to-night’
And I think perhaps he won’t like it.”
“ But ” ——
Thorold turned Up the rosy palms of her hands
and kissed them.
“That’s the talk for you,” he said, with the
drooping tenderness in his voice that other women
had known. “Smile at me, then! Take that
KassTLSia.i?* **• ° f
Don’t,” she said, and her voice was stifled
I am not for you anymore.' You do evil and
i—it is not right that I should—should let”—
Ihorold grew angry. And he was afraid,
because he loved her.
“Can’t you understand?” he said. “Those
affairs belong to me —to me. They are mine only.
Not yours.”
“ But—you say that I, too, belong to you. Am
I not then to ”
Her breath stopped before the sudden blaze in
his eyes.
“ By ! I think that you do belong to me,”
he said.
He picked up the cloak lying like a blot on the
moonlit grass ; cast it about her head, and drew
the folds close under the soft chin. The subtle
lawlessness of the night was fire in his veins, and
the sweetness of her was sweeter than the orange-
flowers.
“Come,” he said, “who the devil cares what
the world says! Come with me, little witch.
I’ll take you straight to Pere Eustace and marry
you if you like. But, come, you darling ! where
did you get that perfect curve to your lips ? ”
She looked at him out of the dark folds.
“I—cannot,” she said. “I say to ybu that it
is good-bye for always. Because you do wrong
and do not care ”
Thorold laughed. He held up his hand,
shutting it slow and tight until the muscles of the
wrist stood out.
“See that?” he said. “ Could you open it in
a year with your little soft fingers. I have got
your heart as tight as that, and do you think
that you can open the part of me that holds it ?
You iittle, little thing ; what can you do against
a man when he loves ”
“ I can say to him ‘ No,”’ she said.
Thorold looked at her ; his face suddenly white.
Eor there was strength in her tone.
“ Do you think what you are saying ? ” he said,
slowly. “I love you. But I love you too much
to take you against your will. Do you mean
‘No ’ ? Tell me.”
“I mean it,” she said, and he did not know
that her heart was torn aparc in her.
“Ah, little witch; you don’t. You don’t!
Think of the days and the nights . . . you will
want me back every hour —every minute.”
“Notuntil you come to tell me that you will
sin no more.”
r “The devil!” he said, and turned on his heel.
Then he looked at her again. “ I have done less
evil than many men,” he said. “But I can’t be
a saint—even for you. And if you let me go I
think it probable that I shall do more evil than
many men. Well ? ”
Her little slim body was rigid. She was beat-
ing her brain into remembrance of Hamilton’s
words.
‘‘ A man is a coward who cannot walk straight
with a woman to help him,” she said. “And
if you will not be good for love of me, I may not
do wrong for love of you.”
“That’s your last word, then ? ”
She would have flung out her arms to him in a
passion of love and sweet words.' But she knew
that it was not for her to take the step down.
“ Good-bye,” she said, and went away from him
through the shadows to the low-verandahed house
flickering with light.
Until the door shut Thorold believed that she
would come back. Then he took a long breath,
and his hand dropped to his hip-pocket.
“ Hamilton,” he said, “ I think it’s up to me to
settle with you now, my friend.”
He sought through the little scattered town,
asking questions of seven men, including Hamil-
ton’s supercargo and a yellow half-caste from the
Loyalties. This last directed him to an eating-
house down by the wharf, where Hamilton was
hunting out his crew. Thorold shouldered into
the crowd about the bar and spoke at Hamilton’s
elbow.
“Get back into that spare parlor,” he said.
“ I want to speak to you.”
Hamilton removed his eyes from the half-
drunken Dago cook swaying between his mates,
and in Thorold’s face he saw a business that
would not wait. His eyebrows twitched a little.
He had seen Thorold once before when this
temper was on him. Then he looked at the men.
“ Get him back to the boat and under hatches,”
he said. “I’ll be down later. Now, Thorold.”
He led into a little dirty room smelling of stale
tobacco and bad fruit and lamp-oil.
“ Well?” he said.
Thorold turned the key in the lock with a snap.
Then he wheeled on the other man. His face was
dead-white and beaded with sweat, and his eyes
showed fire. Suddenly he was filled with a mad
hatred of this man who had broken his desire for
him.
Hamilton had seen souls in the grip of an over-
mastering passion before this day; but he showed
no fear.
“ Well ? ” he said again.
But Thorold had a weapon at which Hamilton
had not guessed.
“You told Mrs. Delisle something against me
last night,” he said. “And she told someone
else.”
Hamilton winced, whitening. The words had
hit him in an undefended place.
“Keep Mrs. Delisle’s name off your lips,” he
said, harshly.
“Ah ! I thought that was the way. Why did
you tell her ? ”
Hamilton was silent. Well he knew Mrs.
Delisle’s deep love for the younger girl, and well
he knew Thorold.
“Why?”
Still Hamilton kept silence.
“Why?”
It was the level, deadly coldness of the voice
that jagged Hamilton into speech.
“ That’s not your business,” he said.
“No? I think that it is.”
Thorold’s little Smith-Wesson slipped from the
belt and lay across his palm. Yet Hamilton had
no fear, although there was killing in the very
carriage of the man facing him in the smoky
lamp-light. For the name of a woman had roused
the devil in him even as the touch of a woman
had roused it in Thorold. He laughed.
“If you want an apology,” he said, “you’ll
have to go to Hell to get it.”
“ I’ll take you along. Why?”
“ I have not said that I told her.”
Thorold’s breath came unevenly. He was
stripped of the gay, daring calm that was his
nature, and his whole soul was shaken with re-
membrance of a girl’s white upturned face in the
moonlight and the nearness of her lips.
“ Mrs. Delisle is Murdoch’s wife,” he said.
Again Hamilton was caught between the joints
of his armor. Thorold grinned a little, seeing
the other’s face.
“Hit the gold again, eh? Murdoch didn’t
know that she changed her name when she ran
away to escape him, did he? But he’d like to
know.”
“ I never said ”
“ Oh, yes, you did. Your face is saying it now.
Hamilton, you know what Murdoch is. Would
you rather he found his wife again, or would you
rather that she told somebody -1 know that you
had been telling her lies? I give you the choice,
and three minutes to take it in.”
The sweat was on Hamilton’s drawn face.
“Thorold... I can’t make her unsay it. For
God’s sake”
“ We’ll leave that part out. Will you make
her?”
“I—can’t.”
“ Put yourself above her, do you ? Murdoch is
not quite ”
Hamilton’s words might have been wrenched
from a man on the rack.
“ Are you devil enough ? ”
“ Hold on. We’re not ready for the shooters
yet. It’s to your hand, Hamilton. Murdoch’s
wife is nothing to me; but what she has told is—
a good deal.” His voice was uncertain for the
moment. “I’ve a fancy to have it unsaid, and to
have some other things said instead. And you
are the only man who can arrange the matter for
me.”
“I can’t,” said Hamilton with dry lips.
Thorold’s eyes laughed. It was not the laughter
that the girl in the garden knew.
“All right. We’ll talk straighter, then. Get
out your gun an’ go over to the wall.”
“You go to Hell,” said Hamilton, curtly.
Outside a gay French chanson was lilting on
the hot air, and the gallop of it was in Thorold’s
veins.
“Give me the passport—if you can. Well ?”
“Thorold, I can’t make her unsay it. You
know that it was true.”
Thorold was tense with the passion that ruled
him, and his head sang.
“True! There’s going to be more than that
true of me directly ! D’you think I permit any
man to meddle in my private business ? By ——,
I’ll show you.”
There was a note of utter mercilessness and
pain in the voice that had lost its gay lightness.
“Thorold, I’m sorry.”
And then Thorold cursed him in speech that
took Hamilton to position on the instant.
“Call,” he said, sharply; and the two shots
cracked out as one.
Hamilton was on his knees beside Thorold as
the younger man went down.
“Thorold,” he cried ; “old fellow . . .”
Thorold was fighting with mortal pain ; but the
love of his life ruled yet.
“Wi11... you make her tell now?” he said.
“There’s a girl... she kissed me to-night—but
... because of what you said... she would...
would never have done... it again ”
Hamilton laid the head back and flung the door
wide. His hands were sticky with blood.
“ I’ll send for her,” he cried. “ We’ll have a
doctor in a minute. It’ll be all right ”
“ You ... won’t send for her. I’ve said good-
bye. But you ... you’ll let her think... that I
wasn’t... wasn’t...”
Hamilton stooped over the dying man.
“She shall tell her all that you might have
been,” he said, gently. “All that you may be—
if there’s another life.”
And a little later Thorold went to find out.
M.L.
G. B. LANCASTER.
“ Gip ” : A par. in a recent Bulletin
reminds me. I once knew a young couple,
scarcely more than boy and girl, who for their sins
were banished to an extremely lonely part of the
bush. Their little humpy was buried near a
creek, high ranges rising all round them, and the
only habitation near them was a clematis-covered,
snake-infested and haunted hut. It must have
been haunted, because everybody said so. How-
ever, the young couple, both ridiculously super-
stitious and quite unused to the bush, decided
that the uneasy spirits had made a shift, for their
own place showed every indication of being
violently haunted also. At night, when lights
were out and all was quiet, the most uncanny
sounds came from under the humpy. No voice
did they hear, only dull, sickening thuds, as
of a body slung against a wall.
The girl-wife, with frightened eyes strain-
ing into the darkness, would clutch at her
mate, scarcely daring to breathe, remembering
that under her head was a hole in the flooring,
through which the grass grew pale and lank. To
make matters worse, an indescribable odor began
to fill the dwelling, and the young couple thought
seriously of making a move. One evening about
dusk, the lonely girl sat dejectedly on the wood-
heap, thinking of home and mother, when she
saw her large grey cat leap through a gap in the
fence, carrying in its mouth considerable of a
black snake. Of course, she screamed. The cat
dropped the snake and ran under the humpy.
The girl also tore for safety, and, after barring
the doors, peeped through a crevice in the slabs.
In a few minutes the cat stealthily emerged, seized
the badly mauled but still wriggling snake, and
took it under the house. Next day the young
people raised the flooring and found, in addition
to the black snake, four smaller ones in different
stages of decay, two hares, one rabbit, a magpie,
and numerous bones and feathers. The snakes
all seemed to have had their heads flattened;
presumably the embittered cat had banged them
against the slabs. Now a boy-husband and a girl-
wife live in peace, and there is a homeless grey cat.


&
h ! v
\y.V.
.♦sv,
Av
£
'"'• vUv .
YEARS OF SUFFERING ENDED.
FEW people now-a-days are free from Biliousness in some of its many
forms. It is an ailment caused by derangement of the functions
of the liver. That wonderful organ manufactures bile
to assist in the digestion of food, and at the
same time filters all waste and harmful mat-
ter from the blood. The liver is at once the
furnace of the body, and the laboratory where
the food-juices are finally transformed. Bile
Beans are essentially a liver medicine, and
because of their unique vegetable composition
are the very best remedy for all liver ailments.
Mr. J. Knipler, of 53 Baptist-street, Redfern,
Sydney, says: —“I was a martyr to Biliousness
for many years. I tried several medicines adver-
tised as a cure for this distressing complaint,
besides numerous doctors, but the relief I received
was of short duration. Not long since, I received
one of your booklets bearing upon Bile Beans, at
my house, and, noticing that many complaints
similar to my own had been cured by Bile Beans,
I decided to give this medicine a trial. I derived
great benefit from the very first dose, and, con-
tinuing with their use, I was restored to perfect
health. My wife also derived great benefit from Bile Beans while in a delicate condition
of health. We are never without a large box of Bile Beans in the house, and can confi-
dently recommend them to fellow-sufferers.”
<J6
THE WORLD’S FAMILY MEDICINE.
Bile Beans are the purest, safest, surest and best family medicine it is possible to
obtain. They are a certain cure, not only for Biliousness, but all ailments arising from
Stomach and Liver Disorders. Biliousness, Indigestion, Headache, Constipation, Piles,
Female Ailments, Debility, Anaemia, Nervousness, Bad Blood and Bad Breath, quickly
disappear before their wonderful
medicinal virtues and efficiency.
All Stores and Chemists stock
Bile Beans at Is. l|d., or 2s. 9d.
special family size (containing
three times Is. 1(,d.), or direct, for
same price, from The Bile Bean
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EVERY
BEAN
A
BOON.
9
mmfa\
Horse-shoe Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was teller in a bank,
And a personage of rank,
In the little town wherein he used
to be;
And he led a happy life
With a charming little wife,
And a baby that was beautiful to see.
But Ambition—eldest sin—
On a woeful day crept in
To the bosom of Augustus Neville Brown;
And his yearning keen by day,
And by night his dream alway,
Was to be a big bank manager in town.
Then it chanced one eve that he,
As he walked home quietly,
Saw what seemed to be a Horse-shoe on the road.
It was queer of shape withal,
Yet upon his parlor-wall
He suspended it—to prosper his abode.
Yes, its shape was very queer,
And its nail-holes seemed to leer,
And it had at night a way of looking red;
But Augustus Neville Brown
Was quite sure it would bring down
Any quantity of luck upon his head.
Baby Brown, at childish play,
Sat upon the floor one day
Underneath the Shoe—which fell upon his brow.
And so cracked his little head
That they picked him up for dead—
And his little soul is with the angels now.
Then maternal rage possessed
Mrs. Brown’s once gentle breast
(For she laid the blame of baby’s death on Brown),
And she swore revenge—and, lo !
Three months afterwards, or so,
She eloped with a beer-traveller from town.
Thus the hapless husband, he
Lost his wife and family
At a stroke almost, and took to drink, and drank
Till his eyes grew bleared and red
And were bursting from his head —
And they fired him from his billet in the bank.
Then that bank clerk, broken down,
Tramped away from the small town
Where his days had onoe so happy been —Eheu /
He was down in Luck’s lee scuppers,
And was treading on his uppers—
But he took with him the terrible Horse-shoe.
Later on his corpse was found—
It had been some two weeks drowned—
And the papers said it was a curious thing
That around the corpse’s neelc,
As though meant its rise to check,
Was a Horse-shoe fastened by apiece of string.
CREEVE ROE.
Euchred.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE subject was Beer.
“Yes,” said the bailiff, “there’s no
drink like it, Bill, and it’s better out uv a
pewter than any other way.”
His assistant did not answer, as his speaking
apparatus was obscured by one of the utensils
referred to, but an assenting shake of the visible
end of his pint encouraged his companion to en-
large on the topic.
“ I useter think beer tasted more luscious out of
a billy—get both ’ands round the stern, and let
the rim press ’ard agenst yer chiv, so there’s no
leak ; but now I’d as soon drink it outer a pony, and
I’ll tell y’ fer why.
“When I started this game, one o’ the first
jobs I got was a distraint for rent. The boss
gave me directions, an’ told me to be careful,'ez
the tenant was a nold ’and. The ’ouse was in a
long terrace, but I ’ad the number, and soon
struck it. No one answered the door, so I did a
mooch up the side, an’ sights my man just cornin’
outer the back door onter the verandah. I got
in before ’e could stop me, an’ I must say ’e
took it like a lamb. ’E sed it. was on’y a tem-
p’ry embarrassment—they all do—an’ I’d be
paid out before the five days was up. ’E
didn’t blame me, of course, and knew it was
my painful dooty, etsetyrer, an’ ’oped I’d take
the inventory before the missus came back, so’s
’e could tell ’er I was ’is brother, just come
down fer a spell. ’E sed p’raps if I went ’ome
and brought, a portmanter, it’d look better, but
I winked an’ told ’im a man in posesh couldn’t
leave the premises. My innercent ’adn’t thought
o’ that. ’E-’ad no experience, an’ reckoned I’d
’ave to ’ave a gammy leg, to keep th’ old woman
quiet. , i
“Well, ter make a long story short, before I
took the inventory we got to talkin’ sociable like
in the kitchen. He arst me if I was T.T., an’
said a rubber o’ euchre fer drinks wouldn’t be
a bad scheme.
“’E played a fair game, but y’ know what a
bonzer I am; I lined ’im a treat, an’ ’e seemed
ter get fair riled over it. ‘ Blime,’ sez ’e, ‘ I’ll pay
fer the beer, but I’m blowed if I’m goin’ fer it.
’Ere’s a sprat an’ the billy. Better go ter the
Stork ; they keep the best.’
“’E did it so well, that I ’ad me ’at on an’ the
door ’arf open when it struck jne. As it was, e’
nearly ’ad the door shut on me, I tell yer I felt
dead wet, as I reckoned he’d let me do a perish
when ’e couldn’t do me, but he on’y larfed and sed
I was pretty smart, an’ ’e went for the red stuff
’imself.
“’E kem back still larfin’at my cuteness, and
gev me the can to t’ave first drink, as ’e didn’t
want the missus to smell it on!the cups. I was as
dry as George Reid’s dorg, and got a fair ’arf in
the first drink. That was. all I remember.
“Doctored? O’course, an’ serve me right fer
bein’ such a mug.
“I woke up just after dark on the back
verandah, with a ’norful ’ed an’ as sore as a ’oiler
tooth. They ’adn’t laid me down gently or put
pillers under me, I can tell you. I knew every-
thing ’ad bin shifted, but tried the back door on
spec. It wasn’t locked, an’ y’ could ’ave knocked me
down with a naxe when I saw the kitchen stuff Was
still there. I s’posed they’d on’y taken the best
sticks, and I went through inter the next room.
It was pretty dark, an’ I fell over a chair, an’ a
woman’s voice sed * Who’s that ? ’ An ole fowl
came in fr’m the front. ‘Oo are you, man, an’
what do y’ want ? ’ sez she. I wasn’t feelin’ too
perlite an’ tole ’er I’d soon let ’er an’ ’er blessed
’usband see what I wanted. She started ter yell
like a steam whistle, an’ a man kem rushin’
through th’ ’ouse. ’E didn’t arst any question,
but just sailed inter me. I did*me best, but I was
Murphy to ’is Squires. ’E landed me out in th’
yard and then sooled his dorg onter me. Th’ ole
woman was yellin’ all the time, an’ about forty
people an’ a John kem in, an’ I’m blowed if ’is
nibs didn’t give me in charge for burglary and
assault. I tried to explain, but me ’ed was too
thick with the dope, an’ afore I knew where I
was I was in the booby ’atch.
“ I ’ad the dickens own job gettin’ ’em to send
fer the boss, an’ when I tole ’im what ’ad ’appened,
he torked like a phonnygraf. ’E went straight to
th’ ’ouse, but, o’ course, not a stick was there.
“ Bad luck, y’ say ? Wait till I finish.
“I thought the worst was over an’ I’d be dis-
charged in the mornin’, but lo ’n’ be’old next day
the bloke turns up as bold as brass, an’ I only
escaped bein’ committed be the skin o’ me teeth.
It seems I was in the wrong ’ouse after all. After
dopin’me the cows had carted me down the right-
o’-way and dumped me on another back verander
in the terris, an’ I was too dazed ter know the
difference when I woke.
“ I lorst me billet, me clo’s, and me karracter,
and was laid up fer a fortnight.
“ Mine’s a pewter, miss.”
W.H.D.
The Presentation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Henderson was leaving.
Henderson was the ledger-keeper and,
on his 26th birthday, the doctor had
spoken to him very earnestly and quietly, and
informed him that he would either have to give
up night work or his hopes of a green old age. So
Henderson immediately started to hunt for
another billet.
The idea of going to the boss and telling him
that he could not consent to work back any more
never occurred to Henderson. It wouldn’t have
occurred to any of us. “ Going back ” was such a
recognised institution in our firm, and we had all
practised it for so long, that it seemed unnatural
to go home for tea. None of the fellows ever got
engaged or married, and very few of them ever
got into trouble —they hadn’t the time. During
my term two of them found time to die, but that’s
about all they ever accomplished outside their
work. It was generally thought that the firm’s
policy would eventually breed a race of clerks
who would require neither food nor rest, and who
would flop round the office like seals in a tank.
We got up a shilling subscription and- bought
Henderson a cheap travelling bag. He had
secured a job with a humane firm in the next
street, so we thought he would probably get a
holiday some time or other. Then he could use
the bag and remember us kindly.
The afternoon before he left, Brown, as the
prime mover in the little compliment, tip-toed
into the boss’s office and asked the old man in a
hiished voice if he would mind the lads knocking
off next evening at a quarter to six, so that they
could get the presentation over and go to tea at the
usual time —and hash -foundry.
The old man pawed his beard and frowned, but
finally granted the request, and said that, in
consideration of Henderson’s ten years’ service,
he would make the presentation’-himself. Brown
thanked him in a choking voice, and withdrew
with many salaams.
night we knocked off punctually at
25 minutes to six; and fell round until a quarter
to. Then we strolled and straggled from all
parts of the building into the sample room, and
stood in a whispering mob at one end of the
table, while Henderson, looking as happy as a
convicted felon, sat at the other end and leant
his head on his hand.
So we waited until the boss came in, and placed
a large, fatherly hand on the bag.
Henderson, from force of habit, scuffled his feet
and stood up, but immediately sank back into his
chair and tried to smile.
“ Mr. Henderson !” said the old man.
Henderson heaved himself to his feet.
“Mr. Henderson! On the—er—eve of your
departure from this firm, your fellow employees
have asked me (we hadn’t asked him) to hand you
a small token of their—er—esteem and—er—
esteem and goodwill (faint applause). During
your stay with us our relations have always been
of the happiest (loud applause); and, speaking
for myself (no applause), speaking for myself (dead
silence), I—er—l must say I have always found
you to be a most exemplary clerk, and one de-
serving the—er—the—er—highest—er ”
“ Wages ! ” said a voice.
The boss stopped for an instant and looked at
the mob with a dull, fishy eye.
'‘Commendation /” he hissed, between his set
teeth. “One deserving the highest ”
“ Screw ! ” said the voice.
The boss grew suddenly purple, reached up for
his whiskers, and resumed with a jolt.
“Mr. Henderson, although you are leaving us,
we are glad to think you are not going very far
away, and I hope—in fact, I may say we all hope
—that you will often come in and see us!
(Applause.) Come in, Mr. Henderson, come
in ”
“Any night,” said the voice; “we’re always
here ! ” ;
The old man choked, threw up his arm, and
pointed over our heads.
We turned like one man and beheld Brown,
wearing a whisky-and-soda expression, hanging
limply to the door.
“Brown !” howled the boss, “you’re dismissed.”
“Hooray!” said Brown, and fell under the table.
“Take him out!’’yelled the boss. “ Take—
him, ”
“Any blanky ni’, Hendy, ole chap,” said the
prostrate Brown. “Drop in when y’ cornin’
home from theatre—don’ matter wha’ time ’tis —
always same ole shpot! ”
The meeting broke up in disorder, half the staff
shepherding the boss, and the rest dragging
Brown out of the firing line.
Henderson left that night. So did Brown.
Henderson is now a wealthier and a happier man.
So also is Brown. And this is an immoral story.
KODAK.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
*>y\
I!
%
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on tl\e
fields in the West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
seek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Beading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Hindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
V: ’\ * •’ ' ■ &
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S, A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent. ’8 Silver Watoh and Chain. Remejcper, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
F
R
£
£
/M
yr*s
s:
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lates improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
Gele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
_ son writing
'opy of our beautifully illustrated
ok. which should be read by all
omen. If you are weak in anyway
.ger, but write to-day for our splen-
id Belt Free. Write to-day.
Dr. Austin Co.,
INS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
ion this paper.
'ARE
'YOU
ERE’S A NEW HELP 1
r the ears —a greater help, than
has been before invented
fHE ELECTEE CON.
"s what all other devices have \
trying todo. It does more. It l
ly makes the ear better. Par-
harmless, easy to adjust and
rtable. Send for our booklet.
L. R. VERNON COY.,
64 Hunter Street, Sydney.
OH
IVOUSNESS
ENERGY and STRENGTH,
NDENCY and DEBILITY.
M. Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a simple MEANS OP SELF-GURH, Will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY..
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY,
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price T2s., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
1* 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne; F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men uhtil Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address t HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
ElixabetM Street, Sydney.
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by fcbat justly
eelehrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing suffered hotv they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious eonsetpien.ees. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St,
TO BE HEALTHY
Do As the Healthy Do.
The healthy are always well on}y because they never permit themselves
to be unwell. You will have noticed that a clock left to itself is rarely
right; it requires to be regulated carefully. If it is two minutes slow now
it will be a quarter of an hour behind next week, and it is never two days,
alike. We ourselves are very like clocks. Only in rare instances can we
be left to go by ourselves. To keep Greenwich time—always to be right
and never to be wrong—we want to be regulated periodically. The healthy
attend to themselves, therein showing a wise care which all can emulate, if '
they will. It is simple enough.
TAKE
notice of the least system of disquietude, and promptly attend to yourself.
That disinclination to exertion which you have to-day is the first warning;
the stomach wants regulating. If you are wise you will put the mischief
right while it is easy to do it. A little neglect and the stomach will get
hopelessly slow, and will get slower and slower until it will need drastic
measures to make it go at all. It will be much worse than an irregular
clock; this only causes you to lose your train; an uncertain stomach will
make you lose your work. Keep your stomach up to time and the whole
system keeps time, too ; work is a pleasure and comes easy. It is as
easy to be healthy as to be always ailing; do as the healthy do, take
BEECHAM’S
... PILLS ...
Sold everywhere in Boxes,
Price (36 Pills), 1/1 1 (56 Pills), and 2/9 (168 Pills).,
[6.
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless Handled
by GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 4.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name |W
dm
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
'W- .
\V/"ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
JT BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 ; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In ISct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
BooK Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
r»A
DR. J. COLLIS BROWN
QHLOROPyi
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIAEEHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COHGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, <be. beats on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWK
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
, Sept. 28, 1895, says: _
If 1 were asked which single medicine Is
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely *
most genet-ally useful, to the exclusion
others, I should say Gheorodynk. I nev
without it, and its general applibs hi!»■■■■■
relief of a largenumber of simple .«■
its best recommendation.”.


CJse Your
Hose Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
°"'e r s, more
vegetables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sena for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Go. Ltd .
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ASTH MA GORE
GRIAWTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMATJLT & Co'a INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all C^emitU.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE
application to
,
SOUS NOSdENIS
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ms, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
«""RK
©ooll®
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
(a Hr
®VOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a,so «t SYDNEY
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,’* 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Snecess Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 20 O’Gonnel! 8t„ Sydney, Sue.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDS VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181 b . Operated by coin messed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of arr per minute. Ofliy QMS V/CRXING PART— Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
AGENTS:
& J. lEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
by
all first-'
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176£ 2.-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 2*
Stag Handle - » » 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNfl/ES
are the
BEST.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, LTD.,
MIKING ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A LARGE STOCK OF
EATON, COLE & BURNHAM VALVES,
Globe Valves* Gate Valves, Check Valves,
Foot Valves, Butterfly Valves— and Iron.
Price Lists on application.
Please write to above cuMress.
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. H
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE- IQI STOCK— SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W.L, Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &e., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements- Correspondence Inyitbd.
Motor < 'ar
Tyres^
PERSAN
Made by XHB
Silvertooin Rubber Co.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Handy Mine Pumps ...
For all rough-service, low-lift pumping about the mine, such as draining shafts, galleries, raising
water fronn one level to another, elevating tailings, slimes, etc., there is nothing equal to
THE PULSOMETER STEAM PUMP
and no oil, packing or special foundation,
deranged inside or outside mechanism,
to install. Simple to operate.
discharges no exhaust steam,
requires but little attention
Works as well suspended as stationary. Has no easily
Gritty, Muddy Water does not hurt it. Simple
Write for Catalogue.
Pumps of all Kinds manufactured by
Pulsometer Engineering Co., England.
N. CUTHRIDCE, LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney,
