

IDE’W-A.IVS ™e WHISKY
R. 6. WATKINS «s£. CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
- ' ■ ' —FOR —. •
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fdgsfg
*l@loy inauQs^aipe!
-s4si'-
iHVHOH
sdfgsdf
J. & H. McLaren have made a careful study of the requirements of the AUSTRALIAN MARKET,
produce a
gsdf
specially adapted for use on Station
and Farm for Ploughing, Clearing
Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to Sole Agents-
Pumps, Saws, Chaff Cutters, anti other M
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
7 7 '
&
-a
back.
I must have
PincApplcErand
h ’
HAMS
TRONC
S
gsfd
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO, OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed. Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring: St-, Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agrents and Canvassers Wanted. 13!
'd th
U
gsdf
and
STATION WORK
fELEPHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Silvertown Telegraph Works Coy.
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
i
mifl
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOR*
l Aroma,Strengtlu-Purity:
gsfd
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
g
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
fdsg
Is recommended for
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1441.]
[Thursday, September 26, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OF ALL BOOKSELLERS.
NOW READY.
THE COCKY FARMER,
By N. F. SPIELVOGEL, author of “A Gutnsucker on the Tramp;” limp picture
wrapper Is., postage 3d.
Barnett, Sea Sickness, Is 9d, postage 3d.
Hocking, S'., Modern Pharisee, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Pitman’s Hotel Bookkeeping, 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Maclean, Man from Curdir River, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Askew, The Sword of Peace, 3s 6d, postage fid.
Montagu, Short Hist, of Balloons, Is 9d, post 4d.
Jowett, Socialist in the City, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Merillot, Veterinary Surgery, 21s, postage 9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
SOLD BY BKENIISTS,
IN TINS, I/O.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
sfd
A—The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. i [2.
The RED PAGE
THE WHYNESS OF WOMAN
rpHE interesting questions why a woman
is a woman, and the equally fascinat-
ing conundrum why a man happens to
be a man, are raised by W. I.
Thomas, Professor of Sociology at Chicago
University, in Sex and Society (Unwin). It
appears that a woman is-a woman, not be-
cause she can’t help it, but because in primi-
tive society she had to stay at home while
the man we lit happily off to waylay the pre-
historic wombat. From that early division
of labor all the trouble has come.
Williams .starts off by hurling at woman
some dicta of rude scientists.
Woman stands nearer the plant process than
man ; she represents the constructive as opposed
to the disruptive metabolic tendency. . . Woman
is anthropologically intermediate in development
between the child and the man. . . The brain of a
woman, taken as a whole, is uniformly in a more
or less embryonic condition. A woman is always
a growing child ; her brain departs from the in-
fantile type no more than the other portions of
her body. . . Women are more disvulnerable than
men; that is, better able to resist pain, and offer
a greater resistance-to disease than men. Women
are more susceptible to many diseases, but in less
danger when attacked. They are longer-lived
than men, and have greater powers of resistance
to misfortune and deep grief. This is a well-
known law, which in the case of the female crimi-
nal seems almost exaggerated, so remarkable is
her longevity and the toughness with which she
endures the prolonged hardships of prison life.
As for woman’s beauty, this Chicago pro-
fessor makes the discovery that “it is due
to the storing of adipose tissue.” Frankly,
it is Fat. In the memorable words of Keats,
“ Beauty is Fat, Fat Beauty,”— that is all
Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.
The possibility of putting on fat is the
tragedy of all good women. Beauty is fat
in moderation ; but many middle-aged
women do not always know when to stop.
The impending fate of every nice girl
is the Doom of the Double Chin ; but woman
may console herself that the double chin of
middle-age is but a small price to pay for the
curves of youth. -.Yet it is sad to reflect that
every plump girl’s life is darkened by this
menace of many chins.
S
Let us turn to a more cheerful subject.
In the beginning woman was man’s physical
and mental superior, and her present position
is the result of a mere afterthought of
Nature. At the last moment Nature changed
her mind.
ln humankind, Nature obviously started out on
the plan of having woman the dominant force,
with man as an aid ; but, after a certain time,
there was a reversal of plan, and man became
dominant, and woman dropped back into a some-
what unstable and adventit ous relation to the
social progress. . . . The male in many of the
lower forms is very insignificant in size, economi-
cally useless (as among the bees), often a parasite
upon the female, and, ns many biologists hold,
merely a secondary device or afterthought of
nature, designed to secure greater variation than
can he had by the uni-sexual mode of rep oduotion.
. . . The heavy, strong, enduring, patient, often
dominant type, frequently seen among the lower
classes, where alone woman is still economically
functional, is probably a good representative of
what the women of our race were before they
were reduced by man to a condition of parasitism
which, in our middle and so-called higher classes,
has profoundly affected their physical, mental
and moral life.
But the simple matter that, owing to the
cares of her family, prehistoric woman was
compelled to stay much at home, while war-
fare and the chase perforce developed the
man mentally and physically, reversed the
dominance of the sexes. The man was
engaged in activities requiring strength, vio-
lence, speed, craft, foresight, while the
woman was necessarily confined to occupa-
tions slow, unspasmodic, routine, stationary.
Consequently she vegetated, while man went
ahead. This division of labor was not in
any sense an arrangement dictated by the
men, but a habit into which both men and
women fell, through their difference in
organisation. And their differing occupa-
tions in turn created the characteristic
mental life of each. So that primitive
division of labor conditioned each sex for
all time. Woman lost her advantage : she
■ has a lot of lee-way to make up.
Even the most serious women of the present
day stand, in any work they undertake, in pre-
cisely the same relation to men that the amateur
stands to the professional in games... They got
into the game late, or they do not have the
advantage of that pace gained only by competing
incessantly with players of the very first rank.
&
As soon as women became dependent, not
upon society but upon man, she developed
traits that have thrown her out of relation
to society. Man’s relation is a general one
to society; woman’s is a personal one to a
man.
When woman became dependent, she had to
charm for her life. Under a new stimulation to
be attractive, and with the addition of ornament
to the repertory of her charms, woman has
assumed an almost aggressive attitude toward
courtship. The means of attraction she employs
are so highly elaborated, and her technique is so
finished, that she is really more active in court-
ship than man. . . . He does the courting, but she
controls the process.
So W illiams traces the traits of woman as
developed and modified by her new relation :
Because the problem of women is not to accom-
modate to the solid realities of the world of
experience and sense, but to adjust themselves to
the personality of men, it is not surprising that
they should assume protean shapes.. .. In the
animal world the female is noted for her indirec-
tion. On account of the necessity of protecting
her young, she is cautious and cunning, and in
contrast with the open and pugnacious methods
of the more untrammelled male, she relies on-
sober colors, concealment, evasion, and deception
of the senses. This quality of cunning is, of
course, not immoral in its origin, being merely a
protective instinct developed along with maternal
feeling.
Jt
As for monogamy, Williams points out that
it is ethically useful, but biologically bad.
Monogamy is a habit acquired by the race, not
because it has answered more completely to the
organic interest of the individual, but because it
has more completely served social needs, particu-
larly by assuring to the woman and her children
the undivided interest and providence of the man.
But in early times the law of natural selection,
not the law of choice, operated to preserve the
groups in which a monogamous or quasi-monogam-
ous tendency showed itself—since the children
in these cases were better trained and nourished.
The members of civilised societies at the present
time have so far accepted ethical standards that
monogamy is the system actually favored on senti-
mental grounds, as well as on grounds of ex-
pediency, by a large proportion of any civilised
population. On the other hand, speaking from
the biological standpoint, monogamy does not,
as a rule, answer to the Xconditions of
highest stimulation, since here the problem-
atical and elusive elements disappear to
some extent, and the object of attention
has grown so familiar in consciousness that
the emotional reactions are qualified. This is the
fundamental explanation of the fact that married
men and women frequently become interested in
others than their partners in matrimonyV . . . It
is psychologically true that only the unfamiliar
and not-com pi etely-con trolled is interesting.
Although the intimate association and daily
familiarity of family life produce affection, they
are not favorable to the genesis of romantic love.
Cognition is so complete that no place is left for
enjotional appreciation.
You pick your peach-tree, thinking how
idyllic it would be always to live on peaches
. . . and, after the moon has sot, you yearn
for oranges. “The apple reddens,” too;
and you are apt to pry. You know all
about peaches, and the bloom is off.
Peaches do not stir your appetite. It
is either dyspepsia or oranges. ... And here
we are in the higher philosophy of the
divorce court!
“Ande” has some iconoclastic things to say
about poetry:—“The verse-form is the most
artificial method of communicating thought.
Shakespeare only saved himself from oblivion by
his great knowledge of mankind and his skill in
dramatising. Even so, who reads him ? To write
poetry you take an idea—only one—and envelop it
in language; and themoreobscurethe reeaningand
application of that language the better the poetry.'
Poets rank in greatness from their metaphors.
Metaphors may he defined as overdrawn com-
parisons, and increase in worth as they become
harder to understand. Random memory recalls
* shining spear-heads ’ for snow-capped Alps' by
Browning, and the likening of a mangrove to a
mother’s love by Moore. These are btith great
poets. The original poet must have been a
stutterer, who could not talk except when helped
out with music. I can imagine him with a skin
stretched across a pre-liistoric skull accompany-
ing his speech with tapping fingers. Habit made
him metrical, and, as usual, fashion copied the
unusual. Time has mercifully obliterated the
name of the originator of the rhyme—that in-
sufferable jingle at the margin of the page. From
the rhyme sprang the pun. Let it die from that
condemnation. There is no excuse for the writer
of the ‘ metrical romance.’ If he has a good tale
to tell, let it be told without a jigging motion and
a jingle at every four or five paces. If there is to
be no story in the poem, as is insisted, then a poem
is a mass of ornamental language without an
idea.”
The soldier (says G. B. Pshaw) is an anachronism
of which we must get rid. Among people who
are proof against the suggestions of romantic
fiction there can no longer be any question of the
fact that military service produces moral imbe-
cility, ferocity, and cowardice, and that the
defence of nations must be undertaken by the
civil enterprise of men enjoying all the rights and
liberties of citizenship, and trained by the exact-
ing discipline of democratic freedom and responsi-
bility. For permanent work the soldier is worse
than useless. . . His whole training tends to
make him a weakling. He has the easiest of
lives; he has no freedom and no responsibility.
He is politically and socially a child, with.rations
instead of rights, treated like a child, punished
like a child, dressed prettily and washed and
combed like a child, excused for outbreaks of
naughtiness like a child, forbidden to marry like
a child, and called Tommy like a.child. Helms
no real work to keep him from going mad except
housemaid’s work : all the rest is forced exercise,
in the form of endless rehearsals for a destructive
and terrifying performance which may never
come off, and which, when it does come off, is not
like the rehearsals. His officer has not even
housekeeper’s work to keep him sane. ■’
Fisher Unwin now issues his colonial library
novels with a picture-cover. The days of the
uniform binding for “colonials” are over. Other
English publishers please note.
A POUETRY POET
71 /TY Life and Lays, by Andrew Kinross
(J. Ward, Invercargill, M.L.), is not
/ £ a book of poultry-breeding. It is
not even the autobiography of an
eminent and hard-working hen.
It is even 'more interesting. Andrew Kin-
ross (with portrait) is a Poet, and writes
Lays. The “Life of Andrew Kinross” tells
us so—though the sixty pages of this absorb-
ing narrative are tantalisingly short—“a mere
outline.” However, the facts are here—facts
which will prove invaluable to the future bio-
graphers of so remarkable a personality; “I
flatter myself that I have inherited the best
characteristics of the Lowlander and the High-
lander,” says Andrew Kinross. His father was a
groper, and Uncle Angus and Uncle John were
also grocers ; so it is evident, that Andrew had a
narrow escape. Once the boy thought of going
to Americ.i, and immediately composed :
Oh, Canada ! fertile though cold.
> Luckily for us, however, Andrew came to Aus-
tralia, and in Geelong he composed :
Australian Felix ! fair and free,
I hope to find a home in thee ; -
Land of the bright and golden fleece.
Thy flocks and herds shall still increase.
But at this fair moment of his budding genius the
menace of matrimony was lying in wait for him.
He tells us, in moving terms, of the catastrophe :
“ As I did not marry to get a home, but rather
to obtain a loving, sympathetic companion, I
would have preferred if my girl bad possessed a
more poetic, affectionate nature. In my ‘Lays’
I have inserted an ‘Ode to Mv Sweetheart ’ and
an ‘Ode to My Wife,’ but finding my girl did not
care for poetry, and nothing occurred to inspire
me, I abandoned composing. During 14 years of
what ought to have been the brightts.-t pferiod of
my life, my poetic talent lay almost dormant
from my 23rd to my 37th year. lam afraid most
wives soon forget that they promised to love,
honor, and obey. However, I did not wish obedi-
ence, but that love should be spontaneous ; and I
hoped to be honored by proving worthy of being
honored. As the roads continued to be improved,
many carriers replaced their drays by waggons,
which paid better, and were much more com-
fortable.”
But matrimony bad its compensations. The
Poet notes one : “ That made the third daughter
we had bom in Southland, and it came in handy
afterwards to have bred our own dairymaids.”
Jt
But let us see the more intimate side of Andrew
Kinross. ‘ The human qualities of the Poet are
vividly brought out by such reflections as these :
“ Although I was born with an infinite capacity
for loving, circumstances have not allowed it to
be fully developed. I have recited my poem of
‘A Poet to his Love’ to various ladies at different
times—more frequently than any poem that I
have composed. . . . The concert and ball were
first-rate, so I did not go to bed at all. After
daylight I walked home with young ladies, had
breakfast with them, then recited some of my
poetry to them. ... I am not aware that any of
my ancestors possessed a talent for composing
poetry, neither do any of my descendants possess
such a gift.... I have composed many poems
that may please ladies with warm hearts and
poetic-tastes. I think that on ‘True Love’ best
of a 11.... As an amusement, I still prefer
dancing.... I think one need not wish for a
more pleasant or poetic death than to be trans-
ferred from the arms of a terrestial angel to those
of a celestial one.”
Of the' “ Lays ” many a pedigree hen would be
proud. Of the patriotic ode to Maoriland the
Poet tells us, “This poem was composed in
Dunedin as an ‘Ode to Otago,’ and altered to
suit.” In the introduction to another poem, he
remarks that for years nothing occurred to inspire
him, till (luckily) in 1885 there was a probability
of war with Russia. So he wrote a Maoriland
war song. Of “ A Poet to His Love,” the author
writes, “I have recited this poem to more than
50 ladies.” Here followeth the Poem :
He : Love, I will give my heart to thee.
If thou wilt give thy heart to me ;
Though I have loved before we met,
Still I can love thee dearly vet;
Although cold-hearted cynics blame,.
They shall not quench love’s ardent flame ;
They cannot chain the human heart,
They cannot keep two souls apart.
Then if you prize a poet’s love
All other things on earth above,
Such warm true love to thee will flow
As very few can ever-know.
I’ll place tby face within my heart,
Within its deepest, fondest part,
And though I may be far away
My thoughts to thee will ever stray ;
And though I may never have wealth
I’ll be content with love and-health ;
And I will bury all the past,
And love but thee whilst life shall last.
I know it is a needless task,
If thou canst love for me to" ask ;
I see it in thy kindly eye,
I hear it in thy gentle sigh,
And many well-known signs reveal
The tender love for me you feel.
My darling ! since thy heart is mine,
This world of ours appears divine.
She: My dearest, thou hast rea,d my heart,
And death alone our lives shall part;
Wherever thou may’st chance to roam,
There I will gladly fix my home,
With joy I hope to bear thy name,
And share with thee thy future fame.
I know the words from thee that flow
Shall yet cause many a heart to glow ;
I ask no greater bliss in life
Than be a poet’s loving wife.
Jt
Of other poems, one took first prize at Gore
Industrial Exhibition, for another, of which the
chorus is : . .
“Then, if you want to buy a trap, you need not
travel far,
For Mathieson makes every sort, even to a jaunt-
ing car.”
The poet was awarded a prize of ten shillings,
presumably by Matbieson. The sympathetic kin-
ship of his mind with all suffering things led to
the composition of another Lay.
“ I dined at a farmhouse in an extremely lone-
some situation. Residing with her parents there
was an accomplished joung lady, who was cut off
from society, amusement, and the amenities of
life. I felt sorry for her, and next morning I
composed this poem in the hope that it might
help to cheer her lonely life. I was pleased to
learn that she felt grateful for a poet’s sym-
pathy.”
“I hope that it may cheer thy heart
To Sometimes think; of me,”
he remarks, and we have his word for jt that it
did.
Hitherto we have considered Andrew Kinross
merely as a poet and a man. But his genius was
too many-sided to be confined to the mere pro-
duction of Lays. In a sister-art, that of the
dance, Andrew Kinross was equally pre-eminent.
In short, he might aptly be called a song-and-
dance poet. There is no record that Browning
ever danced a cake-walk, William Watson a horn-
pipe, or Rossetti a reel. Yet all through the
reminiscences of Andrew Kinross are references
t(i\ his performances in the ball-room. The soul
of melody within him expressed itself equally
through his fingers or his toes. It was a matter
of god-like indifference to Andrew Kinross
whether his inspiration flowed into a poem or a
polka, a rondel or a reel. And, though, in our
appreciation of his proficiency in the sister-art we
have to go by hearsay, his mastery of the horn-
pipe is clearly indicated by this quotation from a
local paper, whose representative was privileged
to attend a concert graced by the poet-dancer :
“All were agreed that Mr. Kinross’s step-
dancing reaches the same level of excellence as
his poetry.”
With this judgment we are glad to concur.
A HISTORY OF LOVE
A book for the curious is Historia Amorist, by
Edgar ttaltiis (Sisley, par Sydney Book Club).
The author gives the history of love from the
time of Babylon to the pronouncements of
Schopenhauer. He treats of Solomon, Bluebeard
and Boccaccio, of Sappho. Cleopatra, Heloise,
Beatrice, and Dianne de Poitiers, of the “ Parlia-
ments of Joy,” of troubadour and crusader, of
Moor and Venetian, of the rise of chivalry, of the
renaissance—all in a style strangely staccato, allit-
erative and paradoxical, hashing light into
many quaint darkened corners of history.
As a sample of his style, let this suffice:
“Dante told of love with an intensity that/was
divine. Petrarch wrote with a comprehensive-
ness that was human. There have been thousands
of podt's, and but one Dante, myriads of lovers,
and but one Petrarch. In antiquity love had for
form but the senses. That form chivalry draped
with graces, and Dante dematerialised. In
Petrarch love was both of the flesh and of the
spirit in addition to being sincere. That was a
great step. With him for the first time there
entered into history an honest man, ardently in
love with an honest woman. To the superficial
she has seemed but a coquette,; and he merely
sentimental. He were perhaps better regarded
as creative, the founder of the real love which is
the love of the heart, the amour eternel en un mo-
ment conffu.”
Of the procedure of the Courts of Love in the
middle ages Saltus mentions some interesting
instances. “A. confidant, charged by a friend
with messages.of love, found the lady so to his
liking that he addressed her on his own behalf.
Instead of being repulsed he was encouraged.
Whereupon the injured party brought suit.
Maltre Andr4, prqtbonbtary of the court, .relates
that the plaintiff prayed that the fraud be sub-
mitted to the Countess of Champagne, who,
sitting in banco with sixty ladies, heard the com-
plaint, and, on deliberation, rendered judgment
as follows: ‘lt is ordered that the defendants
henceforth he debarred the frequentation of
honest people.’ Here is another instance : A
knight was charged by a lady not to say or do
anything in her praise. It so fell about that her
name was lightly taken. The knight challenged
the clofamer. Thereupon the lady contended that
he had forfeited all claim to her regard. Action
having been brought, the Court decided that the
defence of a lady being never illicit, the knight
should be rehabilitated in favor and reinstated iti
grace. Which, the prothotiotary states, was doneq
“ It was over these delicate matters, over others
more delicate still, that the Courts of Love
claimed and exercised jurisdiction. Execution of
the decrees may seem to have been arduous. But
judgments were enforced not by a constabulary,
but by the community. Disregard of a decision
entailed not loss of liberty, but loss of caste. In
the case of a man, entrance was denied him at the
tournaments. In the case of a woman, the draw-
bridges were up.”
Article 1 of the Code of the Court of Love was,
causa conjugi ab amore non est excusatio recta ; and
the assertion that against love marriage was an
insufficient excuse led to several quaint decisions.
“A knight loved a lady who could not accept his
vows, inasmuch as she loved someone else. But
she promised to do so if it so happened that she
lost the other man—a contingency which to-day'
would mean if lie died or ran away. Very
differently the jurisprudence of the epoch inter-
preted it. The lady married the man she loved,
whereupon the knight exacted fulfilment of the
agreement. Queen Eleanor, before whom the
case was heard, decided in his favor, on the
ground, perhaps subtle, that the, lady’s husband,
in becoming her husband, became ipso facto, by
that very act, amator’ially defunct.”
So, breathing an atmosphere reminiscent of
Maurice Hewlett, Saltus lightly and discursively
traces the gradual amelioration of the relation of
woman to society—through the differing concep-
tion of meaning of love.


JL
acre
HIGH-GRADE
WARE
W:
mm
mmm
m
S^=N»Asj<
iS§gsSS«&2*a*
ISO. 98!.—Handsome dike Basket, Electro-Plate on Britannia Metal, 28/-.
Made by the Best Makers in the World.
SPLENDID EXAMPLES of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
■
• 9
No. 1007.—Handsome Salad Bowl, Painted Porcelain,
Electro-Plated Mounts, with Service to match, 24!-.
\
sm
;.-\v
.
No. 1003. —Revolvin'*- Butter Cooler. Eleetio-Plafce on Britannia
Metal, Chased Design, 38/6.
No. 1003.—Single Jam Jar, Electro-Plate on
Britannia Metal, Crystal Glass Jar, 16j
No. 976.—Biscuit, Butter, and Cheese Stand,
Painted Porcelain, Electro-Plated Mounts,
with Knife and Fork, /7/6.
(SSI - ■
No. 1007.—Butter Dish, Eleotro-Pl ite
on Nickel Silver, Crystal Glass Dish, 8/-.
No. 1012.—Jam Jar, Electro-Plate on Britannia
Metal, Crystal Glass Jar, /4/-.
wirhi
m
mu
No. 1024. —China Biscuit Barrel, floral
design, Electro-Plate on Nickel Silver,
101-.
No. 090.—Pickle,Jar, Electro-Plate on
Britannia Metal, Glass Jar, 14/6.
No. 995. Lunch Cruet,
Electro-Plate on Nickel
Silver, 4 Cut-Glass Bottles,
/4/-.
'ft
No. .1022.—0ak Biscuit Barrel, Mounted Electro-
Plate on Nickel Silver, chased lid, 20/-.
as?
Ctr*
No. 1019.—Tilting-Kettle and Stand, Electro-Plate
on Britannia metal, choice design, 45/-.
No, 1021.—Oak Biscuit Barrel, Mounted Electro-
Plate on Nickel Silver, 15/-.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LISTS POST FREE
ON APPLICATION.
Nr. 980. —Double Pickle Jar, Electro-Plate
Meta], Glass Jars, 19/-.
Britannia
No. 994. —Lunch Cruet, Electro-
Plate on Nickel Silver, 4 Out-
class Bottles, 19j-.
No. 998.—Dinner Oruefc, Electro-Plate on
Nickel Silver, 6 Out-Glass Bottles, 46/6.
at
No. 975.—Elegant
Card Receiver,
Electro - P 1 a te,
Prettily Chased,
18j6.
Other Designs,
1416, 16/6,
18/6 to 28/-.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


gsdf
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xj-fcd.
.V, S YDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
V " - 9 f
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, aiik MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPEATS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account bales rendered promp y.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company.to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
I Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Medially Steel Pate.it “GRIP DIOPPBa.”
C 1
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FRCM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
AH C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
mj
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures put of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of e egance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced t.ousands cf
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, wr;te for
book ol types to:
J. E. NEV PORT, SONS & Co.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY.
75 Ycrk Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING,
Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z«
SFREE JEWELLERY.
We make vou a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curo Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2s.
g
We receive hundreds
of testimonials
oaily.
N© MONEY REQUIRED WHftTEYt R— Simply
send us a post card with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us,’and we will post you the
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents.
ior selling 12 articles of
* 1 jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle pjj- our ‘‘ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
Rl'PCfc for selling
* A nflUr A *r-
* IUI selling
" only 6 ar-
ticles. We
will send
a Solid
a Solid
I Gold Pin
or Ring,
or lady’s
Sol id
Gold Pen-
dant and.
uani ana
Necklet or
Bangle
We send your pre-
sent oy return post
v> e nave no lurtn-
er claim on you
a»ter you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
sfdg
jr*?-Free onV 3 a&icles
we will send
you your choice of
any articles picked from
our Catalogue of novelties
which we send with the jewellery
CO The party selling the «
St l '"* A I CC db* articles in the shortest time is
entitled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
Send Us Your Name and address.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
British Jewellery O. George=st., Sydney,
New South Wales
mSsjiii
Cli
Ci
a
mm.
Jl: o,ir
Only
Address
By Royal
Warrant to
■*r %
• ■ ■ . I
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRII
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPSTIXIOKT.
WINES m Bat B 2 nds Iy 0/ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
dsfg
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Vs. BOOK OF NATUitV. and Illus-
trated Marriage Guidk by Or.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is- 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Boccaccio, 2/0. Heftameron, 2/6. Bride of hie
First Night, 1/8; Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Refaiiung, 1/8.
HOw to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is; post Is :;d.
Camille, Is. Sappho. Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. I low to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love. Is Dream Book, Is. Morgan's
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. Tiie Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zinoara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and wi th
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cehiurj-
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over -tOO colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. : post Is. 3d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, 1 s. Scientific Wrustling, Is.3d. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Kasy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games. Is.
(ST "AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
fds
M
ESfIK
2S
'■M,mms
r
N. V /if V
•■-vO'-fc
,'.%n
K
(•: \ Xi
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter's Favorite, Because
They Always Get The Game.
For Sale Everywhere.
gdsf
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLO WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments' in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Bills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest oiler ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £',o in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Bills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
i
Free
£.lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
„™« fruit
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked EMO’» 'FRUIT •ALT/ Without It you bare «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
ffnparad only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LOUDON, KNQ..
by J. G. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, dc., everywhere.
mm
[PQQJL
m
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION.
For BILIOUSNESS.
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION
sss&Ssjfjsr—— I** 1 **
The Public are cautioned to obterve that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pllle Muat Bear Signature of
g


Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
Mi/ers
'Cherry 9eetoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
A Delicate
fdsg
BOY
THE EVIDENCE
from 59, Murray Street, Pyrmont,
Sydney, N.S.W., Sept. 9th, 1905. —
“A great sufferer from colds, my
little William was very delicate
and although I tried many so-called
remedies he did not improve. At
last a friend, who had proved its
value for her own child, advised me
to give Scott’s Emulsion. At this
time William was recovering from
a sharp attack of pneumonia.
Scott’s Emulsion agreed well with
him, gave him a good appetite,
and now, after persevering in a
course of it, he is restored to com-
plete good health.”—(Mrs.) C.
LEGERSTROM.
ZTHE REASON WHY_
HE GREW STRONG
He felt the benefit of the magnifi"
cent Lofoten (Norwegian) cod liver
oil always used in Scott’s. This
oil is the most strengtlieningiu the
world. The Scott process of manu-
facture makes it so thoroughly
digestible that every particle
passes straightway into the tissues
TRADE MARK
of the body, quickly
filling them with new
vigour.
Secure these identi-
cal benefits for your
own child by seeing
“the lishman with the
fish ” on .every pack-
age of the genuine
Scott’s.
From all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
“RESTORED HEALTH”
IRISH
sdfg
sfdg
fds
gsfd
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza j*
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
gsdf
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
r
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send us ycur name and address and von will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ev r published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Pho o
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; iu describes every detail of the manufacture of a high*
grad Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between nigh-c ass work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford m your own interest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
you will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten year. ,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we iai sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the fa tory at less than manufacturers' prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fuily explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
MAGNESIA
%
A WISH :
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And He;!th on Both.
“ Montserrat”
O O • ©
• Q • O
Sauce
the basis of which i s
“ MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jl&k your Store! eeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE i
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
£ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
7 Plasmon
distinguishes our
preparations of
milk=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteld, which 19 required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed with
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wait a Little.
This is what they sang to me
Years and years ago :
“ Deary, wait! Baby, wait !
Let the hours go slow.
Wait until the big red stars flowering in the sky,
Wane away, droop away, fade away and die.”
This is what they laughed at me
When I was a child :
“Dearest, wait ! Darling wait !
Little feet run wild.
Wait a little till a year and a day have flown.
Wait until you are a girl; wait until you’ve grown !”
This is what they smiled to me
When I was a maid :
“Dear one, wait, love will come
Sweet and unafraid.
Wait a little, laugh a little !” Ah, but I wasglad.
Flowers and sun and eager mirth, how could one
be sad ?
This they whispered soft to me
But a year ago :
“Dear Heart, wait a little while,
Love will surely grow.
Wait a little, watch a little ; all must suffer pain.
Wait a little, troubled one, for life to smile again.”
This is what they left to me,
With the long grey years :
Broken heart, and wistful eyes
Stained and dulled with tears.
Wait a little ! Wait a little ! Childhood’s teasing
song.
But I who wait upon the years, know the wait-
ing’s long.
N.S.W.
CARO.
A Spring Sonnet.
Last night beneath the mockery of the moon
I heard the sudden startled whisperings
Of wakened birds settling their restless wings ;
The Nor’-east brought its word of gladness,
“ Soon ! ”
And all the night with wonder was aswoon.
A soul had breathed into long-dreaming things,
Some unseen hand hovered above the strings,
Some cosmic chord had set the earth in tune.
And when I rose I saw the Bay arrayed
In her grey garb against the coming heat.
A pulse awoke within the stirring street—
The wattle-gold upon the pavements thrown, :
And through the quiet of the colonnade
The smoky perfume of boronia blown.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Deep Sea’s Song.
Out of the night, the storm and din, as the tall
ships glide along,
Out of the wrack of surge and spray echoes the
deep sea’s song.
The breakers beat to that old refrain that waS
born in the gulf of years,
And they boom it across the wall of night and
into the west wind’s ears.
On lonely reaches of great mid-seas, where is
nothing but sea and sky,
The league-long rollers chant as'they pass to the
waters that underlie;
And deep and sullen the bass goes down to the
uttermost pits of slime,
That bear the press of the super-seas, and move
to the pulsing time.
The flood tides gnaw at the hoary bluffs, awash in
the wave-hewn wells;
The combers rear and roar on the rocks, and the
seaweed swings to the swells ;
The tide is at ebb, or the tide is at flow, but
never it rests or stays ;
And the deep-sea currents march to the band as
they tread their appointed ways.
Strange diapasons boom and shake, and tremulous
wind-notes trill,
And the clash of the liquid water-notes is a melody
wild and shrill.
And so ye shall hear, that know the sea, that
have fared on its highways long,
The sweet, full swell of the deep sea’s chant, the
voices of gods in song !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Growler Below!
We rose from the mud of the main,
We dropped off our tails by degrees ;
We slowly developed a brain,
And built us a hut in the trees ;
We sang a rude song in the breeze
And carved a rock prettily so,
But, in spite of such capers as these —
The Savage was growling below.
We rose then a trifle again—
We covered our necks and our knees ;
We made ourselves proof to the rain,
We studied our comfort and ease ;
Our cattle we ran on the leas,
We drank ourselves drunk in a row
Till we melted in mad melodies—
The Savage was growling below.
And now we get lost in a train ;
Art, music—we’re busy as bees,
Till some of us wander insane
With longings that naught can appease ;
And yet every pundit agrees
We’re running a wonderful show
(Just the same as the mites in the cheese) —
The Savage is growling below !
Dame Nature is holding the keys ;
Forget it—you’ll find to your woe.
Though preachers may prate as they please,
The Savage is growling below !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN:


Treats
Sydney Show Rooms
56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
4
adbmrvscocm
A cup-ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
r Cadbury’s Cocoa is
not only PUREST and BEST,
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to - buy and- use. A bait tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
.beverage it is possible to obtain.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
[land Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
=5
Tobacco
0 - Man u facto red in ‘1
' Richmond. Virginia, a
© t b^LARUSABrother C? ? .
Packed by RTowns*Co. Agents,Sydney. , I
Facsimile of Soz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacconists.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SriCIM. lIDIIIUR
Scotch whisky
m
:
/
Vi
Vi
Vi
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
Beautiful Home Decorations
r«
SBSgSffica
Ll^
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘•OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EIVAAIEU (Washable) - Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc,. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOUUV EVAMEIiS.” For .decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
SAPOIjIA” BATH TUB 81VAMKL, In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT. “SAPOLIN '• FLOOR
STAINS, “SAP0L1N” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
»•' •' *
Kalgooi'lie Municipal Council
Electric Light Station,
Kalgoorlie, 30th April, 1907.
Messrs. J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Bear Sirs,
Referring to your inquiry re the
Ruberoid with which our accumulation
building is roofed, I have pleasure in
stating that it has so far given every
satisfaction. The area covered is
approximately 5000 square feet, and it
was chosen to cover this roof on account
of its capacity for resisting the strong
sulphuric acid fumes given off by the
accumulator. The building was erected
about eighteen months ago, and so far
the Ruberoid has been a success in every
way. j am, yours faithfully,
(Signed) D. Curee Smith.
g
Because of its capacity for resisting the strong
Sulphuric Acid Fumes given off by the Accumulator,
RUBEROID ROOFING
was chosen to cover 5000 square feet on the
fialgoorlie Municipal Electric Light Station.
All Store Keepers.
Wholesale
Agents :
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney &. Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1441.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 36, 1907.
Price 6d.
THE DEFENCE PROBLEM.
NAPOLEON (to Australian Defence Minister Ewing ) : “ YOU SAY YOU WANT ME. WELL, HERE’S A ROPE. HANO YOUR
DISLOYAL ANTE AUSTRALIAN POLITICIANS, FOR A START, AND THEN WE’LL SEE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Sjiecial 'Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
.1/ S. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without, stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilac Je and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draioings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co. , Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents 9 Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size S§in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1907.
THE WESTRALIAN SECESH MOVEMENT
A quaint and remarkable product of the hour is
the Westralian ‘ ‘ secession ” movement. It began
a while ago with a complaint that the old Federal
tariff “reduced the State’s revenue.” It is being
whooped up now on the plea that the new Federal
tariff will “add to the burdens of the people.”
The same crowd of grumblers might just as well
reverse their statements and say that the old tariff
reduced the burdens of the people, and point out
joyfully that the new one will increase the State’s
revenue, but somehow that aspect of the case is
much neglected. The new tariff will cost the
absentee owners of Westralian gold-mines, it is
alleged, £50,000 a year—assuming that these
absentees insist on buying inferior mining
machinery in England, and sending it out to the
big Westralian mines, instead of getting better
machinery made in Australia. The people in
England are reputed, in many cases, to get
heavy “tips” from the English machinery
makers, so it is just possible that they will con-
tinue to buy in England despite the new tariff.
In that case the English mine-owners will
probably pay the £50,000 a year, and the
Westralian State Treasury will probably get
£40,000 out of it, and this prospective increase of
revenue will do Westralia much good ; yet this
prospective increase of revenue is set down as
another sufficient reason for “secesh.” But,
above all things, the chronic deficit and the falling
away of the revenue are chalked up on the
familiar old slate as the “ evil results of Federa-
tion ” and as reasons for severing the Federal
bond. The Westralian deficit has amounted in
the last four years to £440,387, and though the
deficit in one awful year before Federation (1897-8)
was over £500,000, still the much smaller shortage
now is held by the secesh gang to be clear evi-
dence that union is a curse. And secesh has
always the fading revenue to point to. This, by
the way, is how the revenue of Westralia has
faded: —
Westralian Revenue before Federation. (Out of which
postal, telegraph, and defence expenditure had to be
paid.)
1896- .. .. £2,842,751
1897- .. .. 2,754,747
1898- .. .. 2,478,811
1899- .. .. 2,875,396
It will be observed that Westralia, when it ran
its affairs entirely upon its own, was also liable to
the financial fading disease, and got it badly in
1898 and worse in 1899. Then here is the other
side of the account :
Westralian Revenue after Federation. (Out of which
postal, telegraph and defence expenditure had NOT
to be paid.)
1900- .. .. £2,964,121
1901- .. .. 3,354,123
1902- .. .. 3,630,238
1903- .. .. 3,550,016
1904- .. .. 3,615,340
1905- .. .. 3,558,939
1906- .. .. 3,401,354
* * * *
On the figures two things are evident : (t) That
Westralia’s revenue under Federation, even in
the present damaged condition of tiie finances, is
vastly ahead of anything it managed to raise
under the old Separatist system; and (2) that the
drop of £228,884 between 1903 and 1907, when
Westralia was suffering from the alleged horrors
of “Federal misgovernment,” wasn’t a patch on
the drop of £363,940 between 1897 and 1899,
when it was the very real horrors of State mis-
government that were the nightmare on the
’Groper chest. Putting the present hand-
some revenue of £3,401,354 (out of which
the State has no longer to defray the heavy
postal, telegraph and defence expenditure,
and which yet left it last year with over
£BB,OOO of a deficit) alongside the comparatively
miserable revenue of £2,875,396 in the last year
before Federation (out of which postal, telegraph
and defence expenditure had to be paid, and
which still left £260,000 surplus), it certainly
seems that there is a great rottenness in the
State’s management of its own internal affairs. It
also seems that huge, fat incapables like Premier
Newton Moore are endeavoring to pass the
blame on to the Commonwealth, and that frantic
persons like Haynes, the Perth medico, and
Monger, M.L. A., and their kin, are chasing the
Federal authority with bricks on the same intelli-
gent principles which lead the Russian peasantry
to turn out and run after a Jew when the wheat
crop fails.
* * • •
The short and simple and obvious explanation
of the case is that Westralia is getting towards
the inevitable end of almost the biggest boom in
Australian history. And against that unavoid-
able happening there is a puerile revolt—the
revolt of the spoiled child of Fortune throwing
clods at Destiny. Some of the Westralian people
have a wild idea that their boom should last for
ever, no matter what may have happened to
other people’s booms, and that it is a good thing
to go out and swipe blindly at somebody or any-
body rather than acknowledge the real state of
the case. In the same fashion, Victoria would
doubtless have laid its broken boom at the door
of the Commonwealth if there had been any Com-
monwealth in 1892 and 1893. The Westralian
gold return is falling, but the Commonwealth
isn’t responsible for that. The gold-mines are
mostly owned by absentees, and the dividends go
abroad, and to counteract the decline of these
dividends the absentee mine-owners are cutting
down expenditure in Westralia to the last possible
penny, and reducing employment, and Westralia
hasn’t even the courage to get level by putting an
absentee tax on the foreign oppressor ; but the
Federal authority isn’t responsible for these
things either. The Westralian debt, which
was £11,674,000 in the last year of Separa-
tism, is now £19,222,000; there is a fearsome
increase in the interest bill and Westralia
can no longer find work and good wages for its
whole male population by spending, as it once
did, £2,600,000 of loan money in one year (say £lB
per inhabitant, or £72 —equal to nearly 30s. a
week—for a family of four), because it can’t get
the loan money these times. The State’s debt is
so appalling that the last remaining fragments of
its credit have to be carefully nursed, and while
the interest that goes out has nearly doubled in
the last eight years, the loans that come in are
only a third of what they were. But the Com-
monwealth isn’t responsible for Westralia’s
appalling loan madness, though that same Com-
monwealth, by its rigidly honest policy of paying
for new post-offices, telegraphs, telephones.
Federal office buildings, etc., out of revenue, is
responsible for the fact that the debt isn’t half-a-
million worse than it is, and that the slump isn’t
vastly worse than it promises to be.
* » * a
Even now Westralia has little to complain of.
No State ever got off the pinnacle of a stupendous
public drunk with less disaster than Westralia
is doing under the careful management of the
Federal Government. The State’s revenue, in
proportion to population, is still far greater than
that of any other State in the Commonwealth or
in the whole world. In the gross it is a good half-
million more than it ever was under the old
Separatist policy. It is only £228,884 below the
biggest figure that even Westralia ever attained
when (under Federation) it climbed the highest
pinnacle of its glory ; and unless Westralia is such
an extra-special place that it must not suffer any
of the fluctuations to which all other countries are
subject, and must go out and kill somebody, or
break something, when it meets with the common
lot of humanity, it has little to complain of. The
revenue is a fair test of a country’s general pros-
perity, and on that test Westralia is still pros-
perous far beyond the average. In short, the
secession movement in Westralia is the up-
heaval of a small crowd of spoiled infants,
deranged by a dozen years of incredible good
fortune, firmly convinced that they created
the gold and made all the good luck for
themselves, and quite assured that when their
luck has so far diminished that they are only
about 50 per cent, better off than anybody else
they have a right to go out and wreck Australia,
or the Empire, or God, or things in general. So
vast is the conceit of the old ’Groper secessionist,
that he doesn’t even take account of the possi-
bility that his own wonderful Newton Moore
may be partly responsible if things are not all
they were, and that it might be worth while to
try what a decently intelligent State Premier
could do to put matters right before starting
insurrection and civil war. Newton Moore is a
product of ’Groperland, and therefore beyond
criticism just now when it is the custom of Secesh
to charge even the seasons and the poison plant
and the failing gold yield to " Federal mismanage-
ment.” But if secession were possible, it would
be followed by a very cold and dispiriting time
for the Newton Moores and other small fry.
For when seceded Westralia slumped down into
Sheol these people would have to carry the
responsibility, there being no longer any Federal
authority which they could charge with the
results of their own incapacity. And having
assured the people that all would be well,
if they—the wonderful Newton Moore push—
were put in sole charge, the position would be as
bad as that of the other impostor, Rua, the Maori
prophet, who promised his followers that Jesus
Christ and Edward VII. would meet him in
Gisborne at a given date, and had a lot of explain-
ing to do when Jesus Christ and Edward VII.
didn’t turn up.
* * * «
Ten years hence, when Westralia is able to look
back on its notable drunk from such a distance
that it can get the drunk fairly into focus, it will
probably get a fair and just view of things.
Westralia is a huge State with a small population,
and in such a case the cost per head of adminis-
tration is heavy. But Westralia, after all, is
hardly larger than the territory that South Aus-
tralia has to administer, and not so much larger
than Queensland, and the only visible reason why
it should have cost £l4 ss. id. per head in 1906
to administer the State Government of Westralia,
while S. A. paid its way on £7 18s. Id. per head,
is that the Westralian rulers are incompetent
beyond all description. In 1860 Westralia—
which was as large then as it is now, and having a
smaller population than it has now, should have
cost even more per head to administer—was run on
an outlay of £5 4s. lid. per inhabitant, which was
less than the charge in Queensland or Victoria.
In 1870 its outlay was £4 ss. per inhabitant,
which was less than the cost of government in
N.S.W., Victoria, or Queensland. In 1880 its
bill was £6 13s. 9d. per inhabitant, which was less
than the figure in N.S. W., Queensland, or S.A.
In 1890 Westralia had rushed up its expenditure
to £8 15s. per head, but that was still below the
figure for N.S.W. or Queensland. In 1900
Westralia had struck its boom ; it had reorgan-
ised everything on a champagne basis; it had got
the minimum of efficiency and the maximum
of expense and muddle; and it was spend-
ing £l6 18s. 9d. per inhabitant—more than twice
the figure in N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., or Tas-
mania, and nearly twice the figure in Queensland,
though Queensland was also pretty wild and in-
capable those times. Yet 1900 wasn’t Westralia’s
maddest year; in 1896 the outgoings were
£2O 3s. lid. per head, which was about times
as much as the record of any other State on"earth.
And in the same year the Western State spent
over £l6 per head of loan money, making its total
expenditure per inhabitant four times that of
the next most reckless community on the
globe. The secesh movement in Westralia is
a blind revolt against the fact that these incredible
conditions can’t continue for all time. It is the
cry of Job’s wife, whosaid, “Curse God and die!”
Yet there is nothing seriously wrong with
Westralia to-day that it should do the Job’s wife
act, save that its rulers are, judged by results, the
poorest lot in the British Empire. In 1900, under
the old Separatist system, the expenditure was
£l6 18s. 9d. per head, or about £l4 18s. 2d. if we
deduct the amounts spent on services that are now
a charge upon the Commonwealth. In 1906 the ex-
penditure was £l4 ss. Id. per head, so the
State is still having a riotous time. The
only reason why the Westralian secesh party
of 1906 wanted, like Job’s wife, to curse God and
die—the only reason why it declared wildly that
Westralia was ruined by Federation—was that
Westralia, under its remarkable Newton Mooke,
had a huge deficit on a revenue of £l3 19s. 4d.
per head, while S. Australia could administer
a territory of almost the same size out of a
revenue of about £7 12s. per head. Certainly
wages are higher in Westralia than elsewhere,
yet that fact doesn’t account for the situation.
The Australian Government managed in 1906
to run the Federal services in Westralia for
325. 7d. per head, while the Federal services in
Queensland cost 265. 2d. per head; in other
words, the Australian Government, controlled
by Deakin and Lyne, found Westralia, be-
cause of its special conditions, 24g per cent,
more expensive to govern than Queens-
land. But in the matter of State expen-
diture Premier Newton Mooke finished the
year in Westralia with a bill of £l4 ss. Id. per
inhabitant, while William Kidston governed
Queensland much more capably and intelligently
for £7 Is. Id. per inhabitant. If Westralia replies
(as it generally does) “But look at our sinking
fund,” then it must be firmly pointed out to
Westralia that its sinking fund is a grossly
exaggerated excuse, because even if the sinking
fund payments were deducted from the expendi-
ture it would only reduce the latter to £l3 4s. per
head, as against Kidston’s £7 Is. Id. ; and, more-
over, Kidston paid for many things out of
revenue which the shiftless, incompetent ’Groper
Government charged up to loans. Therefore,
in this comparison, the sinking fund may
be disregarded. In other words, while the
honest, intelligent and economical Federal
Government found that Westralia cost 24| per
cent, more per head than Queensland for Federal
administration, Westralia’s last possible fool in
the way of a State authority managed to make
State Government in Westralia 102 per cent,
more expensive per inhabitant than is State
Government in Queensland. This includes in
each case the cost of running State railways, but
in proportion to population one State had almost
exactly as many miles of State railways as the
other, and the gauge is the same, and the
Westralian State railways being laid in flat
country are much cheaper to run, and were
very much cheaper to build, and cost less for
interest. Therefore Westralia, but for the fact
that it has Newton Moore instead of William
Kidston as State Premier, has the advantage.
The’Groper secesh movement is the revolt of # the
extravagant State incapables who run their share
of Westralia’s affairs at a cost per head which is
102 per cent, greater than that in Queensland,
against the wise and capable Federal Ministers
who run their section of Westralia’s business at a
cost only 24| per cent, per head greater than the
cost in Queensland. In other words, it is Inca-
pacity rising in revolt against Ability, and Wild
Extravagance throwing clods at Economy on a
charge of Prodigality. On the figures it isn’t
secession that Westralia needs, but the entire
abolition of the State authority and the manage-
ment of all its affairs by the Australian Govern-
ment till these affairs are put straight.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “S. M. Herald’s” Anti-Australian
Slander.
The foreign importers’ press—the press which is
always Anti-Australian, and always a bitter enemy
to Australian industry, and which habitually
circulates falsehoods and slanders against the
country that feeds it —has been the author of
many inventions, and it still keeps on inventing.
For instance, last week (20/9/’O7), the S. M.
Herald discovered a new bogey (some samples
appended), under the heading “ The Sydney
Exhibition ” :
It. will be remembered that when Alderman Allen
Taylor was Lord Mayor a proposal was made for holding
an international exhibition in Sydney. . . Many shrewd
business men thought the move hardly warranted under
the circumstances, though others thought differently.
The State Government, vie now learn, saw its way to
support the project. Communications were issued to
various bodies likely to want space, and an effort was
made to discover how far success would be within the
grasp of those who would have to carry an exhibition
through. As a paragraph in our financial columns now
indicates, a cruel frost has nipped the budding enter-
prise. Mr. William Lyne has again proved himself master
of the situation by antagonising English and Continental
manufacturers who would otherwise have looked this
way to push their wares by taking space. We are
given to understand that in consequence of a
cable received from Mr. Cogiilan, the State’s Agent-
General in London, the communications issued by the
State Government have been withdrawn. No support
for an Australian International Exhibition is likely to be
forthcoming in view of the tariff which the Federal
Government has imposed. . . . Once again we realise that
the J ederal Government has given us a bad name, and
that the world outside is quite prepared to hang us.
Before, it was through stupid administration and unwise
legislation, when the six hatters were prevented from
landing, and shipwrecked sailors were treated as pirates ,
or worse. ... The tariff is advertising us as outside the
pale of nationhood. What merchants and manufacturers
are saying to-day, the people of Europe will say to-
morrow.
This yarn, it will be observed, is based on an
alleged cable from Agent-General Coghlan, of
N.S.W. Three days later it was stated in the
same Herald that there had been no such
cable, but even then the Herald didn’t
apologise for its haste to malign the
land that is cursed with its presence. It may
be truly said that Australia seems to be unfor-
tunate above all other nations in its Freetrade
press. Consider the materials out of which this
virulent slander is built. Probably not one per-
son in 1000 remembered that anybody thought of
holding an exhibition in Sydney. The proposal
was so obscure and shadowy, or else so hopeless,
and had so little backing behind it, that even the
S. M. Herald, it seems, didn’t know; it says
“ the State Government, we now learn, saw its
way to support the project.” Either, it would
seem, there was never any real project at all, or
else it was such an unpromising one that it
wasn’t worth the while of the State Government
to inform its faithful Herald about it. According
to the Herald, it would appear now—on the
strength of a cablegram which seems to
have never existed —that some persons (names
not given) are not going to exhibit at
the alleged proposed exhibition that hardly
anybody ever heard of, and the Herald regards
this as evidence that “ the tariff is advertising us
as outside the pale of nationhood.” To that it is
only necessary to remark that both our tariff and
our immigration laws are milder than those of the
United States, and if the Protectionist policy of
that good Australian, William Lyne, puts us
outside the pale of nationhood, then we have
Uncle Sam’s company on the national exterior.
But when some S. M. Herald representative is
humble and polite, not to say abject, to Uncle Sam
at a 4th of July celebration, he never tells the
eloquent U.S. Consul that the United Status are
“outside the pale of nationhood.” The Anti-
Australian press reserves these gross insults
entirely for its own country. As for the “six
hatters,” who were “prevented from landing,”
the Herald is perfectly well aware that they
weren’t prevented, and that they did land
and all voted against G. Reid at a subse-
quent Federal election. Also as regards the
“shipwrecked sailors,” whom it accuses Aus-
tralia of having “treated as pirates or
xvorse” —well, the usual treatment of pirates is
hanging, and Australia didn’t hang any ship-
wrecked sailors; about the worst it did to them
was to send them home to their own country,
which was very much the same treatment -as
Britain or the U.S. or Canada or a dozen other
countries would have served out, and was the
treatment dictated, not by the Australian, but by
the British shipping law. The Herald’s tale can
only be described as a gratuitous and malignant
slander and lie. It is the sort of slander that
it would probably hesitate to throw at any
foreign country; but the importers’ press here-
abouts seems to travel on the theory that
no falsehood and no slander can be too
bad, and no lump of dirt can be too big
and muddy to throw at Australia. The time
has just about arrived when it will be necessary
to pass an Act somewhat resembling a law
recently reported as existing on the Canadian
statute book (the Herald is a whale for urging
us to follow the example of Canada), by which
any individual, even if he is the editor or pro-
prietor of an influential Foreign-trade paper, who
slanders his country, can be called upon to prove
his statements, and if he fails to do so can be
heavily fined or sent to gaol. It is an outrage on
logic and decency that while the Herald dare not
speak lightly without cause of the character of
one individual Australian, it can with complete
impunity circulate the meanest and most de-
graded falsehoods to discredit the Government
which represents 4,000,000 Australians.
•
The Federation and the States.
One of the minor troubles of the Federation is
the demand of the State Railway Departments
for huge increases in the rates for the carriage of
Federal mails. It is a part of the State frights
policy ; another pretext on which to found a
charge of Federal extravagance, and to heap up
State surpluses at the expense of the only Govern-
ment that there has ever been in Australia with
an absolutely clean financial record. The Railway
Commissioners of the various States are united—
probably ordered in each case by their respective
Governments—in the policy of attempting to over-
charge the Federation ; but there are degrees in
their exactions. Naturally N. S. Wales has a
bad prominence in the matter, though on a per-
centage basis S. Australia is the worst offender.
Both as regards the gross increase demanded and
the percentage of increase demanded, Tasmania
the most reasonable. This table will show the
position:—
Sums now Paid Sums that
to State would be
Railways for Paid if Rates
Carriage of now demanded
Federal Mails, were conceded.
New South Wales .. £78,660 £121,793
Victoria 54,344 79,896
Queensland .. .. 46,000 76,851
South Australia .. 17,907 41,005
Western Australia .. 18,014 28,409
Tasmania .. .. 10,621 11,225
£225,546 £359,179
The difference is £133,633, representing an in-
crease of over 50 per cent. It was in May, 1904,
that the various Railway Commissioners suddenly
found that the rates for postal services were
inadequate. Yet the present rates, according to
the Postal Department estimates, average
£22 3s. sd. per ton of mail matter. (This mail
matter is mostly made up of newspapers.) As to
this rate, some comparisons are possible. The
rate in Victoria for the carriage of newspapers,
not posted but sent as railway parcels, is £1 a
ton. In New South Wales before Federation it
was nothing per ton. The maximum charge for a
railway parcel in New South Wales (on the
greatest possible distance) is £l3 per ton; in
Victoria, £ll Is. a ton. On the face of things, if
any change is necessary it should be in the
direction of reducing the charges on mail matter,
which seem, roughly, to be at least twice the
charges on other matter. The various Railway
Commissioners question the accuracy of some of the
Postal Department’s figures, but that they were
not very sure of their ground is sufficiently well
indicated by the fact that, when the Postmaster-
General (19/7/’O7) gave notice—as he was em-


powered to do by the Post and Telegraph Act—
of the termination of all existing agreements with
a view to the settlement of rates by an indepen-
dent arbitration, the Railway Commissioners
climbed down and asked for another conference.
An independent inquiry seemed to be the last
thing the State Frights folk wanted. On 7th
August this year, in response to the Com-
missioners’ request, the Postmaster-General
agreed to a withdrawal of the arbitration notice,
and a conference of postal and railway experts
will be held to thresh the matter out. For
the present the outstanding facts are (1) that
the Railway Commissioners want to increase the
charges for mail-carrying 50 per cent.; (2) that the
railway charges for mails are already so high that
in many cases it pays the Postal Department
better to forward by coach ; (3) that the mail rail-
way rates in Australia are much higher than in
Maoriland ; and (4) that they seem much higher
than the rates for the carriage of any other form of
traffic in Australia. Add to this the serious alarm
of the various Railway Commissioners when it
was proposed to refer the matter to arbitration,
and there is not a shadow of a reason to doubt
that the demand for an increase was an attempt
on the part of the States to “get at” the Common-
wealth.
♦
“ A Record Cargo of Coke ”; also How Pro-
tection Raises Prices.
Somehow the really important items affecting
the tariff discussion never get under that heading.
Here is another case ; the papers this time report
what they describe as the “ record shipment of
coke ” :
The barque Lord Templeton, the largest vessel of her
class to visit Australia, is now ready for sea at Sydney
with a record cargo of coke for San Francisco. Messrs.
Bowden Brothers have loaded the vessel with 2840 tons of
coke. There seems to be a great demand for this com-
modity on the Pacific Coast now, as the firm named has
already despatched several shipments.
In 1891 N. S. Wales imported 76,542 tons of coke,
of the declared value of £373,167, or £4 17s. 6d.
per ton. There was no duty at that time.
Then the Dibbs tariff arrived. It put 10 per
cent, on coke, and there was an outcry just as
there is to-day. All the lunatics of the stupid
old Sydney Foreign-trade crowd screeched in two
notes; one that N. S. Wales couldn’t produce
coke; the other that coke was the raw material
of the Australian manufacturer, and that it was
madness to put a duty on it. In support of the
yarn that IST. S. Wales couldn’t produce coke,
reports were got from the (imported) managers of
the big smelting cos. ; they had tried Australian
coke, and it was dirty and altogether disreput-
able. But George Dibbs had a foot as big as
William Lyne’s, and he stood firm, and the duty
went on. In 1892 the total coke output of N. S.
Wales was 7899 tons. Bast year it was 186,060
tons. Thus it has increased 24-fold in 15 years.
In 1891, as shown above, the declared value of the
76,542 tons of imported coke was £4l7s. 6d. per ton.
Last year the declared value of the 186,060 tons of
N. S. Wales coke was 11s. lid. per ton. The
imports of foreign coke, which had been 76,542
tons in the year before the Dibbs tariff arrived,
were last year only 6104 tons for all Australia ;
and, instead of the Australian manufacturer
having to pay £4 17s. 6d. per ton for it, the de-
clared value of this little lot was £1 6s. 4d. per
ton. The Dibbs tariff and the establishment of
the coke business has, therefore, done two things
in particular. First, it has provided the Aus-
tralian manufacturer with coke for, at the most,
one-third of the old Foreign-trade price. That
means, as to one industry alone, that it has
allowed hundreds of thousands of tons of pre-
viously unprofitable ore to be smelted at a profit,
and that in its turn has meant hundreds of
thousands of pounds of wages available for Austra-
lian workmen, and something left over for Austra-
lian capitalists. Now the Australian, having got
his own coke industry so perfected that he can
supply himself at a cost of shillings where, under
Foreign-trade, he had to pay the foreigner pounds,
is able to look round the world and find customers
who, for one reason and another, still have to pay
pounds. So Australia can now play the part on
the foreigner’s stage that the foreigner once
played on the Australian stage. Yet it is only
15 years ago that N. S. Wales was filled with the
same weird wails that it hears about other things
to-day—one wail imploring the Government not
to tax imported “raw materials ” and thus crush
the local producer ; the other declaring that N. S.
Wales is a poor place that can never hope to rise
much above minding sheep and cutting wood.
«
The Civil Service Bureaucracy.
The Bulletin has always pleaded for a well-paid
Public Service, independent of any political in-
fluence conducing to favoritism. It has repeatedly
protested against the folly which assigns as the
salary of the public servant administering
a great department half the sum drawn
by a big bank manager or mine manager, and
expects the best of work in return. Neverthe-
less, when it was necessary to point out that in
Federal matters the principle of independence
of political control had been stretched so far as to
establish a bureaucracy independent of Govern-
ment and Parliament, and detrimental to the
interests of Australia, there was some talk of
“ hostility to the Public Service.” Now, with the
silly, pseudo-radical outcry against the public
servant as a “parasite” and a “blood-sucker,”
and a haughty loafer on the people’s purse,
The Bulletin hasn’t an atom of sympathy.
Nevertheless the public servant is for the public,
not the public for its servants. And in the
Federal Administration this seems in danger of
being forgotten. Parliament, in its eagerness to
keep the intrusive paw of the politician out of
Public Service matters, went to the other extreme
ana set up a bureaucracy. The chiefs of the Civil
Service wield an independent power free from
Ministerial and Parliamentary control, which is
proving vicious to the public interest. A proof of
this, which would be laughable if it were not so
serious a matter to Australia, is to be found in the
findings of a recent Public Service Board of
Inquiry. The Board held, amongst other things:
1. That receiving £2 25., and giving a receipt for 10s.,
and not paying the rest back to the man who paid it or
to the Department, but retaining it himself, was not im-
proper conduct, because he was careless or forgetful.
2. That engaging his own son in a fictitious name for
temporary work, and getting another officer to witness
the signature of his son in the fictitious name to the
receipt on the voucher, was neither improper nor dis-
graceful conduct, because he did it through a false sense
of pride.
3. That to receive a sovereign for a private box, and to
neither issue a receipt nor account for the money, was
not improper conduct, because he forgot about it.
4. That to receive £2, issue a receipt for £2, and enter
on the butt of the receipt that only £1 had been
received, and to account to the Department for only £l,
was not improper conduct, because he intended to refund
the difference.
In this fashion one public servant looks after
another? and the service of the public goes to the
Devil. As soon as the tariff is disposed of. Par-
liament should set to work to amend the Public
Service Act, and bring the Federal Service under
some effective control.
Concerning Leather.
The prevailing Australian characteristic of hard-
ness that has made our timbers valuable and our
diamonds unworkable, extends also to our leather,
with the result that the class of material from
which soles are made is a big item in the Australian
leather exports. On account of its wearing capa-
bilities, it is eagerly sought by both German and
British manufacturers. Yet, in spite of this fact,
many Australians, in their pathetic prejudice
against their own goods, inquire anxiously if the
boots are made of American leather, and the
country still imports not only high-grade upper
leathers, but also leathers for soles. But, if the
present tariff is maintained, this silly business
will be killed, and all the sole leather used in the
continent will be home-made. That is, provided
a small loophole which Oom Bill Lyne has left in
his tariff-wall is carefully blocked. For some
obscure reason “pump butts” were left on the
free list as long as they came in the shape
of hides weighing not less than 481 b. These
“butts” can be and are made here, but as
they are m#de of a special hide which at present
is grown only in France, Germany and Italy,
the raw material must for the present be im-
ported. Unless steps are taken to prevent it,
sole leather will be imported in 481 b. hides as
“ pump butts,” and afterwards cut up for boot-
making purposes. And that would be a pity,
for Australian leather wants all the assist-
ance it can get. It has a long row to
hoe, for the silly prejudice against it is not con-
fined to the uninformed public. Even the State
Government departments are badly afflicted with
it. Only a couple of weeks ago the Queensland
Railway Department called for tenders for the
supply of belting, and stipulated that it should
be of English make. The Sydney firm of Luno-
wici and Son makes an Australian belting which
is equal to anything imported, but the Queensland
Railway Department is firm in its un-Aus-
tralian prejudice. Even the N. S. W. Public Works
Department is afflicted with the same trouble, and
its tender forms intimate that .10 per cent, ad-
vance will be allowed on English and American
leather. There is no stipulation that the English
and American leather must be better than the
Australian article to justify the Department in
Eaying 10 per cent, more for it; it must simply
ave the blessed advantage of being foreign
goods. This little weakness once made the
N.S.W. Railway Department look a considerable
ass. This same _ Ludowici firm some years ago
had secured a railway contract for belting. Some
was to be English or Yankee, and some was to be
“Colonial”—the. N.S.W. Railway Department
would sooner die than call the stuff “ Aus-
tralian.” When the first delivery was made
at Eveleigh, the career mixed the lots up, and the
Railways officer objected that what should have
been foreign was “ Colonial.” He also refused to
take delivery. The firm replied that the order
had been filled as per contract, but the Depart-
ment was obdurate. So to show there was no de-
ception, the head of the firm took a railway officer
with him to an importer’s warehouse, and bought
the blessed English and Yankee leather in the offi-
cer’s presence. The carter who took out this second
lot found the first and rejected lot where he had
left it, and, carter-like, dumped the second consign-
ment on top of it, mixing the two heaps beauti-
fully. Later on came a telephone message
to Ludowici, asking him to come along and
pick out the foreign and the “ Colonial.”
Ludowici replied that he wouldn’t; as they knew
so much about it the officials might pick out what
they wanted and send the rest back. This was
done, and Ludowici went down to the cart to find
out that the smart men on the Railways had care-
fully retained the belting of his own manufacture
and sent back most of the imported English and
Yankee stuff as “inferior Colonial make.”
It couldn’t even sort it out for rejection by
the smell, so it apparently tossed up. Yet the
weary old lie that all Australian-made leather has
an offensive odor lingers longest of all. It is
wholly a matter of price. Some of the imported
leather smells as badly as ever did any Australian.
If the Australian tanner had always got a decent
price he would probably never have turned out a
malodorous article. At the present time he
is making high-grade leathers, such as glace
kids (both black and tan), box calf, calf
kid, and glace wallaby. But the tanners com-
plain that the local manufacturer will never give
anything like the price for the local article that
he will for the imported leather of equal appear-
ance and often less durability. To make Aus-
tralia a great leather-producing country as it
ought to be, it is necessary to have High Protec-
tion, so that local competition may be encouraged,
and the tanners driven by that rivalry to improve
their methods and products. A low tariff makes
for stagnation and the creation of monopolies,
because men will not invest capital in enterprises
which are liable at any moment to be turned to
dead loss when some foreign “kartel” resorts
to dumping.
Australian Laws for Australian Ships.
By The Bulletin’s marine authority :
The Navigation Bill now before the Australian
Parliament is a fine statesmanlike measure of which
any Government might be proud. By making the
seafarer’s life less of a dog’s existence and more
of a man’s job, with a man’s pay and a man’s
treatment, it will do an immense deal to popu-
larise and improve the mercantile marine, and thus help
to build up that hardy maritime race which insular and
isolated Australia must have if it is to work out its own
destiny in future. To begin with, there is to be a mercan-
tile marine office in every port, with a Superintendent
who is to attend to the local administration of the Act.
Crimping is trodden on with an iron hoof. Only a
Superintendent or a bona-fide servant of the owner shall
engage men for service on shipboard, and no seaman
otherwise engaged must be accepted by the master. Any
contravention of these provisions entails a fine of £5O or
three months’ gaol. The receiving of or seeking for fees
from sailors in search of berths is an offence with a fine of
£25. Ships must carry crews as provided on a set scale.
Pull and adequate protection is given the seaman in
regard to his wages. The case of the ship Melville Island
cannot occur again if this Bill passes. The ship’s master
is no longer cock of the walk. He must bow down
before the Superintendent.
Similarly, in regard to provisions, the men are amply
protected. Complaint to a Superintendent by three of
the crew will lead to instant inquiry and examina-
tion, and perhaps to a penalty of £2O. The penalty
for non-compliance with the provision scale is £lOO.
Seamen, who for any reason are given provisions of
bad quality or on a reduced scale, have to be
compensated up to 2s. a day. All ships over 500 tons
gross must carry a certificated cook. Seamen are to be
examined by a medical inspector when thought necessary,
while all vessels must carry at least one person qualified
in first-aid work. Any master, seaman, or apprentice
who sustains injury in the service of the ship must be
provided, at the shipowner’s expense, with advice,
attendance, medicine, etc., till cured. If a sailor is left
behind on shore from illness, the master must, if the ship
is registered out of Australia, leave a deposit of £5O with
the Superintendent, and the full amount of wages due to
the seaman. If the vessel is Australian registered, the
master must leave the full amount of wages due, and the
amount of the seaman’s wages to the end of the engagement
not exceeding three months. Clothing, blankets and
tobacco must be carried in foreign-going ships, and sold
to the crew at not more than 10 per cent, advance on
wholesale cost price at the port of shipment. Quarters
must be ventilated and of a specific cubic capacity. A
mess-room must be provided on deck for the crew. Men
may demand permission to -go ashore to complain to the
Superintendent or to a justice. When a sailor dies his
effects must be handed over intact by the master of the
ship.
Officers must be British subjects and speak English
fluently, while all seamen must have an adequate know-
ledge of English.
Unseaworthiness is another subject dealt with in the
Bill. No ship is “to be deemed seaworthy unless she is
in a fit state as to condition of hull and equipment,
boilers and machinery, stowage of ballast or cargo, num-
ber and qualifications of officers, and in every other
respect to encounter the perils of the voyage then entered
upon.” There are heavy penalties for sending out unsea-
worthy ships. The Minister may order any suspected
ship to be detained and surveyed. All ships over 15 tons
gross must be marked clearly with deck and load lines.
Of course the most important part of the Bill in one
sense is that relating to the coasting trade. Ships which
take on board at any port in Australia passengers or cargo
intended for any other port in Australia are deemed to
be engaged in the coasting trade, though through
passengers from outside and through cargo do not bring
them under the definition. A further important exemp-
tion is one which allows mail steamers to engage in the
coasting trade between a Westralian port and any other
Australian port “until the railways of the State of
Western Australia are connected with the railways of the
State of South Australia.” Otherwise no foreign ship
shall engage in the coasting trade unless licensed, under
a penalty of £5OO. Before licenses are issued wages in
accordance with current Australian rates must be paid,
the officers must be British subjects, and the crew must
understand English. Wages are to be decided by an
award of the Arbitration Court. When a licensed ship
proposes to leave Australia, its clearance will not be
granted until the Collector of Customs is satisfied that
the Australian rates of wages have been paid to the crew
for the time the ship was engaged on the coast.
Wrecks, salvage, pilots and pilotage are all dealt with
exhaustively. Provision is made for courts of marine
inquiry to be assisted by two assessors. The Australian
flag is prescribed for all ships registered in Australia.
It is the red ensign “ defaced ” with a six-pointed star
and a Southern Cross. The Gov.-General is given power
to exempt from the operations of the Act the ships of
c untries which have treaties with the Commonwealth
with which the Act would be inconsistent. A wide dis-
cretionary power of exemption is given the Minister, but
it is checked by the requirement that he shall, once a
year, report to Parliament the cases in which he has
granted exemptions.
The Agricultural Sweater in Queensland.
The Queensland Wages Board Bill—which is
making fair progress, though there is still time
for the House of Aged and Useless Nominees to
block it—has many commendable features, and
one in particular that ranks as extra-commend-
able. Ever since industrial legislation began, the
man on the land has carefully explained that he
is an extra and special and quite unusual sort of
person, and that his industries must be exempt
from all ordinary laws and rules, and that he
must be allowed to work his employees any
number of hours for anything infinitesimal in the
way of wages, and to make his children do the
work of grown men and women at no wage at all.
He has always explained—or it has been explained
on his behalf by interested parties—that unless he
is allowed to do sweating and robbery, in addition
to getting his goods carried by rail at a fraction
of the real cost of carriage, and having steamers
subsidised to carry his butter, and getting
all manner of road and bridge grants, and
other aids and bonuses, his industry will
perish off the top of the earth like tho
mammoth. And at the same time he has
been described as the fine, independent back-
bone of the country. His demand for per-
mission to sweat his employees has been
enthusiastically endorsed by the landlord (who
puts up rents and shoves up land prices so as to
artfully absorb the profits the blinded cocky makes
out of his sweating), and by the produce agent,
and the butter agent, and all the other parasites
who live on the cocky; they have all risen to
declare that the agricultural industry can only
live by sweating, and that it must sweat to live.
Now Premier Kidston’s Wages Board Bill rises
in sudden insurrection against this diseased old
fetich. It is just a plain comprehensive Bill
under which the employees in practically any
trade or job or business may, by certain
processes, get a Wages Board established for
their industry. When the Tory section of the
House saw it there was a gasp of horror, and
Digby Denham, the produce rat and hay and
chaff turncoat—
moved the inclusion of a new clause to provide that the
Act should not apply to butter factories, cheese factories,
condensed milk factories or to any person engaged in any
agricultural, horticultural or pastoral industry. He
pointed out—
(What a good old phrase is that “ pointed out” !)
that the persons engaged in these industries had no
desire to overwork their employees or to cut down
wages—
(ln fact, they only require a pair of wings and a
halo apiece to be angels)—
but unless the industries were exempt it would be im-
possible to carry out the necessary work.
And this assurance by the hay and corn back-
slider, that agricultural, pastoral and horticultural
industries, and butter, cheese and milk factories
are diseased undertakings which live by sweating
and which will die if they are made liable to pay a
living wage the same as any city manufacturer,
moved the Assembly so little that Digby Denham’s
amendment was thrown out by 34 votes to 22,
That vote marked the revolt against the super-
stition that sweating and agriculture are naturally
synonymous terms. Also it sized up Digby
Denham’s present chances of a portfolio. Digby,
the wheat Judas and spud apostate of politics,
left Kidston before last election, when many
people were persuaded that the Ministry was
tottering to its fall, and fled across the House to
be ready for a portfolio in the new Philp Govern-
ment. And the chances against that Government
coming to pass are at present 34 to 22.
♦
The Knock-out Machine.
Last week a Bulletin man saw the first cash
register made in Australia under the 1907 tariff,
and it was good. It was built entirely of gun-
metal, even to the keys, which in the majority of
the imported machines are made of castings, and
it looked like most other things of Australian
origin, hard and durable. The industry has
started in a small way, with the hope of drawing
the attention of the Commonwealth Parliament
to the fact that these machines can be made here,
and made at a lower price and of better material
than the imported article. At the first glance,
that fact would seem to argue that Protection
is unnecessary, but it is not so. Years agone
an Australian firm made cash registers, and*
after a spell of prosperity, it went down.
The American is in all things thorough.
His argument is simplicity itself, and as
straightforward as can possibly be desired : “I
will fight you to the uttermost limit allowed by
the law! ” So, when the Australian started to
make his own cash register, the Yankee took off
his gloves and waded in. He brought along what
was known as the “ Knock-Out Machine,” which
was specially built to smash up the local opposi-
tion. It was not his high-grade machine, which
is one of the best in the world, but a beautiful
shoddy imitation, specially built to undersell the
local product. It might not last, but then it
takes a year or two to find out that a cash regis-
ter is shoddy, and the Australian industry
was dead by that time. The American
people who deal in these machines form one of
the wealthiest combinations in the world; their
business methods have been written up with
admiration in a hundred magazines ; and they are
in the position to, if they wish, sell thousands of
their machines below cost to break a rival. So
long as the law allows them to do so, they are
within their rights. But all the same,
it is not to Australia’s interest to buy
its machines from America, and patriotism,
self-interest, common sense, all demand that
our struggling manufacturers should be protected
from assaults by knock-out machines. The duty
under the old tariff of 1902 was 20 per cent.,
and the new tariff gives no additional Protection.
Yet the 20 per cent, was clearly insufficient; for,
although it might enable the local machine to make
a fight against the Yankee high-grade instrument,
it is worthless against the knock-out machine.
Unless steps are taken to block the knock-
out machine, the chances are that the Sydney in-
dustry will be killed by it. The remedy is a
specific duty of about £lO per machine in addition
to the ad valorem impost. At present a small
plant has been laid down, and five hands are em-
ployed ; but if a really Protective duty is put on,
the factory will be enlarged, the plant increased,
and several hundred men employed. It may be a
small industry, but it is the multitude of small
things that make up a nation. With only a
little over 4,000,000 people Australia can have no
really big industries; but if the number of
small industries, in which men may invest
capital profitably, are increased, it will
make a demand for labor of a skilled order
that will send the population soaring up, and
thereby make it possible to have big industries.
During 1906 there were imported into Australia
cash registers, computing machines and attach-
ments, valued at the port of shipment at £15,118.
This meant, roughly, about £46,000 by the time
they reached the Australian public, and Aus-
tralia would be all the better off for having
£46,000 kept in the country.
A Tale of Ships.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The local conditions of Australia make the creation of
a navy not only wise, but indispensable. If ever the
conquest of the continent is attempted there is but
little doubt that the invader will suddenly seize a first-
class base in the empty and at present defenceless North.
There he will fortify himself, and, if liis ships can keep
the sea, will pour in supplies of men and material, and
then, establishing: a fighting population, settle down to
slowly absorb the continent.— The Lone Hand (l/6/’O7).
Wake ! O slothful People, wake !
There’s a continent at stake—
There’s a land whose gates are open, tho’ the
hordes are trooping forth ;
Hear the distant-beating drum—
Ere the grim invaders come
Ye must build your ships of battle, ye must guard
the empty North !
From your dreams, Australians, rise—
Rub the slumber from your eyes—
Lo, the years grow dark with warning of the
struggles yet to be ;
Lest your freedom pass away,
Get ye ready for the fray,
For the Ape will boss Australia if his Ships can
keep the Sea !
Ye have slumbered, brothers, long—
Up ! Arise like soldiers strong—
Shall the home your fathers gave you pass away
without a blow ?
Lest your shattered cohorts reel,
Launch your fighting ships of steel—
Get ye ready for the morrow—aye, make ready
for the foe !
Work, Australians, with a will—
Hark ! The roaring rolling mill
Lifts its song of toil triumphant—hear its chant
of victory !
Hear your country’s holy call—
To the task, Australians all!
Ye shall hold for aye your freedom if your Ships
can keep the Sea !
Ancient Carthage had her day,
But her glory passed away—
And the Roman galleys smote her all along the
Libyan shore;
Quarries now the temples are,
Where the mighty Hamilcar
Pledged his sword and soul to Carthage in the
blazing days of yore !
Rome herself was tumbled low—
Yea, she reeled beneath the blow,
When the Admiral Vataces held the precious
ocean-key;
And, lest Britain’s strength should fail,
Build ye powerful ships of mail—
Ye may only hold Australia if your Ships can
keep the Sea !
Ye must stand one day alone —
Will ye lift a beggar’s moan—
Will ye cringe and howl for mercy when ye hear
the roaring guns ?
When your shell-scarred cities burn,
Will ye fight, a People stern ?
Then make ready for the struggle; ’ware the
Asian breed of Huns !
They are many, ye are few—
Up ! Lest ye your sloth should rue—
Build a na,vy for Australia; would ye jest with
destiny V
Guard, ye workers, guard your land—
Serve her now, with brain and hand —
Ye shall save your White Australia if your Ships
can keep the Sea !
Wake ! O slothful people, wake !
There’s a nation’s life at stake—
There’s a land whose foes draw nearer—see the
Ape-hordes trooping forth !
Hear the distant-beating drum—
Ere the grim invaders come,
Ye must set your house in order—ye must fill the
empty North !
From your dreams, Australians, rise—
Rub the sloth-scales from you eyes—
Lo, the years are filled with warning of the
struggles yet to be ;
Lest your freedom pass away,
Get ye ready for the fray—
For the Ape will boss Australia if his Ships can
keep the Sea !
vic.
GRANT HERVEY.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show vou how—write for full particulms
to-day—free. We have everything- for the show-
man.' Osborn and Jordan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
Again the Defence Question.
A brief Defence debate in the House of Reps.,
last week, betrayed something like an attitude of
hopelessness on the part of the Minister for
Defence. He spoke as one appalled at the vast-
ness and complexity of the problems before him.
Mr. Ewing, as a man who has had to inherit all
the mistakes of years and all the results of the
tendency in the past to make the Defence port-
folio the least important of all, deserves some
sympathy. He means well, and if hard work
can get him any “forrader” with his task
it will not be wanting. The one-time dilettante of
the House, the man of poetry and rather weary
sneers, is proving in the Defence Department as
much a surprise as was Balfour when first given
Cabinet responsibility as Chief Secretary for Ire-
land. But it is open to grave question whether any
Defence Minister, however able and however in-
dustrious, can effect much good under present
circumstances unless he is also Prime Minister, and
a very resolute Prime Minister at that. There is
such an accumulated body of tradition that
Defence does not matter, that it is the least im-
portant of all Australian problems—less impor-
tant far than the post office, or the small scraps of
domestic routine which are gathered under Home
Affairs ; there is such a feeling of disheartenment
among the officials of the Cinderella Department
(and, it may be added, such a large proportion of
incompetents), that Mr. Ewing may well sigh fora
Bismarck or a Napoleon to settle the whole thing
with a few savage orders. But there isn’t either a
Bismarck or Napoleon applying for a vacancy in
the Australian Public Service just now ; and we
must needs do with the brain stuff that is avail-
able. The ultimate solution to the Defence
problem is, of course, universal compulsory ser-
vice. But even that would be almost useless
with a broken-down Defence Department; and
the Department that cannot adequately cope
with the training of 25,000 soldiers will surely
break down utterly when it comes to dealing with
250,000. For the present, probably, the best thing
a Defence Minister, who is not supreme in the
Cabinet, can do is to seek to reinforce his good
intentions with outside help. A way to do this
would be to give to an independent and strong
Commission the task of inquiring into Defence
matters, from A to Z, and drawing up a reform
scheme. Such a Co'mmission, if it were made up
of the right men, and if it were asked to tackle
the problem with absolutely no preconceived
notions, but with the sole idea of getting the best
possible service for the money available, would be
able not only to suggest radical reforms, but also
to give the Minister the backing to carry them
out. The idea is not very startling or magnifi-
cent ; but its adoption would be useful; and
there is no benefit in folding our arms and waiting
for Napoleon. He is dead.
4.
A Westralian Crisis.
Westralia, in its State capacity, is wrestling
with a miserable little penny brute of a crisis. It
arose in the usual way. Money was short, though
it seems absurd that a State which has almost
twice as much revenue per head as any other
State on earth, should be short of money. The
Government introduced some Railway Bills,
which the Rich Landlords of the Upper House
passed with enthusiasm, because they would
increase the value of property. It also intro-
duced a Land Tax Bill to help pay for the rail-
ways and other things, and the Rich Landlords
of the Upper House threw it out. As the
Newton Moore Ministry has a majority in the
Assembly, its obvious duty was to fight, and the
only way to argue with a property-elected Upper
House like that of Westralia is to stop sup-
plies till the Upper Animal comes to the senses
it doesn’t possess. But there being not much
real fight in the Newton Moore Government, it
offered its resignation, which the Governor
refused to accept. Then it proposed a dissolution,
but the Governor, having some intelligence,
asked what was the use of dissolving the
Chamber which suppor ts the Government, in the
hope of thereby annoying the indissoluble Cham-
ber which opposes the Government. The difficulty
ended by his Excellency closing Parliament with
a bang. Parliament will re-open with another
bang next month, and that being a new session, it
will be possible to again send the Land Tax Bill
to the Council. When the Rich Landlords reject
it again—well, the Newton Moore Ministry will
be no further forward. If it likes to stop supplies
and blockade the Council, it will be able to win
then just as it could now. But the chances are
that it will resign, or dissolve, or cave in, or do
something of that ineffectual sort.
♦
Leadership and Labor.
Dear Bulletin, —You are not wholly just to
James McGowen, M.P., so-called Labor leader
inN.S.W. He has,had great chances.it is true
—moments of opportunity which stuck out of
eternity, right near his hand, and vanished for
ever. Such crucial moments occur to every party
leader. If he misses them, he rarely gets the
chance again. Several times during the Lands
scandals and the Crick debates. McGowen had
chances of attacking the Carruthers crowd with
the whole country behind him. But the caucus
system did not allow him. His leadership would
not be worth a moment’s purchase if he took a
step involving the fate of a Government with-
out a decision of his party arrived at in caucus
beforehand. So the golden moments slipped by
and never returned. Imagine a sudden crisis in
a ship, arising through shoals, reefs, pirates, or
stories, and ah inflexible rule that the captain
must call a caucus of the crew before he
decides what to do. He may know the
right course; everyone else may know it
—the course may be simple and obvious; but
under those circumstances the ship would be lost
before the caucus routine was gone through.
Now, the time has surely arrived when the politi-
cal Labor party should throw off its infantile
swaddling-clothes. Its weak spots are distrust of
its own men and a disinclination to submit to
leadership. It was distrustful even of the leader-
ship of Watson and his Federal colleagues—
though if ever there was a Ministry of
which a party should be proud, that was
thi * one. Indeed, opponents freely admit
that it could submit to comparison with any
Ministerial team from any party in the British
Empire.: In N.S. W. the Labor party is the direct
Opposition. There are no pitfalls. Its, duty is
to displace the Ministry—unless its members have
not the courage of their own principles. To do
this they must be organised like any other, party,
and leadership is essential to good organisation.
With a rank and file more informed and
intelligent than that of their opponents, they
keep to the old ways of their political nonage.
Good leadership would bring them a following in
quarters where they have none now. The caucus
is good up to a certain point—beyond that, leader-
ship commences. If a party won’t be led, then it
loses half its efficiency as a political power, and
the special golden moments vanish before they
can be employed.—Yours, PolChinelle.
The “ Secesh ” movement in Queensland is a very
dismal affair, so far. It has been left to an
obscure, harmless, and aged legislator named
Plunkett, who represents mostly beef and cream,
to move—•
That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that
the Government, during this session, take steps to bring
about the separation of Queensland from the Federal
Union, in order that the State may have control over its
finances, Customs, defence, taxation, and other matters,
as was enjoyed before the union, as otherwise there is
nothing left us but increased, unbearable taxation, and
irisolvencj'.
Stripped of commonplace reminiscences (wherein
the aged Plunkett told of the bad aged days
when Queensland was piling up the biggest debt
per head on earth, while at the same time handling
the biggest revenues per head) Plunkett’s speech
was a simple re-hash of leading articles in
Brisbane Courier, which he wearily read to a
beggarly array of timber. Plunkett didn’t give
a single reason why Queensland should be isolated
from the other States; nor did he even hint as
to what might happen if ever that Big Debt State
again had sole control of its “finances, Customs, de-
fence, taxation, and other matters,” particularly if
Philp should ever again be the controller. Premier
Kidston scoffed at Plunkett’s motion. Philp
whined about State Frights (what bigger fright
did Queensland ever have than Philp !), but said
that if Queensland had suffered it was because the
Philp ticket had been ignored at the State
elections. And Kenna rose once, and Ryott-
MaugGian twice, to point out that there was, to
all intents and . purposes, nobody in the House,
and members had to be dragged in violently to
hear Plunkett, else business would have left off
for the night.
♦
The importer still publicly suffers vicarious agonies.
The Melb. Argus, under the touching heading,
“ Babies’ Boots, ” printed the following pathetic
appeal from Messrs. Kelly and Co., Perth (W. A.),
to Mr: John Forrest :
Dear Sir, —We beg to ask your assistance in the matter
of a shipment of infants’shoes, sizes 0 to 6, made by C.
and J. Clark, England. They arrived here before the
tariff was raised by 100 per cent, on these goods, namely,
July 23 last.. We could not then clear them at the
Customs, as the shipping- documents had not arrived.
What a tremendous rise on English goods—loo per cent.!
We feel sure the House will never agree to this iniquity
perpetrated on the POOR woman, who likes, above all
things, to see her babies ’ look nice. We submitted the
matter to our workmen, for their opinion. They say it
will be time enough to think of raising the duty on
infants’ shoes in 50 years! time, as boys at present will not
serve a time to make these very small goods. Infants’
shoes are made from so many fantastic colors, which we
will never be able to procure here in our lifetime. They
are made from the waste cuttings bought from large fac-
tories and warehouses at Is. per sack. The writer has
seen 45 pairs made from one sackful. It would be im-
possible to procure the same fine quality material, in
black and tan glacd kid only, at less than :485., or Is.
per pair. We regret troubling you, but it is a duty which
we owe to our POOR customers.
The Argus did not point with scorn to the dis-
honesty of charging poor baby 4s. and ss. a piece
for 45 pairs made out of “a sackful” of waste
cuttings at Is. a sack. Of course, it would ruin
any Australian maker to pay Is. per pair for his
raw material and sell at 4s. 6d. a pair. What
profit do importers want ? It is also not men-
tioned that, on reading the letter,, Bigjohn bowed
his head on his arms on the Grand Hotel table,
and sobbed like a child.
-♦
It is understood that Tommy Dick, having lost
all interest in real politics, and chucked them up,
and' got tired, and dropped out, and abandoned
the game, will' be put into the N.S.W. Upper
House for life. The Upper House is the rag-bag,
and the dust-bin, and. the refuge of the scraps and
cast-offs:. Likewise, it is the dormitory of the
has- : beens, where the ancients dose and drowse.
And the country is requested to respect its
Upper House on the ground that it stops hasty
legislation. Yet at least half of it isn’t
swift enough to head off a caterpillar—let alone
hasty legislation. And there are so many time-
wasting forms in the Assembly that there hasn’t
been any really hasty legislation for 30 years—the
only difference is that some legislation is a shade
less gradual than some other legislation. And in
any case, if the Upper House did stop hasty
legislation it would probably sign its death
warrant. When legislation gets a spurt on it, that
means that the country is roused and is in dead
earnest, and will stand no nonsense.
♦
Evidence given before the N.S.W. Forestry Com-
mission has tended to show that the Timber
Combine steadily shoves up the price in the Aus-
tralian market by pushing the export trade hard,
whereby it creates an artificial local scarcity. It
is needless to sav that the men who tear valuable
timber off State lands, and rush it into the bowels
of the great ship that takes it across the great
deep, do nothing in the way of re-afforestation.
They are a purely destructive race. Before they
come there is a forest. A year or two after they
have gone there is a tangle of worthless scrub.
One thing that is going to become obvious in
Australia before very long is the necessity for
wholly prohibiting the export of timber. Popu-
lation is increasing, the local demand is growing,
and the local supply was never very gaudy at the
best, when the size of the country is considered.
“8.K.”: At Queanbeyan (N.S.W.),
Ryrie’s crowd gathered in the Green vote for its
candidate very deftly. A rumor was circulated
with extreme swiftness at the last moment that
G. D. Clark (the Colonel’s Laborite opponent)
was against Irish Home Rule (though what he
could do in the N.S.W. Assembly to either help
or hinder Irish Home Rule the Lord only knows),
and that he just hated the Sinn Fein policy. Also,
that he had been mixed up in the Coningham
case. Forthwith there arose stormy patriotic
memories of the Firbolgs, and the Fir Domnand
who landed at Tracht Rudraide, and the Tuatha
de Danann who fought the battle of Abig Tubed,
and the Cow-tribute of Leinster, and Nial of the
Showers, and Flan of the Shannon, and Con of
the Hundred Battles who was ultimately de-
feated by Alug Nuadat (in consequence of which'
Ireland was divided into Con’s Half and Mug’s
Half), also Nial of the Hostages, and Tordel-
bach O’Brien, and all manner of kings, demi-
gods, heroes, and myths. And because of this
procession of old Irish ghosts, combined with
Parnell and O’Connell, and other Irish ghosts of
later date, the Green community rushed to vote
for the “ Kurnel,” and the “Kurnel” got in.
It is estimated that there are over Eight Alillion
Acres of land in Queensland now covered with Prickly
Pear. This pest is spreading rapidly, and in another five
years the area will very likely be doubled, unless the
people set to work with Tyree Sprayers to cope with the
plague. All kinds of attempts have been made in the
past without success. The Tyree method commands suc-
cess for the following reasons :—l. The Tyree Sprayers
work at 1501 b. pressure. 2. They throw a foglike spray.
3. They use a minimum amount of eheinica's. -I. They
do not injure the ground. 5. The cost of labor is very
small. THE RESULTS ARE CERTAIN. For full in-
formation write TYREE LIMITED, 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Ragged Earl.”
Criterion “ Human Hearts.”
Royal “Her Love Against the World.”
Palace “Miss Lancashire, Limited.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Butt-Rumford Concerts.
Sydney Cricket Ground Besses o’ th’ Barn Band, 25th
to 30th.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Raffles.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Dairy Maids.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Bijou “ Why Woman Sins.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating (last week).
- « ■ —
“ What folks you Irish are for the
blarney !” says Sarah McHugh, the most Irish of
’em all, to Andrew Mack, the Ragged Earl. “Ah,
sure,” he says, “we know what the world wants!”
And there you have Andrew Alack in general, and
as “The Ragged Earl” in particular. Mack is
probably the most amused man in the house. He
must know as well as anybody, and better than
most, what rubbish this hotch-potch is. But the
gallery yells at it, as a gallery at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) rarely yells at any-
thing; and it will draw full houses for just
as long as Andrew Mack’s brief season
lasts. At the Lyceum, in the days when
that was the home of melodrama, it was
common enough for some strong partisan of
virtue to roar a tip to the heroine that the villain
was coming with a knife ; but that doesn’t happen
more than once in five years at Her Majesty’s. It
happened on Saturday night, though, and it put
“ The Ragged Earl ” in its right class. Without
being as gruesome as “ The Face at the Window,”
it is rather more ridiculous, and it isn’t
ridiculous only in patches The thing hadn’t
run 20yds. before the five or six-year-old
youngster who pervades the piece was im-
ploring the hero—A. Alack, of course—not to
mention Dublin, because they were “ so unhappy”
there. Later on. she regrets that her sister had
masqueraded as a man because it was “so
• embarrassing.” But plain burlesque is reached
when, the Bad Young Man having pursued Virtue
to an apparently triumphant end —and having
forced Virtue (she is his half-sister) to consent to
marry the Bad Old Alan—priests, acolytes, and
other ecclesiastical officers, with a train of girls
who apparently belong to the ballet, troop out of
the abbey and prance round and round like circus
horses in front of the porch, singing the Bridal
March from “Lohengrin.” After that anything
might be expected. What really does happen
is that the Bad Old Man isn’t the Bad
Old Man at all, but Andrew Alack disguised
as ancient wickedness ; and, though the Ragged
Earl mentions in a whisper to the lady that the
priest is in the secret, and, if the worst comes to
the worst, is prepared to marry them “under his
breath,” a brief two minutes serve to straighten
out the tangle. Everybody agrees to everything,
and the thing is over, and the priest doesn’t have
to do it under his breath. There are only three
acts. Less considerate people would have made
it four.
ELSIE JONES , THE ADELAIDE
SOPRANO.
Andrew Mack doesn’t struggle very des-
perately to make the Earl seem real. Under the
circumstances, nothing in the shape of a character
study is possible. Nevertheless surely even the
Ragged Earl (who, by the way, is most gorgeously
attired during two-thirds of the proceedings)
wouldn’t act as Mack makes him act towards the
haughty Mrs. Fitzmaurice—digging her in the
ribs, and “clucking” as he digs. But his
“Lullaby” song at the end of the- first scene is
good—a simple thing, yet he has warbled nothing
during this season more charmingly—and when
he masquerades as the Bad Old Man in the last
scene he does it excellently ; it is his most adroit
piece of acting. But over the rest a veil had
better be dropped.
** * *
“Human Hearts” continues in its satis-
factory and moral career at Sydney Criterion.
These hot days there is a pleasant air of damp-
ness about the auditorium after the chee-ild has
declaimed its pathetic little prayers to” the
Conversion of the hobo and the confounding of
villainy.
* * *
Sydney goes to the Royal enthusiastically
these nights to say “ Welcome back” to Harcourt
Beatty, one of the finest actors Australia has
known; and it finds him well-placed with Miss
Madge Mclntosh and Gaston Mervale as support-
ing stars. “ Her Love Against the World.” as a
romantic drama, shows some traces of "The Mid-
night Wedding’s ” extravagance of sentiment, but
it tells a stirring story of “The Prisoner of
Zenda” style, and the excellent illustrations make
up for any minor faults in the book. Finer cos-
tumes and scenery than Meynell and Gunn pre-
sent to the public in this piece haven’t been seen
in Sydney. The management goes ahead of
a big reputation in the Princess Idalia boudoir
scene— which really looks like an educated
woman’s drawing-room, and not the garish dream
of an opulent bookmaker.
At Sydney Palace “ Miss Lancashire,
Limited” is, in common with all living women,
nearing her end. But she is going out in the
presence of large audiences, who laugh consumedly
—and laughter is not a dirge. The writer has
always felt that he would like people to smile a
broad smile at his funeral. There never was a
farce on which the eclectics and superior persons
looked with more contempt and exasperation than
the present Palace show. No woman who hadn’t
a fighting fit and a whole vineyard in her hair
would commit so many outrages against common
or garden manners, and such numerous assaults
and batteries as the Lass from Lancashire. Miss
Baines’s sweet ballad-singing is the redeeming
feature.
** * *
Columnar Clara Butt will let loose the
Voice of the Century in Sydney Town Hall for the
first time on Saturday night. The booking-office
will open at an early hour on Thursday morning,
and to avert the fate which fell on the unbeliever
at the gate of Samaria the day after the siege,
numbered coupons will be issued entitling holders
to book their seats in the proper turn. This does
not mean that the struggle for front seats will be
transferred, as the coupons will meet the rusher
on the threshold, like the Dweller in “Zanoni,”
and all will be. peace. Someone described
Patti’s voice as an endless roll of velvet, but
different people give various accounts of Clara
Butt’s melodious noise. Some have likened it to
Niagara roaring according to the law of Har-
mony ; others describe it as something that
could be seen soaring like Niagara turned upside
down and defying gravitation—something that
ranges in tints from dazzling argent at close
quarters to pale heliotrope in the distance. There
were several other descriptions, but these are
enough to go on with. Writer is going to hear
The Voice, and will tell the truth about it next
issue.
* -» * *
Now the heat wave is here, the highest
idea of bliss is to drift out to Sydney Cricket
Ground, and with a long glass of something cool
and refreshing on one knee, and something fair
and desirable alongside, to sit on the lawn and
listen to the Besses o’ th’ Barn Band making
melody out under the stars. This brief spell
of happiness will cease on Saturday night, and
then the Besses will blow themselves over to
Hobart, and thence away to Perth.
if:- -;k- iK- *
Blanche Arral had a most successful
concert at Newcastle last night, opening a
country tour under the management of Shipman.
They go on from north N.S.W. to Queensland,
and then to Victoria.
** * *
Now the dog star rages and the tempera-
ture climbs to the hundreds, and Wonderland
City by the cool Bondi breezes plans a re-opening
on October 5.
** * *
You can scarcely step down as much as a
line on the Sydney Tivoli programme nowadays
without treading on the name of a newcomer.
The first arrivals, sent along by H. Rickards from
the other side, consisted mostly of people wlm
had either invented good juggling and tumbling
turns of their own, or borrowed other people’s ;
the very last lot consists mostly of people sent out
on the strength of their voices—which is a good deal
like sending coals to Newcastle or suspicions to
Carruthers. Still, Miss Lottie Kay, “ The
Yorkshire soprano,” is worth more than her pas-
sage money; and when she sings Cowen’.s
“Swallows” the audience generally wants more.
Two very small youngsters—home grown, these—
supply a songandance that doesn’t jar on frayed
nerves quite as badly as do most stage-baby per-
formances. And for the rest, the Geraldos, and
the Hebrew couple, and Price and Revost supply
the solid dishes in a bill that is several degrees
better than the average.
* # *
At Melbourne Royal, “ The Bondman ”
still loses his best girl and finds a choleric grand-
father before full houses. The players continue
to be ten times more artistic than in other
dramas, and George Rignold gets into still
better form each night. Poultry-farmers and
those full-whiskered high-priests of the great
goddess Cow who visit the Caine sermon,
are inevitably overcome by the farm-yard scene.
The dry cow that is tentatively fingered by a neat
milkmaid in a flowered gown, and the nimble hens
that strike attitudeson the heroine's lap, persuade
these gentlemen that there are more species -of
these animals than are dreamt of by their favorite
handbooks. Next Saturday “ The Great Rescue,’
the seventh Australian classic in the Blandolt
repertoire, will be staged to a staggered public.
* * #- *
Both the J. C. Williamson shows in Mel-
bourne are on the boom. At the Princess's
“ Raffles” still “ cracks,” and burglars and detec-
tives creep round in eerie green limelight and
frighten each other to the weird hum of the
’cellos. The magnificent Orton steadly hisses her
hate, and Beatrice Irwin—dainty-fair in her
ingenu frocks—continues to melt the blackened
Raffles’ heart with love-lilts that arrive too late
on his gloomy career of crime. Things seem
likely to go on thus for some time.
* -*- *
“The Dairy Maids,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne), rush along with more velocity than
ever. There is no new “ business,"’ and no change
in the songs, and there’s no need for change.
Saturday night showed the “ House Full” placard
hung up very early, like Macbeth’s banner on the
outer wall; those who had not booked seats had
to wander drearily away without hearing their
own Lauri beg vocally to be “ put among the
girls,” nor getting even a glimpse of the girly
curvy leggy show.
*# * *
The Holloway co., at Melbourne Bijou,
will wander through the maze of murders and
maudlin sentiment which constitutes “The Coal
Kiug ” until Saturday next. Meanwhile, the
magnificently wicked Walter Ha-Harford melodi-
ously giggles at the misadventures which befall
virtue. “The Coal King” is another of those
deceptive melodramas which, under a guise
of normal stupidity, carry an invitation to
wickedness. All the virtuous characters go about
looking dreadfully dismal, and talk with the
hopeless inflections affected by widowed char-
women with six small children. On the
other hand, Walter, who is an unmitigated
scoundrel, not only gets • much amusement
and excitement each time he bludgeons his idiot
mother, or stabs an accomplice, but he has an


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
vgw INSURANCE SOCIETY,
V PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY 11. CARY, Chairman.
unending source of satisfaction in the evils which
occur independently of him. He can find heart
to laugh saturninely at his own arrest by a super-
latively stupid comic policeman, while the virtuous
folk almost weep even at their own good fortune.
And as, according to the Persian philosophy, “Hie
most sinful of sins is sorrow,” that makes
them worse than be. Anyhow, the masterpiece
argues that villainy introduces anew element of
joy into the lives of its expert exponents, while
virtue warps cheerfulness as careless washing
does imported woollens. Therefore —but, never
mind! On Saturday, the Holloway Cos. will
explain the reason “ Why Woman Sins.”
$ * * 3?
The Butt-Rumfords have the Melbourne
audiences on toast. Ever since the bumper house
on first night the enthusiasm has been growing to
wildness, and concert after concert lias been
rushed. Saturday’s extra concert was packed to
suffocation, and mere guineas and half-guineas
were counted as train-fares, while the sur-
plus five-bobbers were turned away in wail-
ing shoals. Some people are now so crazy
that they wait to see Clara go in, then rush for
their seats, sit through the concert, and finally
bolt for the kerb and portico steps to see the huge
divinity descend to the carriage, which tips up
insanely on one side as she steps into it. You
would think their sense of sight would be satis-
fied from the concert platform. She’s certainly
the Most Clara one could see. On Saturday night,
the Big One made a hit with more Rule Britannia
music—“ England, Mother England,” with the
big booming organ to back up the lack of music
in the accompaniment. The “Huslieen” song
“took” like a duck to water. Hatton’s “The
Enchantress” was really fine, and a Rumford
duet, “Oh that we two were maying,” glided
through in the most peaceful and restful manner.
Kennerley Rumford sang some Hungarian
folk songs that Maorilander Prowse (the fierce-
voiced) made particularly his own in Melbourne
when singing with Dolores. Rumford’s_ artistic
but ineffective voice weakened the climax in these.
In Korbay’s “Shepherd, see thy horse’s foaming
mane,” Prowse used to bite out “I’ll strike him
dead.” Rumford seemed to sing “ I’ll scratch his
face.” It was an audience with an insatiable
thirst for encore. It even demanded the return of
pianiste Merrich, with his gentle, colorless play-
ing. The violinist is a useful member ; the un-
musical in the audience can appreciate him as an
acrobatic show. Arthur Godfrey, the accompanist,
is a way-up artist; it would be hard to find any-
thing so effective and delightful as his back-
grounding. The wild calling for more has induced
the management to add a Thursday matinee to
the week’s concerts before the Friday flitting to
Sydnev.
** * *
The Whiteleys, a team of wire-walkers
and tumblers, made their initial appearance at
Melbourne Opera House on Saturday. They
number a nimble girl and three men. The lady is
responsible for the most sensational features of
the turn. She does some extraordinary work on
the slack-wire, while her colleagues satisfy them-
selves with clowning and making a little superfluous
music. In combination, thefourdosomeremarkable
feats of strength and balance, and constitute a
kind deed in the theatrical world. Edward
Cranston perpetrates a further outrage in the shape
of an imbecility in three seenes based upon “Lady
Audley’sSecret.” It is vapid, and its interpretation
is just appropriate. The gentleman who plays
the young hero exhibits some originality. He
wears a Bill Sikes cap and a swallowtail coat,
which is partially concealed under a dinner jacket.
The Molassos are whirling through their last
nights. Carden Wilson is giving a fresh set of
mimicries, of which Howard Vernon and Frank
Thornton are particularly faithful; and Ernest
Fitts and Hamilton Hill are testing the public to
see if Voice or Mannah appeals to it most.
* * & X-
Theatrical affairs in Adelaide have been
going quietly since the September show ended.
“The Lady Madcap” Cos. has moved on to the
West, leaving Victor Gouriet behind in hospital
with a bad sprain. His dancing parts were taken
up at short notice, and quite effectively, by
Watson, an Adelaide understudy. Fred Graham
is at the Tivoli, giving short comedy sketches;
and Skuthorpe’s buckjumpers have continued to
buck in the moonlight, even though the show’s
bushy patrons have gone back home to Oodnadatta.
A recent meeting of the Chiltern' branch
of the Victorian Miners’ Association heaved the
imported candle in the face of the Foreign-trade
person, who is just now weeping bitterly because
“ Protection will prove disastrous to the miner.”
The imported mining candle is just about as
pleasant a working mate as a Chow stinkpot
would be. Ijt emits a thick, black, smcllful smoke,
which crystallises in the miner’s throat in the
form of a horrible soot, and makes him wake in
the morning feeling as if he had been loaded with
23 bad beers arid seven pork pies, and had eaten a
dead nightmare. President Howes advised the
meeting to refuse to w r ork with the unwholesome
Foreign-trade candle, so probably a clean Austra-
lian article will shortly throw a little light on the
subject.
From “Maori Mac ” :
Dunedin, the city of cant and Ohows, and all that is
dreary, has assisted the degradation of Maoriland One
rung lower. Hitherto it has been apathy or plain born-
tiredness that has marked Maoriiand’s attitude towards
the Asiatic ; but Dunedin has given the lead, and others
will follow. Dunedin’s self-disrespect is a fearsome thing,
and Scotch. When Togo, the brown Admiral, had bat-
tered Russia’s navy to nothingness, a number of
Dunedin’s citizens were jubilant, and their exuberance,
which in any other cause would have been immoral and
a nightmare to the kirk, took practical form. The MacSax-
pences had won no siller over the defeat; they were
not related to the victorious Orientals ; had, in fact,
never seen a Jap. But they rejoiced to learn of the
white man’s shame, and were prepared to commemorate
it. Perhaps it was the knowledge that One Lung, the
Ohow, launders their boiled shirts at Jd. less than
the pakeht would* ask that made the citizens of
Dunedin rejoice in Asia’s victory, or perhaps it was
the sight of One Lung’s domestic happiness and piebald
progeny within the precincts of malodorous Walker-street.
Whatever the cause, Dunedin was glad. The outcome of
all this joy was a silver casket and an 'umble address sent
Monkeywards, and a gracious acceptance and a photo, of
Admiral Jacko mailed to the white trash in Maoriland.
“ Somewhere East of Suez ” —as Mudguard Stripling puts
it—the little almond-eyed Jap boys and the small pro-
spective Geisha girls are taught to think kindly of the
poor white creatures who send ’umble addresses to the
illustrious Togo, for, saith the teacher, “ They will make
good servants some day, and their women are comely.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
They still come ! Maggie Stirling has discovered a
“ phenomenal voice ” at Geelong (Vic.) Women’s Exhibi-
tion. The lucky possessor is Miss Eileen Kerley, who won
the Exhibition’s contralto solo competition, and who
owns to seventeen springs. Heaven only knows, at this
rate, who’ll be left to “mind baby” soon, and Australia
wants baby minded real well. We have more babies in
proportion to population than the world’s average, but
that isn’t the question. In this loneliest of all the white
man’s outposts it has become a race between our baby
and the baby of all Asia, and whichever baby wins settles
the question whether the Saxon or the Mongol is to own
the fifth continent.
Quite recently, at the Garrick Theatre, London, a
novice on the stage inadvertently pressed a lever, and
the iron curtain, • used in case of fire, majestically
descended in the middle of the first
act of “The Walls ofJericho.” A
similar thing: occurred at London
Lyceum during- the late Henry Ir-
ving’s management. Irving pos-
sessed a remarkably even temper,
but he lost it on that occasion.
Hushing to the “ wings,” he de-
manded of a young fellow who was
temporarily doing duty as prompter,
“ Why on earth did you do that ? ”
The youth was frightened, and stam-
mered out, “ Because I was a
damned fool, sir.” The humor of the
reply appealed to Irving, who merely
said, “ Ah, well, my boy, of course in
that case there’s nothing more to be
said.”
“ Spring ” : “ Poverty Point,” Syd-
ney, has lost some of the glamor,
ham-fat, and impecuniosity which
it once possessed. Decayed pugs,
excommunicated jockeys, unem-
ployed gambling-den keepers, and
other creatures now bask all day in
the pale light of its ancient glory ;
but occasionally one meets there
some member of the old picturesque
band. The other daythere strutted
to the corner a man of princely [bear-
ing. He might have been a decayed
emperor. His clothes were some-
what unkempt, but his manner was
still jaunty. He glared amazed at
the old familiar corner, and in dis-
gustat the inhabitants thereof. A
lonely look came into his eyes. Sud-
denly his face brightened as a cheery
voice hailed him. They clasped
hands and talked. The new arrival
said he had a bone to pick with the
other. “Three months ago you
made an appointment with me on
this corner” “Stop, my friend,”
interrupted the other. “Sever yet
have I failed to keep a recorded
appointment.” He pulled up his
coat-sleeve and exposed the shirt-
cuff. He studied the faint pencil
marking there. Then he gasped :
“In good truth, my friend, you are right. Here, sure
enough, is the record. lam undone ! ”
“Star”: Is it possible theie is such a creature as t e
burglar represented by Plimmer in “ Raffles 1 bad
always imagined this character to be a creation of London
Paunch, bused mainly on Bill Sikes. Dickens treated with
an individual. Subsequent humorists have made that in-
dividual a class, and nowadays, if Paunch is true, and a
hundred thousand recent English writers and illustrators
are not liars, an English burglar should be as easily identi-
fiable as a policeman or a sweep. Turn Plimmer, made up for
the hard-working industrious housebreaker in the drama,
loose in the street in any English-speaking community,
and every living soul who has read Dickens will recognise
him on sight as the lineal descendant of Sikes, and a
burglar by necessity. The British dramatist, story-
writer and illustrator have given the burglar a uniform
as recognisable as the postman’s; they have endowed
him with a hang-dog face peculiarly his own; and by
some astonishing freak he is always in the same need of a
shave. Nobody else dresses like him, nobody else looks
like him, and the amazing success of the amateur cracks-
man in the play seems to be due mainly to the fact that
lie bewilders the police and demoralises Scotland Yard
by not looking like him.
•Tittell Brune, in respect of her several cherished poses,
is a remarkably adherent young mime. She has her
“dear gyurls,” of course, and makes her sodden heart-
appeals to those awful young women wherever she goes.
Also she is an indefatigable attendant at church. These
are pretty amiabilities. It is meet that Genius should
betray a faint speck of human frailty here and there.
The latter goods are supplied in a keenly artistic horror
of vulgar noise. On board a coasting steamer, t’other
day, Tittell sent up a mandate to the skipper
that the early morning deck-scrubbers disturbed
her rest, and must be forbidden to scrub till further
notice. The crudely ignorant mariner started amazedly
at the news, said a casual marine cuss, even as Jonah
said “ damn ” in Hebrew to the whale ; and then directed
that the deck-cleaning uproar should proceed as usual.
On various other occasions the lady is reported to have
attempted to have trams stopped, Town Hall clocks pre-
vented from striking, and Deform orators indicted. Now
from far Charters Towers comes the news that the
indefatigable lady, who is staying at the Crown
Hotel has lodged an objection against two whistling
canaries that warble at the Royal Hotel opposite. Up to
date (9/9/’O7) the fate of the birds totters in the balance.
“ S.” : Alf Lawton, the vaudeville entertainer, who died
in Wellington (M.L.) Hospital the other day, had been
struo-o-ling to amuse Australia for some 30 years, and at
the end he looked precisely as he did in the beginning.
Under the make-up your comedian never grows old. By
the way, what a lot of variety performers die in Maori-
land ! They have to die somewhere, of course, but cer-
tainly Maoriland is the Australasian vaudeville enter-
tainers’ favorite graveyard.
The sensational feature of Bland Holt’s forthcoming
Australian play is a rescue from a flooded mine, “ allee
same ” Varischetti. Another thrill is a realistic race from
Charters Towers to Townsville between an express train
and a motbr car. Six hundred yards of Australian scenery
whirl by in the course of this delirious spin.
“ P.” : When Albani was in Dunedin (M.L.) her manager
sent an advertisement to the paper, setting out the pro-
gramme in full, and included in it was “ Beethoven’s im-
mortal love song, ‘ Adelaide.’ ” Next morning there was
an unexpected rush to book seats for the concert. The
manager was amazed, but when he glanced at his adver-
tisement, asit appeared in the morning paper, he began
to see light. It was the comp.’s doing. “Beethoven’s
immoral love song ‘ Adelaide,’ ” explained matters.
“Sr ” (in carping vein): Had a bob’s-worth of “ Dairy
Maids ” t’other night. My main trouble was to resolve
the problem of why the 30 or 40 show girls before me so
unnecessarily exerted themselves every time a chorus
was sung. On each occasion the latter calamitated these
50 or 60 girls immediately (1) bumped their ears on their
shoulders, (2) played on atmospheric pianos in a flash and
ostentatious style, (3) waved their hands at the scene-
shifters in the wings, (4) got the cramp in one leg and an
attack of dead movement in the other, (5) nodded their
heads Violently, and (6) did every other purposeless
thing conceivable. Why? There was no signification in
their insane antics. Just possible the design is to accent
thus the time of the various refrains. But surely refrains
that need 70 or 80 girls to make contortionists of them-
selves before they (the refrains to wit) can keep proper
time, are such lamentably unpunctual old refrains that
they merit being warned off the course for life.
As a champion advertising fiend Pansy “ Milo ”
Montague has poor effete old Barnum licked to a stand-
still. The parsons having vented mild disapproving yelps
on learning that Miss Montague really intended to give
her Godiva act in the streets of Coventry, that energetic
female seized her stylo and wrote out “a strongly
worded appeal to the people of Coventry,” calling for
“ help” (whatever that meant) “in the triple cause of
Charity, Chastity, and Chivalry.” Though the logic was
a bit frayed, the phrase arrested the great sickly slushy
heart of the multitude, and, when the show came off, a
hugely edified crowd turned out and accepted La Milo’s
curves and hair (her main clothing) as circumstances
that were altogether uplifting and soul-revivifying. And
the parsons met and raised their hands helplessly, and
muttered the clerical substitute for “ great Scott.”
“ Lancelot ” : To see downright perseverance one wants
to visit the Glaciarium. Grey-haired old men, grey-haired
young men, middle-aged men, young men, youths, boys,
and dandies are to be seen in all manner of bodily contor-
tions, but the facial aspect bears a set purpose — viz.,
“ Not to try and smash the ice with the nether
extremity.” One white-haired man on a recent Saturday
night commenced to walk round —he walked and walked
and walked and walked and walked (like the dorg in
“ Mother Goose ”). I wondered why he was walking, and
if he would ever get tired, and if his head would ever
stop accompanying his steps. On the 93rd lap an idea
suddenly struck me: “That man is learning to skate.”
At the 2007th lap I lost count, but he was going strong
when the bell rang and the populace was ejected.
MISS BEATRICE IRWIN (J. C. Williamson’s
latest engagement for the Julius Knight Co.),
as Polly in “ The Admirable Crichton.”
“ Melb ”: Great disturbance over the High Court’s
quashing of the fine for Sunday concerts. Two thousand
people last Sunday night at Wren’s Pavilion, late the
Cyclorama. Bent means not to let the Royal or Opera
House open on Sundays, but I don’t think they want to.
Plenty of Variety shops will open, for the boodle is big.
All from the greed of the Wussleans, in starting their
Pleasant Sabbath Afternoons.
“11.E.C.” : “ O.K.’s ” par (12/9/’O7) re Melba’s arrival at
Burrumbeet is not entirely right. The railway officials
uttered no complaint, and the Ballarat press and the
local correspondents of the Melbourne dailies are the
persons responsible for the furore. The statement that
the train was delayed at Burrumbeet twenty minutes is
right out of it. Three minutes was the time occupied in
unloading Melba’s luggage. Possibly the explanation of
Ballarat’s injured feeling is that Melba’s quiet and unpre-
tentious arrival at Burrumbeet deprived Ballarat
of an opportunity to grovel. The stoppage of the
express at roadside stations is not unheard of. The blessed
train is frequently stopped at roadside stations for far
less important personages than Melba. Within the last
few months it has been stopped at Gordon, Dungaree,
Trawalla, and Jung for the convenience of nonentities,
and Ballarat has uttered no protest. Also the Adelaide
express stops at Parwan, Milton, Deer Park, and Rock-
bank daily to pick up milk, and Ballarat protesteth not.
So I fail to see why such a noise should be made when
the convenience of our own songstress is studied, and a
fish, rabbit, and milk train, called by courtesy an express,
is pulled up at Burrumbeet to enable her to alight.
“ Blue Peter ” : Julius Knight is a good enough actor,
but he is not an artist. In “Raffles,” he makes it
glaringly obvious that he is the amateur cracksman they
are all talking about—jumps three feet every time the
cracksman is mentioned, and speaks of him in hissing
italics, with glares that are full of meaning. One thinks
what idiots the others are ; and their surprise and horror
when they do realise the truth fall rather flat. Miss
Beatrice Irwin, as the girl who loves Raffles, expressed
her feelings the night I was there by saying “ Ow ! ”
twice, as if she had felt her blouse bursting at the
back. Raffles was played in London by Gerald du
Maurier, son of George du Maurier who wrote “Trilby.”
He was just the popular charming cricketer, and did not
throw his double character at the audience, or anyone
else, until the third act. He had apparently no make-up,
and his facial expression was wonderful. One could
plainly see him flush at times, and his face looked drawn
and haggard when the truth was coming out. Julius is
good in the scenes with a single person—Bunny, the
burglar, or the girl—but there is too much cracksman,
and not enough Raffles, in his idea of the part.
“ Tired Teddy ” : Happened to be on a Maoriland boat
15 minutes before casting off (i.e., two hpurs after adver-
tised sailing time), when a small, oily-haired steward
occurred. He was wearing a carmine complexion with a
worried expression, and was rushing distractedly along
the saloon deck. Suddenly he was jerked back to the,
starting machine by a daintily-gloved male flipper that
grabbed him firmly by the arm. “Ai—er—want this
portmanteau taken daown below, stewahd,” remarked
a deep, tense voice, like unto the rumble of Jupiter in
an empty beer barrel. He of the carmine countenance
and axle-greased locks dropped his burden and gasped:
“ Yessir, just a minit! ” “ But, mai good man, I want it
to go NOW 1 ” “Can’t ’elp it, sir ; a bloke can’t be in more
than eight places at once.” “But, mai deah chappie,”
began the big person, hysterically, “ Ai’m Jewellius Day,
the actor, and Ai ” But just then the worm turned.
“I don’t give a d if you’re JULIUS CvESAß— : y’ll
’ave t’ blanky well wait! ” and, grabbing a portmanteau
in one hand, a hat-box in the other, a rug in the other, a
trunk in the other, and an umbrella in the other, he tore
his hair with both feet, and cursed in the Austrian lan-
guage, and disappeared—leaving him of the boshter legs
jn a collapsible state of outraged astonishment.
Playing in “ The Two Worlds ” some three or four years
ago, Ada Lawrence had an experience of the godless
Australian boy. The piece—written by a priest—is
mainly the story of a man and woman wandering in
“ The First Garden,” and discovering an apple, a serpent,
and, incidentally, a fig leaf. Just as Eve raised her hand
to pluck the forbidden fruit, a small, young voice from
the gods yelled—“ Whoa, Ada ! Mind the codlin moth.”
Francis Day, and Hunter, London music-publishers,
have issued an elevating composition, with the title
“ Oh, Girls ! Never Trust a P’liceman.” The first verse
goes:—
I used to be as happy as the winkles in the sea,
Until a blue-bottle—a rozzer—cast his optics on poor me.
He told me that his little lump of pastry I should be—
Oh, girls ! Never trust a p’liceman.
The chorus is equally elegant:—
For a p’liceman’s a rozzer—
A rozzer he’s a slop—
A slop is a copper,
And a copper ain’t no cop.
John Fuller, jun., of the Maoriland music-halls, scores
a useful advt. by writing to the London papers sug-
gesting that the Government should take “immediate
steps to preserve the negatives of important cinemato-
graph films of functions in which his Majesty King
Edward is personally interested. In fifty or a hundred
years time these films should prove priceiess gems to the
British nation.” John Fuller, jun., professes not to know
(and perhaps really doesn’t know) that there is nothing
deader than a king when he has been dead a month.
Queen Victoria was promised immortality by loyal
gushers when she was alive. Her name is hardly
mentioned now, and the frayed and bony garland
on her monument looks as if it hadn’t been
renewed for ages. Fifty years hence, if Britain still has
a king, he will get all the current limelight and won’t
be able to spare a ray for any dead predecessor. Nobody
in Victoria’s time ever thought of raising three cheers for
William IV., and that fact might have shown Victoria’s
worshippers how soon they would forget the current royal
idol when it ceased to be current, and the ensuing idol
when it became a back number, and the following idol,
and all the procession of idols that came after. When
Edward VII. is dead the films of which Fuller, jun., speaks
so eloquently will be found in the pawnshop window
along with the second-hand teeth and the faded, stuffed
bird whereof the moths have eaten the tail.
One of the grievances of choruses and rush-on girls is
the necessity for wearing dresses that have battled on
Inany backs and flapped on many limbs, and which, how-
ever well they may look from the auditorium, won’t bear
close inspection. Usually managers are decent enough
to meet the healthy prejudice against tenth-hand gar-
ments by as much rigid cleanliness as a steam laundry
can supply, but now and then a manager comes along
with a quaint, other-world idea that supers, and such
will wearanyold thing. This opinion once provoked a
strike in an Australian theatre. A manager, who was
described by all “ behind ” with a fervor of detestation
that exceeded even the adulation he received in “ front,”
tried to impose on his girls a bunch of dresses each of
which had been all over the earth on a dozen different
humans without encountering a wash tub by the way.
The girls were on the point Of heaping the ton of dingy
duds on top of a prostrate manager, and then sitting on
the pile, when the great but dirty man relented, and gave
our little brown ally a job.
“Pepe”: The coming of “Mother Goose” to Maori-
land recalls the fact that in the London production of
this pantomime at Drury Lane (Christmas, 1902) Miss
Maud Beatty, a Maoriland girl, was Colin, the principal
boy. Miss Beatty had played boy parts in Tom Pollard’s
Juvenile Co. since she was a very small girl in an absurdly
short frock, and w'as anxious to try her luck in London.
She made a very handsome and altogether charming boy,
but the London atmosphere played havoc with herhealth,
and she was glad to accept an Australian engagement
when the pantomime season was over.
“Mahoot”: Was advance agent once for a strolling
company of barnstormers in the north-east of Vic. For-
tune directed the icy stare at my co. (which was a week
behind me), with the result that I was marooned in a one-
cow town with plenty of day bills and paste, and naught
else. Wherefore I took a job on the local rag as
comp., reporter, sub-editor (I might say I am far
from being an Archibald), and canvasser, at the
living W'age of 275. 6d. a week. Assisted by an unwashed
boy who spelled by sound, I had to set 12 columns,
print SOO runs on a Wharfdale (the power being on the
barrel-organ system), read proofs, edit such'of the pro-
prietor’s leading articles as were not pirated, do a little
jobbing, collecting, etc., and pursue my salary to its lair
on Saturday. This sort of thing was called “ the fourth
estate,” but all the saleable estate I could see In it
wouldn’t have crowded a flower-pot. I left it for a job in
a passing circus, and the unwashed boy who spelled by
sound succeeded to my billet.
Small wonder the Foglander takes his pleasures sadly 1
Some prices at the recent Oovent Garden performance of
“ Madame Butterfly ”: Grand and pit tier boxes, 50
guineas each ; first tier boxes, 30 guineas each ; second
tier boxes, 15 guineas each ; orchestra stalls, eightguineas
each ; balcony stalls, four guineas each ; and unreserved
gallery, 10s. This isn’t exceptional, either, but a usual
thing for such an event as a “ Melba and Caruso night.”
Angry politicians who find themselves
loaded up with violent remarks to east at each
other, should first cast into the furnace of their
fiery feelings some soothing fluid—the brand
thereof being D.C.L. It is Wise to be Soothed.
And to be soothed by D.C.L. Whisky is the
highest Wisdom and the greatest joy known to
party politics.*
Mr. E. Kilhurn Scott, of Sydney Univer-
sity, writes: —
Re bricks and “ T.A.W.’s ” letter (19/9/’O7). ' There are
two distinct kinds of furnace linings. First, those made
from ordinary fireclay, and known as silica or acid
bricks, and, second, those made from a basic material,
such as magnesite.
I am well aware, and so is the S. M. Herald, that acid
bricks have been made for years in this State, and made
well, but magnesite bricks have not been made, for the
very simple reason that no deposits of crude mineral were
available. Indeed, magnesite was only registered as a
mineral a few days ago, as a result of the discovery of the
extensive Fifield deposits.
Then follows a vast deal of scientific information
which has no bearing on the case. Mr. Scott
concludes:—
I hope to see the locally-found magnesite made up in
this State for such purposes, and for fear some idiot may
write you that plaster for walls and steam-pipe lagging of
a sort has been made here since the days of Captain Cook,
I hasten to say again that I speak only of magnesite
(registered here as mineral a few days ago), and not about
sand or fireclay or any other old thing.
Which is all very good and interesting, but the
fact remains that the S. M. Herald yarn, on
which this paper commented, represented Mr.
Scott as making such remarks as these :
As far as I can judge at present, there is now no reason
why Australia should not be able to produce her own
furnace bricks, instead of importing them. ... It will be
a good thing for Australia if she can produce her own
firebricks and furnace linings.
That statement made no distinction between
magnesite bricks and silica bricks, but implied in
a large general way that Australia depended on
importations for its supply of firebricks in
general. And this paper stated that it didn't.
If Mr. E. Kilburn Scott would be a shade
less loose in his statements, he might not
require to write indignant letters later on to clear
his character from misunderstandings.
By strict attention to the crossings, and avoid-
ing special trains, and so forth, a man may dodge the
accident that breaks limbs, but nothing on earth that
a solitary citizen can do will ward off temporary total
disablement by typhoid, typhus, scarlet fever, sroall-pox,
diphtheria, measles, carbuncle, tetanus, pneumonia,
pleurisy, appendicitis, meningitis, or peritonitis. These
are all troubles that descend on the wary and unwary
alike—in fact, they seem to prefer the wary. And the
South British Fire and Marine Insurance Co. of Maoriland
will issue a policy which will provide from 325. 6d. to £6los.
per week for a‘total period of 26 weeks in the event of
total disablement b\ any of them. Head Office for New
South Wales, 12 Bridge-street, Sydney.*
THE PASSING SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ned Bailey came from ’Possum Flat
To bide in Melbourne for a while.
He wore a limp, cow-eaten hat.
A bunch of whiskers like a mat;
Soft was his face, so free from guile
It made the wicked city smile.
He backed off in the road to stare
And measure up the teeming town,
Which made the angry gripman swear,
And level insults at his hair ;
And motors red and motors brown
And hansom cabbies ran him down.
The busy pubs, the trains, the shops,
This rush of traffic worried Ned.
“ I can’t make out what comes of cops,
And banks, and stores for sellin’ ‘ slops,’
And alf these blokes so dashed well-fed
When there’s no bloomin Shore 2 ” he said.
Vic.
SNELL.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you Incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address—
« EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
PHOTOS
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
SOCIETY
THIS IS TOO MUCH.
BAILEY : “ Well, Nipp, are you content with
your lot ? "
NIPP (dubiously): “ Hem, I could—eh—wish it
was less.”
The Vic. Railway Department charges
consignees 6d. a ton for unloading produce, such
as chaff, onions, spuds, etc.; yet it is conscience-
less enough to expect a gang of two men to un-
load and stack 80 tons in eight hours. These
laborers must fill in cards showing exactly how
many bags each gang has unloaded, and when the
expected tally hasn’t been quite completed, the
gang is often sent back to unload another truck
or two. Cards, showing the handling of 61 tons
and 66 tons per day, have been exhibited. For
these two lots the department charged -the mer-
chant (and through him the farmer) 635. 6d.
altogether; yet it had the gall to pay the four
men who did the work 265. (6s. 6d. per day each).
Worst of all, this sweating department is not
satisfied with an, achievement like that, but tries
to get more out of its slaves by “ laying off ” those
who don’t come quite up to its ideal.
The Law made a pained effort to fix up a
dreadfully complicated case in Melbourne, the
other day, and, with the assistance of sundry
gent, ones, got forward some paces. Years back,
Edward Bailey, a Coburg farmer, settled a block
of land in Eitzroy on his wife, appointing the
once well-known organist, Hugh Jones, as sole
trustee. The following year Jones died at sea,
without giving any instructions as to his trustee-
ship. In 1887 farmer Bailey asked the Law to
give him leave to sell the soil, and, after consider-
ing the matter for two or three years, the Law
did so. By that time, however, the bottom was
dropping out of the boom, so Bailey decided to
hold on a while. Soon afterwards he died.
Lately, Mrs. Bailey thought it a favorable time
to “ realise,” but discovered that, under the deed
of gift, the property was hers for life only, and
was to pass to her children at her death, so their
consent had to be obtained. There were two sons
and a daughter, but both sons had left their wives
and disappeared curiously. The daughter gave
her consent. Being told about these things, the
Law announced that it had to protect the rights
of the grass widows of the sons; but, being assured
that a trustee co. would hold the coin, the Law
took a more favorable view of the matter, and
cogitated some more. At this stage it was men-
tioned that the land was worth some £1500, and
that the Fitzroy Council claimed £300 for overdue
rates, and threatened to sell in spite of the widow
Bailey and thedeed of gift and the lostsons. There-
upon fresh complications arose through the widow
asserting that the rates had always been paid, but
that a recent Council defaulter had probably
collared them. Evidently something had to be
done suddenly, or the matter would get involved
beyond all disentanglement; so the Law sat up
with a jerk, appointed a trustee co. to sell the
paddock and settle with the Council, and told it
to pass what interest there was to widow Bailey,
and hand the remains to her descendants, if there
were any remains.
* • * *
The law is not always a tortoise or a
funeral. At Christchurch (M.L.) Supreme Court
recently a record in the hustling line was achieved
—an appeal case being called and argued and
judgment delivered all inside seven minutes.
* * * It
“Stony”: Down near our pub there is
an establishment where they grow corned beef
and the like —a very handy place for those
sybarites of the neighborhood who like a taste of
cold meat with their bottled beer at supper-time.
It isn’t every one of these corned-beef farms that
will bear inspection from a sanitary point of view.
Usually there is some drawback of ancient news-
paper-wrapping or grimy carver. But on a recent
Saturday night, the first time I tackled this
particular beefery, I struck the limit right
away. As I entered, a loud, cowbell
arrangement gave forth coarse music from the
fastnesses behind a spotted curtain. A male
person with a greasy beard rolled from
within, saying “Worrisit? Worrisit?”
quite irritably. He had evidently
been to look on at Saturday sports
of some kind, for he could hardly
speak—hoarse, I suppose. He
went on, in a moment, since
I was busy studying his
personal appearance, “Well-
we-well? Worrisit? Wo-
wo-je-want?” “A pound
o’ corn’ beef ! ” I demanded
firmly. The male person
rolled across the premises
and led in a dark grey
piece of meat. This he
dropped upon the floor. He
picked it up, cursing, and
put it on the counter, and
then, taking a knife, began
to hack me off some slices,
while I looked hopelessly
on, and tried to invent ex-
cuses for having suddenly
lost my desire to buy corned
beef. He sawed off two
thick pieces laboriously,
getting down to the red-
ness beneath the grey outer
coverings of the beef, but
taking care to put said
coverings in my parcel.
This sawing was a slow pro-
cess. Finally, he took up
the beef in his strong right
hand, and held it to the
greasy bosom of his
apron, and went ster-
torously on slicing beef
—my beef ! (Yes, he was
left-handed.) At that I in-
terfered. “ Here you needn’t
cut any more ! ” I said. “ I don’t
want any beef—not that beef, at least. Good
evening ! ” and made for the door. As I flung it
back the cowbell once more jangled horribly, and
the greasy one glared after me with utter “wrath
in his snake-like eye. “ Woh ? ” he roared.
“ ’N’ I gorran’ cut up a poun’ o’—Woh ? Wo-won’
take it ? ’E won’ take it! ” Then, with unex-
pected violence, he took the beef from off his
chest, and flung it at my head as I ducked into
the street and ran like the wind towards the
Board of Health.
* * * *
The Law in N.S.W. is having the deuce of
a time over the domestic troubles of Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Brown. Some little while ago, Mrs.
Brown got a maintenance order for ss. a week for
the support of their youngest. Brown was
annoyed at this, because if his youngest was wise
enough to recognise Brown as her father, Brown
flatly refused to recognise his child. Not only
did he spurn his offspring, but he also spurned
the ss. order for the offspring's support (Mrs.
Brown called the offspring Philomena), Rather
than provide food and raiment for Philomena.
Brown appealed to the Full Court, which tribunal
gave him short shrift. He then took Philomena
and Mrs. Brown to the High Court for permission
to appeal to the Privy Council, which the High
Court refused. Brown then spurned the
High Court and took ship to England and
the Privy Council, and appealed all the same.
Unluckily for Brown, the P.C. refused to hear
him when he did appeal. So Brown came back.
He then lodged an affidavit somewhere, charging
the High Court Judges and the N.S.W. Attorney -
General and Registrar-General of Births with a
conspiracy to father him with Philomena. The
only person who replied was Mrs. Brown, who
promptly sued him for £l6 55., being accumulated
arrears of the ss. order. Before the case came on
before the Judge in Divorce, Brown wrote to him
holding the Judge personally liable for any action
he might take towards enforcing the order. The
Divorce Judge has committed Brown to gaol until
he pays up, and Brown is now going to go bank-
rupt so as to escape supporting his alleged
Philomena. What the Law will do then it doesn’t
know, but Philomena has to be fed by somebody
meanwhile.
A VALUATION.
BILL (in background); “Shine tom Ernie Peters ’as got now, ain’t she ! ”
BILLHM : “ Her 11 She can’t milk ! ” CHORUS : “ Gripes ! Ain’t ’e a fool !”
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : I could not help
reading “Quan’s” latest New Syllabus paragraph.
Though inaccurate as usual, he is characteristically
interesting. It’s a peculiar pity that he cannot
be both accurate and interesting. No sane
inspector expects an £BB-a-year salary to run to
thermometers, barometers, rain-gauges, etc. The
plain ordinary cheap thermometer is of little use
for record work. A thermometer and a barometer
of really useful pattern are costly equipment for
the sort of small school presided over by an £BB-
--year bush teacher. If there be insane inspectors
in the flesh (have no time to deal with bogey
spectres) who do insist upon costly equipment out
of utterly inadequate salaries, they should, as I
said once before, be sent rabbiting. But to call
the underpaid teacher “Schoolie” is not calculated
to improve his status or his salary. [The Bulletin
hastens to point out that “Quan’s ” inspector, at
all events, wasn’t so mad as he might have been.
He didn’t insist on a thermometer or a barometer
—merely on a rain-gauge. And even as regards
the rain-gauge, be didn’t demand a costly affair ;
he was quite content with the article made out of
the pickle-bottle. The trouble was that somebody
stole the pickle-bottle.]
* * * •*
The snakes of Morrissey, the man who
has just been shaking up Melbourne, behaved
better than the snakes of his namesake did in
Cooktown in the days when the North and its
alligator were young. About thirty years ago a
Morrissey bagged three “whoppers” in the back
country, intending to sell them to the Brisbane
Zoo. But the boat did not arrive to time, and the
delay demoralised Morrissey, the snake pro-
prietor. The result was that the reptiles went on
their own. The police killed two, and the magis-
trate sentenced Morrissey to a fortnight’s hard
for endangering public safety. But where was
the third, and, according to Morrissey, “the
deadliest divil of the lot”? Morrissey had no
money for a passage ticket when the poiice shook
him off, and he became a wreck in the Chinese
quarter of the old port. One morning, about
three weeks after his release, he was caught on a
butcher’s premises and charged with theft. He
had forced entrance to the shop, and chopped what
he supposed to be a German sausage in two, and
was making off with one-half. Investigation
revealed the fact that the coil was the tail end of
that third snake, which had been eating up the
butcher’s goods when its master broke into the
premises and furiously attacked it, under the im-
pression that it was a polony. Morrissey broke
down when he found that he had slain his pet in
mistake for a sausage. A kindly lawyer defended
him, on the ground that he was a public-spirited
citizen who had endeavored to save the butcher’s
stock from being swallowed by a herd of pythons,
and secured his acquittal, but he never held up
his head again.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Be “ Walfre’s ” par
(B. 5/9/’O7) concerning Argent-street, Broken
Hill, on a Saturday night. “Walfre” states
that a crowd of from 4000 to 6000 people hustle,
etc., along our main thoroughfare. Now I’m pre-
pared to wipe “Walfre” and his estimate right
off the face of this old conglomeration of dust.
1 have it on the best authority that the South
trams alone bring that number of people into
town. Then there are the services plying to and
fro every few minutes in the more thickly popu-
lated centres, such as Oxide, Murton, Thomas,
and Kaslin streets. Also, there are thousands of
people who live so close to “all we have to look
forward to ” that a tram never receives their
patronage. From what I can gather our crowd
on a Saturday night hovers in the vicinity of
12,000 or 15,000 folk. “Walfre,” however, is
strictly right in the remainder of his par. lam
prepared to back Argent-street against any other
thoroughfare' in Australia for the street row
stakes.
* * • ■»
An item of interest to anyone with a bad
cough is that which tells him of an almost certain
cure. Angier’s Emulsion cures the most obstinate
cough. There is nothing equal to it for the lungs,
while it is a great aid to digestion and a splendid
tonic. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
While the churches are worrying their
heads about the sad indifference the worker mani-
fests towards the pulpit, it is still noteworthy
that almost any sentiment breathing hostility to
the democratic aspirations of the people of Aus-
tralia will draw a bray of “ Hear, hear” from an
assemblage of parsons. In Melbourne the other
night a stray bishop enlarged upon the folly of
the Empty North, and was eloquently indignant
with the Government that had cut out the inde-
fatigable Kanaka, and was now barring the in-
dustrious Chinee and the patient and persistent
Jap, and the gathered clerics cried “Yah!
yah ! ”, in reverent approval at each whoop for a
piebald continent. When the gaitered stranger
pointed out later that with powerful nations, both
possible enemies, looming in the North it behoved
Australia to cast off its prejudices, and fill up the
empty places, “the cloth ” became quite enthusi-
astic, and made a terrific clatter of approval.
The proposition pans out so : Because Japan and
China are dangerous to Australia, a large portion
of Australia should be filled with Japanese and
Chows. It’s good enough logic for the church
seemingly, but would the parsons say that because
Australia is threatened with wickedness the Devil
should be invited to bring along his whole bag of
tricks and set up shop here ?
* * *
A shy girl of 25, described as Ethel Lill
Victoria Maud Washington Brown, otherwise
Fisher, has created a ripple in Justice Simpson’s
Divorce Court, at Sydney, by bringing along a
very rare kind of case. She alleges that she
married Cornelius Fisher because he threatened
that otherwise he would assault, wallop, damage,
and possibly slay her, and she says that he choked
her a little to go on with ; therefore she asks the
Court to declare the marriage null and void.
Ethel Lill Victoria Maud Washington Brown, it
is plain from the reports, gathered in the hearts
of the pressmen right away. She was described
as shy and nervous ; and she seems to have a
pair of large wistful eyes, with a baby-rabbit
aspect of alarm in them. “She looked a mere
child,” said the tender spring reporter. Also
she was pale and handsome, and she cast a
scared look upon the Judge and a terrified glance
at the lawyers. She wore a dark blue
dress with a dark blue hood tied under her
chin, same as the heroine does after the
avalanche of misfortune has fallen upon her in the
Wm. Anderson melodrama ; only hers is generally
dark green. (In the first act of the melodrama,
the heroine is a happy affluent summer girl with
a glad summer hat the size of the roof of a brolly,
but she always wears the hood in the days of un-
just suspicion and bitter slump.) The details of
the allegation were that the nervous girl with the
big scared eyes was tottering under her long name
at some seaside place or other when her suitor
put it to her firmly that it was up to them
to get married. He was described as powerful
and square-built, and apparently he blew the
reedy girl right off her feet with his force of will.
Anyhow, the alarmed and child-like demoiselle
went nervously with him to Parson Zillman’s
place, and there she subdued her trembling long
enough to get married. She never lived with her
husband or did anything definite, but just ran
home, feeling that the world was upside down,
and told her mother. And after that nothing
seems really to have happened, except that the
Brown girl went on being nervous and alarmed,
and looked carefully up and down the street with
her big, worried eyes, for fear some more men
were going to rush her into matrimony. The case
was still unsettled when last this paper heard
of it.
A DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Carruthers is a leader of the people.— Melb. paper.
It was a warm and wholesome day,
I dreamed along a sylvan way.
A spring- song bubbled from the trees,
And mirth went softly in the breeze ;
O’er hill and dale and over me
There breathed a glad serenity.
Much joy I took that man and beast
I Were friends for one good day, at least.
Then, stumbling down the grassy slope,
There came a wretch who dragged a rope.
He ran as one whose soul was rife
With fear of death and love of life,
And blood was in his hair. Each limb
Did show where barbs had wounded him,
And in his eyes that forward yearned
A pale and lambent horror burned.
He ran, and faltered as he ran,
A hunted and despairing man,
And at my feet with one drear yell
All in the yellow buds he fell.
Then down the hill the hungry pack,
With sticks and stones, came on his track,
And as he fell they crowed with glee,
And shook their brands exultingly.
“ Help ! help me, in God’s name ! ” he moaned,
And raised aloft his hands and groaned.
“ But who are you, and what comes here
With cries of hate ? ” I asked in fear.
“ A leader of the people I.
If they o’ertake me, I must die !"
He rose again, and down the hill
The leader led his people still!
via
EDWARD DYSON.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Ring's approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
BEWARE
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable ot producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MACNETIC, and
“Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia ), 45*47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
g
A light blue, light-weight, red-tipped
Underwear that is just the thing for
Summer wear.
It is pure natural wool —delightfully soft to
the touch —conforming easily to the figure,
and the garments are purely Summer.
PRICE, 5/6 EACH GARMENT. Postage 8d Extra.
ORDER
FORM
fdsg
PEAPES AND CO. LTD.,
MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,
300—311 George Street, Sydney.
A suburban State school in Camberwell,
Bent’s country:—
It is about 35 years old. It measures 47ft. x 25ft., or
1175_ sq. ft., which provides breathing space for 147
pupils as the maximum number which should occupy the
room. Yet nearly 200 of the youngest children are packed
into it, to the injury of their health as well as of their
efficient education. A small hall is also leased, near the
school. In this room, which has accommodation for only
125 children, nearly 200 are taught.
However, Bent has now turned over £50,000
of last year’s surplus for improvements in school
buildings, so possibly the Camberwell kids will
by-and-by have enough air to breathe, anyhow.
COULDNT KEEP IT!
CABBY : "Want a cab, sir ? ” THE SOZZLED ONE : “No (hie). Got nowhere to put it !”
The Victorian drink trade is still quar-
relling with Judkins re the latter’s assertion that
Melbourne publicans spill beer before their bar
doors that the smell may break down any linger-
ing compunction in the mind of the boozer, and
lure him into the pint department. Judkins
insists that the accusation is true, but stubbornly
refuses to give the name of any publican who
spilt the beer, the address of the beer, or the date
when it was splashed.
To cry about spilt milk is vain,
The proverb makes the matter clear ;
But if that’s true of milk it’s plain
’Tis very far from true of beer 1
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes :
Re duelling in Australia : In June, 1846, two duels
occurred. Messrs Sprot and Campbell, settlers in the
Port Fairy (Vic.) district, quarrelled. In order to evade
the police they rode into South Australia, a distance of
200 miles, exchanged shots, missed each other, decided
not to shoot any more, and rode 200 miles back. The
other affair was quietly arranged in the scrub near Liar-
det’s Pier Hotel (now Port Melbourne), the combatants
being the Honorable G. Kennedy (said to have been a
grandson of the then Marquis of Ailsa) and Mr. Ouseby
Cockburn, of the mercantile firm of Cruickshank, Latham
and Cockburn. Their seconds were Messrs. J. Hunter
and J. Allen. No blood was slied this time either, but
the incident called forth a newspaper letter from “ Bob
Acres” protesting against duelling—“ that relic of a bar-
barous and feudal age.” For many years there stood, in
the centre of Collingwood, a square block of land, perhaps
10 acres, for which the Council badly wanted an owner.
The accumulated rates on it were heavy, and were
wanted for street making. After a search of some years
the owner was found. He proved to be “ Archibald
Kennedy, Marquis of Ailsa, of the Isle of Ailsa, County
Ayr, and Baron Ailsa of Ailsa in the peerage of the
United Kingdom, Earl of Cassillis and Baron Kennedy in
the peerage of Scotland, of Culzean Castle, Cassillis
House, Newark Castle, and Maybole Castle, Ayrshire.”
The block was for many years an unimproved lot, and
many persons thought that the marquis might give it to
the people as a park, but Scotch marquises were not built
that way. The man of the bloodless duel is supposed to
have bought the ten acres from the State, with a far-
sighted eye to the unearned increment.
* * * *
Looking back over the history of Sydney
art, probably its most striking feature is the out-
standing influence of one art-teacher. Julian
Ashton has had a hand in the making of most of
the artists of N.S.W., and of some who are artists
of the world. The work of his pupils and ex-
pupils is everywhere. If you want a monument
of this man look round you—in the illustrated
papers, on the cover of The Lone Hand,
in the Sydney National Gallery, the
Royal Academy, the French Salon, you come
upon the work of those he has trained. Ashton
has founded no school; possessing a brusque,
bluff, biting, energetic individuality, he is too
great a teacher to attempt to impress his style
upon his students ; under his training they go their
own way, though he puts them on the path.
Now, after 20 years’ work, this youngest of men
is joining with Sid Long to establish in
Sydney the teaching salon that the progress of
Australian art demands. It might have been
done by the State Government, but the Govern-
ment has somehow got entangled in wire-netting.
The spacious galleries in the Queen Victoria
Markets, recently the site of the Streeton and the
Society of Artists’ Exhibitions, will be the home
of the Ashton-Long salon. It will open on Octo-
ber Ist. The salon will be run on the model of
the art-salons of Paris—classes all day, and nearly
every night, with the assistance of visiting artists.
The out-of-doors sketching classes will be in the
charge of Sid Long, while the students of black-
and-white and of illustration will have the super-
vision of Norman Lindsay. Once a year the
Ashton-Long salon will hold an exhibition of
students’ work, with the promise of money prizes
and scholarships. And a summer month will be
spent somewhere on the South Coast, and it is
rumored that the cows, billows, and gum-trees of
that locality are already practising picturesque
poses for the advent of the horde of landscapists
that will be let loose on the scenery. Somehow,
this paragraph looks like an ad. ; but the attempt
to put on a satisfactory basis the art-training of
New South Wales under such competent manage-
ment seems to deserve an ad.
The following enthusiastic shriek by a
Queensland correspondent of the comic Sydney
Watchman has points about it:—
Dear Sir,—By our Queensland Daily Mail of the 12th,
I see the result of the polling in New South Wales: —
“Great Victory—Glorious Results —Ministerialists, 55,”
etc. If Queensland is jubilant, New South Wales
must be in ecstasies—drunk, “ but not with wine ! ”
What now ! about that “ rag ” of a Watchman stirring
up strife, etc. Perhaps it has been the leading power
for good, next to the pulpit and prayer. The L.O.L. has
shown its usefulness, the sleepy Protestants have been
aroused, moral right is still to reign, and our Common-
wealth saved from the disgrace that indifference would
bring to it. But let us hope that our leaders especially
will see in the above polling the hand of God ruling ; let
them say, “ The Lord reigneth,” “ Praise ye the Lord,”
for He hath done marvellous things for Australia—yes—
the result of the 10th of September, 1907, in New South
Wales, is to have a widespread effect on the Common-
wealth, even on the Empire, for we have had a bona fide
proof of loyalty that must invigorate all true Protestants
to stand firmer than ever to the standard our forefathers
raised at Magna Charta, and the Battle of the Boyne.
Even the wire-netting that C’ruthers shook seems
to add reflected glory to the little scramble at the
Boyne 200 years ago. We are used to that, and
take the poor old Boyne as it comes; but “the
standard our forefathers raised at Magna Charta ”
issomething fairly new.
* * * *
Tell of the good of it,
Say what you should of it),
All that you could of it,
Say what you would of it,
Tell of colds cured by it,
Good health ensured by it,
Long life secur d by it—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ Yarrum ” writes about the teacher’s
hatßeducti
This is a delicate subject. The subject, mind, not the
hat. The hat is very hardy. It has need to be. When
our Fred comes from Adaminaby, I say “ For the love of
God, go and get a new hat. If one could only “knock
spots off it,” it wouldn’t be so bad. But “ the break ”is
the worst thing about it. It’s all over the hat. Long
years ago, when the hat was bought for Mary’s wedding-,
it made the teacher look as respectable as if he were not
a Government servant. It did truly ;so it isn’t the fault
°L the b hat i’ ? ri ° iaal b’- I saw a battered old hat, the
other day, lying at a back door. I knew a teacher didn t
live there! No ! That hat would have been on the
teacher’s head, or fallen off the hook. You can always
count on the latter as a dead cert. It is one of the few
certainties of life. When Joey’s £60,000 ceases to be
“ set apart,” there will be a revival in the hat trade.
A FREQUENT OCCURRENCE.
THE BELOVED : “I suppose if I reject you, you will commit suicide."
THE POET : “ That has always been my practice .”
Oysters are having an anxious time in
Sydney. A little while ago the King-street shops
pooled their interests, and were in a fair way to
raise an Oyster Colossus. Whereupon certain
other Dago gentlemen formed another combina-
tion, and, in their anxiety to overturn the said
Fish Colossus, have created an impasse (impasse
is a word the Sydney papers are at present
running to death. Everything is an impasse,
Carruthers especially). Each party is busy buying
up all the oysters within its ken. The efforts to
control the oyster supply are telling on the small
outside Dagoes, who can’t get their orders filled,
and recently these outside Dagoes combined to
put up the price per plate. But when the young-
man-and-his-girl-after-the-theatre were charged
Is. 6d. each, there was such a row that the high
prices collapsed. So now Demetrius and Hip-
parchus have adopted anew plan. If the young
man counts his oysters he will find only 10 in his
dozen, while if he fishes about in his stew he will
notice only half the oyster drowned there that
used to be present. And then there will be more
trouble.
■* * * «
“Dat is all houpla about dose police
vinger-brints,” growled the bearded Gascon in
the cobwebby wine-cellar. “Dose Sydney police
isn’t so vera smart as all dat. Vy, ve manufacture
vingers in Isle Nou. Ye haf vax impressions of
dozens of dead men’s vingers ; and, vat is better,
ve haf vingers made of cork dat brint vat no
living man’s vinger ever brinted. Ve vear
gloves and dab dose dead men’s vingers or
dose cork vons—and vere are dose smart
police? Houpla!” He laughed in his
throat. Then, emptying his glass of
green headache, he added, “Someday
1 vill show you someding. I vill
show you de Inspector-General’s vinger,
and it vill be discovered all ofer de
place in de biggest roppery in Sydney.
Houpla ! Dose smart police ! ”
One morning lately nine van-loads of
ornate furniture were loaded up from a Fitzroy
(Melbourne) dwelling house, where the goods had
only lately been deposited, and carted back to
their old home in Lonsdale-street. Happily Pa
Panton, now off the City Bench, was away in
Fiji, and couldn’t witness the Return of the
Prodigal Daughter.
Among the hotels that the Yic. Licenses
on Board inquired into lately was the
Empire, in Latrobe-street, Melbourne. This is one
of Melbourne’s few historic buildings, having been
built and occupied by La Trobe, Victoria’s first
ftrwprimr or vnt-hor- T iont
'°J? le J 3t } 6^ r , they never
§ ave him orhciaily the whole-hog title. Its ball-
room, 55ft. by 17ft. 6in., is now used by the
Danish Club and other bodies. James Jensen,
from the little sea-girt kingdom, runs it, and
makes it a rendezvous for his compatriots,
*
* * * *
“Jones ” • Have frennenf.lvr heard tho nld
.J® f .V, frequently heal d tlle
wheeze about honesty being the best policy. But
how do we know ? Has any person ever tried it ?
Slowbart, the place of casual happenings,
lately had anew experience in the line it has
made its own. The s.s. Surrey was duly pilot-
boarded, and taken up the Derwent to the harbor,
and the anchor was dropped about 5 a.m. Then
all hands wandered below. After a while the
cook, or someone who wasn’t the bosun’s mate, or
the captain or the pilot, reported the ship as
going alongside on its own. A frenzied rush of
mariners occurred, and it was then found the
vessel had gone up stream past the harbor, and
was trying to berth itself at the cattle jetties.
After knocking down about £IOO worth of
Hobart Marine Board blue-gum, the Surrey was
led back to mid-stream, and again anchored.
Then the skipper wanted the pilot to tell him
how his ship had strayed, and the pilot said that
was exactly what he wanted to know—but merely
as a matter of curiosity, since his contract ended
when the ship anchored. Apparently the
anchor hadn’t bottomed, nor had the engines
been reversed, and the Surrey looked after itself,
and dodged the shallows and rocks till it found a
handy pier to butt at. Eventually a Court of
Inquiry decided that the second mate was to
blame, yawned wearily, and then said something
about £6 6s. costs.
* * * *
“Part Vll. —Law, Crime, etc.”—of the
“ Victorian Year Book ” gives the Pharisees some-
thing more to kick against. Under this “Godless
education ” which was going to fill the gaols, the
prison population has shrunk in a most perverse
fashion, till last year there was an average of only
124 per 100,000 of the population “ inside
figures that had never been equalled before,
though the gaol census has been shrivelling up for
years. In 1861-71 the proportion of prisoners
averaged 383 per 100,000 ; and on the strength of
that and the predictions about the inevitable
results of “Godless education,” which was then
just starting, Victoria spent some of its hard-
borrowed money on more gaol accommodation.
To-day Victoria still has the debt and the “ God-
less education,” and likewise it has room “for
more than twice the average number of prisoners
in confinement.”
• ■ • •
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A DIRE POSSIBILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir, — I enclose portion of the wrapper of my Ladies’
Home Journal, received to-day. You will see that they
have charged me 7d. duty, which is approximately an
increase of 70 per cent, on the subscription. I think
this is about the meanest thing I ever heard of, and it
will be the cause of my giving up my journal.— l am, etc.,
Florence Wurts.—Argus 16/9/’O7.
There’s a cry from Melbourne city—
A loud cry for help and pity
(Which the same inspires my ditty), and it brings me
grief and pain ;
Yea, 1 weep for this occurrence,
Which same fills me with abhorrence,
And I grieve for stricken Florence—it’s The Tariff once
again !
This fierce, dragon-crested measure,
Which not only takes our treasure,
But deprives us of our pleasure, and the good old Mar-
riage Tie,
And the hope of life eternal,
At this season sweet and vernal
Has devoured the Ladies’ Journal with a great and
dreadful cry 1
Gone are all the dear old stories 1
Gone the Haunted Chamber door is 1
Gone the gilt memento mori’s of the family churchyard !
Gone the winsome Lady Ethel!
Gone the Marquis of Woodmethyl!
Gone the rustic Little Bethel, and the smith who swore
so hard 1
And the sneering villains vanish
With the hunting-girls so mannish,
And the earls so cold and clannish, with their heir-looms
and their plate ;
And the little inn so cosy,
With the garden green and rosy,
And the handsome gipsy, JosA have all shared the same
sad fate I
We shall miss the “ soft eyes beaming,”
And the “ moonlight softly gleaming,”
And the governess, “ who’s dreaming of a loved one far
away.”
We shall miss Lord Percy’s passion,
And his ma—that glass of fashion—
And our anger is like Bashan’s bull preparing for the fra}'.
From the red sands of El Ariff
To the green hills of Glengariff
Men shall rise and curse the Tariff—which is low and base
and mean !
But it sets a fellow musing
When he thinks that their abusing
May yet end in their perusing an Australian magazine !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Smi As hie^fod
ending
is fo fi/ fc T^nj-f
o h Kys
wV fVotee-fTonish,
C<\nhol" -,
LA^J
" Wb\t ST oj' (>Olr7{) to
old Systc.»l Of I'AC.IJ.i c O fr> jo d> rfm er>ts ?
/A^ ui i
~]tye HVS«S cv> do if liKes .
We. ) iK« to enjoy OMK
"jet" me »n Kill
}cm | ..
stride
J^otfc'
everyone bo K*7ow ff/vb (
In] ak Scofehniv. My Motbo'S-/
h|eiri<) me immune Uc«sv+ " [ 4
[Fob«?s-l') I *
N.B Any (JM^oti
l7°"f A bli^'l° , 'V v 7
Knows “fwavl' nievis-
" iviever < =>«'b on
b, iGiVbU ! “ A
Bents new nr^A
, g\\\ «(•
- ft,rfe sr«ff Do >r
rrjore l
Ko visiied W
hie SucV; v eycelleot" ~
-fr;vn As Melboa*'ne-
JjCo f »' ,v >'iS ,or,c * *tAit 1
Then This h 7 i»<,-r'W« sort'
tVa^in service Saw J
UM “ 1
AT THE! Ol_,D ADDRE-55-
Pass TMe. d°°k]
I
Jonf tni* ub in
politics hi well noW
I Just" Ijob in now &
Se Cb'n-
' - THKTs Al-e !
fit 'y' ifeJW A •
OwinP f° new duty. Agists
bai'ctjaAe o«r ' RefroducfTon
Qveaf Hostel's s«tj
Jforcign fu Flrm^
MELBOURNE HAPPENINGS.


Education by Post • —Until recently young
people in the country who desired to better their finan-
cial condition by the pursuit of knowledge have been
handicapped by the difficulty of obtaining expert instruc-
tion in general educational, business or technical
subjects. This state of things has now been remedied,
and the facilities of the greatest private educational in-
stitution in Australia may now be brought to their very
doors. Stott and Hoare’s Business College has elaborated
a system of practical and comprehensive postal instruc-
tion in Bookkeeping, Shorthand, Typewriting, Penman-
ship, Arithmetic, Correspondence, Electrical and Mechan-
ical Engineering, Architecture and Building Construction,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, Pen and Ink
Sketching, etc., and effective methods are employed to
prepare by post candidates for all public examinations.
The Principal will forward a beautifully printed descrip-
tive booklet, entitled “ Home Study,” on application to
Dept. 8., Stott and Hoare’s Business College, Moore
. B-reet, Sydney,*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Limited, Agents.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
PARTNERS.
“ No , yer don't, Miss Clever ! I don't care if it
is yer birthday; yer knows well enough it
ain't tour week to wear our boots! ”
“ Hamer ” leaves some distressed females
in the lurch :
In a northern N.S.W. town, not long ago, the Salvarmy
held a great camp-meeting, and the lads and lasses,
major-generals, colonels, horse-marines, senior-sergeants,
field-marshals, artillery, trombones, and all the other
army nomenclature of the surrounding districts rolled up
in force. They marched with Mat and drum-music to
the meeting-ground, and enlightener the world on their
past sins and present virtues until well after midnight.
Then the strangers found that nothing in the way of
lodgings had been provided for them. The quarter-
master had forgotten his job, and the adjutant had
fallen through, so to speak. The soldier}’ went in
pairs to knock up the houses of sinners, and
negotiate for accommodation, and when I left
the town at 5.30 a.m., some of them, whose train
travelled in the opposite direction and wasn’t expected
for hours, were still knocking. Lieutenant-Colonel
Agnes May Concertina and Major Matilda Tambourine
awoke the Scotch landlady of the house where I
was trying to sleep. She never knew anything that
happened beyond her neighbor’s doorstep, and she
wanted to know what they were doing out at that hour.
“ We’ve been doing the Lord’s work,” explained Colonel
May Concertina. “ Hoots, then,” said my iandlad.v, “ I’m
thinking th’ Lord’s work’s no respectable this time o’
night.” Then the window slammed heavily, and I heard
the officers utter a prayer for the Scotchwoman’s forgive-
ness —at least, I suppose it was a prayer, though it
sounded more like a reservoir.
“ J.G.” : Be “ F.H.R.’s ” amazing state-
ment (B. 22/8/’O7) that he knew a man who took
on a ring-barking job at 3d. an acre. Have
simply to say that the job must have been on the
more lightly-wooded portions of the Bathurst
plains, or some such place, carrying about i-tree
to the acre. And yet, even so, “F.H.R.’s”
friend would have wasted more in boot-leather,
walking from one tree to the other, than he earned
ring-barking. Am therefore driven to conclude,
(1) that “F.H.R.’s” friend is as calamitous a
financier as Carruthers, or (2) that he took on that
tray-an-acre job for fun, or (3) that “F.H.R.” is
a liar.
• * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Let me make a few
remarks about the out-backers’ hospitality. This
is my experience, anyhow. From the sovran
squatter, who still owns his station, and the
bank’s manager, right down to the hard row-
hoeing selector, courtesy to the stranger is charac-
teristic. Rarely are apologies offered for rough
accommodation or for coarse fare. If one likes to
accept the shelter and the tucker, one is right
royally welcome. It has to be good enough for
the host and his’n —so it ought to be good enough
for the visitor. One dare not offer money to the
poorest cocky any more than he dare offer
it to the squatter in return for hospi-
tality. The truly thankful traveller makes some
return in a way that increases good fellowship.
Story and song, kindly manners and no side, are
what the Westerners relish as recompense for
their open-handedness. I travelled thrice over
60,000 square miles of Far West; and only once
was I refused hospitality for the night. To be
exact, I was not actually refused ; but the offer
was made in such a half-hearted way, and with
such whole-souled hesitation, that my bush-boy
driver and I preferred to camp out under the
buggy all night. A black boy galloped after us,
and overtook us about three miles from the home-
stead, with an apology—“ Boss say you bin tarrive
back alonga me. You too plurry scotty, boss
say; my wud.” We drove not back. I spent
the greater part of that bleak winter’s night on
the Paroo, lying wrapped up in.overcoat and
blanket, looking at the stars, and praying for
the manager. Poor wretch ! he was the only
white person on the station. Environment had
envenomed him!
« * * *
“Pick”: The bush has an occasional
artist wasted on its solitudes. On the side of a
dry gumtree by the Brogo River road, near Bega
(N.S.W.), there remained for many months, until
destroyed by a bush fire, a true and life-sized
memory picture of Henry Parkes, which had been
done in tar by a stone-breaker during his smoke-
oh spells. In the woolsheds along the Murrum-
bidgee there once worked, as bale-brander, an
illiterate fellow, who, on the wool-packs, made
excellent caricatures of all the shed identities,
from squatter to dag-picker, with raddle, char-
coal, or tattoo-oil. An old sailor, employed once
as shepherd on Monaro, kept the interior of his
hut lined with marine studies done on cardboard
or packing paper, with sheep’s blood and washing
blue for pigments.
* * * *
Barb ” : Though there are thousands of
hares in the Monaro paddocks, have never yet,
in my short bush experience, found mother hare
at home with her young.
Where does she hide them ?
Cheeky infant rabbits scuttle
away from one at every turn,
but the only time I have seen
a very young hare in the open
was in the early summer of
last year. It frolicked with
a full-grown hare, presumably
its mother. The two seemed
fully conscious of the beauty
of the morning, and chased
each other gladsomelv. First,
the nipper would race round
a log, leaping it about the
middle, with the mother in hot
pursuit. Then they would stop
and smile at each other, and
the mother would become the
pursued. A crow hovering near
watched with interest the
pretty performance, and, swoop-
ing suddenly, lifted the young-
ster into the air. The mother,
crying like a child, leaped after
it. Down the hill she tore, her
head turned ever upwards, and
leaping at the low-flying crow as
she went. He rested with his
burden on the orchard fence. The
hare, pleading loudly for the return
of her babe, tried to climb the fence,
hut the merciless black wretch flew off
again, and I lost sight of the tragedy.
* * * *
N.S.W. Timber Commission is pushing its
rather vague inquiries on the Richmond River,
the one-time home of the Big Scrub, now given
up to the feeding and worship of the Hindu
goddess, Cow. Thirty years ago the banks of the
Richmond were lined with a vast cedar-scrub. At
that time the red cedar was the most valuable
timber in Australia. Now there is hardly a stick
of available, or accessible, cedar growing in N. S.
Wales. All have been cut down and sold, and
when the cedar was gone, the valuable timber
that was left was cut down and burnt to make
room at first for cane, and afterwards for Cow.
The Moreton Bay fig, the beech, and a great many
other useful trees were cleared off, and some of
them have almost passed from the memory of
man. In those days the bushman considered
every tree as his natural enemy, and considered
its destruction a meritorious act. Some of the
relics of the Big Scrub that still remain have been
examined by that botanical enthusiast, Thozet, of
Rockhampton, who ascertained that one or two
at least of the vines found in it were rubber-
bearing. His opinion has since been confirmed,
but the vines, like the timber, are nearly all gone.
The secretary of a Progress Ass. told the Com.
at Casino that no sane farmer would destroy valu-
able timber. In that case, judging by experience,
there must be a great many insane farmers, and
the Government will do well to take care of its
own timber, and not rely on any deranged agri-
culturist.
* * * *
Old people and those who have weak
lungs cannot be too careful in guarding against
pneumonia. It always results from a cold, or
from an attack of influenza, and can be prevented
by the timely use of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. A great many who have had every
reason to fear pneumonia have warded it off by
the prompt use of this remedy. Pneumonia
usually begins with a heavy chill, followed with
high fever, pain in the lungs and difficult
breathing, and great prostration. Take Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy at once, in order to
check these symptoms. We do not claim that it
w'ill cure pneumonia, but do claim that it will
prevent it if taken in time.*
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER (POLICE) CASES.
BUSH POLICEMAN’S BRIDE : “ That swaggie has been begging everywhere .”
BUSH POLICEMAN : “ Well , I can't lock all the poor devils up!”
BUSH POLICEMAN’S Bride : “ No, but there's not a scrap of split wood in the yard.”
(Swaggie run in quick and lively.)
“ Stony ” : “ The average bishop loves the
pure merinos of his flock ” (B. 14/2/’O7). So he
does. Up on a Riverina station, where the
manager was a fairly “ well-connected ” person—
his uncle was a Judge !—there was an imported
young man, who was even a purer merino than
he. One night an imported church dignitary
arrived to dinner. The fatted calf was stuffed,
and there were wild duck and things with divers
trimmings. During the meal the churchman dis-
covered the jackeroo’s pedigree, and for the rest
of the evening devoted himself to falling all over
the youth, and talking to him about his family,
while the boss was treated as if he were dead.
Next day the jackeroo was put at loading gory
sheepskins, not new, up at the woolshed, and
after that was finished, he was told to haul car-
cases out of a nearly dried-up dam, some miles
away. He was struggling with the fourth carcase
before he realised the meaning of the situation.
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : I was talking with a Mel-
bourne policeman on a tram, the other day, and
he told me a story illustrative of the
bovine patience of bush-bred people.
Constable Ex,was on duty one day in
Bourke-street, and noticed a man lean-
ing against a verandah post in front of
the Arcade. After an hour or so he
paid more attention to the leaning
man. The lone visitor was a brown-
faced, bearded individual in a new
slop suit two sizes too small, and wear-
ing an old, familiar, brown felt hat.
The man was plainly from the far
country. Three hours passed, and the
bushie was still drowsing against the
post. Curiosity more . than duty
prompted the peeler to interfere.
“Come, come, my man,” he said,
“you must move on. You can’t live
here, you know.” The bushie looked
startled. “Oh, all right, mate,” he
said, “I’mjist waitin’ fer me missus.
She went in there t’ buy some
socks.” “But you’ve been here four
hours,” said the law. “Yes, I s’pose
I have,” answered the man from way-
back. “ Martha is a bit slow.”
The policeman explained that the
Arcade was not a shop, that it had
two exits, and probably Martha had
gone astray. At the corner Constable
Ex told the yarn to the man on the
next beat as a humorous incident.
“ Well, I’m jiggered ! ” ejaculated
Policeman Wy. “His old woman’s
sitting on the kerb here in front of
the Elizabeth-street entrance. She’s
been there all the morning. She says
she left her Bill waiting there, and she
supposes he’s gone for a look round,
but he’ll turn up all right, Bill will!”
Eventually the law succeeded in bring-
ing the patient waiters together again,
and the home wasn’t busted up.
“ G.S.K.” (Broken Hill) : Be that par as
to the smallest habitation in existence, the herein-
after-mentioned place is not as small as that in
the trunk of a tree, but it is a good example of the
colossal impudence of the commercial fraternity.
At the north end of this city there is an apology
for a fruit shop. It consists of four walls, with a
covering (the walls are made of wood, iron, and
calico). There is one door and one window. The
dimensions of the establishment are Bft. by Bft.
by Bft. Over the door is painted the inscription,
“ The British King.”
* * * *
The afflicted all fly to it,
The suffering cry for it,
Sing praises high of it,
It can ensure
Protection from chills,
Chest troubles and ills,
Keep down doctors’ bills —
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ F.H.R.” : Johnno had got on to a “dead
cert.” He confided in Micko, and between them
they tried their best to raise enough money to back
it. The races were to be held On Tuesday, and this
was Friday; so, having failed to borrow, beg or steal
a quid or two, they perchance had to use their
brains. It was Micko who “ found a way.” He
borrowed a turnout from Robbo for a day or two,
and, with .Tohnno as driver, went round a quiet
suburb early on Sunday morning. Then he care-
fully drove out into the scrub near Gladesville,
and an inquiring mind might have discovered
them camping under a cartload of stolen clothes-
props. Very few of the people really missed their
props until Monday morning, and, as Monday is
invariably a woman’s washing-day, Micko and
Johnno sold the props they had stolen in Edward-
street to the people in Jolinstone-street, and vice
versa. But alas, the pony! Language cannot
do justice to the remarks of Micko and Johnno
when they heard that it was next Tuesday he was
a trier. And all the prop-money was on by that
time.
GRAPHIC PHRASEOLOGY.
WITTY K.C. : “And thereupon you arose and
smote him across the auricular organ, eh ? ”
VOLUBLE WITNESS: “ No. . hups an' plugs
’im on the ear ! ”
With their earnings, the Torres Straits
Islands aborigines employed in the pearling in-
dustry had, up to the end of 1906, purchased nine-
teen fishing boats of the total value of £2654, and
had paid off £2132 of that amount. The Torres
Straits Island black is evidently not of the thrift-
less, “ gib ittickpen” variety of Binghi.
* * * *
One day’s trial will convince you of the
soothing, cough-allaying, lung-healing power of
Angier’s Emulsion. It is pleasant to take and
aids digestion. Send 4d. postage for a free
sample bottle to the Angier Chemical Cos., Ltd.,
7 Barrack Street, Sydney.*
BLACKBERRIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was early ’mong the blackberries this morning,
Ere the hills their veils had lifted,
Ere the moon had slowly, drifted
On her everlasting journey, ’long the sky-wa3'S of the
West,
Sinking sadly o’er the crest
Of the mountains in the West,
For the moon and sun are lovers, and she pined to be
caressed.
It was wet among the blackberries this morning,
For the soft rain had been singing
Thro’ the summer night, and bringing
Lucent wine from starry chalices to gullies all athirst.
And the wild buds may not burst
While the soil is all athirst,
And the parent branches whiten, and the land is all
accursed.
O what color ’mong the blackberries this morning 1
Bloom of briar soft and mellow,
Leaves of brown and red and yellow,
And the deep green of the saplings, shooting starward
from the earth—
Lusty gum trees of young birth,
Springing from their plot of earth,
Sheltering theland that bore them, strong in plenty or
in dearth !
I was dreaming ’mong the blackberries this morning !
If the moon hath pangs of passion,
I from this might sweetly fashion
Words of love to witch and woo you from the languor of
your way.
For the moon does not say nay,
Up along the starry way,
O ! she rides among her children-stars, and wantons
when they stray 1
And I thirsted ’mong the blackberries this morning ;
And the birds looked down in wonder
As I sat in dream to ponder
If you’ll ever deign to call to life the young love of my
heart.
Then the bush buds burst apart,
And I saw each shining heart,
And I thought it was a symbol, and it took away the
smart.
And I said among the blackberries this morning,
“ Soon my love will be relenting,
And will come to me repenting,
And will lift her lips of laughter to my own, and she will
sing,
* Lover ! Songs of Life I bring ! ’ ”
Then my heart began to sing,
And I knew you were my qyeen of song, and dreamed I
was a king.
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.


From
October 1
We shall be compelled to raise our
prices of the celebrated ....
** F. & /?," WATCHES
By 11 Per Cent.
We have paid already the 11 per ceu».
increase under the new Tariff on a
large number of these Watches, and
the prices were always cut so fine that
we will be forced to charge the in-
crease from October Ist. Orders sent
before that will be supplied at the
old prices.
00
o
JsQ
u\
St
rO
Gent.’s Oxidised
Open Face f-Plate
Lever, 15 Jewels.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
Monogram
2/6 Extra.
23 HUNTER STREET,
Plain Figures Cash.
“Barb”: These days, when the birds
are mating, and the wattle is in full bloom, the
bush is a delightful place. The quiet gullies are
full of scent and song. A
woodpecker darts up
a tree trunk, pausing
half-way to give out
his two beautiful
sustained notes,
seeming to want
to break into ful-
ler song, and not
knowing quite
how. Even the
parrots and
mags whistle
softly and joy-
fully. Every
flitting mite has
a lovely tone or
two, and the only
jarring note is
the “ scrawk ” of
the cockatoo’s
sentry, like a din-
ner fork scraped
violently on a
grate, or the harsh
“Look out ! look
out! look out!” of
the ever watchful
soldier-bird. To-day,
near a streamlet, far
from any road, I was
struck still by three
beautiful “ Gluck,
gluck, glucks ” and
a ripple of song like
that of a canary, but
fuller and richer. For
some minutes the
birdie sang, now softly,
meditatively, now
swelling powerfully,
but never once did he
sacrifice sweetness to
strength. The air was
filled with his music, but I could
not find him. From tree to tree I crept,
peering up into the clustering blossoms; and at last
on a fallen bough I discovered him, as trusting as
a baby lamb. They call him a thrush—he’s grey
and about the length of a £1 note. But I don’t
want him to be a thrush. I want him to be some-
thing of our very own, and isn’t the thrush an
importation ?
* * * *
“Dormant” (from the neighborhood of
Ballarat, Vic.): I know the champion beer-
speculator. He goes to any and every church on
communion day, and takes a deep, deep swig of
the wine.
♦ * * *
“ Itan ” i North Coast (N.S.W.) cowmen
occasionally have heated arguments as to who
introduced paspalum dilatatum grass, which is the
greatest godsend to the puncher who relies upon
nature to feed his stock. Most of them say it was
George Seccombe, one time of Lismore, who
found the grass growing where some imported
goods had been unpacked. But those who cham-
pion this chance theory have to reckon with Baron
von Mueller, who, in a book published as far back
as 1881, said that he had introduced the seed some
time previously. In regard to Rhodes grass—
which promises to even eclipse dilatatum, in some
parts, because it will thrive in the dry belt —there
<loes not seem to be any doubt that
Brown, now of Singleton, introduced it from
o’Africa.
“G.S.K.” : Re the nomenclature of towns,
the following is a collection of names from the
Crow-Eater State (“owie,” I understand, is the
aboriginal term for a watering place):—Appila-
Yarrowie, Booborowie, Caltowie, Canowie, Gurn-
bowie. Marrachowie, Murnpeowie, Tarcowie,
Telowie, Terowie, Warcowie, Wepowie, Winni-
owie, and Yarcowie.
* * * *
From the Tableland of the Northern Terri-
tory, “Vigilans” writes :
On the overland track from the Northern Territory to
Queensland I have seen some strange sights these last
few months.
Sixty miles from the Katherine River I met a “tourist,”
who had lately arrived from Hongkong, and was, he said,
“ walking to Adelaide.” He carried a light shawl rug,
small waterbag, six silk handkerchiefs, about a pound of
biscuits, and some cheese. He wore a heavy tweed suit,
large pith hat, and white canvas shoes. He also had a
small wicker-work stool to sit upon. He told me he was
walking to Adelaide to see the country. He had made
no inquiries about water, but had left the Katherine in
a casual sort of way to tackle 2000 miles of wilderness,
with some 50-mile dry stages. When I saw him the bag
was empty, and he was on a 40-mile dry stage. I argued
with him till he agreed to turn back.
At Frew’s Pond a native wanted to help look after my
horses, carry wood and water, etc. He spoke good
English, and I asked him where he had been working.
“ Oh,” he replied, “ I went to Adelaide, Melbourne, and
Sydney with Mr. Henderson. I stop longtime Adelaide.”
He was now as Nature made him, and knocked about the
track picking up tobacco and scraps from travellers.
Camped near one of the telegraph stations, there is
also a lubra who was taken to Adelaide in her young
days and was taught many things. She is now back in
the primitive stage, living under a piece of bark, with an
old consort. Their wardrobe consists of a clay pipe.
One morning I struck a peculiar cavalcade. A small
mob of horses was followed by a big white man, a lubra,
and 14 hybrid piccaninnies—all on horseback. “Going to
town,” he said. “ Town ” was Borroloola—police-station,
store, and public-house. “My word, you have a big
family,” I remarked. “This is not the lot,” he replied ;
“ three at home.” He told me he had lived for 25 years
in the Territory, and had a cattle run, and thought of
going south soon. Anyone marrying a daughter gets a
start of 100 shorthorns and 20 horses—“ want to see
them get a decent start in life,” he said. Three of the
girls looked “ just the thing,” and should not be long on
the market at the price.
At Anthony’s Lagoon I met M’Gregor, “ the walking
crank.” He had walked from Adelaide to Port Darwin.
From there he took boat to Thursday Island, thence he
went to Cooktown. He had walked from there, and was
on his way again to the Territory. Whaffor? I don’t
know. Neither does he.
At Brunette Station, on the Tableland, there is an old
gin of 60 who has three daughters, two grand-daughters,
and four great grand-cbildren. They all live on the run,
and have been there all their lives. One daughter is
6ft. 2in. high, and weighs 13 stone ; a grand-daughter is
6ft., and weighs 10 stone 131 b. Food and clothing make
all the difference to our black brothers and sisters.
The only sheep station in the Territory—Avon Downs—
depastures 35,000 sheep and 7000 cattle. The run is
watered by 14 bores, and measures 2400 square miles.
Forty-three bales of wool last year topped the London
market at 2s. 7d. for scoured wool. This portion of the
Territory, when the railway comes along, will carry
millions of sheep ; cut up into 30,000-acre selections, it
will be a grand country. The rental just now is Is. 6d.
per square mile 1
Near Brunette I met a handsome man riding a hand-
some horse. He was over 60, and sat his nag in great
style. Over 20 years in the Territory, and never sick or
sorry. He has a small cattle and horse run near Tennant’s
Creek. There is no doubt about it—the tableland country
has a magnificent climate. Farrow, of Nutwood Downs,
and Cope, of Bohemia, two struggling graziers, are ex-
amples. Over 20 years in the North, both over 60, still
going strong, and riding as straight as an arrow.
Scrutton, near Borroloola, is the oldest inhabitant (not
The Bulletin’s) ; he is nearly 70.
The rainfall is 16 inches, and sub-artesian water is
struck at 200 ft. What a field for settlement—4oo miles
by 80 of the finest Downs country in Australia, depasturing
some 50,000 cattle and 35,000 sheep! Horses bred: here
have great stamina, and will go a 50-mile journey without
turning a hair.
THE HOLD-ALL.
NEW BARMAID : “ But why do you always bring
a great bedroom jug for a mere two-
penn’orth ? ”
THE ANCIENT : “ Good Lord! Do you take me
fer a Rockyfeller, or a crockery store, or
what !”
Mr. Frecl Betts, of Bowra (N.S.W.),
communicates an interesting item to the “soil ”
column of a Sydney daily. In 1839 Governor
George Gipps paid a visit to Bathurst and
Molong, and purchased a blue bull for Mr. Betts’
father. The bull was shipped for England by one
of Mr. Henty’s whalers. The ship had to call at
Enderby Land on its way, but was “wrecked
down there somewhere.” The bull was supposed
to have been drowned, but five years afterwards
it was found fat and well, and feeding knee-deep
in green moss. It was re-shipped and arrived in
England safely, a much-travelled animal. The
Betts are descendants of Parson Marsden.
* • # *
If a laddie gets a wetting
Coming thro’ the rye,
If he has a cold upon him
Need the laddie die ;
He can laugh at all chest troubles
If he can procure
The proper stuff, and plain enough,
It's Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
HE HAD DONE IT TOO.
BOXING INSTRUCTOR (remonstrating) ; “Now, yer shouldn’t drop yer guard like that—l
might 'a' HURT yer.”
“Boy Blue” : The Chow is not simple ;
he only looks that way. A number of town lads
recently inveigled one of him into the bar in this
place on purpose to pull his profitable leg. They
explained to John that they were going to play a
game of “blanks” to find out who should shout.
John said “Alii.” “You know how playem
John?” questioned Ferguson. John shook his
pigtail emphatically. “No; me no knowhow
playem. Me learn now,” he chortled, gleefully,
Accordingly a number of cards, all blank, were
thrown into a hat. “Now, John,” explained
Brownson, “s’posetn I gettem blank card, I
shout. S’posem you gettem, you shout, see?”
John chortled more. “ Alii, me see.” So the
hat was passed round, and each took a card and
called out “eight,” “six,” “seven,” or any other
old number that happened into his mind. But
they nearly choked when John drew the last card
and shouted “Me/oiW m efourl” Then Smith
spoke firmly. “Show, John, whv you say four.”
John beamed on Smith. “ Whaffor ? whaffor,”
he demanded, “show em you fella? My wort
goot, goot. Chinyman him welly quick fella. Too
quick for ’Stlalyman; me know all time.” And
that night there were no drinks.
, , . # ,
A country idyll by “Dew W. ” :-01d
Simpson was settling young Bill Simpson on the
“bit uv a selection up at the back.” He had
given young Bill cattle (the weeds of the mob), a
lame horse or two, and a blind dog. There was a
huvnpy on the selection already, and in the gener-
osity of his heart old Simpson yielded that also to
Til'll Owltt one ii,
i. j 1 on ® matter remained unattended to.
rSill hadn t a bit of skirt to help him prop the
humpy up, and Simpson, senior, determined to
do his best for young Bill in this, as in other
things. Bill didn’t mind at all what sort of
Siaßtjr.sr 4 h i m ' r° vid f d v,*t
d an t mag too damn much and wuz er bit of
a gratter. Brown, across the “ crik, had
two spankin’ daughters. One, a big raw-
boned heifer with close - cropped hair ; tbe
other, built on a rather smaller scale, with
lono- fierv looks looking fit tr. ccnrob t-he
kff ’rii i B n top
i? er j jiT •’„, d Bl recommended the red-
headed piece, but young Bill seemed doubtful
as to her “graftin ” propensities. “ Ther big ’un
’ud stand more knockin’ up than ther little sap-
lin’,” he remarked, knowingly. “ Yairs, p’raps,”
snorted r>le Sim™™ “line ~,Lne Ju,, u,
; t BuC what erbout her
mukin . Bill thought a minute. Why
snouidn t she milk as good as ther old ’un,” he
inquired brusquely. Old Simpson tapped him
gently on the chest with his pipe (and knocked the
ashes up in his ear). “Look ’ere, Bill,” he said
“ vr, „ » cj u
. ii y d S r r 4 !w 0W nothin • See here,
and 111 tell yer. JNow (emphatically) stick to
ther ginger. Them there red-haired cows is alius
rippin’milkers. Who knows but what gels follow
ther same lines ? And yer knows yerself yer can’t
expect n„thi"’f T , them. <!."»» po, eJ ,’; Then
dici Bill receive into hie mind the counsel of his
rather and he went forth and yarded the red
heifer.”
The discouraging remarks made by somo
fish enthusiasts in regard to the introduction of
roach to N.S.W. waters should not be taken in
® dch bad P art by the Sta -te Fisheries Board,
\ here are roach and roach, and while the best of
“Bm are not very good the worst are very bad.
And if Australia is to acclimatise foreign products
pains should be taken to accept only the best,
not tbo ? e tbat even ln their ow .n country are
regarded with gloom. Australia has suffered so
seriously from the craze for importing plants and
animals that he is a patriot who rings a fire
he ll , or a dinner bell, or any alarming old bell, and
rings it like gehenna, when a new importation is
mentioned. Acclimatisation societies and crazy
individuals of the acclimatising cult have cost
Australia so much of its hard-borrowed money
, at can a nord to take new risks. Rabbits,
bare . s * sparrows, starlings, burrs, thistles, and
m , otb pests_were regarded as valuable additions
f hen , firs * introduced. To-day they are cursed
from the Gulf to the Bight. If, when the lunch-
bed of warning has sounded, investigation be
made, and reliable scientific authority pronounce
ln fav ° r °[ tbe new importation, Australia may
accept it; but even then the acceptance should be
with fear and trembling. Even scientific authority
gOeS W “ f ? Uy aske " “ t "" 8s .
uxr i » A
Karaka writes
The paragraph in a recent issue of The Bulletin with
reference to the decadence of certain towns on the
N - s - w - western line and the prevalence of the time-
th\West I s . undoubtedly true,
and, incidentally, it is the motive which has prompted a
certain section of Bathurst folk to cry out agitatedly for
the planting of the Federal capital somewhere in the
vicinity of that unprosperous town. But that is another
story. The fact remains that right up to, and beyond
g athursfc > the towns on the western line are in a sta-
sss ’safcsttxs&iffls;
estates, which block settlement, at the very gates of the
more important centres. Here, where there are railway
facilities for conveyance of the products of intense cul-
ture>the pastoralist is allowed to monopolise the land,
f. hil ® the small settler has to go further back, and cart
hls heavy produce, with much profanity and waste of
time and horseflesh, to the distant railway station.
And the present Government has left these large land-
ownersreligiouslyalone,thewhilethestrugglingproducer
is driven further and further from the railway, until the
roads become mere tracks, impassable in wet weather,
aad hj B .dream of making a living from the soil vanishes
into thin air. That is why we want a Federal graduated
land . tax . It is the only hope of many communities in
this misgoverned State. As to the city canvasser, and
the practice of sending to Sydney for goods which might
be obtained in the local township, has it ever occurred to
y° ur readers that the Board of Health seems to consider
that duties end with the metropolis and that it is
safer to buy goods where some steps are taken to punish
adulteration of food than to purchase them where
nothing is done to protect the purchaser ? And this will
go on as long as country inspectors are appointed on the
mere recommendation that they are useful on the fire
brigade or town band, and without any reference to their
t 0 f he Boird ol Health. »nd theproeecution ol dishoneit
tradesmen should be as fearlessly pursued in the distant
country town as in the city.
STRIKING GAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hark ! the sound of falling mattocks from the ranges
strikes the ear,
And the thump, thump, thump of mattocks can be heard
at Bendemeer;
The butts are flying skyward as the iron strikes the wood
Till a thousand rocky ranges to a three-foot depth are
strewed ;
Then the ancient gloom is scattered and the old sun
lights his lamp.
And the hills the cry re-echo: “It is time for striking
camp."
We have wondered every evening if our clothes would
last us through
As we patched by slush-lamp’s flicker, trying hard to
make ’em do.
Well, they’ve done; we’ll save the buttons—they’ll be
wanted, p’r’aps, some day—
And we’ll keep a shirt for patches when our new ones
wear away ;
There’s a boot or two wants mending ere we venture on
the tramp,
Oh 1 there’s lots of things to think of when a man is
striking camp.
On the tracks that lead from Sydney to the bounds of
God-Knows-Where,
Down the wide, white ways of Silence in the heat and
dust and glare,
They are fighting Fate and falling—broken tools of Cir-
cumstance,
Some who had the chance and missed it, some who never
had the chance ;
In the grey of early morning, hot or cold, or dry or
damp,
Playing out the game of Fortune, you will meet them
striking camp.
There’s a little group of mourners passing slowly down
the road,
Where a hearse with sombre trappings bears a silent,
heavy load ;
Wreaths of roses in profusion where but only thorns were
strown,
Empty phrases bred of custom where but sneer and gibe
were known—
Just a woman weeping lonely, in her heart Death’s iron
stamp,
Just an every-day occurrence, one more comrade striking
camp.
From a mansion in Killara they are taking tons of things
To a van as big as houses out in towns like Tambar
Springs—
Chairs and tables that would stock a hundred homes of
poverty ;
Beds and bedding, plate and glassware, chests of dainty
lingerie ;
Oh 1 when carters lift and carry till their backs are bent
with cramp,
You can bet it’s not an auction, its a fatman striking
camp.
And it’s so from dark till dawning, east and west, and
south and north,
Wearied hearts are trooping homeward, buoyant hearts
are going forth,
Over range and yellow river, out on mighty Ocean’s
breast,
Slumb’rous only in the seeming broods the spirit of
Unrest;
And adown the gleaming ages comes a ceaseless, sullen
tramp
Where from sunrise until sunrise all the world is striking
camp.
N.S.W.
VELDT.


The revolt of the people.
Infuriated anti-tariff meet-
ing.
Over 100 messages of congratulation have been
received by fir. Carruthers over the wire-netting
episode. —News Item.
Carruthers: “That’s all right. But the votes didn’t
come in. And letters don’t answer this writ I ”
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Australia (to the farmer) : “ No rain, old
man. Bad for the great natural re-
sources, eh? Nevermind; it will come
in time; and meanwhile the tariff is
building up some other resources
that will help us to tide over.’’
This is a monster petition against
the tariff in preparation.
N.B.—The small boy is to bring in
drinks, and to help to sign while the
chief signer is having lunch.
THE RAW MATERIAL ' HOWL.
Pushite Deputation : “ Yer see, Mr. Lyne, ’arf-bricks an’ bottles is our raw
material w’en we goes for a real good day-out, an’ these ’ere duties are
very tryln’ to us.” ><
A TARIFF PAGE.


Odol is the first and
only preparation for cleansing
the mouth and teeth which exer-
cises its antiseptic and refreshing
powers not only during the brief
period of application, but con-
tinuing for some hours afterwards
m
-
/
:||l|
zam
Simply rinse the mouth
and cleanse the teeth with Odol in the
morning and before retiring, and the
breath will be always delightfully fresh
and the mouth free from dangerous
impurities
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Billy T.” : Heard Tom Bent give a
comic song at a private shivoo in Melbourne, the
other evening, and know now why he always
takes off his hat to a cow. It is because of her
superior singing voice.
Peter of Servia, who waded to his trumpery
throne or inverted kerosene-tin through a slop of
blood, recently expressed a desire to visit England;
but King Ned was not taking any Peter, and
intimated, in the manner of our once-upon-a-time
Wally, “ Better not.”
AGRICULTURE.
STEVE : “ Did yer knock ’im down when ’e done
that to yer ? ”
DIDO : “ Yaas, ’e went on the land.”
The death of Mr. L. T. Lloyd leaves Mr.
W. H. Palmer the sole official assignee in connec-
tion with the N. S. Wales Bankruptcy Court.
Time was when there were half-a-dozen, and they
all made money. In view of the fact that the
first signs of another drought are visible on the
horizon, it might be wise to appoint three more
official assignees in all possible haste.
Laborite J. H. Cann, of Broken Hill,
seems to be glued on to his seat tighter than any
other man in the N.S.W. In 10
years (four general elections) the votes cast against
him ha,ve totalled 271. His friend, Alf Edden,
of Kahibah (Newcastle), has the next best record ;
880 votes have altogether been cast against him,
and 454 of those were as far back as 1898.
The struggle of the Carruthers crowd to
keep Varney Parkesout (certainly they now count
his votes as cast for them) recalls that when he first
got into Parliament, in 1891, he easily beat G. H.
Reid, who could only creep in as fourth man for
East Sydney. Even in those days the Parkeses
and Reid looked on one another with the icy
eye of suspicion, and Varney had much joy in
referring to the subsequent Supplanter as “My
junior colleague.”
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
A George-street (Sydney) property is for sale, by order
of the trustees of a very ancient N. S. Wales family. The
property, which is on the west side of George-street, near
the A. J.S. Bank, is offered by order of the trustees of the
late Felix Wilson. Caleb Wilson came to New South
Wales in the ship Experiment, June 25, 1804, Felix being
then two years old. Caleb at first settled on the Hawkes-
bury, and was one of Governor Bligh’s friends. Later on
he moved to Sydney and started in business ; in the
’thirties, the firm was “Caleb and Felix Wilson, Mer-
chants, George-street.” Caleb died in November, 1838,
aged 70 years. Felix, on retiring from business, occupied
“°Leitrim,” the old home of Chief Justice Forbes, at New-
town. Then he removed to “ The Pines,” Redfern, where
he died in 1865, “ after an exemplary life,” as his tomb-
stone tells us, aged 63 years.
Police Magistrate Leader, who was acci-
dentally killed on the electric tramway in Bal-
larat, on September 12, was a son-in-law of the
late Townsend Macdermott, for a long time the
aged parent of the Victorian Bar.
The Inky Way doesn’t"often lead up to a
Church Presidency ; but “ Bobby ” Burns, for
years the Adelaide Register’s chief reporter, has
just become President of the Associated Churches
of Christ —the little sect that is half-brother to
the Baptists, but doesn’t have any “ Reverends.”
It bulks pretty considerable in South Aus. where
the Burfords, the soap people, feed it liberally.
Sharebroker Walter Cutten, who died, the
other day, in Adelaide, was one of a pair of
remarkable twins. They were both brokers, had
spent all their business lives in partnership, and
they were so absolutely alike that though each
one knew himself, neither was quite certain that
his photo was his own and not the other fellow’s.
The Treasurer of the Australian His-
torical Society begins to worry the public, Sydney
municipal council and the N.S.W. Government
about erecting a memorial to the Rev. Richard
Johnson on the site of the first Sydney church.
Johnson was the first man to make a cash inde-
pendence out of the profession of religion in Aus-
tralia. And when he scraped up the money he
took it to England with him, and spent the rest of
his life enjoying it as a holy absentee.
Sub-Collector of Customs E. J. Newman,
who passed his last entry at Adelaide, the other
day, was aS. A. native, born in 1859. He joined
the Province’s Customs Department as a cadet in
1877, and was appointed Customs clerk in ’BO, an
inspector of drawbacks in ’94, and Commonwealth
senior paying officer at Melbourne in 1901. He
returned to Adelaide in ’O3, and last year, after a
short spell as chief clerk and accountant, suc-
ceeded W. H. F. Bayly in the sub-Collectorship.
Obit, on September 19, Albert Edward
Cornwell, one of Sydney’s old-time horse-trainers.
He was a native of the Hawkesbury, where the
Cornwells have been planted since time out of
mind. He was born on November 9, 1841, same
day as King Ned VII., after whom he was
named. One of his greatest successes was the
training of Lord Cardigan for John Mayo when
he won the Melbourne Cup. The deceased was
as honest as a horsey man can afford to be, and
something over.
There is still another twist in the tan gle
over the missing Senate voting papers in S. Aus-
tralia. When the papers couldn’t be found, and
so were supposed to have been burned with the
waste-paper, returning-officer Croft was fined £lO
and spoken to severely. Croft took it to heart so
much that he resigned from the post office, of
which he was one of the half-dozen seniors in
S. Australia. Now the papers have been found ;
and a puzzled old postmaster is trying to make up
his mind whether, after 40 years’ service, it is
worth while trying to recall the resignation or not.
John James Lee was buried at Waver ley
(N.S.W.) last week after 88 years of existence.
His first job in Sydney was a clerkship in the
Crown Lands Department, away back in the
early ’4o’s. Thence he gravitated to the solicitor’s
room in the Department of Justice. For about
60 years he passed up and down, knowing every-
body’s business as far as it appeared on official
foolscap before him, but taking very little interest
in the persons. So many Ministers shook his
hand on assuming office, and shook it again when
leaving, that they looked to him, as he said, like
persons passing him in the street.
The big Hordern estate paid fees to three
K.C.’s and a dozen lesser lawyers in Sydney
Equity Court last week. The original Anthony
left two sons, Anthony and Samuel. Anthony
died in 1886, and left a widow and children.
When he made his will the business wasn’t what
it is now, and he mentioned £2OO a year as the
wife’s annuity. Brother Samuel, the sole execu-
tor, has increased the payment to £4OOO a year ;
and, all the children being now of age, he won-
dered whether he was entitled to goon making
those payments ; and the Court said he was. The
estate, largely city property, is now worth not
far short of £300,000.
Senator J. T. Walker, the nowadays
highly respectable political platitude, began his
Commonwealth existence with the enunciation of
some splendid enthusiasm. In his address to the
N.S.W. electors in 1901 he longed for the federalis-
ing of the railways, and urged that every item of
rolling stock should be locally manufactured. He
blazed up, too, in advocacy of a comprehensive
system of defence by a citizen soldiery. “There
should be nothing wanting on our part to make it
impossible for a foreign Power to filch any
portion of our territory,” said Walker, patriot.
And now he is Walker, platitude.
Hobart Mercury does not approve of
Opposition leader Herbert Nicholls, and it is too
busy booming Jack Evans to even decently report
the other fellow’s speech—despite the fact that
Nicholls, senior, is editor. Herb, is an athlete of
no mean order, was a fair rower, and is a good
bushman. He and Rodway—botanist, and father
of the artist —have footed and swagged over
much remote and rough country in the
island State, scaling most of the prominent
mountains on their way. Their favorite
holiday pastimes are tree planting for the
public good on Mount Wellington, and stocking
inland waters with fish. The Mercury doesn’t
mention these things, either; it is too busy boom-
ing Jack Evans.
Billmarion Edwards, the he-woman or she-
gentleman, has been getting into the limelight
again in Brisbane, this time in connection with a
collie. First of all, she was tried for stealing the
dog, but was discharged. A couple of days after
she got an order directing the animal to be handed
over to her. Just as she had led it proudly out of
court, it was collared by the Small Debts Court
bailiff under a warrant of attachment issued on
behalf of William Wade, who had prosecuted
Bilarion for stealing the dog. Next Wade pro-
ceeded against her, claiming £7 10s. for detention
of the collie, but he lost the case, besides £3 costs
and the dog, which the Bench ordered to be
handed over to Billmarion. At latest advices,
the dog was quite happy with its he-mistress, and
was anxiously searching for a flea on its tail.
With J. L. Fegan goes out of State politics
the last of the Freetrade section of the big Labor
party that swept into the N.S.W. Assembly in
1891; and only Joe Cook is in the Commonwealth
Parliament. Of that first organised Labor party,
McGowen, Cann, Nicholson, Kelly, and Edden
are still members. Miller, of Monaro and the
Foghorn Voice, though now a Laborite, was in
those days only semi-attached. Nicholson and
Edden haven’t been continuously members of the
party; and Kelly hasn’t been continuously a
member of the House. In that first rush they
were city and suburban seats that were mostly
carried; but of all the original Laborites McGowen
is the only one who has been able to cling on. Yet
when McGowen was first elected he only crept in
third (Redfern elected four in those days); and
the fifth man was but 80 behind him.
DR. HAYNES, of Perth (W.A.), the gentle,
man who hung out a black flag on the
occasion of the Governor-General’s visit.
D. C. Mclntyre, Director of Exhibits at
the late Maoriland Exhibition, has been sentenced
to four months’ gaol for stealing £lOO, the property
of Edward, Emperor of India. Mclntyre seems
to have had hard luck. Two years ago he had to
close down his pickle factory in Christchurch ; but,
scenting a possible job at the Exhibition, he did
not get rid of his burden in the Bankruptcy Court.
When the job eventuated the creditors rushed
Mclntyre open-mouthed, and, to keep his billet,
the gentleman with the Scotch name went to the
moneylenders—and eventually to gaol. He bor-
rowed £l5O, and paid the first quarter’s interest.
But when the second quarter fell due he was
unable to pay it, and Donald Cohen —it was a
Christian Hebrew tacked the interest owing
on to the £l5O, and charged the Exhibi-
tion official £l5 a month on the un-
paid interest. When Mclntyre had paid
£2OO without lessening his debt, he resorted
to Exhibition money for temporary use, and fell in.
Whilst in Wellington, trying to raise funds, his
defalcations were discovered, and he fled, and
was pursued and captured in South America.
The evidence showed that, when director of
exhibits at the big show, Mclntyre worked 12
hours a day, including Sundays ; that he neither
drank nor gambled, and that he had a good
business record in Christchurch. His one mistake
was in not going bankrupt and getting rid of
Duncan Abrahams. When sentencing the
accused, Judge Chapman said that he would
notify the Minister of Justice of the treatment
which Mclntyre had received from Patrick
William Israel. Mclntyre’s account of the filthy
South American dog-kennel, in which he was
confined pending his extradition, was enough to
put a clean white shiny hog off its breakfast. He
went away a dapper individual, with jet-black
hair and neatly-trimmed beard, and he came back
looking a grey, untidy patriarch of 70.
Birth notice from the S.-W. News pub-
lished at Busselton (W.A.): —
REILLY.—At Yalyalup, on Saturday, August 17th, the
wife of William Reilly—of a son, weighing 11J lb.
at birth.
The Bulletin congratulates William and Mrs.
Reilly on their lljlb. of offspring, and trusts that
he will go on as he has started, and grow to be one-
tenth of a short ton of good Australian, and no
secessionist.
Died at Toowoomba (Q.), on September
9, aged 86, F. H. Holberton, who had belonged
to the Queensland House of Nominated Fossils
since 1885. He had not been seen in the House
for years, and was known only to the oldest of the
ancients there. Even Minister for Education
Barlow, who has been in the Council for 11 years,
couldn’t remember having seen Holberton on the
premises. Some people didn’t find out that he
was a Fossil till he died. He was an excellent
argument in favor of the abolition of nominee
chambers.
The day when the hands of woman will
coax the fretful turbine and heave coal into the
roaring furnace of the ocean liners may be really
coming. Maoriland can already boast one lady
marine engineer (or should it be “engineeress ” ?),
Miss J. A. McKegg, of Henley, who has just
passed the necessary examination and been
granted, by the Marine Department, a certificate
as engineer of a restricted limit vessel propelled
bv gas, oil or electricity. Miss McKegg is the
first woman in M.L. certified as competent to
deal with the frisky marine motor. Her father
runs on the river Taieri a motor launch, from
which the tourist views the beauties of the
river. It was on this craft that Miss McKegg
collected the necessary experience.
The block at the corner of Collins and
Swanston streets, Melbourne, on which stands
the well-known, boom-built Queen’s Walk, with
the offices and shops flanking it, and containing
a shade over a quarter-acre of city land, was
passed in at auction the other day at £450 a foot,
about £71,000 altogether. The executors of the
late Dr. Black, who bought it in 1837 for £137,
wanted £BOO a foot. As the Freehold Assets Co.
has a lease of the block till 1933 at £3OOO a year,
and has £70,000 worth of buildings on it which
only bring in £7179 a year gross, Dr. Black’s
representatives were hardly likely to get the
£125,000 they expected. Still, they ought to bear
up ; £3OOO a year, with £70,000 worth of buildings
as a final perquisite, isn’t a bad return for an
outlay of £137, especially as there is some sort of
reason to believe that the nod on which the
auctioneer knocked the block down to Dr. Black
was an accidental nod, and not premeditated.
“Frank Keen” (Narrabri, N.S.W.) : Dear
Bulletin, —I wonder were you in a prophetic
mood when you wrote of Bill Lyne (23/9/'99) when
he became N.S.W. Premier :
He is supposed to be a routine person of the old
school —although that is not known with absolute cer-
tainty ; he may have been merely lying low and hiding
his talent under a pint-pot pending the arrival of his
opportunity.
Bill’s opportunity has now arrived, and he has
risen to it: —
Legend has it that William John Lyne was once a
policeman. He never was, but if he had been, The Bul-
letin is dead certain he would have been ever ready to
tackle any sized criminal, alone or in company, with a
plain, wooden conscientiousness that took no account of
odds. Also it is sure that his evidence next morning
would have been brief and to the point. It is a hard
thing to say, but if Lyne were 30 years younger he would
make an ideal policeman.
What a pity Carruthers wasn’t called upon to
appear at the Central on a charge of wire stealing,
with Bill Lyne as principal prosecuting witness !
Lyne has never yet had a great opportunity ... Some-
times the man is wasted for want of the occasion.
Bill will probably not be wasted on his occasion,
which is now.
The Bulletin is getting ready a halo to fit William
John Lyne, if he astonishes his province by being the big
resourceful statesman that a suffering country so bitterly
requires. And if he proves himself only a plantigrade
individual... The Bulletin’s smallest boy will use that
halo as a hoop to play with on his next birthday.
If you gave your boy the halo that time, make
Bill another, because he has earned it.
THE PROBLEM OP TOMMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Bent complained that nobody could point out to
him the exact place where Moses and the children of
Israel crossed the Red Sea. “ Even Governor Talbot did
not know, and he lived at Cairo some years.”
Said Tommy: “ When I was returning from England,
her gardens and roses,
I happened to chance on the spot where Pharaoh came
down upon Moses ;
At least where he tried to, but failed, for Pharaoh, while
bent upon slaughter,
Was whelmed by a mighty big wave that smothered his
army with water.
“ And I says : ‘ And so this is the sea where Pharaoh at
present reposes.
I guess if I’d been in his shoes, I’d never ’a’meddled with
Moses;
I guess I’d’a’told ’em: “Get out of my sight and the
range of my feelers,
You lazy collection of dirty per-shenters, old-clo’ men
and speilers 1 ’’ ’
“ I says to old Talbot (says I) : ‘ Now tell me where Moses
the Rover
Just whelmed the old bloke in the sea before he’d got
half the way over ;’
But Talbot, he gave such a grin (his style I could never
abide it),
And said as he didn’t know where — and him just a-living
beside it.
“ I looked all around for the track of the crossing—there
wasn’t a mark of it,
And Pharaoh was clean out o’ sight—in the mud of the
sea and the dark of it ;
His chariots were also “at sea”—they’d gone like the
gasp and the groan of him,
And never an Arab could bring me a hair or a nail or a
bone of him.”
Now Bent is a cove who’s alive to pick up any points
when he’s traveilin’,
But here’s a small problem that trips him —his intellect
grievously gravellin’—
“ If Moses and Pharaoh was facts ” (and Bent is a fact and
you know it),
“ Why did they go hidin’ their tracks and leavin' no sign
for to show it i ”
Q.
A. BENTITK.


•“ . : ,. r
% V - , ;
ligllilll
f';*r ■
• •' •'*
■
■ ,,
■
w.
K
■ v ■* •*.
■
k
■- ■ .
fcj*
r
"
«
,
• ■. ■ / ;
.... .... ■. - *-y ~j_<\ _■
> -
Wmm.
, ■■ V' v
fl
99
*€
t f ”
■• •
f f I
•• • •
9i
AFTER THE BATTLE.
Smoke a HAVELOCK CIGARETTE —it is always soothing


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nloholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
M»*»»-lal and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Kidston, in his Budget Speech (Q.), said that
when his Government took office the credit of Queensland
was low.
Philp : “That is not correct 1 ”
But Kidston plodded on in a Scotch accent, and presently
announced that, just before betook office, his predecessor
(Philp) had floated a 31 per cent, loan for £750,000, but
had only got £697,663—that is, Philp gave Ooh'en Queens-
land’s I O U for £750,000, and Cohen only handed over
£597,663. Ever since then Queensland had been paying
interest on the £52,337 which it didn’t get because its
credit was poor at the time, and as the £52,337 (which
Queensland didn’t get) would have to be paid back by
and bye, Kidston proposed to pay it into the Loan Fund
out of this current year’s revenue. Philp left the entry
in the State’s balance-sheet like this :
Dr. to Cohen .. £750,000 Cr.— Cash .. £697,663
Nothing at all 52,337
Total .. £750,000 Total .. £750,000
Now Kidston put in £52,337 of cash to take the place of
the cash that Philp didn’t get, though he gave the State’s
1O U for it. And having made that announcement
Kidston passed on, and left the poor old financial in-
competent stewing in his own deficit.
* * * »
The papers are talking as though the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) coal vend and the Australian shipping combine
were new things. As a matter of fact, the shipping com-
bine is two years old, and the vend was formed—mainly
through the agency of the combine—just a year ago:
The Bulletin discussed it then at length, and pointed
out its nature. Scott Fell and Co.’s contract with the
Broken Hill Prop, for 150,000 tons of coal really whipped
the vend into life ; it had been talked of for 12 months
previously. The stumbling-block, however, was the
Newcastle Wallsend Co., which had undertaken to supply
Scott Fell. The Wallsend Co. was quite prepared to fall
in with the rest, only it didn’t reckon that the “ cut ” at
the trade which the vend offered it was satisfactory. So
there was trouble.
When the compact between the collieries and
the shipping cos. was fixed up, the collieries under-
took to supply only four inter-State shipping lines. It is
now alleged that the Union Co. has come in, so the
Maoriland trade is now “ controlled” as well as the Aus-
tralian. The existence of this extended agreement came
out in this way : An outsider wanted a coal cargo for
Maoriland, and he was informed that he couldn’t get it, not
being in the combine. The other side of the yarn is that
the outsider could have got a cargo—if he had waited
long enough. That is where the wink comes in.
There have been questions in the Australian
Parliament about the matter: Does the Anti-Trust law
provide for a case like this? William Lyne’s answer is
much the same as ex-Attorney-G eneral (now J us tice) Isaacs’
was last year. If the vend-combine is doing harm,
it will be dealt with. If, said Isaacs, such vends were to
maintain a fair and equitable price, there would be no
offence ; but if the effect was to advance prices beyond
the equitable rate, or shut out competition, or bring
down wages, or otherwise to control affairs so as to put
trade at its mercy, it would be illegal. But the matter
isn’t so simple as that. You can’t so easily divide the
sheep and the goats as that opinion suggests that you
can. For a start, what is a fair and equitable price ?
When you begin to consider that branch of the subject,
the miners’ associations and representatives “ chip in”
and complicate matters. In coal-mining the hewing
rate is nearly always governed by the selling
rate. Mostly the two rates move together
according to a sliding scale. So there is the unusual
spectacle of the interested labor bodies, which usually
hate trusts and combines and rings, approving of this
one. To them the vend is merely something which helps
to put up wages to what they regard as a more reasonable
level. But it can only do that by restricting competition
—and Attorney-General Isaacs said that if a vend “ shut
out competition ” it “ would be illegal.” It is legal, then,
to put up prices, presuming you only put them up to
what is “ fair and equitable” ; it is, however, illegal to
shut out competition ; yet how prices are to be put up
without shutting out competition is something that looks
a good deal like a mystery.
The really interesting part of the whole business
is that the people who have fixed up this shipping com-
bine and coal vend —Fat gentlemen almost to a man—
trample under-foot with great violence the entire Free-
trade and Tory outfit. The Freetrade horror of “inter-
ference with trade ” has to go in the gutter, along with
the “ law of supply and demand ” fetich ; and the Tory’s
belief that “ you can’t artificially fix prices ” is torn into
seven pieces and thrown into the rubbish-bin. The only
things to be said in favor of the vend are that it gives
the coal-miner a chance of making a decent wage,
considering the great risks he takes, and that it
enables Australia to get a fair price abroad for
her coal. But in order to do that bit of justice,
a great deal of injustice may be done. The vend’s
plan of campaign was set out 12 months ago. Each
member puts something into a fund ; and in order to get
business which was going to non-members of the vend,
members of the vend could supply at below the fixed
rate ; and the difference between that price and the fixed
rate would be paid out of the fund. If Jones, an out-
sider, had a customer at 10s., Brown, the insider, could
cut Jones’ throat by supplying that customer at 9s. ; and
the vend, out of the subscribed funds, would pay Brown
the difference between 9s. and the standard price. That
was alleged to be the basis on which the vend was estab-
lished, and presumably it is being worked still on that
basis. It is a brutal system when stripped of its trim-
mings. And all the solid good the community gets out
of it is a decent wage rate for the mine workmen ; and an
Arbitration award would get that, provided it were
based, not on what the owners can afford to pay while
they are cutting one another’s throats, but on what the
work is honestly worth. Then, with that labor cost as a
basis, the coal-mine owners’ competition would have to
restrict itself.
Back of f?ll the trouble is the comparatively
wretched demand for coal in Australia, simply because
Australia hasn’t the industries and the factories that it
ought to have ; wherefore the owners have to rely for the
bulk of their trade upon foreign orders ; and to supply
foreign orders the owners have to compete with owners
who can command labor at prices which, fortunately, the
Australian workmen won’t look at. So to make up for
that the Australian owners combine to “artificially”
raise and maintain the price in the only trade they can
command ; and in doing that they adopt extraordinary
measures, because there isn’t anything like enough of
this home trade to go round—thanks to Australia’s shock-
ing habit of dragging things from the other end of the
earth instead of making them itself.
* * * *
The troubles of the butter trade well show the
result of a cantankerous provincialism. A few months
back the failure of the Federal mail contract negotiation,
emboldened the shipping ring to jump its freights from
Is lOd per box of butter to 2s. 6d. This move resulted
in’an protest from Victoria, backed up by Queens
land and S.A. The N.S.W. producers, haying had it
dinned into their ears that Victoria only lives by im-
posing on and fleecing Ma State, split over the business.
Three leading spirits in the N.S.W. butter trade (for some
motive that can most charitably be allowed to go as
lunacy—fostered by Carruthers and his insect attitude)
rushed in and accepted the Combine’s huge tariff. Worst
of all, the acceptance w'as for three years. Having signed
themselves, these persons rushed round securing other
signatures to the agreement. The Victorian protest,
however, bore fruit, and Victoria, Queensland and S.A.
have now signed an agreement with the Federal-Houlder
Shire line, at a rate 30 per cent, cheaper than the agree-
ment which a lot of the N.S.W. producers have to pay.
This will be a dreadful handicap to the N.S.W. butter
industry, and will give Victoria and its two partners a
long start. And it all arose through the Sydney con-
viction that Victoria must necessarily want to rob the Ma
State, and that to join Victoria in any negotiation must
needs be a disastrous mistake.
* * • *
Standard Life Association, Ltd. (Sydney)
Total Claims Total Added
In- and Sur- Ex- Out- to De-
June, come. renders, penses. goings. Funds, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 9,193 21.6 12,998 13,214 4,021
1901.. 24,593 453 23,833 24,286 307 3,714
Assur-
ance
Fund.
1902.. 31,481 1,081 25,838 26,919 4562 848
1903.. 36,960 2,618 28,162 30,780 6180 7,028
1904.. 44,140 13,886 26,602 40,488 3652 10,680
1905.. 33,668 2,828 22,440 25,268 8400 19,080
1906.. 37,516 10,176 21,678 31,854 5662 24,742
1907.. 43,110 8,444 27,143 35,587 7523 32,265
The first actuarial valuation was made in 1904. Up to
that time the Ordinary and Industrial figures had been
lumped together ; after that they were separated. There-
fore the subsequent proceedings can be split up in
this way :
Industrial Branch.
Claims, Ex- Added to
Income. etc. penses. Funds. Funds.
1905 .. £23,446 £1686 £16,825 £4935 £5,905
1906 .. 26,278 8388 15,393 2497 8,402
1907 .. 24,365 6987 14,229 3149 11,551
Ordinary Branch.
1905 .. 10,222 1142 5,615 3465 13,175
1906 .. 11,238 1788 6,285 3165 16,340
1907 .. 18,745 1457 12,914 4374 20,714
In the published accounts of the co. the total amount of
funds in the Industrial branch is stated to be £29,551.
From this, however, two deductions are to be made—(l)
the capital of £12,500 ; and (2) a purely paper asset, “ New
business extension account,” £5500. This latter amount
has been spent, and is represented by nothing more than
expectations. The capital, it will be observed, is used in
and debited to the Industrial branch. So far it has
carried no dividend ; but the 10 per cent, to which share-
holders are entitled is an accumulating charge on
the Industrial branch business. In 1904, w'hen Mr.
W. R. Day made an actuarial investigation, he
found that the surplus so far was £143, which he recom-
mended should be carried forward. Meantime a liability
of £125 a year had been accumulating—for dividends.
Nor was the total surplus of even £143 arrived at on an
entirely satisfactory basis. The interest assumed was 3J
and 4 per cent. ; and after excluding the £5500 “ new
business extension account” which the co. includes in its
funds, last year’s interest earnings in the Industrial
branch were only £3 14s. 4d. per cent. Including
the £5500 it was of course still less. The constitution
provides for bonuses to Industrial policy-holders ; but it
is obvious that any substantial gain to them in that way
is still in the distance—unless, of course, the shareholders
renounce their preference rights.
Costs in the Standard are still heavy. Going
back only to the year w'hen the branches set out separate
accounts, these results show up
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
Industrial. Ordinary.
1905 ... £7l 15 2 per cent. £54 18 7 per cent.
1906 .. 58 11 6 „ 55 18 6 „
1907 ~ 58 8 0 „ 68 17 10
Two things will be noticed—(l) the Ordinary rate is
higher than the Industrial; (2) the Ordinary rate is
moving the wrong way. But things are really better
than they look in both respects. The co. put on a spurt
last year, and got in a large proportion of new Ordinary
business, and that partly explains the high cost. Charg-
ing old business with 10 per cent, for expenses (7 per
cent, is usually' taken, but in a small office the rate must
be higher), then new business last year cost 131 per cent,
of the first year premiums received ; and that isn’t out-
rageous by any means. Some old offices whose expense rate
in proportion to total income is only £2O per cent, spend
more than 131 per cent, in getting new business ; so that
the £6B 17s. per cent, is a lot better than it looks. It
must be remembered that in a young office like this the
revenue from new business, which costs money to get, is
much larger in proportion to total income than it is in
an office where business has been accumulating for many
years. Thus the new-business premiums received by the
Standard last year amounted to 51 per cent, of the total
premium income : whereas in the Citizens’, although that
isn’t a very old office, the proportion was only 15 per
cent. Still, after making allowances on this account,
satisfactory figures will not be possible until the Standard
can hold the business that it gets ; and that is a slow-
process. The figures of a new office necessarily compare
so badly with those of older offices that rival agents can
make deadly use of the comparison. Nevertheless, the
office is progressing even in this matter of keeping the
business it gets. Surrenders in 1905-6 were £3455 in the
Industrial and £Bll in the Ordinary branch ; in 1906-7,
£1360 in the Industrial and £355 in the Ordinary.
Interest earnings in the Standard are small:
£3 Bs. percent, on the average of the funds, as the co.
represents them. Deducting the paper asset before
mentioned, it is £3 17s. 2d. per cent. But if the return
is low' the securities are very good ; nearly 90 per cent,
are Government stocks.
* * * *
The Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901 .. £47,041 5 p.c. =£25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 .. 91,329 10 „ „ 50,718 40,611 62,293
June,
1903 .. 94,978 9J „ „ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .. 86,104 10 „ „ 50,718 35,386 141,939
1905 .. 86,998 10 „ „ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906 .. 76,307 10 „ ~ 50,718 25,589 203,808
1907 .. 83,890 10 „ „ 50,718 33,172 236,980
The reserves at this and some previous dates were as
follow's: —
1901. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Insurance £5,772 £10,500 £115,000 £130,000
Repairs and renewals .. 10,000 70,000 85,000 104,000
Undivided profit .. 5,910 3,219 3,808 2,980
The first two are not the truest sort of reserves. Insur-
ance, for instance, is a fund accumulated against risks
which have not yet expired. In the same way, also, the
additions to this reserve are not strictly profits. The
repairs and renewal fund is in much the same boat. Yet
current repairs and renewals have been charged against
revenue, and therefore this fund can only be regarded as
provision for something quite extraordinary in the way
of repairs and renewals. Beyond these apparent reserves
there is the reserve for depreciation, which isn’t
apparent. For the past four years the book-value of
steamers, plant, etc., has moved like this
1904 .. .. £503,289 I 1906 .. .. £403,017
1905 .. .. 432,537 | 1907 .. .. 403,151
In the two years prior to 1906 the fleet, etc., had thus
been written down £100,272, though only the Albany had
gone, while the Rupara and other smaller vessels had
been added. Last year the item remained practically
stationary; yet the Echunga “will be delivered in
October,” the Junee “arrived in April,” the Lammeroo
“ left England in August,” the Urilla “ was launched at
the end of last month,” “ several small craft have been
acquired for lightering purposes,” and the Paringa will
be delivered in February next. Meantime, the Willyama
has been wrecked, and only the little Adelaide has been
sold. As the ship-property, etc., stand in the books at
almost exactly the same amount as they did a year ago,
it follows that all that has been paid for new' vessels since
has come out of profits, from the sale of the Adelaide,
and (to a small extent) out of outside insurances
on the Willyama. “ Freehold properties, wharves and
shares in other cos.” stand now at £196,610 as against
£198,417 twelve months ago; but here, though some
properties have admittedly been acquired, possibly
“ shares in other cos.” have been sold to account for the
reduced book-value. The financial position is strong.
Liquid assets show a surplus over liabilities of £166,665 ; as
12 months ago the surplus was £131,670, the improvement
is £34,995. Five years ago the surplus was £170,278. In
five years, therefore, the liquid surplus has suffered to
the extent of £3613 ; but, on the other hand, the Lam-
meroo, Yongala, Grantala, Nardoo, Junee, and Rupara,
besides smaller craft, have been added to the fleet, two
other boats have been built (and no doubt paid for), and
large additions made to freehold properties ; while the
Willyama and Adelaide are the only sizeable boats that
have been dropped out of the list. And the 10 per cent,
dividend has been kept up. It is impossible to tell just
how good a time the co. has had these last few' years;
but that it has been a remarkably good time is quite
clear.
• « * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society op
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Div. (10 p.c.) and
Bonus on Pur-
Net chases (10 To Re- Re-
Profits. p.c. bonus), serves. serves.
July, 1902 .. £5870 £5576 £294 £14,739
Jan., 1903 .. 6862 6163 699 15,438
July, 1903 .. 5806 5938 15,306
Jan., 1904 .. 6829 6564 265 15,571
Julv, 1904 .. 6658 6451 207 15,778
, ' IQnr / 8195 7250 945 16,723
jan., uuj on new'shares 6887 23,610
July, 1905 .. 8410 7188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906 .. 8925 7751 1174 26,006
July, 1906 .. 8062 6995 1067 27,073
(lli p.c. bonus.)
Jan., 1907 .. 9138 8298 840 27,913
July, 1907 .. 8820 8142 678 28,591
The figures in the last line are approximate : it has been
assumed, from past experience, that £490 will be paid to
employees, as a bonus (this amount has been deducted,
and the profits shown net) ; also, that £350 of bonuses
will not be called for, and will lapse. For many years the
bonus to shareholders on their purchases was 2s. in the
£ ; six months ago it was put up to 2s. 3d., and still stays
there. The experience in the past half-year compares
with some previous results like this :
Propor-
Gross tion Ex-
Cash Profit on Working penses to
Receipts. Sales, etc. Expenses. Receipts.
July, 1897.. £51,485 £11,751 £7,677 14-91 p.c.
July, 1902.. 80,815 18,591 11,836 14 64 ~
Jan., 1906.. 104,062 25,738 15,667 15-06 ~
July, 1906.. 95,479 23,452 14,317 14-99 ~
Jan., 1907.. 105,012 25,822 15,489 14-75,,
July, 1907.. 102,019 25,272 15,262 14-96 ~
The season from Feb. 1 to the end of July doesn’t include
the Christmas ham and the New Year bottle, which
accounts for the wobblesomeness of the figures in the
first column. Anart from that, the upward movement is
steady and definite. The balance-sheet shows no changes
of any consequence. Liabilities (including- unclaimed
dividends, customers’ credits, etc.) total £14,666, as
against £13,311 12 months ago ; on the other side, book
debts are £7411, as against £7244, and the increase there
is so slight, and the total so small compared with the
turnover, that there isn’t much fear of any serious trouble
creeping in by that door.
* ft * #
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit
representing flotation expenses, etc. :
Dividend
(5 p.c.) Written Toße- De-
Profits. and Bonus. Off. serves. ficit.
May, 1903 £lO7l
Jan., 1904 £1450 £456 £994 77
July, 1904 258 638 457
Jan., 1905 1896 £1331 265 300 157
July, 1905 1637 1441 215 176
Reserves.
Jan., 1906 2661 1786 440 435 259
July, 1906 1884 * 1864 267 12
Jan., 1907 3450 2607 471 372 384
July, 1907 3483 2777 757 333
The total of the last half-year’s bonus (9d. in the £ on
members’ purchases) is approximate only. The share
capital is £41,176, and the dividend will absorb £777 —it
w'ould be more only all the capital was not paid up
throughout the half-year. The disbursements call for
another reduction of the poor little reserve fund ; a redeem-
ing feature in the case is that the amounts written off are
substantial, ranging from 20 per cent, per annum on horses
and vehicles, down to 2J per cent, per annum on buildings
(this is the first time anything has been written off build-
ings). Still, this half-year’s record makes one a little less
nervous about the future. The society started off on a
wild borrowing career, but it looks as though it had put
on the brake now. Mainly by increasing its capital
(from £29,655 to £41,176 during the half-year), it has
been able to reduce the amount owing on account of
debentures from £25,000 to £22,617 ; the balance of the
new capital has gone in stock (now £25,685), in additional
Flinders-lane land, or is held in cash to provide for other
extensions. As to additional city premises, it is notified
in big black letters : “ New buildings must be postponed
till cash can be paid for it.” That is a comforting
announcement, and, considering how the society
had been shaping, is almost worth printing
in big red letters. Above all, the reserves need
strengthening; until that is done, a miscalculation
with regard to a perishable stock of over £25,000
might easily leave the society with an actual deficit,
which would mean that it had paid away capital in divi-
dends or bonus. The progress of the society has been
very rapid; sales last half-year amounted to £60,382,
though the society is still less than five years old. Work-
ing expenses (including rent and interest but not depre-
ciation) amounted to £10,213, or 16"9 per cent, of sales.
In the 36-year-old Sydney Civil Service Co.-op. last half-
year the cash receipts were £102,019, and the working ex-
penses (including officers’ bonus) amounted to 14-9 per
cent, of receipts ; so, considering the relative ages of the
two, the Victorian Society’s expenses are very moderate,
so far as this comparison goes. Both societies, by the
way, when they started off confined membership to Civil
servants ; but the Victorian has lately followed the long-
established Sydney rule, by which admission is now
general.
• * * *
N.Z. Farmers’ Co-operative Association of
Canterbury (M.L.) :—-
Unex-
plained
addi-
Writ- tions
Visible ten to Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Bonus, off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 16,459 10 p.c. = 5674 7,164 260 30,364
1901.. 14,169 9J „ ~5799 6,207 258 843 33,112
1902.. 8,091 9 „ „ 5859 5,188 1535 777 29,398
1903.. 16,632 9£ „ „ 6185 7,240 466 250 32,389
1904.. 13,747 9 „ „ 5868 6,788 1548 31,932
July,
1905.. 22,539 84,, ~6560 11,039 590 93 36,375
1906.. 22,035 10“ „ ~ 6606 10,148 949 113 40,820
1907.. 27,031 10 „ ~ 7126 12,500 600 1299 48,924
The figures in the last line are approximate: they can
only be made exact when the next profit and loss account
is issued, showing what the bonus and writing-off actually
amounted to. Even then the figures will be unsatisfac-
tory. This association, like most others working on a
co-operative basis, pays a bonus to its employees. Now,
that amount ought to cqme off profits : but, instead, this
co. lumps it with the profits paid away to shareholders
and by way of rebated commissions. It will be noticed that
£1299 has dropped into the reserves without explanation.
Apparently £1250 or thereabouts of this represents pre-
miums on 5000 new £1 shares issued at 255. Anyway,
5196 new shares have been issued, and 5000 are referred to
as having been issued at ss. premium. In spite of this
new issue of capital, the liabilities have not been reduced
to any extent worth mentioning ; they stood at £210,409
this year, as against £211,069 twelve months ago. (The
liabilities this year also include £B7OO, due on August 5,
on account of commission sales; but, as an amount is
specially held against that, the item is disregarded. Yet
it is quite possible that a similar item was included last
year with the general liabilities.) The debts to the public
thus amount to about twice as much as the share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves). On the assets side
the principal items are merchandise stock (£134,976),
advances on stock, grain, etc. (£90,414), and book debts
(£55,824), and there is considerable risk about all those
items. Under the circumstances, heavy additions to the
reserve fund are called for ; the additions during the past
few years have been none too large. Thus, while in 1900
the capital and reserves represented 47 per cent, of the
three items liable to depreciation set out above, they now
represent only 48 per cent ; so that the shareholders’
funds haven’t increased as fast as the risks, which means
that £1 of shareholders’ funds has to carry a bigger risk
than the same amount had to seven years ago. That points
to the fact that the dividends and other appropriations
are quite as liberal as they ought to be, and a bit more so.
* « * *
The Wellington Investment, Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.), which was the Wellington Building
and Investment 00. when this paper last met it a year
ago :
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898.. £2730 9 per cent. = £lBOO £930 £9,037
1899 ~ 2909 9 „ ~ 2115 794 9,831
Premiums on new shares 3750 13,581
1900 .. 3444 9 per cent. = 2469 975 14,556
1901 .. 3344 9 „ „ 2475 869 15.425
1902 .. 3585 10 „ „ 2750 835 16,260
1903 .. 4061 10 „ „ 2750 1311 17,571
1904 .. 4116 10 ~ ~ 2750 1366 18,937
£19,250 of Reserves capitalised .. \ 435
1905 .. 3510 10 per cent. = 2762 /
1906 .. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 2,154
1907.. 4779 6 ~ „ 3000 1779 3,933
Including the capitalised reserves, the capital is £50,000 ;
on the £30,750 actually paid up the return is a shade
under the old 10 per cent. As remarked above, this co.,
having now reached the age of 21, changes its name,
and goes into the commission business in a more promi-
scuous way. Amongst other things, it can now act as
trustee. Maoriland has more than one co. that mixes
trustee work with other activities ; and there is a good
deal to be said against it. This co., for instance, has
£183,555 out on mortgage ; and there are large possi-
bilities of depreciation about £183,555 of mortgages in a
country which has borrowed hard for many years and
will have to leave off borrowing some day, probably when
it can least stand the shock of the sudden change. The
situation isn’t improved at all by the fact that, against
those mortgages and other assets, the co. has debts of its
own (principally deposits) amounting to £170,283. Its
own capital and reserves are £53,933 ; so every £1 of
its own funds has to guarantee the security of about
£3 10s. of borrowed money, sunk in mortgages;
and its own £1 is also either in mortgages or something
equally liable to heavy depreciation. The country that
allows a co. of this kind to do trustee business doesn’t
seem to be as careful as it ought to be. The capital of a
trustee co. ought to be available as a fund guaranteeing
the security of trust estates and the performance of the
whole duty of trustees and it isn’t possible for that, to
be so in such a case as this. The co. has been highly .
profitable ; its management appears to have been g-ood
hitherto ; and The Bulletin doesn’t blame it now for
reaching out further. But it suspects the laws that
permit it to reach out in this way.
* * * *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 £8844 6p.c.=£6000 £2844 £30,570
June, 1902 2147 Nil. 2147 32,717
-p, lnf , o ( Pref. 12p.c. =£3ooo I 97 «7n
Dec., 1902 2653 j ord . 6 F (> 4500 \ ~ 27 ’ B, °
June, 1903 6859 6,, „ 6000 859 28,729
Dec., 1903 5516 6„ „ 6000 28,245
June, 1904 7438 6 „ „ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904 5685 -j ££ g ” ” 3750 \ 435 30,118
June, 1905 6102 ? ” ” iyS} 852 30,970
Dec., 1905 5879 1 6” ” 6000 J - 30,849
June, 1906 5382 6„ „ 6000 30,231
Dec., 1906 9650 6 „ „ 6000 3650 33,881
June, 1907 9375 6 „ „ 6000 3375 37,256
Of the reserves shown in the last line £31,757 consisted of
formal reserve funds. These funds move up and down
without explanation ; the movements are probably
governed by the final results of contracts. Apart from
these movements, the Profit and Loss account shows this
recent history :
Dec., 1901 ..£6149 Dec., 1904 ..£6169
June, 1902.. 4410 June, 1905.. 5201
Dec., 1902 .. 2859 Dec., 1905 .. 5934
June, 1903 .. 6392 June, 1906 .. 6237
Dec., 1903 .. 5971 Dec., 1906 .. 8111
June, 1904 .. 4868 June, 1907 .. 7949
The published accounts are very meagre. Something is
provided for depreciation ; but as to whether it is much
or little it is impossible to form any idea. Twelve months
ago “ Property, plant, and stocks, less depreciation,”
amounted to £369,885 ; six months ago, £363,709 ; now,
£358,777. This is a reduction of £ll,lOB in 12 months ;
but that may be due to the using up of stocks. On the
other hand, a very liberal amount may be provided for
depreciation ; but it may be counterbalanced by addi-
tions to plant, etc., so that the item keeps fairly
steady. Five years ago it stood at £377,797 ; as
mentioned a few lines above, it stands now at £358,777.
Of the co.’s capital £50,000 is preference ; £150,000 is
ordinary, of which £30,000 was provided out of reserves
in 1899. There are £148,500 of outstanding debentures ;
five years ago the co. owed £150,000 on this account.
Kelso King, of the .Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co., and
financial guide and philosopher to the Walter Hall-Mt.
Morgan group of moneyed heavy-weights, is now chair-
man in succession to the late Laidley Mort, who sat at
the top of that table for 24 years.
The Pastoral Finance Association (Sydney):
Bonus to To
Visible Wool-selling Written reduce De-
June, Profits. Shareholders. Off. Deficit. flcit.
1901 £25,925
1902 £2530 £1037 £1493 24,432
1903 1611 915 696 23,736
1904 3117 1129 19S8 21,748
1905 3983 1411 £2OOO 572 21,176
1906 10,675 1819 8856 12,320
1907 10,983 1983 9001 3319
The first column is headed “Visible profits” because it
is probable that revenue is charged direct with variable
amounts to provide for depreciation and contingencies.
In 1906 £7500 admittedly went that way, and the amount
apparently came off the item “ Freeholds, buildings and
plant.” Twelve months ago this item stood at £135,494 ;
it now stands at £135,941. The directors report that the
warehouse accommodation has been extended, and new
machinery put in to aid in the frozen-meat trade;
and, as the book value of the lumped property and plant
item is practically unaltered, apparently these additions
have been paid for out of revenue, and are to be regarded
as a set-off against depreciation or old over-valuation.
The most substantial asset is the pile of buildings nearly
opposite Circular Quay, Sydney'; a few years ago the
money raised by mortgage on that and by debentures
totalled over £lOO,OOO ; but the figure has been gradually
reduced as advances have been got in and profits have
been made. This shows how:—
1902. 1903. 1906. 1907.
Mortgages, deben-
tures; etc. .. £102,217 £95,053 £62,527 £52,454
Other debts .. 17,077 48,108 35,661 48,277
Freeholds, plants, etc. 125,700 124,591 135,494 135,941
Advances .. .. 87,412 113,927 69,643 77,450
Stocks .. .. 3,111 2,342 2,831 7,980
The co. mortgaged itself heavily in 1902-3 to finance
others ; but the last two or three good seasons have set
things straighter. It is worth noting that when the co.’s
liabilities were heaviest the profits were poorest, so it
looks as if the risks were not worth taking. It is just 10
years since the co. paid a dividend ; yet, in spite of that
long silence, it hasn’t been able to accumulate enough
profit to wipe out a goodwill item of £24,516, which has
stood in the books year after year. A co. making big
profits may have a goodwill value, though a balance-sheet
is no place to show it; but a co. that has had 10 “ dry ”
years ought to formally get rid of it at the first oppor-
tunity. At the worst, it ought to come off capital; but
this co. is now very nearly in a position to wipe it out
without disturbing capital. In the table printed above
the item iB of course not reckoned u an asset.


Strength and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 &. 6 SPRING ST.,
SYDNEY.
Aakons' Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney):—
To Re-
Written duce De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit, ficit.
June, 1902.. £573 5 p.c. =£437 £lO7 £29 £14,620
Dec., 1902.. 518 5„ „ 437 44 37 14,583
June, 1903.. 344 5„ „ 437 14,676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5 „ „ 437 14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profits.
D-'C., 1904.. 120 Nil 120 14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c.‘= 437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 14,701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil 15,341
Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,838-
June, 1907.. 770 5 p.c.= 437 209 124 14,714
The deficit to begin with was £15,000, a goodwill item.
The last line puts thing’s in the most favorable light;
the amount written off (provision for bad debts and 5 per
cent, written off furniture and improvement account)
might better perhaps have come off profits at once ; an.v-
way, it is the poorest sort of writing-down. The financial
position is still weak. After making the present appro-
priations there was a surplus of liquid assets am unting
to £69, plus stock £528. That and furniture (£996)
practically constitute the assets. The co. is in 35,000
shares paid to 10s.
* * • *
Some Westralian results for August:—•
Value
Ton- Re- Per
nage. venue. Profit. Ton.
Great Boulder .. .. 15,400 £48,092 £25,649 62/5
Perseverance .. .. 16,956 31,077 12,248 36/8
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,335 30,037 16,823 53/-
Golden Ridge .. .. 1,809 3,833 1,779 42/4
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,350 10,856 4,035 49/8
Cumberland .. .. 681 2,483 155 72/11
Ingliston Extended .. 1,300 2,373 29 36/6
Associated Northern .. 3,760 14,104 9,785 75/-
Kalgurli 10,919 31,129 18,271 57/-
Associated 10,076 19,520 4,379 38/9
Red Hill Westralia .. 1,263 1,720 70 27/5
North White Feather .. 2,038 3,280 391 31/2
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,099 52,928 21,175 43/11
Ivanhoe .. .. .. 19,335 44,329 21,029 45/10
Lake View Consols .. 11,418 13,678 1,565 23/11
Vivien 3,004 3,817 120 25/5
Sons of Gwalia .. . . 13,348 19,045 4,296 28/6
South Kalgurli .. .. 8,720 12,453 2,552 28/7
Great Fingall .. .. 20,960 35,042 14,732 33/5
Northern Mines .. .. 8,426 6,374 22 15/1
Ida H 1,454 3,944 908 54/3
* * * •
In connection with the gold-stealing trouble,
the Westralian Government got a shock the other day.
It sent along to the Chamber of Mines what was no doubt
considered an impossible proposition, offering to appoint
a special staff of detectives, provided the Chamber
stumped up £2OOO a year towards their keep. Ministers
got an unpleasant surprise when, by return post, the
Chamber accepted the offer ; and now the Government
doern’t know what to do next.
* * # *
The Golden Pole (W.A.) goes from bad to
worse. In the half-yearly report, issued the other day,
the actual ore reserves were estimated at 7215 tons, and
the “ prospective ” ore reserves at 1512 tons, making a
total of 8727 tons, worth 12dwt. per ton. Compared
with the figures given in the report for the previous half-
year, this estimate shows a drop of 3dwt. in the average
value of the ore, and it also shows that the mill, although
only running three out of the six months, has gained on
the mine to the extent of 1065 tons. The old gag about
considerable difficulty being experienced in estimating
the reserves owing to the erratic nature of the shoots is
again seized upon to gloss over the mine’s failings, as is
also the yarn about the future being largely dependent
on developments in the bottom workings. It is time the
management put sophistry aside, and said straight out
that the mine is in Queer-street, and that the end of pro-
fitable mining is round the first corner.
• * * •
The attempt to boost Perseverance shares
(W.A.) appears to have fizzled out. Nothing has been
heard since the middle of July about the alleged rich
developments at the four bottom levels, and even the
polite difference of opinion between the manager (who
more or less lives underground) and the consulting
engineer (who lives in London) as to the identity of the
shoot whence the values were obtained, seems to have
been settled out of court or hushed up in some way. In-
siders who want to unload allege that the directors expect
to see the shares go to par before very long. If they
really expect that, then the Board is either keeping
something up its sleeve or it is the victim of a cruel joke.
• * * «
It is up to the Lake View South Co. (W.A.) to
say whether its intentions are strictly honorable. About
18 months ago it was reconstructed in order to raise
money for the purchase of the Wallaby Central, at Yarri.
At that time it was announced that there was sufficient
ore above the 200 ft. level to pay for a first-class equip-
ment, to secure a permanent water supply, and to
leave a net profit of £lO,OOO. Having painted this glow-
ing picture, the management rigged up a makeshift
equipment for development purposes, and then, after
treating 780 tons for 500 oz. at the State mill, turned the ,
mine over to tributors. So far there is no sign of the
promised battery, the “ permanent water supply,” or the
£lO,OOO profit; and from all accounts there is not likely
to be, either. Westralian shareholders are calling upon
the authorities to say a few words, but the latter have
turned into oysters for silence.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is estimated to have 978,594
tons of ore in sight above the 1519 ft. level, of a gross
value of £2,550,111. Accepting those figures as correct,
and allowing 28s. per ton to cover all costs and losses in
residues, this gives the shares a dividend value of about £6.
* * * *
Invahoe Junction (W.A.) has again been tried
and found wanting. After giving it up as hopeless, the
directors changed their minds and put through another
crushing. The 10-head mill rah 10 days for a return of
4oz. of bullion, and the tailings were too poor to bother
about. The co. announces another threepenny call, but
that is merely a matter of habit. It is amazing how this
concern has kept going so long.
• * * •
The first clean-up from the Oroya-Black Range
mill (W.A.) gave 25560 z. from 4350 tons crushed. The
expenditure averaged about 31s. per ton, but when the
tonnage is increased and certain economies are effected,
costs should drop to £1 Is. or thereabouts. By that
time the ore treated may be slightly richer also.
* « * ■»
The daily-newspaper story that 8., M. & Co.
have taken control of the Westralia Mt. Morgan (W.A.) is
premature. Sometime ago the firm said it would tackle
the job, provided it had a clear field and a certain sum
was found for development; but so far these conditions
have not been complied with.
The Lady Miller, Norseman (W.A.), is being
paragraphed in the West as a mine of some promise.
This property is a cast off of the Lady Mary Co., and is
now in the Hampton Plains stable. Something like 5600
tons of ore, averaging 7Jdwt. over the plates and 4Jdwt.
in the tailings, have been extracted to date, and the re-
serves are estimated at 80,000 tons, worth 30s. per ton.
This looks well on paper ; but the mine requires to be
developed at depth before much can be said in its favor.
Still, it has good speculative possibilities. The mill and
the cyanide plant started at the beginning of this month ;
but cyaniding is only experimental, as the best method
of treating the residues is still in doubt.
* # *
A trial run of the Great Ophir mill (W.A.) is
promised at the end of September. The mine officials
estimate that the plant will earn a profit of £5OOO per
month from the jump, but there is betting that it will
not show a surplus of that many shillings. Someone must
be wrong; and what is badly needed is an independent
report by someone whose opinion is respected. Until
this is done the stock had best be left alone.
* * » *
A good judge in the West describes the well-
boomed Whim Well copper mine, Pilbarra, as much over-
rated. The deposits consist of detached lenses scattered
in all directions, none of which gives promise of lasting in
depth. There is certainly a lot of good ore exposed in
the oxidised workings, but the pick of it is being rooted
out, presumably to maintain the present rich shipments
and make a market for the shares in London.
» * « *
From a man who has spent his life in the busi-
ness :—“ It is really curious to hear the average man
talk copper statistics, and decide with one wave of the
hand that, as the demand is overtaking the supply, prices
must remain high, etc., etc. Prices will remain just as
high as those in control find it suits. There are two
pools in the game—the scrip pool and the metal pool.
The public and the metal consumers contribute to both,
and the statistical position (about which so much elo-
quence is wasted) is made to help. The popular belief
that the copper demand more than equals present sup-
plies is a delusion. Since July there has been no demand
worth the name. What would happen as far as July was
seen at the beginning of the year, but what will happen
to the end of the year is in the bag, and nobody can see
it. In view of that uncertainty the market seems a good
thing to stand frotn under. There is no good reason why
the price of copper should not come back to £5O. Possibly
it will not stay there, but it can be brought back.”
* * * *
Mt. Perry, the quietly-worked Central Queens-
land copper-mining and smelting concern, which is never
boomed but is always moving, finds it necessary to put
off men now that copper is back. If Mt. Perry has to put
off men, it would look as if there is a parlous time
ahead for most other Queensland copper concerns.
* * » *
Peak Downs (Central Queensland) has had
about six weeks’ smelting operations, and the result of
that campaign is a sickly failure. The Board has now
changed its metallurgist. But it is no use chopping and
changing officers. It’s not their fault that the co. is now
losing money. The whole policy of the co. has made it
almost impossible to dodge failure. Instead of providing
capital to work with, the co. provided a lot of
shares to gamble with ; and instead of spending what
little money it had in developing the mine, it
spent it (and much borrow'ed money besides) in
erecting a smelter. And now the smeiter is running
at a loss. Supposing it were capable of being run at a
profit under existing circumstances, the mine is so short
of developed ore that inside of three months it would be
in difficulties with regard to ore supply. Last week the
furnace was again blown in under the new metallurgist.
It is a forlorn hope ; and unless somebody is prepared to
lose money, or unless the copper market jumps up, Peak
Downs will probably close down before November is very
old. Almost a miracle will be required to keep it going
for a further three months.
• * * *
Since copper fell from £lO5 to £65, copper
shows up North (Q.) are not as popular as they were.
The Bow’en Independent reports that one mine there-
abouts has changed hands for a rifle and a pair of spurs ;
and the owner has another show that he won’t take any-
thing less than a pair of socks for.
• • <r w
Chairman Patterson, at the Mungana (Q.)
meeting, was sanguine about quarterly dividends ; hut
the first is not to come until the lluntingdon-Heberlein
process has been proved a success on Mungana’s complex
ore, which contains copper, lead, zinc, arsenic, silver,
and sulphur. One anxious eye is therefore fixed on the
copper market, and the other on the process. So, one
way and another, in spite of an improvement in the
position, there isn’t room for much enthusiasm ; the
sobering reflections include : (1) The complex and refrac-
tory nature of the ore ; (2) metal-market slumps ; (3)
cost of sinking the shaft another 100 ft.; and (4) the
dangerous condition of the old shafts and workings.
* * • *
Mungana shareholders are not, as a rule,
satisfied with the financial result of the year’s work.
Copper averaged £lO2 and lead £2O, and big hopes were
built up on the strength of that. Metal contents of the
ore, apart from fluxes, averaged about £6 per ton, and
the profit was 255. ; so the show is not prepared to face
a drop of 20 per cent, in copper and lead. Lead is still
at an exceptionally high price ; but it will be a miracle if
one metal stands up while all the others collapse.
* • * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) doesn’t publish
half-yearly balance-sheets, but it has a half-yearly meet-
ing, and the directors furnish a report and a statement
of liabilities and liquid assets, At December 31 last the
balance of assets was £201,396 ; at June 30 the surplus
was £184,079. So, in order to pay the £lOO,OOO in divs.
during the half-year, assets were reduced by £17,317.
But, of course, whatever was spent (even on capital
account) would have to come out of the assets ; and there
has no doubt been heavy outlay, apart from ordinary
working expenditure. “It is fortunate,” the direc-
tors say, “ that so much has been done during the
period of high prices to enable the mines to hold their
own as far as possible under a largely reduced price for
the product.” That has to be kept in mind when the
old figures are turned up. Last year, for instance, it cost
the co., according to its accounts, £72 11s. to produce
its copper (apart from metal got by leaching); that was
equal to about £7O 10s. for standard. But in 1902, when
the market averaged only £54 11s. 4d. per ton, costs
averaged but £52 Is. 2d. per ton—say £solos. for standard.
That no doubt is a good deal nearer the real mark than
the £72 11s. which last year’s accounts showed. But
Wallaroo and Moonta work on a sliding scale, so far as
wages are concerned, rising to 15 per cent, above the
scale paid in 1902 ; and that made a difference equal to
about £30,000, or nearly £5 a ton, in last year’s costs as
compared with those of 1902.
• • • •
Broken Hill Block 14 grabbed at that 300 ft.
level development like a drowning man at a straw. Only
in Block 14’s case there is something more substantial
than a straw to grab, and the co. will be able to hold on
to it for some time to come. Yet it has to be remembered
that, so far, the only exploration has been done by
diamond drill ; and the drill, like hope, tells a flattering
tale sometimes. In Broken Hill a drill has been known
to follow a seam of ore only Ift. wide for upwards of 50ft.,
gulling expectant shareholders into the belief that they
had found a body of ore that wide. It isn’t likely
that anything of that kind has happened in Block
14; but there is nothing like a crosscut at the 400 ft.
level to place the matter beyond doubt. The ore was
first cut in a horizontal bore between Nos. 1 and 2 north-
east drives, where it was 6ft. wide, and on this a winze is
to be put down to the 400 ft. level. The dismal side of
the picture is that nothing in the way of sulphides has
previously been found in Block 14, or the southern end
of the British adjoining, to justify the belief that this
new-found ore is the upper end of a large lode extending
for hundreds of feet below the 300 ft. level.
* * * *
The British Broken Hill people are looking out
pretty keenly for any stray shoots of ore that may be
pitching into their mine from the Block 14 side. There
is a uniform northerly pitch in the ore shoots
north of Block 14 hill, and the British naturally expects
that any ore shoot cut in the northern end of Block
14 will eventually pitch into the British thine. The
British stoped out a good deal of ore on the Block 14
boundary down to the 250 ft. level, but below that the
boundary has not been approached within 75ft. At the
other end of the mine, near Marsh’s shaft, the north
drive, at the 600 ft. level, has reached the boundary of
the Junction North and North mines, where it has dis-
covered that the continuation of the ore-shoot it was
after had been stoped years ago. There are still, however,
lOOffc. of backs to work upon, and that work will be
started as soon as a winze has been put down from the
end of the drive to connect with the North workings on
the boundary.
* * * *
Years ago some very rich friable sulphides,
with carbonates, were found in Block 10, Broken Hill,
and the ore was so good that it was at that time followed
close up to Campbell’s shaft. The result was that
Campbell’s shaft corkscrewed, and what remained of the
friable ore was lost. The present management has taken
to scratching about after the same ore at the 615 ft. level;
but as the neighborhood of Campbell’s shaft just about
there is more like the catacombs than a mine, it is so full
of cavities, the freshly-disturbed ground did not take long
to slide off the hanging-wall. About 150 tons of this rich
ore, now in the bins, will be sold, and will help to
improve the appearance of the next balance-sheet.
* * * *
New White Leads, Broken Hill, has cut some
ore in a western crosscut recently started at the 400 ft.
level. It is to be feared that this will turn out like the
ore cut some months ago in the west crosscut at the 300 ft.
There seems to be too much cry and too little ore about
these White Leads developments.
* * * y
The Broken Hill Junction has cut so much ore
in King shaft that the co. will have to put down a lift to
cope with it. The boundary ore which the Junction and
British quarrelled about is coming back into the former
mine as the depth increases, and below the 300 ft. level
of King’s shaft sulphides are coming in all round. At
the 200 ft. level the sulphides were on the British side of
the shaft.
* * * *
■Great Cobar, the co. which was got off with
difficulty in England to take over N. S. Wales’ biggest
copper mine, paid its first div. (15 per cent.)last month ;
but the financial position is not known beyond that. This
div. calls for £112,500 ; but there are £550,000 debentures
besides the share capital, and a heavy sinking fund has to
make a start almost at once. Since G. H. Blakemore
became general manager for “The Syndicate ” he has had
his headquarters at Lithgow, handy to the smelting
works ; but as the Lithgow works are soon to play second
fiddle, Blakemore returns nowtoOobar. In the present
slump in copper Great Oobar suffers by comparison with,
say, its own neighbor, the Cobar Gold Mines, or with Mt.
Morgan, on account of its poor gold contents—something
under l|dwt. per ton. It is at times like this that
you begin to see that there are points about a gold
mine.
* * * *
Barrier, Wyalong (N.S.W.), has been formed
into a co. of 32,000 shares, ss. each ; hitherto it has been
worked by a partnership without scrip. Since last
January the mine has turned out gold worth £5OOO, after
paying trainage on the ore and treatment expenses. The
new co. is to put £2500 into new poppet-heads and other
equipment. The Homeward Bound has paid another 3d.
div.; last ore returns showed 10 tons, worth 14oz. 3dwt.
per ton, and 100 tons, worth 3oz. per ton. The Called
Back, same field, has cut the reef at 300 ft., but at that
point it is poor.
* * * *
The Bulletin is assured by managing-director
Hyde, of the North Bulli, that the Adelaide Steamship
Co. paid cash for the block of shares it recently acquired
in that coal property.
• * * *
Rollason and Brandon have for so long been
accustomed to pick and choose in their mining ventures
that anything that comes out of their office on to the
market goes with a swing. Consequently, when G. D.
Meudell left in their mining nursery a Heathcote cherub
called Peter’s Gully—why not Peter’s Gate? —no one was
surprised that shares began to turn upward. There is a
lot of likeness between Daylesford and Heathcote. Both
have of late had the past brought out of oblivion and
held up to public gaze as a draw. Peter’s Gully did not
catch on to the general market at first, though, because
the present-day mood is to believe in vigorous
mining youth rather that in a manhood so run down
that it called for a quarter century’s rest. At the mine,
too, the new co. didn’t find much in the old workings as
far as it could get at them, so down went a shaft to 200 ft.
Now the trumpet proclaims “ visible gold,” and shares jog
merrily. Whether the gold is in the slate, or the plat, or
the drive, isn’t quite clear to the Stock Exchange critic. ,
That it is there and that it is visible is all he reads. The
old hand believes that, as a rule, Rollason and Brandon
are not content with generalities from their mining
managers, and the vagueness of the official announce-
ments therefore worries him. So the old hand holds
off to see if Heathcote is as patchy as ever, and to
await a definite statement as to the real value and extent
of the formation.
* * * *
The market for Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has
simmered and simmered until shares have got to the
pound level. Yields have not been bad, butdevelopments
at the bottom have been too poor to help far on the road
to wealth. The rich shoot that was to come down has
refused to appear. Last week there was a murmur that
it had arrived. Whether it has or has not seems to rest
with the imagination of the man who goes into the level.
The battery and the sampler have, anyway, not disclosed
anything yet, and until some evidence comes from those
quarters, jumps in shares carry no consolation to any
save the jobber.
* •* * *
The gentle puff anenfc “illimitable Bendigo”
has broken out in a fresh place. United Ulster (which
lies beyond Horwood and Burrowes, the Sea, and Garden
Gully) now comes to the footlights. Last year it worked
a block of ground about the 1500 ft. level for 14s. in divs.
With the developments in the Sea and Garden Gully, it
is thought that the stone mined there is a continuation
of the Ulster shoot; and a rise put up in the Ulster to
the 1400 ft. level north of the shaft has cut a splice of
stone above a slide, the quartz carrying nice gold. Ahead
where the slide and the saddle junction is disturbed coun-
try, and Ulster hopes that, with this zone passed, yields
will make again. The co. has a bit of cash in hand, and
will pay a div., anyhow ; but there is nothing like 20s. or
even 15s. in divs. in sight. Gold near faults in Bendigo is
generally' local, and there isn’t much evidence to discount
that statement in recent developments on the field.
» * * *
What did that advt. in one of the Melbourne
daily papers, advising shareholders in New Dempsey’s,
Gaffney’s Creek, “to pick up their shares,” mean ? It was
only a lure, but no anarchist bomb ever caused more talk
in the market. As a matter of fact, there’s “ lashings ”
of scrip about. Even if there was not, the market won’t
be beaten by pressure for shares. Lee “ Ould Ireland "
get a few big .yields from the mine, and then hair will fly.
But the alleged 3oz. stuff is very slow in getting to the
stampers.
• * • •
Deep-lead mining up Creswick (Vic.) way fails
to mend. Berry' Extended is poking about waiting for
Spring Hill Leads to strike gold in the ground let to that
co. But the “ Bull-dog ” crowd can’t get on to the precious
metal. Spring Hill Leads are also unlucky in their own
ground, for nothing much is coming thence. Berry
United, further on the lead, seems to be like the rest of the
British-owned alluvial mines in Victoria—slow in getting
into the wash. So where there were thousands of men
at work in the Berry gutter, there are not many hundreds
now. If Spring Hill Leads does not hit the mark soon, the
hundreds will fall to scores. Never was Victorian alluvial
in a worse plight, not only for gold, but for call-payers.
*■* » *
The development at the 3100 ft. level of the
South Star, Ballarat, which caused a momentary
flutter, has determined the co. to sink another 50ft. or
75ft., in the hope that the stone will bulk larger. So
call-paying begins over again.
« * • *
A few weeks should say what chance South
Woah Hawp, Ballarat, has of cutting the payable
makes of stone that went underfoot at 1100 ft. All for-
feited shares have been placed, and thrippenny calls
have been cut down one-half. Shares are now quoted at
about one shilling, but those who bought forfeited shares
some months ago, at threepence, could not get out level
under about 2s.
• * * *
South Port Arthur, Piggoreet (Vic.), is in
troubled waters, and calls are hard to get in. Share-
holders are kept jigging with the information that the
south drive is being carried on to where the Grand Trunk
Co. worked good stone ; but that is about 600 ft. ahead,
and there are many weary calls in between.
* * * *
What a while ago was alleged to be the
“ biggest wolfram mine in the world ” —Burns, Goggins
and Brock’s, at Wandi (Northern Territory)—was sold by
auction, at Palmerston, lately, for £l7lO. Burns and
Goggins, two members of the old partnership, bought it.
There was only one-outside competitor, and he stopped
at £l6OO odd.
* * *
Opossum : Not much hope in present hands
Dargo: The Elmore.
* * # •
For downright cruelty those papers which, day
after day, incite men to throw up jobs and flock to distant
mining- fields will take some beating. The Herald.
Argus syndicate is the worst; even now it is whipping
men up to rush to Broken Hill. What has happened at
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) ought to be a warning:
already 200 men have been thrown out there, and more
will follow ; and as to N.S. W., 6. H. Blakemore, of Great
Cobar, warns the Herald that there will be “hundreds
of unemployed miners throughout the State in a very
short time.”
* * * *
In Victoria, at any rate, the position with
regard to a No-Liability mining co. is that it may sell its
business for cash, but not for shares. The decision in the
Ellson-Ivanhoe case governs the matter as to cash ; the
Tewkesbury case, as to shares. Tewkesbury had hard
luck in striking this snag, after practically getting the
consolidated co. through. On paper it was a better deal
for the old cos. than for the new. The Tewkesbury Free-
hold shareholders, who had a subscribed capital of
£11,300, were to have had £11,300 in cash and £11,300 in
fully-paid shares ; that is, apart from past dividends, they
were to stand on velvet and still hold a big interest. The
yarn, by the way, told to the Court, that the people who
were trying to consolidate the cos., and thus save
expense, wfere making £BOOO cash out of the transaction,
does not square with the prospectus. There was about
£9OOO between buying and selling price ; but £lOOO cash
had to go to the consolidated co. to start with, and £3OOO
would be needed to wipe out royalty rights which, the
four little cos. have to struggle under. Brokerage and
flotation expenses would have mopped up most of the
balance.
* * # «
The Akimal Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • *
After conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
centration of the ores at the Broken Sill South mine, the
manager, Mr. Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
the Wilfley type of table, modified in the direction best
adapted to his particular local requirements. The great
advantage with this type of table is that it admits of so
many slight variations which adapt it to meet all classes
of pulverised ores. - Provided the pulp for treatment is
graded it can be used to treat all varieties of ore from
slimes up to coarse grades. When treating slimes and
lightly mineralised ores, care must be taken to have the
slope of the table accurate, and a fine, smooth dressing
surface beyond the feather edged diagonal termination of
the riffles. When treating coarsely ground ores or ores
heavily charged with mineral, as at the Broken Hill South,
the riffles or grooves can be carried further along the table
and in some instances right up to the concentrates dis-
charge end. Mr. Wainwright ordered six tables as an
experiment, with fewer riffles or grooves than customary,
and with some of them—the lower ones—carried to the
extreme end of the table. So successful has this type of
Wilfley table proved that he has ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
has been placing several of the patent Callow Screens at
Broken Hill and elsewhere. This ingenious and simple
mechanism has solved the problem of grading prior to
concentration.*
• • * *
The Irish Investor (London) writes regarding
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited in its
September, 1906 issue as follows: —“ An intending
assurant who realises that the stability of a company
depends to an exceedingly great extent on its care in only
accepting- risks that come under the heading of good lives
should feel every confidence in the Colonial Mutual on
this score.”*
• * * •
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* • * *
Oobah. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and'
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we willl
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues..
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue-
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline:
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of alt
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, andl
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
*-* * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening-
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said :—“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000 ? ; still the»-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * it
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A,
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
<*•*-*•*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office —Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for thei
latest information on the field.*
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 84).


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
m
GrO TO TT F!T .T
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frgd. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
The Oxford Hotel,
.KING-ST.t SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F, O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS^
9
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices. _ .
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The wild fool member of the British House
of Commons who asked the Commons if they
thought the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce
would “take the Australian tariff lying down,”
seems to have subsided. At least the hostile
Birmingham fleet hasn’t been sighted off the
Leeuwin yet, and Birmingham seems to be quite
calm and horizontal.
The Sydney daily press begins to drop
occasional remarks to the effect that Carruthers
is likely to still further swell the N.S.W. House
of Nominees, and incidentally build up a majority
to carry legislation introduced by himself, and to
block the measures of his successors. Carruthers’
idea of reform grows more lamentable every day.
Thus A. H. Conroy, whom the people of
N.S.W. turned down at the last Federal election,
and whom they turned down again the other day,
when he wanted to be State member for Coota-
mundra:—
If a capitalist with £lOO,OOO knew how to manage his
wealth, he could approach the present Ministry, and
could get any tariff that would suit him.
A Voice : “ That is a shameful statement.”
Conroy : “ When I make such a statement, lam pre-
pared to back it up.”
But, so far, Conroy hasn’t backed it up. And it
is distinctly up to him to mention which Federal
Minister can be “ approached ” by the man with
£lOO,OOO who gets any kind of tariff he wants.
IN THE DAYS OF LABOR'S PROSPERITY.
The church must take an interest in Labor, and form
committees to deal with sweating, long hours, etc.— Rev.
J. TYSSEN, Bendigo.
SEEDY INDIVIDUAL (chumming up): “Ha ! My
old friend, Labor ! How d'ye do ? ”
LABOR : “ Thanks. You're a few hundred years
behind hand. When I was a-hungcred ye
took me not in. I’m seeing to myself now.
Good-day !”
Even Sydney Telegraph points out the
beauties of High Protection these days. What
time it was frenziedly telling the N.S.W, “poor
worker” to vote for Joke Ruthers, and so “save
half-a-crown per week extra taxation ” by “down-
ing ” the tariff, it was publishing that (as a result
of Protection —though the D.T. didn’t say so) —
(1) Melbourne glass-trade employers had raised the
minimum wage from 255. to 28s. per week.
(2) Vic. Wages Board (with the employers’ consent) had
raised the minimum wage in the furniture trade from
£llls. to £ll6s. per week.
(3) Most of the Melbourne employers had raised
painters’ wages, from Bs. to 9s. per day.
Which, on the Telegraph’s own showing, gives
the worker an extra 35., 55., and 6s. respectively,
with which to meet the additional crushing burden
of half-a-crown.
More devastating So-
cialism ! The manager of
the Vic. Government ex-
perimental farm at Wy-
una wanted a few bricks
lately, and finding he had
good clay underfoot, de-
cided to make them, and
not buy any more. He
managed things so well
that, after paying for
the hire of a machine,
his seven men are turn-
ing out 10,000 bricks per
day, at about one-fifth of
the price the Melbourne
Brick Combine charges.
The experiment has been
so successful that Wyuna
is going to use bricks in-
stead of wood and iron
wherever possible. Pri-
vate Enterprise hasn’t
dared to open its mouth
about it, and is only
hoping that this Social-
istic success won’t start
Bent making bricks for the public generally.
Tasmania’s Upper House has refused once
more to pass a Bill for the compulsory resumption
of large estates for closer settlement. The House
of Landlords makes its old decayed remark that
plenty of land can be obtained voluntarily. And so
it can, but at a price which suggests that it is
wanted for villa allotments, not for growing
turnips. The Rich Landlord loves to see a
Government that is enthusiastic about closer
settlement rushing out to purchase voluntarily.
Then he kites up his prices so that you can only
see the top of them dimly with a telescope.
Judging by the experience of sundry Vic-
torian municipal councils, there is only one way
for such bodies to make sure their employees get
the prescribed minimum wage—that is, by doing
the work themselves, instead of letting it to a
contractor. Several Melbourne councils have
lately been exercised as to how these contractors
pay the stipulated wage of 7s. per day per man,
yet manage to tender for man, horse and dray at
Bs. One possible explanation of the mystery is
being inquired into at Malvern, where it is alleged
that some contractors pay the fixed wage four
days a week on the understanding that the em-
ployee gives his boss the other two days’ work free.
The London Nation, a weekly which
present British Ministers boost periodically by
signed articles,“states in a pragmatical discourse
(August 17): —
It is not long; since, in deference to the Australian
Labor party, seven English hatters were refused per-
mission to land in Australia, for fear that they might
injure b,y their competition the native Australian hatters
already in existence.
That weary, weary old lie —how the Stinking
Fish press of Australia must be ashamed of its
six maundering ghosts! The Nation, thirteen
lines before it propounded the weird fiction about
the Six Hatters who came to Australia and got
work, accused the Sydney correspondent of the
Times of being “curiously ignorant.” The
Nation is mixing its figures. It wasn’t the
Seven Hatters that Australia was charged with ;
it was the Seven Deadly Sins.
There is a queer clause in the Bill intro-
duced into the Vic. Parliament to give effect to the
N.S.W.-S.A.-Vic. Murray waters agree-
ment. Under that agreement the Murray
’ and its tributaries are to be nursed by a
Commission of three—one from each State
—and section 28 in the Victorian Bill for-
bids the appointment as Commissioner of any
“ uncertificated insolvent or person who has
compounded with his creditors for less than
fifteen shillings in the pound.” The provision
concerning insolvents is familiar in Bills
authorising appointments, but that
15-bob phase is a novel one. It
looks as if it had been inserted in
the interests of some individual.
Who is the 15-bobber who is to get
in, or who is the who
is to stay out ? Labor-man Pren-
dergast wanted to know. Of course
everybody looked at Bent, but
that wily old puller of strings
said hastily, “Don’t look at me.
I know nothing about it.” Water-
Minister Swinburne, in charge of
the measure, kept his mouth tight
shut. Swinburne is generally in such a
profuse hurry to make explanations that his
silence looked suspicious. Who is that 15-bobber ?
In opposing M.L.A. Toutcher’s Bill to
reduce the Yic. State-Ornament’s salary from
£5000 to £2000 a year, Premier Bent put
another nail in the coffin of State Rights, and
made Unification more certain. Thomas bellowed
about the Cabbage Garden being a “sovereign
State” —which it never was, about the “silken
bonds,” about the Canadian Lieutenant-Govern-
ors, about anything but the real point at issue—
the need for seven governors for a trifle of four or
five million people, and the scandal of a com-
munity maintaining ornamental frills while it is
heavily in debt. Bent knows quite well that the
proposed reduction means a local instead of an itn-
ported rubber stamp, and that would lower his
dignity as Premier of a half-crown State, and he
would have none of it.
When the cable told Sydney Telegraph
of the uprising at Vancouver against its friends
the Japs, the paper suddenly revised its ideas
about the relation between a Federal Govern-
ment and its dependent States; and it printed an
indignant leader to say how shocked it was that
in any part of the British empire
strangers have to organise for their own defence on
account of the impotence of the authorities to grant
them that protection from injury and insult which is the
right of every law-abiding individual.
The Telegraph thereupon suggested a remedy :—
If the local authorities are not able to maintain the
peace, it will be for the Dominion power to intervene.
So the Telegraph is really a good Federalist,
and even insists upon the right of the Federal
power to interfere with the internal administra-
tion of a State when the State can’t maintain the
peace. Yet, close at home, when the State
authority itself disturbs the peace, it is for the dis-
turbers that the Telegraph whoops, and it is the
Federal power that gets all the Telegraph’s in-
sults. Hosea Biglow didn’t own the only “ pious
editor” who “does believe in Freedom’s cause—
as far away as Paris is.”
AN OLD DRAMA.
“ Hands Across the Sea.”
“Vulcan”: Australia should take a leaf
from Canada’s book in dealing with stinking
fishermen. One Hoagland was recently prose-
cuted for falsely propagating a yarn in the U.S.
to the effect that his district (Alberta, N.-W.
Canada) didn’t want immigrants, they being
already over-plentiful. The Dominion looks so
seriously on this class of liar that the State
Attorney-General prosecuted, and Hoagland’s
fish enterprise cost him £4O.
Again we have the enthusiastic importer
trying to manufacture a spontaneous uprising of
public opinion against the tariff. The letter was
headed as from “J. L. Lennard (W. H. Boeke-
mann),” described in the Sydney directory as
“importer and indentor, 263 George-street.” It
was addressed to a Sydney manufacturer, and
after speaking eloquently about dye-stuffs, it
wound up :
I would suggest that you write a letter of protest to
the Minister of Customs in Melbourne, pointing out how
seriously such a duty would affect your industry, etc.
But the manufacturer who received it wasn’t so
sure about the injury he was going to suffer, and he
only muttered something in his beard about a
monkey and a cat and some nuts. Anyhow, the
proposed letter of protest remains unwritten.
A cry from the Brown Man’s land :
Maoriland's ridiculous brown person daily grows more
so, whilst his head swells as his stomach is filled with cold
cow and waipiro. Jack Maori takes a large size in golf
stockings these days. Some hundreds of him have been
holding a korero at Waahi, and talking in a large way of
settling the pakeha for good and all. The “feed and
talk” affair has been bossed by Hon. “ King” Mahuta,
M.L.C., ex-member of the Cabinet, and Henare Kaihau,
M.H.R. The outcome is that a delegation will wait on
Edward VII. or his deputy, and unfold the harrowing
tale of pakeha iniquity. The Maoriland Cabinet searches
vainly for a settlement of the native question, but nobody
—including the brown persons themselves—can suggest
anything feasible. Apparently Ed. VII. has the trump
card planted in his backyard, and the delegates hope to
sneak it from the area undei cover of night. Mahuta,
unlike most rangitiras, is a person of small ’intellect, bud
Kaihau is one of the old fighting stock, and never
opens his mouth in the House of Reps, without calling
the pakeha a “waster” —generally a “blank, asterisk,
dash waster.” He speaks in Maori, and the interpreter
omits all superfluous language. Kaihau told a pressman
that the deputation represented the views of ail Ward’s
dusky subjects, nearly 4000 in fact. When informed that
there were 40,000-odd brown individuals in the Dominion,
Kaihau was surprised ; but promptly replied that 36,000
of them were persons of no mana. Asked what his
people’s grievance was, the big M.H.R. made vague
reference to the Treaty of Waitangi, and to Ed. Vll.’s
sportsmanlike qualities. Evidently Ed. VII. has to sup-
ply the grievance as well as the remedy. It would be a
fair thing to warn the ageing Edward of the prospective
invasion, so that he can have a supply of mussels on the
ice, and decorate the environs of Buckingham Palace with
deceased shark in a proper state of deadness.
Thus George Stuparfc, universal provider,
of Maryborough (Queensland), in an open letter to
his customers: —
Every man and woman of our town and district has
heard and read much of the New Federal Tariff. The
Press and people generally are making a great outcry,
yet it is what Maryborough, and all parts of Queensland,
have been petitioning our legislators for—only we have
got a little more than we expected.
We know there are some items taxed very highly, and
believe they will be reduced, but we are honestly of
opinion that the proposed tariff (with these amendments)
will be FOR THE ULTIMATE GOOD OF MARY-
BOROUGH, OF QUEENSLAND, AND OF AUSTRALIA.
It will cause great industries to be established in our
midst. ALREADY, FOUR-FIFTHS OF THE MADE-UP
GOODS IN QUR WAREHOUSE ARE MANUFACTURED
IN AUSTRALIA, and the tariff will not affect these
goods, except as it affects the raw material—and that is
infinitesimal. All Tin Trunks, Travelling Bags, Port-
manteaux, Rug Straps, Straw Hats for Men and Women
(and many Felt Hats), Men’s Clothing, all Umbrellas,
Women’s Underclothing (except woven goods),
Dresses, Blouses, Men’s Ties, Flannels, Blankets,
Cane and Rattan Chairs, Lounges and Tables,
Furniture (except Austrian and American Chairs),
many Toilet Sets, Flower Pots, some Dinner Ware,
Picture Frames, Horse Rugs, Office Books, Millinery
Boxes and Suit Boxes, all Go-Carts and Perambu-
lators, Bedding and Bedsteads, stocked bv us ARE
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA, AND A LARGE
PORTION OF THEM IN QUEENSLAND, and we hope to
be in the field very shortly making all our Furniture in
Man-borough (Chairs included), and there is no doubt
that others will take up other lines.
We know that the immediate result will be a little
extra on many lines in dailj r consumption, but our ex-
perience has been that im a few short years the PRICE.
IS REDUCED BELOW THE ORIGINAL COST, and the
public get as good an article at less money. WE CAN
GIVE DEFINITE PROOF OF THIS IN OUR BUSI-
NESS.
TAKE MOST OF THE CLAMOR AGAINST THE
TARIFF WITH a PINCH OF SALT (even if it has been,
taxed), and barrack for Protection and the upbuilding of:
our industries.
There is a healthy optimistic ring about that
letter. Could Mr. Stupart supply,an Australian-
made tear-jug for some southern importers to
weep into? The Bulletin hates to see them
weeping into imported jugs.
Oratorical gem by Laborite Matthews,
representative for Melbourne Ports :
To read some newspaper criticisms of Labor politicians,
one would think we were a terrible party of incendiaries
ready to throttle the world by submerging it on the
pinnacle of material vapor.
This is really an aged Irish bull, and Matthews
quoted it thinking that even the dunderheaded
Argus must recognise it. And when the un-
lettered Tory press took it for his own muddle he
was too much broken up to remonstrate. But Tory-
ism has an original humorist in Aid. T. Henley.
Henley is the Liberal and Deform M.L.A. for
Burwood (N.S.W.), who, during the recent cam-
paign, scattered his pretty photo broadcast, along
with an address, announcing that he, like Nelson,
had been called to arms in defence of Mr, Car-
ruthers. Now, when was Nelson called to arms
in defence of Mr. Oarruthers?
Sydney Telegraph has, for weeks past,
devoted about an acre of its daily space to the
wire netting duty. According to the Telegraph,
it is absolutely necessary to import wire netting;
any attempt to manufacture it in Ma State is
apparently hopeless, and anyhow Protection will
send the price up like all Gehenna. Yet, last
Saturday, the following strayed into an obscure
corner of the paper:—
The wire netting factory in this State is working at
high pressure, and is able to cope with all orders received.
Yesterday, at a meeting of the Board, it was decided to
reduce the price of the netting by £1 per mile.
But local manufactures mean less commissions to
the foreign importing interest, which is the Tele-
graph’s tin god, so the good news that N.S. W. is
building up a great industry, that prices are
going down under Protection, and that there is
no need for imports, got five lines in an obscure
corner, and no big heading.
Generally speaking, about half of the
imported magazine is composed of advts., and
when a duty was imposed hy the recent tariff on
the superfluous advts., some of the importers got
over the difficulty by scissoring the magazines
while in bond. But they didn’t scissor in silence.
There arose the usual Foreign-trade yell, and of
course the poor public was dragged in by the
hair. According to one petition, many people
bought the mags, simply to read the advertise-
ments ; in fact, it was asserted, the advts. were
really the best part of the publication, and
harrowing pictures were drawn of the farmer’s
grief on finding that his mag. had been robbed of
the latest Bond-street fashions, and his wife’s
misery over the absence of the newest thing in
beauty culture. The petition prayed that this
infamy be discontinued at once —or sooner. But
hardly had the House finished with the petition
before another one came along. It was from a
printer, and asked that the duty should continue,
as he had already been invited to quote a price for
the insertion of advertising matter in the im-
ported magazines. The result will probably be
that the public will still get its beloved advts.,
the only difference being that Australians will
have the job of printing a lot of them.
THE SMILE.
Now, after all the trouble he took to
capture it, and after declaring that he was ready
to lay down his life rather than they should go
without it, Carruthers is being informed by farmers
that his imported netting is a delusion and a
snare, and they don’t want it. The Gundagai
Pastures Board has decided “ to further protest to
the Minister against the class of netting now
being imported,” and the S. M. Herald’s cor-
respondent adds that “many landholders were
awaiting a change in Government wire-netting
before purchasing.” It must be a disheartening
thing to strike an Ajax attitude behind a barri-
cade of wire-netting, and then wake up to find
that savage rabbits have crawled through and are
biting your god-like legs.
Queensland ex-Premier Philp got the scare
•of his life a few nights back through not knowing
the gun was loaded —yet any one could see the
ammunition sticking right out of the muzzle of the
weapon. His party had been girding at Kidston
and co. over the purchase of Jimbour and
Woolooga estates, and Stodart, M.L.A., proposed
that a select committee should investigate matters.
Minister Bell didn’t object, and things were going
on nicely, when a member proposed that the com-
mittee should also inquire into the Philp party’s
purchase of the Seaforth property. Then Philp
rose in haste and talked the proposal out. The
Philp Government paid £ll,OOO of Queensland’s
good cash for Seaforth, and some 6000 acres have
been let at £2O a year. On present appearances
it will take 1100 years to get the purchase money
back without interest.
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If the people of New South Wales send me back to
office, I intend to take measures that will speedily bring
the Federal Government to reason.— Joseph Carruthers.
Upon the land and out at sea
For miles there hangs a glamor dree,
A grim and dire expectancee.
The sun burns blue. A sky of lead
Spreads low and shroud-like overhead,
And none are happy but the dead.
Like ants, in black, begirt with woe,
Stark souls are drifting to and fro—
They bob and whisper as they go.
No work is done for man or State.
The women cowl their heads and wait
The final, blinding stroke of Fate.
Australia’s doom is very near.
How may it come ; who first will hear
The knell four million people fear ?
Carruthers is returned. The text
Of rich and poor with horror vexed
Is on their perished lips : “ What next?”
VIC.
S.S.


THE RELATIVE VALUE!
That’s the Question,
In Footwear.
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS
AND
SHOES
Surpass in relative
value any other Boots
or Shoes you can purchase.
They are all made from our own
exclusive designs —elegant and
dressy in shape—and are also
made to endure that
VERY LONG WEAR
WHICH MEANS REAL
ECONOMY TO BUYERS.
JL. 2216 Z, 23/6
OR POST FREE OVER THE COMMONWEALTH
In Black, 23/6 In Tan, 24/6
DOWNRIGHT HARD WEAR IN THIS BOOT!
WE EXCHANGE BOOTS, OR RETURN MONEY. Send for our Post Free Style-Book.
CALLAGHAN and SON,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
: ■
vv;
■ v
■
nf W I
m
I
■
A SPECIAL FEATURE..
RIDING TROUSERS .
In Whipcords
and Saddle Twists,
25/-; 32/6
RIDING BREECHES..
Whipcords and
Saddle Twists*
32/6 to 501
Garbardines and Twillettes
32 6 to 45/-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
A.s Illustrated!
Design No. 110,
50/- to 75 -
fly OR SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED OR BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES
—cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
SMARTEST KNICKERS WORN.
Specially’ Designed for
Perfed Freedom in WalK-
ing, Fishing Shooting,
Golfing, Motoring, etc.
■'a
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.-A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Oar Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
BUCKLEY & NUNN
TAILORS and
BREECHES
MAKERS,
LIMITED,
300-310 BourKe St. f Melbourne
■MALTHOID ROOFING 1
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not." — Marcus Aurelius.
“THE ROOF OF AUSTRALIA,” as Mount Kosciusko is called, has an
accommodation house built to withstand the severest weather. The rooting IS
MALTHOID ; and we ask all visitors to inspect it from time to time. We guarantee
it will give every satisfaction, as there is nothing that stands climatic variation
better than Malthoid, whether it be extreme heat or intense cold, it remains unaffected.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
'CUttZ
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.-W.
COMPLETE SHAVING OUTFIT.
For 10/6 we will post to your address a Complete Shaving Outfit
that is selling rapidly all over the State.
Each article is of splendid quality, and guaranteed to please YOU.
The Parcel Comprises—
-1 Good Razor, i,’ Plum Razar 7/6 extra; 1 Razor Strop; 1 Packet of Razor Paste ;
1 Stick of Shaving Soap; 1 Shaving Brush; 1 Bottle Bay Rum; 1 Shaving Mug;
1 Stop-Blood Stick.
POST FREE 10/6.
MONEY BACK IF YOU ARE NOT PLEASED.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME —They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
COUPON
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY*
Therefore, when shopping', say
GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.


7
►
y
o
*o'
o,o°
#5
#
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
THE WHISKY OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTE.
BUCHANAN S WHISKY
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCEPS SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 24, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Mr. H. M. Somer, the honorary fighting
manager for the late Women’s Work Ex., has
been telling someone that, generally speaking, the
exhibitors were very well satisfied. Well, Mr.
Somer,' who looks hard to beat, may lay the
unction to his deep chest and square jaw (managers
of Women’s Work Exhibitions don’t have souls)
that the Ex. was the first of its kind, and that if
it was not an entire success, why neither was the
Creation. Even the Almighty had to destroy a
good part of that and start over again. But Mr.
Somer couldn’t keep track of every detail, and
doubtless it was woman, not man, who was respon-
sible for the destruction or non-appearance of
several choice exhibits. Miss Theo Cowan’s
mother and two sisters did some rare lace, linen
and ribbon work that was returned to the doers
spoilt with dirt, and not exhibited at all to
the judges. Miss Eadith Walker personally
rooted out some of the articles too late for
judgment day, and both she and Mrs. “Toby”
Barton are interesting themselves about
arranging a special prize for those exhibits.
As for the owner of the wonderful blue cloth
cloak worked with sprays of white lilies, she has
taken the ruin of her masterpiece so much to
heart that she has been in bed eversince. Oneof the
professional male packers sized up things when
he told a working girl, “ You women have worked
well and honestly, but the ladies— ugh ! ” He
shrugged contemptuously.
The second daughter of Mr. Public Instruction
Hogue was married last Thursday to Mr. Stanley
Holmes, a citizen of Clarence Town. On the same
day Miss Gilchrist, of Kogarah, and of the family
which constitutes the first half of the Gilchrist-
Watt shipping firm, was married to Mr. Thomas
Donkin, a nephew of the Donkin who entertains
the Rawsons and other vice-regal persons so often
up at his snake-proof station. (The homestead is
snake-proofed with wire mesh on account of the
frequency of the snakes since Federation. No,
now that I remember, it was always a snaky
locality.)
One Amelia McKenna, of Waterford (Ireland),
widow of the wealthy knight of that name, has
just died and left, according to the Daily
Chronicle (London), £4O a year to each of her
dogs, Rorey and Ruffles. This isn’t considered
extravagant in the circles these dogs bark in—a
mere competency, in fact. N. Y. World esti-
mates that the average sum spent on each of the
pet dogs of such multi-millionairesses as Mrs. A.
G. Vanderbilt, Mrs. Grosvenor, Mrs. Harry
Lehr, and Mrs. Bird works out at $2OOO (£400)
per annum. The favored dog will have a special
maid or valet, as the case may be, whose duty it
is to feed, bath, dress, and manicure the he or she
beast; also to clean his or her teeth. The smart
dog takes a rest cure in a canine sanitarium, like
any human. Constant massage soothes frayed
canine nerves, and bi-monthly visits to a dentist,
at a sovereign a time, counteract the effects of
over-rich French cooking. Taking everything
into consideration, one is inclined to feel a little
sorry for Rorey and Ruffles, with their beggarly
£BO a year between them. But they should be
able to struggle through somehow.
Alfred S. Usher, fidus Achates of the Sydney
musical profession, completed, the other day, 25
years’ continuous service with Paling’s. Usher
lias hosts of friends. Besides the inevitable
illuminated address, from which few people escape
in this world, the music-teachers of Sydney donated
a valuable gold watch, appropriately inscribed.
Hazon made the presentation, and Riccardi and
one or two others orated. Among Sydney music-
sellers none are better known or more useful to
musicians than “Alf.” His memory in matters
musical is little short of phenomenal, and his
faculty for solving enigmas is great. For instance,
a lady of neglected education once asked him for
the “Chinese exercises” for the piano. He at
once trotted out Czerny’s, which filled the bill.
Usher’s youthful daughter Constance is one of our
most brilliant pianists.
Not everywhere is the cook a put-upon per-
son residing amid blackbeetles and a permanent
odor of boiled cabbage. Eugene Kratz, head
chef to the Czar, draws, according to the Ban
Frisky Argonaut, a salary larger than the Presi-
dent of the United States—viz., £ll,OOO a year-
while “his social rank equals that of a general in
the Russian army.” Personally, I’ve always had
a theory that cooks should rank with the clergy,
and the care of the body and the soul be, so to
speak, amalgamated.
Under the name “ The Cuisine of a Century,”
the Saturday Review notices, in a two-column
article, with gravity, respect and admiration, a
new book on cookery by Monsieur Escoffier, the
chef of Carlton Hotel, London. The Review
calls it “ the latest contribution to the litera-
ture of cookery.” Literature! The haughty
Review says of Escoffier: “In all serious-
ness he might be an Archbishop, a Lord
Chancellor, or a great Pro-Consul. He has.
the face of a man who seems born to com-
mand. He has chosen an interesting and lucra-
tive profession, where only talent can succeed,
and nothing short of genius can ensure distinc-
tion.”
Well, looking into the future as far as human
eye may see, I read this in the society report of a
Government House function: “ Her Excellency
Lady Southjacket entered the ballroom with Mr.
Sauvage Canard, the new chef, who joined the
vice-regal staff last week. His Excellency Lord
Southjacket led in Mrs. Sauvage Canard. This
lady is the daughter of the Duke of Norfolk, but
wisely dropped her title on marrying a more dis-
tinguished, though untitled, man than her ducal
father. She certainly made a brilliant alliance,
for Mr. Sauvage Canard’s father, grandfather and
imother were all distinguished cooks.”
A marriage is to take place this month in
London between Major McMicking, a cousin of
ithe Melbourne family of that name, and a daughter
of the Due and Duchesse de Stacpoole. The
Stacpooles would seem to have been originally
aristocratic French emigrants, with the title of
Count. The Duke brand is from the Papal
States. It was conferred by Pius VIII., 77 years
ago, and the present wearer is the fourth of his
race who has humped the glory, the ham-frill and
the burden. The Papal States used to do a con-
siderable export trade in dukes.
The Lovelace Earl and Countess spent a few
quiet days in Sydney at the Australia, and then
prowled off somewhere on a scenery hunt. By-
and-bye they will go to Maoriland.
A returned Sydneysider reports Messrs. Jack
Brunton, Colman Burke and Walter Bradley as
ruffling it bravely about London. The Stewart
Dawsons, he says, have the best flat in London,
in Hyde Park. The Duchess of Sutherland’s flat
is on the next floor. So they have at least one
guaranteed neighbor with whom they can safely
leave the key when they go out. A 40-h.p.
Mercedes toots along Mrs. Dawson, and daughter
Bertha has another and smaller dingus of her
own. The family is coming out next year.
A welcome visitor of next year will be Ada
Crossley. The returned Sydneysider saw her at
her St. John’s Wood hive, and says her life seems
filled with honey, engagements and heavy fees.
Her home is rented from Marie Tempest, the
actress.
Mr. Ernest Platt, an Englishman who visited
us some years ago, and made a splash as he dived
into the social waters, and whom report engaged
to a pretty Sydney girl, was married in London a
few months ago to a Miss Deborah Green. Platt
used to be in some Guards or other—you don’t
want brains, but only riches, to be a guardsman—
but now he is something lucrative in the city.
Perhaps he had more brains than the Guards had
any use for.
Dr. Grace Boelke, who was put in charge of the
medical section at the Women’s Exhibition,
developed typhoid a few days before the show
opened. She was the first woman doctor in Syd-
ney, and, curiously enough, in her student days she
fell ill of typhoid just prior to one of her exams.
The recent death of Mr. Roger North, son of
Lord North, of Wroxton Abbey, Warwickshire,
England, puts a N.S.W. family into mourning.
Mr. North married, in ’96, Miss Robina Barton,
of the pastoralist family of that name.
One of the smartest outfits that has taken to
the ice at the Glaciarium is worn by a chic
widow—a Mrs. Nicoll. It is made of cream
Sicilienne with black corded silk, collar braided
with grey-and-silver and grey-and-white braid,
short sleeves, and short pleated skirt. The cut of
the garment is perfect. Such clothes make a
widow doubly dangerous.
Singer Andrew Black, who is at present rusti-
cating in Maoriland, and recovering from in-
fluenza. and abusing the Chow, will be here in a
fortnight.
Miss Rita de Coque, the Sydney girl who was
engaged to the late Professor Lloyd of the Sydney
Uni., is to be married in November at Colombo
to Mr. H. P. M. Rae, of Calcutta. Professor
Lloyd’s death occurred some three years ago, a
few weeks previous to the day fixed for his
wedding.
In last mail’s papers from London were para-
graphs referring to “ Passion-fruit—an Austra-
lian Delicacy,” put on the market for the first
time that week. Buyers held aloof, and only
four shillings a case was realised. Three days
later thirty shillings a case was demanded, for a
section of London’s six millions had tasted the
fruit, and yearned for more. A pressman inter-
viewed an Australian about the seedy delicacy,
and was told that the proper way to eat it was to
empty the contents into a wine-glass, and mix it
with good sherry. Why drag in sherry? Some
persons would put alcohol into the Holy Grail
itself. One of the most alluring items in the
cottage gardens up the N. Shore line is the riot of
passion-fruit vines. Their opulence is tangled over
rustic arbors and trellis work—leaves as bright as
if oiled, grey-blue flowers, and red-purple fruit.
The heroine in that fascinating book “ The Forest
Lovers ” had grey eyes like passion-flowers.
You’ll see that in a year or so the Bull people will
dote on passion-fruit, and famous chefs will do
something new under the sun with it. Wonder
they haven’t had it growing long ago, in their
hot-houses.
Dr. and Mrs. Otto Wunderlich and their infant
are going off for a nine months’ tour of India,
Siam, Annam (where the insane King who fried
his wives has just been dragged, barking, off his
throne by the officials of the Parley-Voo country),
and other charming and objectionable spots,
where every prospect pleases and the mosquito is
two feet long and distinctly vile.
Artist Souter, 0.8. C. (Order of the Black Cat),
has, in conjunction with Mr. Harcourt Beatty,
written an opera, or operetta, “The Grey
Kimona,” which sounds mysterious and remote.
It is an original Japanese work, and the music is
by F. Wynne Jones, Meynell and Gunn’s con-
ductor. The new piece will be played by “The
Fatal Wedding ” children. Rosie Fitzgerald, who
was with a J.C.W. combination, has had the lead-
ing part given over to her. Miss Everett is train-
ing “the forty kids from the Alley,” and M. and
G. will present the “Kimona” in Melbourne
early next year. The departure of the infants
for Goulburn, where the trial performance is to
occur to-night, suggested the crowd that danced
behind the Pied Piper.
When I go on the land I think I’ll get Archi-
tect Nangle, who lately lectured before the Sydney
Tec. College, to draw the plans for my shack,
tent, humpy, lean-to, dug-out, or tin and bagging
residence. In his lecture Mr. Nangle was
humorously angry with the plan of what he called
the “ middle class house.” Most of us live in
that kind of manor house —the 255. to 30s. a week
cottage. The lecturer “roasted” the “conven-
tional parlor.” It ought to be abolished, he said,
and the space put into the dining-room. It will
probably be centuries before Mr. Nangle’s
spook will see such a consummation. The
mantel mirror, the mantel drape, and the
fancy mats and chairs and portrait enlargements
must have the best lodging in the house. The
dog-box rooms are good enough for the originals
of the enlargements.
The conventional verandah and the kitchen
also came under Mr. Nangle’s withering fire of
criticism, and on the “ tunnel business ” —the
alleged hall—he was a srniter. I believe the
man who would speak disrespectfully of that
tube we call a hall is capable of any enormity.
The tube in question is the beginning of suburban
gentility, and the symbol of our uplifting in the
social scale. Before it came to pass, the front
door opened on to the “ living room ” —the
“keeping room,” to quote the language of Ver-
mont and Maine; and opposite the door was the
lumpy horse-hair sofa, with the red cushion on it,
and above the sofa was the shelf with the china
dog (value 4d.). Then man arose in his might
and invented the tube in the middle of the house,
and his womankind laid oilcloth along the bottom
of the tube, and they came forth out of the dark-
ness of barbarism and furiously beeswaxed that
oilcloth till it shone like a mirror or a delusion,
and was slippery like the Glassy Harem, and
they whacked Gladys Mehitabel Sapphira
Anastasia Jane (aged ten) for leaving a lump
of mud the size of a vulture on the glazed
surface, and they closed the front door to
preserve the tomb-like atmosphere of the tube,
and the smell of the beeswax climbed up the
stair like a strong man climbing into a fenced
city. And it was thus that civilisation com-
menced. Now a person named Nangle comes and
speaks disrespectfully of our tube.
Maorilanders in Sydney must be sunstruck or
tired, else they would have devised some festivity
to mark the day of the Dominion. Next Thurs-
day (26th) Maoriland becomes a Dominion
officially, and over on the isles there are to be great
doings and vast libations of hop-beer. It is just
the occasion for an orator. “O, tenderly the
haughty day fills his blue urn with fire; One
morn is in the mighty heavens, and one in our
desire,” an American poet wrote of such an occa-
sion in his own land. The Maoriland Intelligence
Department will hang out flags and the brightest
things on the goods counter, but the Maoriland
exiles over here show no signs of doing anything
but cooling their national pride with iced drinks.
Notice that the new Wellington paper has
snapped the name, The Dominion. A noble
snap! Dominion as a name is only second to
Commonwealth.
Concerning the foregoing : This cutting is from
an Auckland paper :
In order to celebrate the proclamation of Dominion
Day, on the 26th inst., the parishioners of AJI Souls’
Church, Devonport, have decided to give a euchre party
and dance in the Foresters’ Hall, Devonport.
For sure, the second coming of the Messiah will be
celebrated by certain kinds of parishioners with a
progressive euchre party.
A girl sends this from Maoriland
What a number of the Old World’s great stars, after
sparkling in the limelight, and drawing big fees for many
years, have at last reluctantly to confess that they have
had their twinkle, and that London —and through Lon-
don, the musical world—wants fresh voices and fresh
faces. Then the old “star” looks about fora last few
hundreds, and the poor colonies are picked upon as a
suitable place. An instance at. present in our midst is
Albani, the “ incomparable Albani,” the “ friend of the
late Queen,” etc., etc. Albani has lately visited this
small town of ours (Christchurch) and on the strength of
her reputation, coupled with her knowledge of the
nobility, and the fact that it was extensively adver-
tised that she was staying with Northcote and
Plunket, she had a bumper house. What a disappointed
crowd. She is still Albani as regards her smiles and the
kittenish way she runs on and off the platform ; but her
voice—where is it ? The rest of the concert was good, and
an incident at the end rather enlivened things. William
Green and Mildred Jones came on for a duet. She
started all right, but William came in on the wrong note.
Mildred, disgusted, walked straight off the platform.
William looked at the audience, smiled and walked off. The
pianist, noticing that he had the floor to himself, smiled
and walked off. A wait of a few minutes whilst Willie and
Milly made it up, and then they came on again hand in
hand. This time everything went smoothly.
We have the Grand Opera Co. here, and, for a wonder, no
rows have disturbed the silent night. The only complaint
of the public is that the Germans don’t start till about
half-an-hour after advertised time, but generally manage
to finish inside midnight. They have had poor
houses, which is a pity, for although some of the singers
are not first-class, the company as a whole is worth
hearing.
The Royal Art Society’s show closed after a
jolly group of At Homes. Mrs. Hadfeld, Mrs.
Oxnard Smith, and the R.A. students filled the
closing weeks with music, song, sketches, and
conventional revelry.
The Butt babies are coming here on the
Britannia with Aunty Hook. Curiously enough,
Hook is an assumed name, and Butt the real cog-
nomen of the contralto’s family. Hook is the
modestest stage name that ever took the eye.
M rs. Amy Sherwin is arranging an At Home for
the buttress-like Butt. And the Tait boys have
secured for her and the brood “Fairlight,” the
Hugh MacNeils’ house on the Edgecliff-road. It
has a big old rambling garden. The motor-car
Macs left by the Mongolia on a trip to foreign
parts.
Police-Inspector Lenthall, who was for 40
years in the N.S.W. Police Department and who
retired on a pension in 1900, is said to have
dropped into a heap of affluence. The Lenthalls
are a very old family, one of the best known being
the famous Speaker of the House of Commons
who bucked up for Cromwell against Charles I.
One section of the Lenthall family moved to
N.S.W. in 1852, and in 1860 the eldest son joined
the force as a plain pedestrian bobby. He put in
his early days in Alburyand Cooma, and rendered
conspicuous service in the old bushranging times.
Just after his retirement the family in England
began to die out, and a property at Oxford came
the ex-inspector’s way. Now, some more
Lenthalls have died, and a pile of money comes
to keep the property from feeling lonely.
The Manly cargo steamer Brightside went to
the bottom of Sydney Harbor the other day—
just sank quietly at its moorings. This is not the
first time it has found bottom. A very ancient
rattletrap is the Brightside (once the Emu) and
it has seen service in three States—Victoria,
Queensland and N.S.W. It perished out of the
passenger business years ago, but old Manlyites
still remember how it used to cough and wheeze
and bark them up to business in the morning, and
land them in Sydney quite a while before lunch.
Thus “ Mario,” from Brisbane :
The chief social event of the week was the General
Hospital F6te, which froze bitterly during- Friday after-
noon and the forequarters of Saturday. There was no
lack of enthusiasm on the part of the Very Best People,
but the public stayed away at first, and it therefore
became a case of dog eating dog, with but indifferent
appetite. The feeble and tired Excellency opened pro-
ceedings on Friday at noon, in the presence of a crowd of
one, and several dozens of stall-holders. During the
elaborate address read to his Ex. by Pom-Pom Forrest,
the individual who formed che crowd got stage fright,
and, diving hastily into a fancy stall, bought up a pillow-
slip, a pair of bath slippers and a tea-cosy. In these he
disguised himself as a stall-holder of a pronounced type,
and spent the rest of the day in security. The Governor’s
wife accompanied her spouse, and the subsequent tour
round the stalls must have cost the vice-regal purse
something like £2O.
The freeze lasted until Saturday afternoon, when
things perked up a bit, and the big military display in the
evening pulled the affair off the ice. The chief item
in the military show was an attack by alleged Dervishes
upon a fort held by the alleged Devon Regiment. The
fearsome and murky hordes, in becoming white night-
shirts and white skull-caps, and with burnt-cork visages
that grew perceptibly paler as the evening went on, were
fine. They skirmished round on bullet-proof ponies, and
ultimately captured the fort, chopped the survivors to
pieces, and proceeded to hold high dance and revelry.
Foolishly, however, they neglected to post sentries, and
a lot of Tommies —the same ones that had been
killed—came and hacked the Dervishes into three
pieces. Later, the Dervishes came to life again,
and once more assailed the fort, but some thoughtful
person set a match to the whole show', and it disappeared
in blue flames, and all parties were destroyed and
came to life again. Then there was an inspection, field
hospital work, and a march past by the troops that had
been dead so frequently. Afterwards (he crowd, 3000
strong, looted the stalls—for a consideration.
The Philp-Gibb wedding duly eventuated at the church
of St. Luke on Saturday. The pretty little bride, albeit
too pale, was a picture of dainty grace in chiffon satin
and some lovely lace. There was a large array of rela-
tives and friends, who afterwards foregathered at the
Gibb residence, Dornoch Terrace. Bride and groom are
now disporting themselves in your sea-girt city.
Mrs. “ Mothers’ Union ” Halliday departs southward
this week after two days at the vice-regal villa. In private
life Mrs. H. is a stylish dame, and full of eloquence and
anecdote, but on the platform she dons a poke bonnet
and a discourse to match.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide: —
Lady Le Hunte gave a small and cheerful At Home at
the Residence on the 17th, and the young soprano Lizzie
Newbold was commanded to elevate her voice in melody
thereat for the pleasure of the gilded few. The Lady
may always be depended upon to shed some kindly atten-
tion on our promising young musical fry, and her tactful
treatment of the fry in question might be a lesson to
those misguided and uplifted persons who regard artists
as hired merchandise to be set down in a secluded corner
until w’anted. The Newbold damsel was taken by the
hand and presented to the guests, and as she had left her
umbrella at home she had no protection from the rain of
compliments. Lady Le Hunte was garbed in a beautiful
garment of soft grey, with insertions of wide cream lace,
of the kind that maketh light the heart of woman and
the purse of man. Miss Clowe, in a smart blue frock,
helped to entertain the guests, among whom were Mrs.
Tom Barr Smith, Mrs. Arthur Langley, Mrs. Boucaut,
Mrs. Oulross, Mrs. Ellis Rowan, and a multitude besides.
The benefit concert to Miss Newbold in the Victoria
Hall the next evening brought a full house and many
offerings of the things that are grown by the man who
has gone on the land. Messrs. W. B. Foote and L. W.
Yemm, who jointly manipulated it, went out and
scoured the county after any eminent folk who might
chance to be lurking behind a barrel or in some other con-
cealment, and the patronage list was just long enough to
reach down King William-street and up the North
Adelaide hill. Also most of the patrons went to the
concert!! It was a very good concert, and encores
dotted the landscape like dandelions, ant-hills,
members of Parliament, and other plentiful things.
Lady Le Hunte, Miss Clowes, and a bevy of aides, helped
to applaud the little girl; also Captain Lyric-Club Bassb,
Dr. and Mrs. Campbell and a party, Mrs. Bray, and Mrs.
Bonython and more party, the two Brocksop maidens,
and Miss Lloyd. Miss Newbold fled from our tram-horse
State a day or two after the concert, and went back to
Melbourne, where, ’tis said, she is to warble for Melba,
to see what that Queen of Song thinks of her chances.
The Federal Speaker’s dame gave two At Homes
last week at “ Wavertree,” College Town, so that the
happy few might gaze upon the exquisite china paintings
done by her daughter, artist Rhoda Holder. The family
is many-talented. One daughter trails M.A. after her
name, another is pursuing a musical degree at the
’Varsity, while Rhoda above-mentioned won the prize for
portrait painting at the Melbourne gallery not long ago,
and is now achieving marvellous things with Limoges
china, a paint brush and a kiln. A dessert service, pink
rimmed and with tiny bush landscapes as motif, and a
tea-service with South Australian wild-flowers thereon,
were among the trifles which I would fain have stolen,
but somebody seemed to be looking all the time. Several
pieces of Miss Holder’s china are by train to Mel-
bourne to adorn the Exhibition of Women’s Work. We
can only pray that that train doesn’t clatter and bang
and wobble to excess.
A Scotchbyterian General Assembly has been raging in
Adelaide, and the world is full of kilts and bagpipes
o’ nights, to say nothing of elders and meenisters. There
was a great rally of music, speeches and buns at the
Exhibition Building, and all the feminine adjuncts of the
Scotchbyterians turned out in such wild hundreds that
the haughty old edifice was packed. It (the edifice) had
its best frock of vegetation on, and trailers of fern and
roses in its hair. The Excellencies, with their vice-regal
suite, the Chief Judical one, a Moderator-General, and
some moderators-not-general, Professor Darnley-Naylor
and his wife, and some of the Duncan, Fotheringham and
Holder clans were among the dense multitude.
The Norwood people arose in a compact body and
showered a return ball, a handsome gift of cutlery
and much adulation on their mayor and mayoress, Mr. and
Mrs. Holden, last week. These two have manipulated
the municipal office with such energy'and despatch that
the ball, the cutlery and the adulation were well-deserved.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENKHI.
On the morning of July 6 the boss of the
Yankee naval station at Olongapo, in the Philip-
pines, gave orders for the summary sacking of all
Japanese. When the Jap Consul enquired why,
the boss of the station declined to give any reasons.
It was the United States naval station, and he
wasn’t going to explain to any foreigner the why
or wherefore of anything done there. No more
Jap workmen are to be employed, and the vacant
places will be filled with Chinese. The Yankees
reckon there are too many disguised colonels and
captains among Jap workmen.
Why shouldn’t beautiful women be always
beautiful? She has the desire —that is certain, and just
as certain is it that she has the means. You’re not so
sure of that? Well, then, you haven’t used Valaze. Yes, yes,
Valaze only makes the Complexion beautiful—but what
more does Beauty require ?' A soft, clear skin, smooth to
the touch, and fresh to look upon—and wherefore sigh,
O Ladies? Nature gave you this in youth and early girl-
hood—Valaze preserves it long into the years. Therefore,
Vive Valaze! —use Valaze, and your complexion will be
like unto the lily, fair, bright, and beautiful. Those
nasty, creeping wrinkles, those insinuating crowsfeet
that gather at the eye corners—they fly before Valaze.
Just get a jar yourself and try—you’ll know then how it
is so many elderly women of your acquaintance seem to
simply defy Time. Valaze—that’s all. Valaze is sold by
chemists everywhere at 3s. 6d. and 6s. jar, or posted 6d.
extra, from Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 168 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
‘ ‘ Growler”: There’s no give and take about
the Victorian Railways. I’m working for 6/6 per
day, and if there is an odd quarter-day due me
when pay-day comes I get paid one halfpenny
short (1/7). Well! That’s not much to growl
about, but if I lose a quarter-day they deduct a
halfpenny over (1/8). Either way Tait gets the
halfpenny.


FAT
FOLKSI Use“FATCURE”
And watch Yourselves Reduce Daily*
«* FA.TCTJRE ’* reduces weight safely, permanently and with absolutely
no ill after-effects. Many cases lose four pounds a week under this harmless
treatment. Obesity and corpulency are ugly, ungainly conditions that not only
make one ridiculous, but also create discomfort and ill health.
Thousands are using “ Fatcure ” with absolute satisfaction. It improves the
general health wonderfully, and tones up the system.
SEND OR CALL FOR FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
If convenient, come in and let us weigh you privately. No fee. We will give you
full particulars and a Free Sample. If you cannot call, write us.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
SUITE J, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Entrance also from Market Street.
Enclose 2d. postage stamp, and
we will send Free Trial in
closed wrapper and full par-
ticulars. Call if possible.
your
IGHT
KLEINERT’S
Helps to Smart Dressing.
Still Another
Tbs (SibSoi) Sbislci
Worn under Corset cover.
No Straps over the arm.
Tapes tie below the bust.
YOUR DRAPER HAS IT.
Thercb nothing like
DUnLOP
RUBBER HEELS
FOR A HARD DAY'S WALK
No Foot Weariness
Get Your BootmaKer to Fit
a Pair, and Try for Yourself.
Only accept ’’DUNLOP HEELS"
THEY ARE THE BEST
THE D(JNLO“ TVRE o*o MPA H »
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. fIETM, BRISBANE ANO
CHRISTCHURCH.
■
3
MU
hihSSUi
W-
KH
• W"'%
'zMy,
■ '#?
iv
m
I <
i vr sm
Wll I!® Mfe |J!/jißfSr
fill
Lkr.o
i‘l«
Wl
... LI
> i till
Garden
Hose
Combines the necessary strength
to ensure Durability, and is
sufficiently pliable to prevent
cracking and bursting. A Hose
of the best qualify and finish
that will give long service under
Australasian conditions. Un-
equalled for Garden and Stable use.
Stocked by all leading Stores.
Accept only “ Dunlop'Brands.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of AuCt. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.
;i ? 1 5
•7bt Sibson
m.:.
T*:
rs>
*?
SOMETHING - &VITE -NEW'
"JTYLLUMPL
WORLDS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 23, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The peerless Melba whizzes through town now
and again in a gorgeous motor. She looks plump,
handsome, and happy ; and her version of motor
dressing is a brilliant sermon to all females who
own or can borrow a motor in which to mote. On
one of her recent appearances her hat was white,
with a load of black feathers, and her cloak was blue
silk cloth and leather, cut by a master,, and worn
with an air. At each emporium she visited she
was besieged .by a mob of starers. Melba—the
Hew Melba—smiled upon them all with the grace
of a nursing nun. O, what a change is there !
Melba’s “seclusion ” is being eaten up steadily
and stealthily. Just gradually she is being drawn
into the current of affairs. Soon all her bounding
energy will break its self-imposed shackles. I
can almost see a concert —a special and only one—
perhaps six only ones.
Bad news is told of Sweet Nell Stewart. She
has been forced by illness to relinquish her
N’York engagement, and she returns shortly to
Australia. The growth in her shoulder, which
was operated upon as a tumor, is again troubling
her, and grave Tears are entertained lest it should
develop malignant tendencies. Nellie, as usual,
bears up wdth fortitude—albeit she is sorely dis-
appointed at the breakdown of her campaign.
Presently her daughter, Nancy, returns, and then
probably the strenuous player will try to recon-
cile herself to rest and quiet for a while. Which
will be a penance for a lady who affirms : “ I’d
rather be dead than dull! ” Alas, for all we
know, it may be possible to be both !
J. G. Williamson’s new star—Miss Beatrice
Irwin—just arrived in Melbourne, has a good re-
cord of work, for all her youth. She can boast of
experience under Irving, Wyndham, Charles
Frohmann, Gillette, and other such Importants
in the theatrical world. Her first notable work
was with Irving and Ellen Terry. “No words
could express the help they gave me ” says Miss
Irwin. “It was the big lift in my life.” She
toured Canada with the company—playing such
parts as Annette in “ The Bells.” irving would
never decide for an “ Annette,” says Miss Irwin,
“until he had rehearsed the part with her for
fully a week.”
Miss Irwin is a beautiful woman—lithe, straight
and slender —full of verve and enthusiasm. She
is rather classic as to feature, but irradiated by a
glorified cheekiness —a glow of life and energy.
It is a face to draw. The smooth beauty of skin
and feature are enhanced by lines of character.
One can see, for all the classic fairness and repose
of her appearance, that she is keenly, volcanically
alive; eager —delightfully alert and eager —for
action. Her eyes are blue with pale gold lashes,
and the scarlet mouth turns down with a curve
that is not discontent. Soft hair—piled Frenchily
—makes the frame of her countenance. It is pale
hair —ashy-fair, with a golden gleam. There is a
Frenchy dash in her Saxon style ; but, as she has
studied much in Paris, that may be accounted for
by the atmosphere of the city of flat-footed women
(vide Bent).
Mr. J. F. Archibald’s mention of “ sandwich
men” in his “Memoirs” in The Lone Hand of
September was a pathetic enough impression.
What horrible truth backs it up at the present day !
Sandwich men do 14 hours a day, solid, miserable
tramping, for Is. 4d.; and 2d. of this they are
forced to give every day to “the Lieutenant,”
who gets them their poor wreck of a job—if they
hope for another day’s chance in their lives. The
Lieutenant engages the men, pays them, and
keeps his eye on his particular batch all day. If
they lay down their harness for more than a
quarter-hour (for a cup of stall coffee, with per-
haps a “ slab ” or a “ dorestep ” to munch with it)
the time is docked, or they are not taken on
again. Yet 500 at a time are scrambling for these
jobs at morning’s cold dreary dawn in Freetrade
England—miserable creatures, wretchedly clad,
with busted boots peeling off their weary
feet, and all human expression wiped out of their
drawn listless faces, walking, walking, for ever
walking.
One of the trustees of an up-country cemetery,
I hear, flung out into gaiety and jolly frivolling,
and invited the youth and beauty of his acquaint-
ance to a dance. The sit-out dance being an
established thing in polite society, and the gardens
of the host being scanty, he flung wide the gate of
the ghostly acre as a wander-ground for his guests.
Therefore did Edwy and Angelina, warmed by the
whirly toe and the furnace sigh, slip away and
nestle on the chilly slab that covered the remains
of Sarah Ann, who is now resting against the bust
of Abraham; or kiss coyly in the shade of the
cypress, above the grim bones of Duncan J ones.
Miss Corona Patterson, daughter of Harvey
of that ilk, is the latest lass to be cast in
the star part of a matrimonial drama. Her
coadjutor will be Lieutenant Harry Leekes, of
that misapplied wash-tub, the Cerberus. The
ceremonial scene will be played in Scots’ Church,
on September 25, when a large number of
“extra ” ladies and some folk in tubular garments
will appear. Auxiliaries in the shape of a detach-
ment of peaceable men-o’-war will lend interest
to the performance by waving their cutlasses and
other murderous weapons at the couple.
John Ford. Paterson’s exhibition booms so
satisfactorily that it will remain open longer than
at first premeditated. Already £3OO or more has
been expended there by sensible folk- -‘-h®
Dawn of Night,” which was desirable for the
National Gallery, is now Professor Spencer’s envi-
able possession. Mrs. James Gibb acquired Ihe
Lagoon,” and another fine work. And now small
sketches, and a seascape or so, are the only can-
vases that aren’t adorned by a beauty spot of
bright-red paper.
Yet another amateur-acting enterprise looms up
in the announcement columns. Harry Hill and
his histrionic club will attack “The School tor
Scandal.” A charity is to benefit. Charity pro-
fits much through human vanity. Also it uncovers
a multitude of shins.
Future Marshall-Hall matinfies are a dubious
possibility. The guarantors and _ the instru-
mentalists are all at odds and ends, like the first
reading of a Strauss overture. There has been a
loss upon the present series, and the guarantors
requested the orchestra to give its services free
for an additional concert, and so reduce the deficit.
In the interests of their art, the big trombone and
its contemporaries assented, inquiring en passant
what the loss amounted to. The lofty guarantors
refused to answer the civil question, and now
there will be no gratis concert to save the situation.
While Tom Bent has been feted no end, daugh-
ter Bleasby has had quite a dull time since her
return. However, Mrs. Arthur Sachse intends
to remedy that, and Mrs. Bleasby will be the
star-guest of an imminent At Home function.
(“Politicians’ wives and Premiers’womenlund
would be a significant title for a satire.)
Mrs. Bleasby is quite subdued by her recent im-
pressive experiences.
In that astounding drama, “ The Coal King,’
there is at least one charming feature. The gal-
lant ’ero and his frocky complement are played
by young Harry Sweeney and Beatrice Holloway.
Both are comely, young, and Australian, and for
all amorous dramatic purposes, they make an
ideal pair. But the heroic Harry won’t get as
much attention from the matinee girl as she casts
at the feet of a Japanese juggler, merely because
he’s a local product. And blessed Beatrice will
be taken as a mere matter of course, for the self-
same reason. Yet she is a league ahead of most
of the imported theatrical females. The per-
formance of these two eucalyptus saplings is a
weighty argument in favor of enlarged oppor-
tunities for Australian mummers.
The leery has been thawing its frigid surface in
warm good-byes to the teachers of the swift re-
volving toe who came from Fogland and other
cold countries to ‘show us how to skate. The
Glassy Harem wobbles alone without them for a
final farewell week or two, and then closes for the
sun season.
Already arrangements are being _ arrived at
regarding the Matrons’ Ball for race time. P’ran
Town Hall, as usual, will be the location. Mrs.
John Madden is chairwoman to the committee of
the occasion. The matrons moot one or two
vividly novel attractions for their festivity.
Another attempt at communal hospitality is con-
templated by a set of aesthetic bachelors. They
hint at an early-British-costume caper, whereto
all who are bidden shall come in wild beast skins,
woad and wad dies.
Mrs. Ohristesen, a Danish soprano, gives a
recital at the Pianola Hall on 3rd October. Her
programme will comprise some unfamiliar Scandi-
navian folk-songs, and new examples of modern
composers. Also, Brahms will be heard. Una
Bourne will play some Grieg music and accom-
pany.
The friends of venerable Otto Linden intend to
celebrate his 75th birthday with a surprise packet
full of sovereigns. All those folk who have
profited by his precept and example are hereby
informed that they may acknowledge that fact
very gracefully.
The Woman, which is the official organ of the
Australian Wimmen’s League, burst upon our
staggered village this week. It predisposes one
to tolerance by its charming cover design—a
decorative girl who sits embroidering Australia’s
outline upon a tray-cloth, or something. _ But its
leading article prohibits charity, “ Politics will
be treated from the Aunty-Sosh point of view ! ”
Of course they will be, and in the hands of the
Wimmen it will amount to mal-treatment.
Incidentally a list of the subjects to be discussed
.by the Wimmen’s Commonwealth Conference is
' published. Fifteen items are cited, and but few
have any fundamental significance to politics.
“Tryphena,” from London :
There’s a whole nest of Castles songbirds in the Big
Smoke just now under the one roof. Four of them, no
less 1 And there’s an hour set apart for each to twitter
and chirp in an interesting old house in St. John’s Wood.
Amy flourishes her top C for concerts that are to earn
big sums for her this season in America and Russia, She
has a three years’ engagement with the elder Boozy ; but
should an inviting offer for a season of grand opera occur
—I say, should it occur—she may withdraw from her
bond for a stated sum.
Amy Castles has been to see the Queen, and tells about
lfc “My knees trembled. I could scarcely drag my feet
towards the Queen till I saw that she was nervous herself
—really she was. You see our party was a small one
and informal, and none of the pomp or ceremony of a
public appearance called for the superb air of royalty
that is generally in evidence when London sees the
Queen. So she was just woman— a sweet woman too.
She was far less deaf than I imagined, and she put
us all at our ease as soon as she had recovered her own.*
Amy thereupon warbled at her best, and won the Royal
applause.
Sister Dolly had the luck at Daly’s Theatre to be dubbed
as Billy Burke at first sight, and as Billy is the
sauciest comedy star in the Big Smoke, the resemblance
of features, inches, complexion, and honeyed thatch that
the footlighters saw has done Dolly no harm. Billy
Burke is the top dazzler of the comedy hoards, and dukts
and such jostle for her demure smile.
Eileen —the third Castles—is in hard training ; she’s
going to have a big florid voice. Brother George, at
present cast in a Seymour Hicks show, has a singularly
good singing organ, though much training is needed. Be
just now toils at his scales.
In the Castles circle mingle Violet Clarke, Walter
Kirby, Nathalie Dawson, and others. Violet, these
days, is not golden-topped, as I remarked in a recent
scrawl. The tall, straw blonde, who now and then accom-
panies the governing Clarke couple, is a relative, four
times removed or something. Violet’s hair remains
brown and honest. She’s not going out to help govern
Bombay with Dad, but will stick to her work. “ I love
work,” she tells me. “ And I love the stage. I’m hap-
piest there. My voice isn’t big, I know, but the critics
like its quality, and Gilbert himself, who took me
through my parts in the operas, gave me praise,
and said 1 worked with plenty of bright interest.
That gave me hope. To have the great old dear say that
himself and I struggling through his operas was delight-
ful.” There’s a chance of Violet tripping out to Aus-
tralia one of these days.
Walter, the Serenader, is called the Caruso of Park Lane.
Study and practice have done him so much good that in
the season he is pouring forth melody at dozens of parties,
with Duchesses swarming round and making the atmo-
sphere moist and unpleasant. He’s fat, of course, and
owns an extra chin or two, but his voice is fine and the
fat is forgiven him. Oh, it’s fine to be an Australian
these times in the Big Smoke! On the stage, the platform,
the tennis court, and most other places they’re top-dog.
Clara, the doombastic, glowed all in rose
color —like a glorified lamp shade —on Saturday
night, and it intensified the radiance of the beam
she shed on the enthusiasts packing the hall. She
wore rubies—wonderful rubies with an intoxi-
cating color. A Mayoral party shone from the
balcony, with the Returned Tait and his wife,
and Mr. Bent alongside. Bent scarcely ever
misses a Butt concert —he is a sworn admirer of
the Big Lady. Mrs. Armytage and her Bertie
and a man-party held the opposition balcony
show. Sister Mrs. George Chirnside was not
there —she is lying low for Tuesday’s concert,
when Melba returns. The McCloud girls were
prominent. They wore silvery things in their
black hair, to break the sombre mourning-dusk of
their gowns.
The Butt flower offerings were more sumptuous
than ever. Melbourne is a wild riot of flowers
this warm spring weather, and the flower-cart
men look glorified beings from Elysian fields.
Clara always carries off her baskets, harps, and
other flaunting vegetables, hung over her
shoulder, clutched like a fishwife’s basket. There
is a business-like energy about her method.
Do you want to know what Eugenia Stone
looked like on her wedding day? Cuttings from
London papers show gushful columns about the
gowns. There are full-length illustrations of the
wedding dress, mounted on a patient model.
“ The material, crepe de chine oi rose petal soft-
ness, in a mellow tone of burnt ivory—the grace-
ful silhouette of a Princess gown, with fichu and
panel of wide-meshed silk filet. In substitute for
the wedding veil, a picture hat of cream felt, with
simply the trimming of a mammoth ostrich
feather sweeping round, framing the hair.” Then,
her “ going-away ” frock—a tailor-made of white
and black striped Cheviot, with along, tight-fitting
coat.
The only bridesmaid. Miss Kathleen Kellie,
seems to have frocked with soft elaborateness in
pale blue and silver, and old Italian lace, and a
Gainsborough hat with feathers and roses. The
mighty list of “400” presents (the papers give
the number a cross-heading) is more interesting
in the names of the presenters. It’s nice to have
Chamberlain-give one a blotter—a common or
garden blotter. The old Duke of Northumberland
couldn’t go—but sent a gold dish ; and his brother,
Lord Talbot, signed the register, along with Dr.
Keatley, a surgeon of note.
Amongst many ornate invitations to go forth
and spend one’s substance in buying beautiful
frocks, the most alluring is Buckley and Nunn’s.
That enterprising vanity shop presents the Sex
with a spring fashion-book and a list of its prices.
The illustrations captivate ; but the prices—oh !
dear —they’re really moderate ; but they look
huge. Everything has been growing more ex-
pensive ever since I remember, and everything
grows more becoming and indispensable. Pre-
sently careful spinsters will have to wear woad
instead of webby chiffons and glistening silks.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
It is reported that the Australian Govern
ment “is endeavoring to ascertain the difference
between the cost of construction ” (of an Aus-
tralian navy) “in England and in Australia, and
provided that the difference is not unreasonable
Parliament will be asked to consent to the initia-
tion in Australia of a system of warship construc-
tion.” The Bulletin devoutly trusts that this
yarn isn’t true. It would be just as sensible to
say that the Government is endeavoring to ascer-
tain the difference between the cost of an Aus-
tralian army to defend Australia, and a nigger
army hired in the Haoussa country on the west
coast of Africa. For defence purposes, the capa-
city to build and repair our own ships is almost as
essential as the capacity to man them. Cost
doesn’t come into a question like that. When a
man’s life is at stake lie prefers, as a rule, to have
it welldefended for7Jd.'ratherthan badly defended
for 2d., for what does the 5Jd. he saved matter to
him when he is dead ?


HOT SUBJECTS
WARDSTOVES
■BMB——.ii UWMII —ti nirrrw i^nmrrn-TiM^TTTT —rmmrr— mi n i in
roTO wa |t w*^wwgfl* i w*wt I fMwwwt«wsaft»MMaaM>wir»«]g&«<si.l^»^feSla£&-^V
TOWN AND COUNTRY
Cook under any Conditions with any
Fuel —Coal, Coke or Long Wood.
Heads of Families ...
Send for General Catalogue.
Farmers and Selectors . . •
Send for Catalogue of Country Stoves.
Hotel Keepers . . .
Send for Catalogue of Hotel Ranges.
Station Owners . •.
Send for Country Catalogue.
JAS. WARD,
Stovo Show Rooms,
501 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND
The Australian
—Magazine
THE OCTOBER NUMBER of The
Lone Hand (on sale Saturday)
concludes the first volume, and six
months of ■wonderful prosperity.
Looking back on the records of those six
months, The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
feels a deep gratitude to the Australian
public. Probably never previously in
the history of newspaper enterprise has a
new venture met with such prompt and
generous acceptance. Before a copy of
The Lone Hand was printed it was
assured, by prepaid yearly subscriptions,
of a fair circle of readers, and by adver-
tising contracts (stretching over 12
months in some cases, and representing
the highest prices ever paid for advertise-
ments in Australasia), of a payable busi-
ness section. The first issue of 50,000
copies was sold out within a week,
50,000 of the succeeding issues were
ordered before they were printed.
More important still was the generous
support given by artists and writers to
the new venture. “ Copy ” and pictures
came in from all sources, and writers and
artists—the latter particularly—seemed
to set themselves to surpass the best of
I their previous work. The editorial policy
of keeping certain forces in reserve, of
not using all the power available at first,
but making the magazine notable for an
ascending scale of merit, was not any
discouragement to writers, though it was
questioned by many who “ wanted to
be in the first number.” For the loyal
help of Australian writers and artists
The Lone Hand has to express a special
gratitude.
Consider the artists who contribute :
Allen, J. S.
Ashton, Julian
Auld, J. Muir
Carter, Norman
CoLLINGRIDGE, GEO.
Dyson, W.
Enes, Albert
Fry, Douglas
Heysen, H.
Hopkins, L.
Lambert, G.
Lindsay, Norman
„ Lionel
~ Miss
Macleod, W.
Mahoney, F.
McCrae, Hugh
Minns, B.
Muskett, Alice
Paul, M.
Quaife, Miss
Roberts, Miss
Rodway, Miss
Ross, G.
Sass, A.
Siiirlow, John
Souter, D. H.
Spence, P.
Vincent, Alf.
Weston, H.
Winckler, Miss
VOL. I.
OCTOBER i, 1907.
No. 6.
Wild Cattle—(in colors) • - - .
The Mitchell Library ......
Australian Art, 1907 —
The Victorian Artists
Sydney Society of Artists - - -. .
Royal Art Society .......
The Moths—(Verse) .
Two Battlers and a Bear—(lllustrations by . “ Hop ’)
Printer’s Errors Fines (July) - - . .
All-compelling Love
The Roadmakers—(Verse)
Australia Felix—No. i.— Filling the Woolpack -
His Reason—(Humorous Drawing) -
The Broken Siesta—(lllustrations by D. PI. Souter)
The Marquis—(lllustrations by Alek Sass) .
Washing Day -
For The Public Good—
Liquozone—An Impudent Fraud - , -
The Water Diviner .......
The Self-Drugging Habit
In Town —(Verse : Decoration by D. H. Souter)
How Women Love One Another
The Experiences of Clarence—l.—The Last of the Moas -
Blown Out—(Verse)
The One-Eyed Man
Avatar—(Verse)
Our Lady of the Spring—A Fantasy
Mandragore—(Decoration by Lionel Lindsay)
The Clerical Crisis in France
PAGE
By B. E. Minns—Frontispiece
Bertram Stevens 58i
586
589
- - - 595
Edgar Heane 598
Edward Dyson 599
- 605
Lionel Lindsay 606
Arnold Wall 612
“ Telemachus” 613
i( Hop” 621
Ethel Turner 622
t “ Tarboy” 631
Norman Lindsay 636-637
- - - - - 638
- 640
- 642
Roderic Quinn 643
B. E. Minns 644
- Arthur H. Adams 645
Edmund Fisher 653
- - Frank Morion 654
Victor J. Daley 657
Frank Myers 658
Hugh AfcCrae 66 1
- Louis Blin 662
The Funeral—(Verse : Decoration by Hans Heysen) -
Snaky Joe
The Matchmakers—(lllustrations by D. H. Souter) -
Thou Shalt Not be Found Out—(lllustrations by D. PI. Souter)
Toys—(Verse)
Our Empty North - - 1
The Genesis of “The Bulletin”
To Would-be Contributors
Mimes and Music—
Notes from London - -
Australia’s First Song - -
Life and Letters—
Anti-Divorce Literature in Prance .
In Fleet-street - - - . _ • _
The Judicious Thief
Frank Morton 665
- Robert flap 666
Alice Grant Rosman 668
G. El urg 674
“ Blue Bird'' 677
J. C. Watson 678
W. H. Traill 683
- 688
Leslie Willis 689
- 690
Henri Verne 692
- Albert Dorrington 694
xxxiv.
To name all the writers would take up
columns of space, but there is hardly one
notable Australian author of prose or
verse who is not on its list of contribu-
tors, though as yet not all have appeared
in print, some having been held in re-
serve for the second six months.
As regards the October number, it is
particularly strong in pictures. On the
cover is a charming water-color, beauti-
fully reproduced, by Miss Quaife. The
frontispiece is a dainty three-color process
reproduction of B. E. Minns’ “ Wild
Cattle.” Put a green mount and a simple
greenwood frame on it, and you have a
picture fit for any home. Norman Lindsay
contributes (in addition to two humorous
pages) a powerful set of six engravings
illustrating the argument of the chieftain
in the Apocrypha that Love is All-com-
pelling. It is black-and-white of a type
never before printed in Australia. ‘‘ Hop ”
is at his best in two humorous pages, and
D. H. Souter, George Lambert, Lionel
Lindsay, and W. Dyson contribute
notable pictures.
The “ Public Good ” section deals with
the latest patent-medicine that is being
floated on the Australian market. A full
exposure, with American, British and
Australian analyses, is printed. The
water-diviner—that common fraud of the
agricultural districts—is also exposed.
Ethel Turner’s story, “ A Broken
Siesta,” in The Lone Hand for October,
is one of the best ever written by that
charming author. Edward Dyson, Arthur
Adams, Frank Morton, Alice Rosman,
are among the other story-writers, and a
notable cluster of articles come from
Bertram Stevens, J. C. Watson, the late
W. H. Traill (of The Bulletin), the late
Frank Myers, and others. The month’s
singers are the late Victor Daley, Roderic
Quinn, Hugh McCrae, Arnold Wall,
Edmund Fisher, and others.
It’s just a wonderful shilling’s worth.
You should buy the October No. and
make sure of succeeding Nos. by sending
a year’s subscription to the office, or to
the nearest newsagent.
Bound copies (post free 6s. 6d.) of the
first volume are now ready. Order from
your newsagent or the office.
TheNe
214 George Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character•) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
M.W. : When the tariff is out of the way the
patents question must come up. The idea of most up-to-
date and progressive countries now is that within a cer-
tain brief period the foreign patentee must begin to
manufacture his article in “our” country, or must
arrange with some firm in “ our ” country to manufac-
ture it on reasonable terms. Failing that, the patent
goes into the dirt-box, and anybody can make the
article. Australia must follow that example. To allow
some German or Yankee patentee, whose article has
become essential, to forbid its manufacture in Australia,
and to compel us to import, is sheer lunacy. Germany
and the U.S. give no such consideration to the Australian
paten tee.... Henry Olay: Very much declined
Gerrybung: You’ve sent us a rather aged lot
this time... .Waanyarra : Have grave doubts about the
truth of your statement that that locality is “ noted for
large nuggets.” Please forward immense nugget as evi-
dence J.D.H. : Have a dark suspicion that your affair
is in the combine, but is advertised in that way
so that it may sell the apparently independent
plug to people who hate the trust so badly that they
might otherwise leave off smoking J.P.L. : Three sug-
gestions—three wasted efforts... J. Leydon : The tart,
regarded (1) as a girl, (2) as an edible, supplies material for
(3) a joke that is poor and obvious Yarri(W.A.): You
object to increased pay for Federal legislators because
“ the present crowd isn’t worth it.” Well, if £4OO a year
has got us a crowd that isn’t worth more, all the more
reason for paying £lOOO a year to see if we can get a
better crowd. The first Australian Parliament was well
worth £lOOO a year, but consider the men who are gone—
Barton, Bonython, Higgins, Isaacs, Kingston, Turner,
etc., etc.—most of them gone because to remain
in the business meant an old age of poverty
The Bud : “Spring” nearly caught on Eukarana :
Falls very flat Mac: A foolish yarn. The raid you
wind up with would only have made it more likely that
Liz’s father would come along and “do for her.”
JackSpurr: Hackneyed ideas, in very indifferent verse.
....Bowyang : Reasonably good in form, but futile and
pointless Koala: A cockie with an income of
“ thousands a year ” —go to !....H.L.8.H.: “ Never been
printed.” Well, you never will be unless you do a lot
better than that.... William L.: Unpleasant milk joke...
Monaro: Goes pretty well, but has certain fatal blemishes.
....H.O. : The mere pun would not “carry” it
H.J.B. : Has a touch of quality F. Cruickshank : How
in creation can we tell, when you don’t give the name of
it ?.. . .Tea-tree: There is promise in it A.H.G.N. :
Should have been told in a quarter the space... .E. V.W. :
“ Like sylphs out for a quiet stroll ” is too ludicrous an
idea.. ..G.W.G.M.: You haven’t the requisite skill or
knowledge for literary work Miss R. (M.L.): No ;it
would be a hopeless incongruity in The Bulletin. Items
duly returned Ada G. : Some descriptive power, but
not pith or point enough T.W.F. : Don’t believe the
newly-wedded young female you write about either (1)
put a mustard plaster on your friend’s chest in mistake
f°r_ her husband’s at midnight; nor (2) subsequently
emitted a roar and a snort, and dashed, as a result of a
further mistake, into your bedroom. In fact, this paper
regards your entire yarn as a lie, and an old lie and a poor
lie H.F.A. : “ Brusher Handicap ” hopeless. No such
simple-minded publican as yours ever walked the bush on
two legs.. . .S.P.K.: We haven’t asked the lady what her
record is. If she likes to make some mystery of it she
does nobody any harm. Her singing' is heavenly enough
to be worth the price of admittance, and no one need ask
for more. As for your friend who had been in Europe
and said he’d seen her singing small parts in Paris, he is
probably a relation of the man who said he called on
Queen Victoria at the Tower of London, but didn’t see
her, because she was at the back door buying the day’s
vegetables from a Chinaman W.J.S. : Don’t say you
“ look forward to our criticisms with interest.” We
haven’tanyinterestingcriticisms to offer.. ..Vulcan: Yes../
S.R. : Bear-Monkey idea didn’t catch on S. Mumby:
Barring- the fact that one is Pat and the other Mike there
isn’t much in it... .K.W. : The last herd of jokes fell flat.
W.S. : Burns and Squires episode buried C.E.R. :
“Bridget Leary” is an old United States joke, and
couldn’t have happened here last election because of the
arrangement of the polling booths... .Robinson : No,
thank y0u....5.F.: Lunatic joke is off 0.K.E.: De-
clined with all the emphasis we have about us
H. Segrane: Hugh McOrae digs out his own jokes, and
this one wasn’t your joke. We didn’t think very much of
the joke as a joke ; but the excellent drawing carried it...
W. McK. : The verse isn’t powerful enough for the
subject ...Phil Lewis: Breathes the proper spirit, but
the handling is rather ineffective Olympia: Sorry to
tell you that it shows hopeless literary incapacity
Prodigal: The new chum parson has been so often dealt
with that he requires a defter hand Arum : The whim-
sically-confidential style needs much greater literary
skill than yours.... T.8.Mc0.: Your friend is quite right.
...D.0.T.: You’ve no idea of rhyme Shell: Many
thanks for letter.. ..Karaka : We seldom acknowledge
paragraphs in this column. If we did, “Correspond-
ence ” would run to too many columns Fred B. : Our
opinion is that they are of" no value at all C.L.E.:
“Publican” is too vigorous, and it isn’t the artistic
variety of vigor Gerald B. : Too trifling, but it shows
improvement.. ..P.A.: Style too cumbrous and involved.
.. . .Drifter : “ Bill ” might have been much better done.
The other is no good.... Lincoln : Too slight for publica-
tion Oglamite : A weak and unskilful hand R.T.R.:
We haven’t space for elaborate analysis ; calling your stuff
“ ornamental nonsense ” was the shortest w'ay of saying
that, though your manner was ornamental, your matter
was bosh. And you can’t write verse worth a cent, any-
how W.B. (Newcastle): Sorry they don’t quite reach
the mark... .Phil: The prentice-hand is too much in
evidence. ..Retroussd : We have no desire to be “ damned
satirical” at your expense, but your versification is
deplorable Bendemeer : Well-intended, but very crude.
.... Jas. Steel: The universal history you so vaguely
indicate is “ The Martyrdom of Man,” by Winwood
Reade (G. Robertson, Sydney, 3s. 6d. post free)
H.T. (M.L.): You might have made much more of the
idea.. ..G.W.G.M. : You are not devoid of gift, but your
lack of training swamps you H.G. : Perjuries not pic-
turesque enough Rookie: We fear it doesn’t promise
much Scrubber: Very poor stuff Passmore: Just
a shade above mediocrity R.J.: Good idea. Pity you
are not quite up to its weight Chas. D. : It has some
spirit, but you haven’t the needful skill A.A.K. : Very
nearly good enough... .Jane F. : Both are very good in
places, but the treatment is too loose and straggly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.A.L.: Picture of animal resembling a saddled dino-
saur waving its near fore foot at a misshapen human
being, with transparent legs, sitting on a fence, declined.
...Pick: Picture a laborious failure. Jest purely
mechanical... Chris M. : Shows only a glimmer of an
idea of art. We want a radiance—not a glimmer
B.J.A. : The bird on the fence was the only feature of
the drawing that appealed to us, and we couldn’t print
the bird separately C.C. : “ Lyne Rampant” a very
unconvincing beast Chick: In a case like that, one
figure doesn’t make a picture any more than one drunk
makes a brewery.
The other day, in Sydney Water Police
Court, MacFarlane, S.M., had two cases of
robbery to deal with. In one case a big em-
ployer had tried to rob a girl of the overtime
wages due to her. The police court had dismissed
the case; but, on appeal, the Chief Justice said
the magistrate was wrong, and sent it back to him
for hearing. He thereupon fined the big em-
ployer Is. In the other case two men were
charged with stealing eight tomatoes—it was the
big employer who was robbed this time. And the
two men who robbed the big employer of eight
tomatoes were sent to gaol for a month without
the option of a fine, though neither of them was
known to the police. It is true that there is only
one law, for rich and poor alike. But there is un-
fortunately also one MacFarlane.


A
m
%mk-.
mm
m.
i
M
/
m
■
m
m
m
m
W. IAH.n.M.M 11111111 Ml
ssssk
m
m
m
*
m
m
m
M
B§i
m
m
m
iiPliiiiPll
m
m
m
m
QBE
“Don’t Rush!”
“Don’t rush !” the Tory w r ails. If a Tory had been
associated with the Almighty in the scheme of
creation and evolution, he would probably have
sobbed to the Omnipotent to pause in the reckless
haste with which He was building up a man from
a monist cell. The breakneck speed with which
the swim-bladder gave place to the lung would
have caused him to shriek in gibbering terror.
Tories are mostly bald, because the unseemly
haste with which their hair tries to sprout para-
lyses the nerves at the roots. Still, it was sur-
prising to hear members of the Vic. Legis-
lative Assembly moaning to the Ministry not
to “rush” with the inter-State agreement re-
garding the use of the Murray waters. There
was an inter-State conference on this subject in
Melbourne in 1863, another in 1885, and another
in 1902. South Australia had a Murray Com-
mission from 1887 to 1894. There was a tentative
agreement (made in the days of William the
Iceberg) in 1902. A Victorian Royal Commission
reported on the matter in that year. The Murray
was considered at the Hobart Conference in 1905:
a draft agreement was presented at Sydney by
Swinburne in 1906 ; it was thrashed out and
argued upon for a year, and appeared again at
Brisbane in 1907. The Murray has been the sub-
ject of negotiation, conference, agreement, dis-
cussion, and worry for over 40 years. At this
stage, the man who arises to howl “Don’t Rush ! ”
is liable to complain of the undue haste of the
oyster galloping on its rock.
The White Man in the Tropics.
In view of the wail of astonishing commercial
persons like Merivale, of the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, that “white men can’t live in the
tropics ” (almost any corporation laborer could
point out to Merivale that white communities
have flourished for a very long time in the tropics),
this yarn, by a man who has been there, is
interesting :
Colonel W. C. Gorgas, chief sanitary officer of the
Isthmian Canal Commission, in an address before the
graduating class of the Cornell (U.S.A.) Medical College,
predicted that within the next two or three centuries the
tropics would be the centre of wealth, civilisation, and
population, as they were in the dawn of human history.
This prediction, says the Lancet, is based on his ex-
perience in sanitation in the Panama zone. He stated
that by the efforts of the sanitary branch of the com-
mission malaria and yellow fever have been brought under
control. There has been no yellow fever on the Isthmus
of Panama for more than a year, and malarial fevers have
been reduced to a minimum. He concludes that the
sanitarian can now show that any population coming into
the tropics can protect itself against these two diseases
by measures that are both simple and inexpensive ; that
these two diseases eliminated, LIFE IN THE TROPICS
FOR THE ANGLO-SAXON W’ILL BE MORE HEALTH-
FUL THAN IN THE TEMPERATE ZONES ; and that
gradually within the next two or three centuries tropical
countries, which offer a much greater return for man’s
labor than do the temperate zones, WILL BE SETTLED
BY THE WHITE RACES and become the centres of
wealth, population, and civilisation.
The expert who has struggled for years with the
diseases of Panama, long reputed to be a mere
white man’s grave, and who comes back with the
cheerful verdict that there is nothing to prevent
it being made a healthier place for the white man
to dwell in than the temperate U.S. itself, has at
least the advantage of being an expert and a man
who knows the tropics he is talking about. Our
own unpatriotic bagman Merivale, who decides
in his Sydney office that tropical Australia is in-
capable of being settled save by Hindus and such-
like trash, isn’t an expert, and if he has been in
the tropics it was in a mere temporary and com-
mercial sense. But as a matter of fact Australia
has no need to go all the way to Panama, or
Mexico, or Rhodesia, or the Transvaal to find evi-
dence of the healthiness of the tropics when the
white man lives there under sane conditions. The
evidence is at our own door. In the Northern
Territory last year the death-rate was 15'8 per
1000 inhabitants, which is below the rate for Ire-
land, Scotland, France, Germany, Austria, Italy,
Switzerland, Belgium, Hungary or Spain. That
is, in its way, a fairly good certificate to go on
with. The figures might be better, and when the
great railway is built, and the north is rescued
from its isolation and its primitive habits, they
probably will be better; but even as they stand
they don’t suggest that the North is a place that
should be thrown to the first nigger that comes
along.
♦
“ Melb.” makes an abrupt remark apropos
of nothing in particular:—
When Mrs. Chisholm imported her girl immigrants to
Melbourne, they used to stand, for hire or marriage,
sometimes 500 at a time, on a spot called the Slave
Market, in Collins-street West, between King and Spencer
streets.
Ihe Storekeeper, a remodelled monthly that
hopes to push its way on to the bargain-counter,
begins its new career with a picture of “,T. T.
Hitchman, Esq., chairman of the Warehouse-
men s Association,” and Sydney manager of the
English firm of W. Gardiner and Co., fluff mer-
chants- “Mr. Hitchman,” says the letter-press,
has devoted himself with characteristic energy to
the momentous question of the tariff, and has done
everything possible to have it amended.” Yet he
has qualms, has Mr. Hitchman, for “one almost
wishes that it may remain in force long enough
to educate the public up to the absurdities of the
proposals.” Then the chairman of the Warehouse-
men s Ass. explains :
It has to be borne in mind that the increased demand
amongst local manufacturers for eligible labor will be a
,T-V 1 er factor in the increase of prices, as the necessary
skilled labor is not available, and those now engaged wiil
before long demand more pay. . , . Manufacturers’ pros-
perity will induce others to enter the business, in the
hope that they also will share in the good things. The
result will be a great increase in the production of manu-
factured goods, which must of necessity bring an over-
plus, and what will become of it ? The moment we reach
the consuming limit of our small population and have to
look for a market outside our borders, our prices must
be regulated by the competition we meet.
Briefly, then, this is going to happen
(1) There will be more work.
(2) Wages will go up owing to the increased demand
for labor.
(3) Prices will come down, owing to excessive pro-
duction.
And still Mr. Hitchman isn’t satisfied ! Neverthe-
less, he has managed to give the tariff a fine advt.;
even W. Lyne never claimed for it more than the
chairman of the Warehousemen’s Ass. does.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Asrents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASCR
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
From one until after three on Saturday after-
noon the turnstiles at Melbourne Cricket Ground
whirled steadily, while the shilling's and florins slid into
the slots till nearly £l5OO had been gathered in—a record
“ gate ” for a Vic. Football League •‘final.” The tallied
attendance was 40,485, but no record was kept of M.C.C.
members who entered at other than the “ club ” entrance,
of the complimentary tickets used, or of the South and
Carlton football supporters whose tickets passed them in
gratis—so the grand total must have been close up
to 46,000. Water-sprinklers had been playing on the
ground all night, lest the “ muddied oaf ” should
jar his muscles on the hard ground ; the day was glorious,
if a trifle hot; and the game was equal to the occasion-
fast, strenuous and exciting right up to the last minute.
South started off with a dash that set its barrackers yell-
ing and scored three behinds in five minutes. Then
Carlton got going and put up two points, followed by a
goal. South replied with another and a behind, then
Carlton notched another point, the quarter closing with
South 10 points to Carlton’s nine. Changing ends, South
had what wind there was, but in this quarter
its weak point showed up most—there was a little over-
eagerness, a suspicion of anxiety, and just a trifle of a
tendency to rough play. Carlton, the heavier team,
seemed to be settling down to its stride, and
playing with more reliance. Half - time found
Carlton leading—3o points to 23. Third quarter
saw Carlton at its best —passing methodically, picking
up cleanly, and marking quite as well as its oppo-
nents, while these were doing a lot of bullocking work to
little purpose. At lemon-time the board showed Carlton
0.10, South 4.7, and it was evident that unless the latter
j could equalise the scores speedily, Carlton would play a
purely defensive game, and win by effluxion of time.
South realised this, and spent every ounce of its failing
strength in forcing tactics. Playing the ball always, but
; playing with smashing force, its men carried the game
down to Carlton’s goal, and scored two goals in quick
succession. Another meant victory; one to Oarlton
; meant the destruction of South’s hopes ; so for that last
; 15 minutes the tired, perspiring players called up the
last scrap of energy each possessed and strove for that
needed sixer. Pour times the blue-and-whites got within
shooting distance, but could never get between the
posts ; and twice South notched a behind. At last the
bell rang with last year’s premiers still five points
to the g00d—6.14 to 6.9—and the irrepressible thousands
!swarmed over the railings and carried the wearied
’bailers shoulder high to the dressing rooms. It wasn’t
the best or the prettiest football that Melbourne has seen,
but it was a fierce, exciting game, won by the better team
;—though the difference between the two eighteens was so
slight that a trifle of luck would have turned the scale.
And for its victory Carlton was chiefly indebted to its
backs, especially one particular six-footer, one of the best
and the absolutely fairest man pla> ing- the game in Mel-
bourne to-day—Mallee Johnson.
( * * * *
Heedless of the strenuous game being fought out
at the bigger ground, a packed crowd stood on the banks
at East Melbourne and watched Richmond and West de-
cide which was to meet Williamstown in next Saturday’s
Association final. On recent form and on its play through-
out the season the barrackers gave West a’poor chance,
but apparently the absence of two or three of its
best players had affected Richmond’s usual cock-
sureness, and it didn’t play at all as if it meant
it. West had its strongest team out. It got
the wind—fairly strong on this open ground—for the first
quarter, and its whole 18 sailed in. At the quarter the
Red-and-Whites had put up 26 to Richmond’s seven. Then
the latter got the wind, but couldn’t square the account,
and half-time saw West still leading by 28 to 22. Next
quarter it piled on 27 points to the other’s seven
points, and at the last change the Yellow-and-Blacks
had a deficit of 26 points to make up. They
had the wind, but they were dead tired—a few
were beginning to look hopeless—while the Western
men seemed to be good for another hour’s battling ;
and as the minutes flew on it could be seen that
the team that had put up a record of ten successive vic-
tories was dispirited, done, beaten. It scored one goal
two behinds more, but West simultaneously added
six behinds, and came out victor. A few minutes before
the close a most vimful battle occurred among some spec-
tators near the fence. The übiquitous small boy
got over the fence during the confusion, and a good
many older but unwiser persons followed, consequently
the ball was bouncing around in a mixed concourse of
players and general public. As the umpire allowed play
to proceed through this disturbance, it was rumored that
a protest was to be lodged, but Richmond will probably
take a more sportsmanlike attitude, on second thoughts.
In this match, Richmond’s centre forward (Hutchinson)
brought his goal kicking score for the season to 67—three
better than the record of the Essendon chdtnpion of 1900
and 1901, A. J. Thurgood.
• * * •
On the midweek half-holiday some 4000 spec-
tators attended the big cricket ground to watch the final
of the Wednesday League, between ’Wood and Saints.
This was a fine fast game, with flashes of brilliant play
and clever combination on both sides. Like the big
League team from the same suburb, Saints have gone in
for weight, but in the end speed and smartness beat
them, though at times it looked as if the southerners
would win the day by main force. At three-quarter-
time they had scored 35 to ’Wood’s 33, but the
pace told its tale, and in the last quarter the lighter
Magpies ran over their opponents, winning the pennant
by 50 to 41. The teams maintained their reputa-
tion for ill-regulated conduct, when, towards the close, a
couple got “into holts” in front of the members’ stand.
They were separated, but collided again immediately
afterwards, and passed each other enough stoush to last
till next season. The position of the Police team in this
competition emphasises the value of practice. The bobby
men have speed, stamina, condition and weight, but they
have fewer opportunities for practice together than their
opponents, so they failed even to reach the semi-finals.
They scored but 22 competition points out of a possible
56, while ’Wood scored 48 and Saints 44.
* * * *
The re-play of the last semi-final of the Sydney
Soccer struggle for the Gardiner Oup took place on Satur-
day last, when Broadmeadow crushed Petersham by three
goals to one. Next Saturday the victorious team will
meet Pyrmont, the champion, the winner of the Rawson
Cup, the great conquering club that has been beaten only
once in the whole season. On paper, Broadmeadow hasn’t
the ghost of a hope, but the invincible Pyrmont goal-
keeper, Spencer, has injured his.hand, and will not be
able to play, and there will be other changes, so it is
quite possible that Broadmeadow will not meet the actual
team that has done such execution during the season.
Last Saturday, Broadmeadow, with the wind against
it in the first half, played a defensive game,
and Petersham wore itself out in its fierce attempts
to score. Half time was reached without either
side drawing blood, and experts knew that, barring
miracles, Petersham’s cake had ceased to be an edible
substance. With the wind behind it, Broadmeadow came
down like C'ruthers on the wire netting,|and scored a
couple in short order. Then the Petersham forwards
broke away with unexpected swiftness, and bullocking
down within striking distance, juggled it in. This un-
expected interlude made Broadmeadow mad, and it lost
its head somewhat. Petersham came away again, but its
men were excited, and bad shooting lost it the game, and
the only remaining score of the afternoon came to Broad-
meadow through an accident. On the form shown
Pyrmont should crumple Broadmeadow up by about eight
to nil.
» * • *
On the Agricultural Ground the Austral League
final took place between Newtown and Sydney. Sydney
scored the first point, but failed to maintain the lead, and
at the end of the first quarter Newtown had scored 14
points to nine. Then the game became fast indeed, one
man getting laid out, but so even was the play that New-
town failed to score, while Sydney added a goal and a
behind, which placed it in the lead with 16 points to 14.
In the third, Sydney went temporarily to pieces, and
Newtown added 18 while its enemy added nothing, and
entered the final phase with a lead of 16 points, equal to
100 per cent. Sydney played magnificently, and got
within a couple of points of the leaders, but Newtown
scored again, and the luck changed at the last moment,
leaving Newtown triumphant with 34 points to 31. The
right of challenge was immediately availed of, so New-
town has to maintain its position, and the doing of it will
make some exciting play at the Agricultural Ground next
Saturday.
* » * *
“ Diomed ”: The North Broken Hill Football
Club (Australian game), playing against Port,. Pirie team
on the 11th inst, kicked 32 goals 27 behinds (219 points)
against three goals five behinds (23 points). How is this
for an Australian record?
* * • •
That enthusiastic footballer who lately smote
the umpire out South Sydney way didn’t get the three
months that were mentioned as likely to meet bis case.
A misguided and over-lenient Court let him off with £5
and 275. costs. If conduct like his isn’t suppressed with
a heavier hand than this, demoralisation will set in, and
football teams will degenerate to the level of a Miller’s
Point push, and finally get down to the Canadian lacrosse
status.
* * * *
Rosehill (Sydney), which was once the punter’s
paradise, has slipped down to the other pole. Last Satur-
day it struck bedrock, for, on top of all other troubles,
the supply of beer ran out. And it was a day of great
heat, so that the tongues of the punters hung over
the shoulders Of the men in front while they craned
their necks to see their fancies go down. Christian Moses
had a regular field day, and though he staggered wearily
under his spoils, the supply of iced champagne held out till
the last race. The first couple of events provided
skinners, and they served up Collarit, winner of the
third, so hot that only the gambling maniacs would touch
him. The Hurdles fell to big outsider Irascible, which
lasted long enough to pip the equally little-fancied
Kotvshi. When the Granville Stakes arrived the rush of
money sent Alibi out at 6 to 4 against, and the
undreamed of Amberite gelding, Golderite (what a
name !), at 25 to 1 against, flew up alongside, and just as
they reached the winning line stuck out its tongue.
After that Christian Moses just dived into champagne.
* * * *
The revelations of Epsom possibilities made at
Tatt.’s meeting were continued and supplemented at
Rosehill on Saturday. The imported Antonio’s method
of winning the Rydalmere mile, with the ballast of lOst.
71b. on its back in lmin. 43sec., without apparent effort,
disclosed unusual galloping powers. When Reg Allan
bought the horse it was understood to be a confirmed
cripple, and it is said to be liable to go agai n at any
moment. Therefore punters should keep their cash till
they see it stripped to start. The horse is one of the
best performers ever brought to Australia, but the
trouble makes it an uncertain gamble, and C. Moses
doesn’t give any longer price on account of the uncer-
tainty. Much of Antonio’s preparation was swimming,
only now and again did it have a spurt on the track, so
carefully was it nursed. Antonio is by the Isonomy
horse, Prisoner, from Padua. Among its great deeds
was the beating of The White Knight for the New-
market Handicap. The White Knight is among the best
horses England possesses, and ran with 191 b. less than
Antonio carried. In the Epsom, Antonio will carry 9st.,
211 b. less than it swung along so easily on Saturday.
Crick’s Collarit ran through Rosehill Spring
Stakes with 9st. 71b.—21b. over its Epsom weight—in a
style that pleased its fanciers immensely. Although it
conceded 211 b. at w.f.a. to the speedy Lady Florence, it
led right through, and at the end won easily. The bag-
bearing brotherhood was painfully shy, and refused to lay
better than even money at the first, and then flurriedly
announced 6 to 4 on.
* * * *
The disappointment over Caulfield Cup favorite
Poseidon’s running in Tatt.’s Rawson Stakes on Saturday
week was changed to a great joy through the recent
mighty doings of the nag. Christian Ikey, induced by
that disappointing showing, had stretched the meagre
odds slightly, but he closed his bag with a snap when he
heard that the galloping machine had covered the mile
and 520yds. in the record time for the track. The bag is
still closed.
» ' • * -t
Turfdom deplores the break-down of M.L.
sportsman Stead’s A.J.C. Derby candidate, Boniform,
which promised more than well. Possibly the racecourse
has seen the last of the colt whose record—one start one
win—is absolutely unbeatable, if you work the matter
out on purely arithmetical lines. A horse can’t do better
than win every race it starts for.
* * * *
Whispered that the Marylebone Cricket Club
has got a few flies in its own ointment now. When the
Australian Board of Control was fighting an insurrection
the great English Club gave practically no support, and
but for the prompt measures and straight talk of the
Board’s fighting secretary, McElhone, it would probably
have concluded an arrangement with the Melbourne
Cricket Club. But Mae kicked so hard that the Club
began to have grave doubts about the accuracy of the
information to the effect that he was dead. No dead
thing ever kicked like that. Now things in England are
so mixed or threatening that the M.C.C. has decided
that the visit of an Australian XI. will be most welcome
in 1909, and the general impression in the Board of Con-
trol is that that vague remark is intended to indicate it
will be beastly unwelcome next year. The chances of
some of our Players seeing England again begin to look
very blue.
The cricket season begins this coming Saturday,
and the ball will be set rolling at a match between
Gordon and Burwood at Sydney Cricket Ground.
* * * *
The announcement that the N.S.W. Cricket
Association’s State Selection Committee will pick the
State XI. on this year’s performances ’nearly caused
apoplexy among the old fellows. But, although it makes
it hard on the vested interest crowd, it will work up a
keener interest in the premiership competition. What
between this new departure and the trouble in England,
the chances of any of the last XI. seeing Bull’s country
again in the same pleasant and profitable manner begin
to look distinctly blue.
* * * *
Sydney cricketing people have builded them-
selves high places in the parks where they smite the
leather, and they who would barrack must first pay. A
nine-foot obstruction cuts off all view of the game at
Wentworth Park ; but the attempt to do likewise at the
ancient cabbage patch known as Hampden Park is a
fearsome failure. It is surrounded with cliffs and over-
looked by hills, and the brown-limbed, bright-eyed dead-
head rests his face between his hands on the grass and
watches the game from afar, and is not worried because
the players cannot bear him barracking. Philosophically
he reckons that’s their loss.
* * * ■»
The N.S.W. Cricket Association shuts down on
the benefit business. In future benefits are to be reserved
for gentlemen whose cricketing careers have closed.
* * * *
The most important of cycle events, the Dunlop
Warrnambool to Melbourne road race, takes place this
coming Saturday over the 165 miles between the sleepy
hollow and the capital. Altogether 347 riders have
nominated, including' two one-armed men, who have re-
ceived an extra 10 minutes on account of their infirmi-
ties. Another unusual competitor is a 54-year-old rider,
who firmly believes he will shake up the young bucks
considerably. As usual, outside pacing, changing of
machines en route , and single tube tyres are all debarred,
with a view to placing the humblest man who pushes a
jigger on a level with any stray millionaire who may be
hungry for honors. The prize-list aggregates £l6s—one
quid per mile—and every man finishing inside 10| hours
will receive a handsome bronze and enamel medallion.
Even the man who has one suit only has been cared for by
the careful Dunlop co., and when he arrives in Melbourne
he will find ready for him a nice hot bath, and his clothes
folded and brushed lying beside it on the chair. This is
what might be called real good. On the way the big co.
will provide 120 gallons of milk, 501 b. Protene biscuits,
which will be soaked into a pap in milk and handed to
the riders in tins, 361 b. sugar, 130 dozen bananas, 120
doz. oranges, 1301 b. muscatels, 20 doz. eggs and a gallon
of sherry for egg flip, 1301 b. chocolate, 30 bunches celery,
101 b. Protene cocoa, 101 b. Bovril, and 1001 b. meat jelly.
The racing cyclist has the great boss thirst and appetite
of all creation, and beside him the camel is not in it,
and the elephant is a mere autumn leaf blown before the
wind.
The scratch division of the 263 men who have
announced their intention of competing in the race will
be composed of Hagnev, of N.S.W., Henderson, of Maori-
land, and Chappell, of Victoria. As everybody knows, the
record for the run is held by big Jack Arnst, who was on
scratch in 1903, when he ran through in 7 hr. 43 min.
Larcombe, of N.S.W., got over the distance in 7 hr. 48
min. 7 sec., and W. Hawley did it in 7 hr. 52 miri. 26 sec.
Last year H. Mehrtens, of Maoriland, took the blue
ribbon ; he won in 8 hr. 53 min. 52 sec. over a road that
was a quagmire in some parts, and heavy from start to
finish. Two Maorilanders who are expected to put up a'
great fight for the championship this year are Henderson
and Birch, both tall fellows of their legs—especially
Henderson.
« « * *
At time of writing, the particulars of the cycle
race for the Twenty-five Miles Road Championship of,
Australia, at Coburg, on Saturday, are limited to the bald
announcement that Morgan, Reynolds, and A. J. Davis,
all of Victoria, sailed home in that order. Hegney
and Plunkett represented N.S.W. Birch of Maoriland
made a game effort to leave the field four miles from
home, but had never a hope. The time was lhr. 12min.
43 sec.
9 9**
Cabled recently that “a distinguished motorist”
had offered Renault, of France, and Napier, of England,
£5OOO for a car that would “achieve a speed equal to
three miles a minute,” or ISO miles an hour. Demegot,
of France, put up the world’s record when he drove a
200-h.p. Darracq two miles in 58 4-ssec., on the straight-
away beach track at Ormond Daytona, Florida (U.S.A.).
Word now comes that both companies have declined the
Order. It is not a case of only increasing power, but of
evolving a special type of car and a special class of parts.
The strain upon the vital parts of a car increases as the
square of the speed, and the wind resistance increases in
the same proportion. An expert has worked out that
the wind resistance to a car travelling 180 miles an hour
would be double that of the same car travelling at 120
miles an hour.
* * * »
The World’s Non-stop Automobile record is
again in the hands of the English, a 40-h.p. six-cylindered
Rolls-Royce car, shod with Dunlop tyres, having run
13,300 miles under non-stop conditions, at the rate of 400
miles per day.
* * ■» T
For its Austral Wheel Race next December
Melbourne Bicycle Club returns to the Metropolitan
Cricket Ground, and abandons the asphalt track at the
Exhibition. The combination of Christian Moses and the
hard-faced pedal-pusher with the scarred conscience prac-
tically killed the meeting as a sport ; even last year’s
alleged Japanese novelty of military squads on bikes
failed to draw the multitude. So the club goes back to
the slow grass track and its old status as a “ sassiety ”
function. But, remembering the happenings on the last
two occasions when the event was run at the Cricket
Ground—especially the year when it was won by Jack
Wren, or was it Bilmartin ! —“sassiety” may decline to
be interested in the blessed shivoo. And an Austral on a
grass track would be a farce to bike fliers like A. J. Clark,
Kramer, and Lawson.
* * * •*
The cycle road race, from Burra to Adelaide,
to discover who should represent S. Aus. in the Warr-
nambool to Melbourne struggle, saw 42 start, but owing
to punctures, heat, and other things, only 16 finished.
H. G. Williams, with 30min. start, won in 6hr. 14min.
5 2-ssee. A. McDonald did the fastest time, 6hr. lOmin.
59 3-ssec., but he is not a Crow Eater. J. Mathews, who
ran through in 6hr. llmin. 13 2-5 sec., was the fastest
local man, and he will represent the Lone Crow State be-
tween Warrnambool and Melbourne on Saturday.
* * * *
The lacrosse championship of Tasmania was
played off at Elphin Show Ground, Launceston, on
Saturday, between Esk and The Mohawks. Why any
Tasmanian team should style itself Mohawk while Bunyip
is unappropriated is a mystery. The fitness of things
was fulfilled by the Esk administering a most unholy
hiding to The Mohawks. The scores were 20 to nil.
* * * *
The Henley-on-Drain committee worked points
against the Melbourne City Council by means of weird
falsehoods in the newspapers. It was alleged, with loud
screaming and much flapping of wings, that the Council
had demanded 50 per cent, of the revenue from the
enclosure where the misguided ’Arriet pays a bob. The
Council’s actual proposal was that 50 per cent, of the
profits should be, not paid to the Council, but set
aside for improving the river bank, in accordance with a
promise made by the regatta committee a year ago. The
Hens forwarded £2O, and said : “ As soon as the finances
of the Regatta Association are such as to warrant them in
doing so, they will be pleased to contribute in a more
liberal manner.” The Council, it may be mentioned, had
already let contracts for £lO5O for the improvements the
Ilengatt.a had promised to help in. Simultaneously, the
Fowls alleged that their profits were lavishly devoted to
the support of the pure and noble pastime of rowing.
Investigation showed that, the Chooks’ committee had
accumulated a fund of £B5B, while a small, lonely £5O
had gone to the Rowing Association. Nevertl eless, the
Poultry cackled so loudly, assisted by the Argus, that the
Council climbed down, and for another year the Feathery
Push may break its promise of August, 1906, “to co-
operate with the council ” in river improvement.
Said that Yankee swimmer Daniels, who was
lately credited with doing some times that seemed
impossible unless he wore a patent propeller where
10,000 years ago his ancestor wore his tail, has been
invited to come out to Australia and get licked, expenses
being borne by N.S. W. Swimming Association. Also said
that up to date there has been a gigantic silence on the
part of Daniels.
* * * *
Another Sydney lad came by a bad doing in
Melbourne, the other evening, when Bob Bryant
(lOst. Jib.), from the constituency of Carruthers, with a
record as long as his own arm, ran up against the
recently-emerged Hughie Meaghan (9st. 81b.) and stayed
for 13 rounds, during the whole of which he was badly
pasted. Meaghan is a wise child who knows his own
smother, and he allowed the more hefty and experienced
Sydneysider to punch that barricade as much as he liked,
at his own risk. And every time Bob opened, Hughie
shot in a drive, or swung a “ cross,” or jabbed, or hooked
—no matter which it was, it hurt Bryant severely. After
the eighth, Bryant was a done man, but he stayed and
took punishment enough to cut up in three fights before
he received the knock-out in the unlucky thirteenth.
* * * *
The all-comers’ competition recently finished at
Melbourne Athletic Pavilion brought out several new
boys who promise to make top-notch boxers, but the
novices had a poor show with old pros, like Oasev (late of
Sydney), Dido Wilson and Joe Newton to knock up
against. Casey went through the light weights, and won
his £25 by a whole van-load of solid fighting. George
Wells figured as runner-up, Dido Wilson, easily the
second best man, having been beaten on a narrow margin
by Casey, earlier in the campaign. Joe Newton—son of
the veteran Peter of that ilk —won in the feather division
from young Burns. The first money in each department
was £25, with £lO for runners-up. The Pavilion is breed-
ing some bright young boxers, most of them decent
working lads of whom the police speak well, but Mr.
Judkins is very distressed at it, and talks of setting up a
rival institution to warn young aspirants from the ring,
and switch them on to tea fights and praving mills.
* * * " *
The English cricket team for Australia came
near being a collection of the letter H. Hobbs, Hayes,
Hutchings, Humphries, and Hardstaff are coming ; Hay-
ward and Hurst declined, on the money question. The
H talent, always strong, is especially so at present. Add
the bowling of Hallain, Haigh, and Hargreave to the
batting strength above-named (with half-a-dozen candi-
dates for the Uth place), and you have a team that would
give the rest of England a shaking up.
“ Maori Mac ” tells the story as seen from
the press gallery at Wellington :
Maoriland Opposition recently planned a cheap little
victory over the Government, and fell in. Almost any
sort of a win is a stranger to the weird crowd of malcon-
tents which opposes Joseph Ward, and the cheapest of
successes is hailed ivith joy. During the debate on the
Tariff Bill, Oppositionist Herries moved that the 5 per
cent, duty on mining machinery be removed, and the
Opposition members, having been instructed by their
Whips, voted solidly for the motion. A number of
Government supporters, representatives of mining dis-
tricts, thinking that the Tory vote would be split, gave
the glad hand to the proposal, with the idea that it was a
chance to smoodge to their constituents, and were
bitterly staggered when the motion was carried by a
majority of two. Ward was somewhere on the premises
—possibly in Bellamy’s—placating a deputation of pro-
Juds, when he heard the news, and the way he scattered
those Juds as he made for the Chamber gave the Yellow
Pup an attack of blind staggers. Several members of the
deputation have since suffered from what Dr. Fitchett
unkindly calls “ Methodist Face.” Ward, minus his affa-
bility, said as plainly as Parliamentary etiquette allows
what he thought of the motion, its mover, and its support-
ers. It was Joseph George’s first appearance in the role
of angry autocrat and heavy father of Maoriland, and he
was in no mood to be trifled with. By this time the
doddering Opposition was incapable of trifling with a
large beer. In a burst of rage, Seddon’s successor said
that he would drop the Tariff Bill overboard with all pos-
sible despatch. Canny Andrew Millar, Minister of Cus-
toms, pointed out that Herries’ motion, instead of placing
mining machinery on the free list, had increased the
duty on that item to 20 per cent. Herries’ motion simply
removed the 5 per cent, duty, and mining machinery is
now included in the “ not otherwise enumerated ” class,
which is taxed to the extent of 20 per cent. Ward, having
had his say, declines to make a move, and Massey’s crowd
is unable to move, and wouldn’t move if it could for fear
of making itself a larger size in jokes than it already is.
Stawell, in that part of the Yic. Western
District which boasts squatter Austin as its Fat
Landlord, is such a shiftless borough that £ll6O is
needed to put its degenerated roads in decent re-
pair. Stawell spreads over 5996 acres and has
about one person on each acre, but it isn’t game to
put up 4s. per head, even if the payment were
spread over three or four years. Instead, it is
going to float a loan for the amount. It owes
£4550 already, and explains that it has so much in-
terest to pay that it can’t fill up the holes in the
streets ; wherefore it must borrow some more, so
that it will have still more interest to pay, and
when the roads break out into a new crop of holes
it will be less able than ever to fill them up, so
presumably it will borrow still more money to fill
them up. And about that time the bailiff will
arrive—just as he has arrived at the Sydney
suburb of Camperdown, which formerly suffered
from the same sort of “ statesmanship,” and now
suffers from a chronic man in possession at the
Town Hall and chronic holes and rubbish-tips in
the roads.
A SOUTHERLY WAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gone is the dajq
And with it all the charnse of Sovvth ’as fled,
The w’iles I mourns within me, “ Sowth is dead."
Though whips of biff an’ stoush mixed with the play,
Now underneath me shirt me ’eart is lead,
On this, the larst, larst day.
On this larst day,
I barricks with a strict, impartial mouth,
With.p’raps a sort o’ leanin’ towards the Sowth, —
“ Bog inter them,” “ Stamp on ’is chest,” “ 'Ooray ” !
I don’t mind if I do just break the drouth,
On this, the larst, larst day.
This sad larst day !
The Oarlton ’Struth, I’d punch the blanky lot,
If they was only ’ere I’d make it ’ot.
The lurid umpire robbed the Sowth, I say ;
And now the Oarlton is, while Sowth is not
On this, the larst, larst day.
It’s over now—the day,
An’ so I creeps into me bloomin’ shell
No. more to ’ear the musick of the bell,
Or see ’em stoush and mix it in the play,
Until I issues forth again to give ’em ’ell
Next openin’ day.
Vic.
RUPEE.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
For the eradication of worms which infest the
i,. lm „ fiomstor-b’s “ IV-irl ” Worm
system, Comstock s Eeadbhot Worm
Pellet® are a safe and reliable remedy. I hey not
ord Y kill the worms, but destroy the embryo,
without causing injury to the bowels, or affecting
the most delicate constitution. Children from
four to twelve' years of age are most subject to
this complaint, although all ages are'affected,
from earliest infancy to old age. Mothers should
no (-, e the symptoms of their young children, and
• •• -,- 1 , ••j •
there ls a disposition to grind their teeth during
sleep, excessive flow of saliva, and sleep disturbed
by sudden frequent starts, they ntay be sure the
child is troubled with worms,
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or from
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Price, Is. 6d. per box (six boxes, Bs.).*
The practice of dipping a soiled glass into a
bucket of water, in which 250 other glasses have been
previously dipped, is more apparently clean than anti-
septic. It is like the Japanese bath, in which the water
js kept two or three generations, and boiled up afresh
every time the family bathes, which is generally twice
daily. Messrs. J. Dixon and Co., of High-street, Prahran
(Vic.), have invented a glass-washing machine, which will
ma ke drinking in pubs and cafds a lot safer and more
pleasant. The device is attached to a tap, and the glass
| s inserted into a rubber socket. Then the spray is re-
leased, and the glass deluged inside and out. It is inex-
pensive, and much quicker, and 10,000 times more effect-
ive than the present arrangement, and, above all, it uses
fresh, clean water every time.


KUGELMANN’S
©
<8?
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
l Aid "
f FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
■
ii
1
(233)
The
Withdrawal
of our
SPECIAL
OFFER to
OIL ENGINE
BUYERS
will be accomplished In a few days.
As we write this Advertisement
more than SO of the 100 Orders
to which the offer applies are In
hand.
By the time this catches your
eye It Is safe to say than an
additional 25 Orders will be on
file.
You will therefore see that to
assure YOUR Order being In time
you will require to write us by
RETURN POST for our Circular
giving full particulars.
Mere is the
Last Chance
of availing yourself of our offer of
Free Railage and 30 days Free
Trial of an I. H.C. Gasolene Engine
—Vertical, Horizontal or Portable—
its return at OUR expense If un-
satisfactory, or Its purchase at a
LOW PRICE, and on RIDICU-
LOUSLY EASY TERMS.
ARE YOU GOING
TO LET IT SLIP o
fP*ST This Advertisement will POSI-
TIVELY not appear again. :: ::
Address your letter to Deport-
ment B of our Branch House in
the Sttte In which you live. ::
International Harvester Company
of America
(Incorporated)
ROMA ST., BRISBANE; 37 BROADWAY, SYDNEY;
545 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE; BANK ST., ADELAIDE ;
and 75 YORK ST., LAUNCESTON
TENNIS.
AUSTRALASIA v. WORLD
These Racquets were used by Our Men,
AYRE’S
Wilding
Champion
Handicap
Clarence.
CM-
r Q
s“cc?p
iSSi
oo
4 032
<-|U'OJ
EH
DOHERTV
RACKET,
SLAZENGER’S
Doherty
E.G.M.
Whitehouse
Demon.
ADD Postage 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPY.
Sports Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
so* " *
V»'
o- 1
n . •
i(
u
v- *4
**
f A
4., V
3,
■ «M»a*.Tfl*l .*%
I>»\
W --
'
*
m
ART IN JEWELLERY
The zenith of artistic excellence is attained in the handsome Diamond Tiara
and Necklace here illustrated. It displays to the fullest decree the fineness
and ability of Australian Art, Craft and Gold. They are the First and Second Prizes for the Eight Hour Art Union,
valued at £5OO and £lOO respectively, and are now on view in the window of A. SAUNDERS, the well-known
Jeweller, 809 George Street, Sydney, who is the Manufacturer and Designer. The Tiara (Ist prize) is made of 18-ct.
gold set with 254 fine pure double-cut diamonds. Each Star is detachable and can be used as a Pendant or Brooch,
while the Coronet can be converted into and worn as a Necklace. The Necklace (2nd prize), also made of 18-ct.
gold, set with 118 fine pure double-cut diamonds. EIGHT HOUR TICKETS, Is. each, obtainable from A. Saunders,
or sent Post Free to any address.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.~3MS TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
m
The Tasmanian Government keeps a kindly
eye on the birth-rate and the married female
teacher. When it becomes her turn to add to the
population of the country, it gives her four
months’ holiday without pay. In other words, it
fines her from £3O to £6O for not resorting to
abortion.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/» and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Hersehell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
REFEREE ” says : “ The prince of living
A s trologers. ”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HER SCHELL (o f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Out Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
WORKS : REDDITOH, ENG.
And you
not only feel
safe, but you AKE safe
on a machine fitted with the
Eadie Coaster Hub
A slight backward pressure of the pedal
is all that is needed to bring the brake
into operation, and the absolute efficiency
of this brake is such as to inspire that
feeling of supreme confidence, which
alone ensures an un-alloyed enjoyment.
No emergency can present itself to which
it is not equal.
Write to-day for latest Art Booklet.
Dept. A
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ld.
4 Stock Exchange
Buildings,
Collins Street,
Melbourne
©HTINEPt
v
*
o
o
©
o
jy
T 9 TAY OPDDD ADD *


YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS IS ALL WE NEED
. _ ou a copy of our Illustrated Catalogue, wbicb shows all the latest
can purchase by mail from this catalogue with as certain satis-
ffctton as Tf you vYsTted Sydney personally. All goods delivered carnage
Free to any address.
OPEN
FACE,
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8/6*
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6,
16/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
Nurses’ Lever, 25/.
OPEN
FACE,
J
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bee BROOCH,
set opals and amethyst,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct. Gold Shamrock Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £2/5 /•
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set pure white pearls, olivine, and
rubies, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bird BROOCH,
set pearls, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart and Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £3-
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Fully Jewelled, 25/-
30/, 35/, 40/, 50. Solid
Gold, £3/, £3/10, £4/,
£4/10. £5, £5/10, £6/10.
SOLID
GOLD,
£,3
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set rubies,
pearls, and turquoise, or
all pearls, £J{/10-
Rubies, olivines, and
pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold £-11 oop RING,
diamonds and rubies
or sapphires,
£B/10/-
Five diamonds, £5-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart BROOCH,
set opals and diamonds,
£3/10/.
Larger size, £3/10/-
A, SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set pure double.-
cut diamonds and opals,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pearls and
amethyst. £l:5/ 10/.
Tourmalins and pearls,
£4/10/.
SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set diamond and rubies or
sapphires, £4/ 10-
All Diamonds, £5/10/-
EIGHT - HOUR.
ART UNION.
Ist PRIZE,
DIAMOND TIARA, VALUE £5OO.
2nd PRIZE,
DIAMOND NECKLACE, VALUE £lOO.
NOW ON VIEW IN OUR SILVERPLATE WINDOW.
TICKETS
U-
EACH,
OBTAINABLE FROM
A. SAUNDERS,
OR SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
AS THE MANUFACTURER
AND DESIGNER OF THE FIRST AND SECOND
PRIZES, WE GUARANTEE EACH TO BE
OF ITS FULL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 5 fine opals,
£2/10-
Large opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pure pearls and
amethysts, £4- Tsct Gold,
£5/10/.
Set pearls, tourmalines, and
peridots, 15ct Gold, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Harp BROOCH,
set fine white pearls,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £lO-
- centre, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, set fine pearls
and turquoise, £^2/10/-
POCKET-BOOK, Morocco
leather, silk-lined, pure sil-
ver mounts and lock, 10/ti-
With shield, 12/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/.
SOLID
SILVER,
2/-/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, fully jewelled, £2.
£2/10, £3, £3/10, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold-cased, £4/4, £5/6, £6/6.
Solid Gold. £6/10/, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2O,
£6O.
Guaranteed 8,4, 6, and 6 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
6/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold ’Xmas Bell
CHARM, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamond, and
Rubies or Sapphires,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, set
pearls and rubies or sap-
phires, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS.
12/6.
15ct Gold, 25/.
■3®3ISK3
; ;
bai/g
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with safety
chain, £3/5/•
Smaller, £2/5/, £2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
set pure double-cut diamonds
and fine opals, £45-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10/.
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds, and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar Wishbone
BROOCH, set pearls and
ruby or sapphire, 15 /•
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Oval LINKS,
22/6.
IBet Gold, £2. Initials
engraved free.
PURSE and OARDCASE
combined, Morocco leather,
pure silver mounts and
lock, 8/6-
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6.
OPEN
PACE,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
7/6, S/6, 10/, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/.
Higher grade, 25/.
All Guaranteed.
EXTRA
QUALITY.
10/-
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
I,ON DON .. •• •• £l6 to £57 4s.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £l3O 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending- to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116.621 ri 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. \V. V. RALSTON.
The Qolonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
KOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sodtii Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of [|orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.^—
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
«
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ZNT.S.-’W.
(|)ont depietefl.il. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST„ 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J; Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. P. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Binith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Prate, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“ TTIACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
Jj “ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
UNT. ID. X_».
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
gdfs
Leave Melb’rne 8 days later
„ Adelaide 13 „ „
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
lIONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Royal Bank of Queensland
Luurricn. ”
Capltal Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Li ability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Auontsand Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEYj
*MARATHON iN. Allan .. .. I Noon. Oct. 11
SALAMIS .. .. |R. McKilliam ..I Noon. Nov. 2
fDAMASCUS .. |H. A. Schleman .. I Noon. Dec. 6
* Twin Screw. t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
Dahjety and. Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
g
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to sail about 2nd OCTOBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIO and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Duly el ft and ContjKini/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fdsg
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
Voigtlander’s
Binoculars.
sfdg
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOICTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Pose Free.
Compulsory Winding-up of the insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA,
sS> Write for Particulars. £?
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
‘ EORGE HOTEL,
" St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Shipping
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Gran tala. Saturday,
October 12, at 1 p.ra.
BRISBANE,
MAC KAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
8.8. Marloo, Sept. 28.
S.S. Yongala, Oct. 5.
Rest, and Cheapest Houle to Hold Ileitis.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries IVlaritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2 10s,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingandpassing theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.—H. —S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For LONDON & LIVERPOOL
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer,
“AYRSHIRE**
11,000 Tons. B. Coull, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 2nd October
~ ~ ~ Melbourne ~ 7th ~
~ ~ „ Adelaide „ 12th ~
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining saloon on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
UVE D R°POOL £45 £l2 12s ‘ £l3 13s ' £l4 14s '
To be followed by other similar
twin-screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY
September 28.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, October 5.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S. A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
RIVERINA, 12 noon,
DAY, October 26.
SATUIt-
BRISBANE 'i
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 28.
KONOOYVARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, October 1.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 5.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rrHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn,
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TjHNEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IQs. A PAY. Telephone 174.
Public Notices.
DON’T BE HARD UP.
This can be easily avoided by writing AT ONCE to
THE MINIHC INVESTMENT AND ACENCY COMPANY,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolutely in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested by us in the very best stocks.
ADVICE FREE.
W. Bruce Fox, General Manager.
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER,
RODS
For Locating MINES, ——
LOST TREASURE&o.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON. 64 Hueter Street, SYDNEY.


fds
gfd
sg
25 Years Selling the PLUM RAZOR.
In 25 years selling- the Plum, we have had no complaints—
and not ONE returned.
We guarantee it for two years, and will refund money to any
man who is dissatisfied.
We examine each one, and see that it has the “shaving- edge."
Price 10/0
Post Free to any
part of the World.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
CYLINDER and DISC
tm
>1872
COLUMBIA
RECORD
RECORDS
S/tk*.
The FINEST RECORDS EVER PRODUCED.
Fit All Makes of Talking Machines.
IT- WRITE FOR LATEST LISTS, -mg
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Gen’l.
255" b” Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
sfdg
WANTED the address of 0. J. HARRINGTON,
who left Cardiff about the year 1882. Was last
heard of from Mt. Garnet, North Queensland,
August 24,1901. Mother died June 16, 1907. Brother
TED en [uires. Address : Bridgewater Hotel, 81 Bute
Terrace, Cardiff.
Business Announcements. __
TITHE AUSTRALIAN SMELTING COR-
JL PORATION LIMITED., have for sale
at Dapto, N.S.W. —
New and Second-Hand Blast Furnaces, Engines,
Blowers, Crushers, Rolls, Trammels, and Ceneral
Smelting Works Plant.
Particulars and quotations obtainable on applica-
tion to the Superintendent, Port Kembla, N.S.W.
SAY !
KEEGAN BROS.,
Metal and Class Engravers
and Embroiderers,
Sydney Arcade, Entrance George or King Streets.
Name and Date Engraved or Embroidered free of charge
on any article purchased from our large stock of Glass,
E.P. Ware, Handkerchiefs, etc.
This is the Place for Pre ents and Novelties.
Engravings on Watches. Walking. Sticks, Umbrellas, etc.,
a specialty. A U Engravings Done while you Wait.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
■ can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
THE DEAF HEAR.
DEAF Persons need not despair. Out of the
mass of failures has come a genuine success. Head
noises are cured, and Deaf made to hear so effect-
ively that they wonder if they really were deaf.
Particulars of a startling discovery, based upon
the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that
will assist all persons suffering front Deafness,
fully described.
* *V * « •
Send name and address to THE
L. R. VERN(N CO., 60-64
L. K. YEKI'IU'I V^U.,
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, and you will re-
ceive a description of this method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense ; and you will be delighted to learn, how
easily you can obtain relief.
k
■mm:?.
GUARANTEE
jrssjfA
FIVE
j'-Ttr-y a. wr*A-A
FOR
f y/r/ipc
%Jr ff n*m jr% \miF
CLEVELAND, OHIO.
U, S. A.
tit
•Iff® I
■ i*
«
PAINT
Jfcmujfecfi/red onfy by
X
:
Write for Samples and Further Particulars.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Dalgety & Co*, Ltd*, Sydney, Brisbane & Adelaide; Tasmanian Woolgrowers Agency Co., Launceston, Tas*;
W. D« Moore & Co*, and Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Fremantle; J. S. Munro & Co., Zeehan, Tas.
Head Office: The Atlantic Refining Co., Melbourne.
Salt and Some Briny Tears.
The Foreign-traders’ plan of stabbing Protection
an the back by professing a tremendous regard for
native industries, and an awful dread that the
local manufacturer won’t be able to get his raw
material free, has now extended to the salt
business. Salt is used in butter and bacon
curing, and the importer weeps tears of brine over
the “ pore farmer,” and asks wliat is the use of
putting men on the land to strangle them like this
with a 205.-per-ton salt duty. It is all so very
pathetic that The Bulletin turns up haphazard
the accounts of a butter-making co. to see what
the salt item amounts to in the first place.
The Bega Co-operative Co. (N.S.W.) made
last year 677 tons of butter, and its sales
amounted to £60,289. Its salt bill was £65 17s. 7d.
A pound’s worth of salt, therefore, makes over 10
tons of butter; or, put in another way, in £lOO
worth of butter there is 2s. 2d. worth of salt. The
old tariff on salt was 12s. 6d.; the new tariff is
20s'., a difference of 7s. 6d. per ton. Salt cost, last
year, about 50s. per ton ; so even if the whole
7s. 6d. were added to the cost, the salt bill would
be a fraction under 2s. 6d. per £lOO worth of
butter, instead of 2s. 2d. In other words, these
briny tears are being shed over the agriculturist
on the strength of a duty equal to a fraction
under 4d. per £lOO of his produce. That of itself
is enough to make the agriculturist suspicious ;
and if, his suspicions aroused, he then starts to
nose around, he is liable to find out something
that will give him a great scorn for all this con-
cern on the part of the importer for the local
manufactui’er. In N. S. Wales, for many years,
the importer had all the opportunity he wanted
to provide his dear friends, the local butter and
pig raisers, with cheap raw material in the way of
salt. In 1893, when there was no S. Australian
industry worth mentioning, the importer sold
N. S. Wales 17,177 tons of salt, and the import
value was £2 Is. 9d. per ton. But by 1899, when
the S. Australian industry had been set on its
feet, the importations of English salt got down to
12,700 tons, and the value was by this time only
£1 Bs. per ton. Why didn’t the importer give his
dear friends, the “ poor farmers,” the advantage
of salt at 285., plus local charges, without waiting
for Australian competition to force the concession
out of him ? In Victoria, again, as sworn
before the Tariff Commission, English salt
“ranged from 955. to 105 s. per ton ” before
the Australian salt industry was established
by Protection ; after the local article came
on the market “ the selling price was reduced
to between 80s. and 85s per ton” ; “ to-day it is
sold from 475. to 50s. per ton.” So the duty,
instead of adding to the cost of the raw material
of the Australian manufacturer of butter and
preserved pig, has actually reduced it enormously.
Unfortunately it isn’t in every line that it is
possible to trace prices in this way ; but here is a
case which, apart from being conclusive so far as
the line itself is concerned, casts a heavy and
general suspicion over the whole of the importers’
lamentations with regard to “raw material.”
The importers’ dread, it is pretty evident, is, not
that the Australian producer will have to pay too
much for his raw material, but that, through
competition, the importers will be obliged to let
him have his raw material at so low a price that
there won’t be the old fat profits in the business
for themselves.
British War Minister Haldane announces that
by buying horseshoes in Protected America he
gets them 15 to 20 per cent, cheaper than he can in
Freetrade England ; and War Minister Haldane
'is a proud man who reckons he has done a fine
stroke of business. What hasn’t yet been able to
get past the Freetrade fetich in Haldane’s mind
is that, when the deal is concluded, Britain will
have, say, a million horseshoes and won’t have,
say, £25,000, whereas if he had bought the horse-
shoes in England, Britain would have had the
million horseshoes and the £25,000 as well. So
with the meat supplies. Haldane boasts that
what he has saved in meat contracts for the Army
by buying abroad amounts to the cost of one
battalion, and he perkily asks whether it is prefer-
able to have a battalion or beef grown in Britain.
But where is the battalion ? As Senator Tren-
with incisively put it—“ If they do not leave off
importing their beef, they will presently have to
import their battalions too.”
“ We ! ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have not as a people clearly thought out the prin-
ciples which should guide us in our relations to yellow
and dark races.— Misleading article in Argus.
Exactly !
Ribuck !
That’s square an’ all!
We—that is the rest of us—
-4,171,943 Australians, including many im-
porters,
And not forgetting Bruce Smith ;
We have not thought out a “ White Australia ”
policy !
Oh, no ! Not at all! By no means !
The Argus says so—
So it must be so !
I should remark !
There is but one Chump, and the Argus is his
prophet!
“ Black is not black—it is but a dirty white.”
Who says so?
The Argus says so—
Therefore, it must be so !
We have not thought out how to deal with
Ham—
Nor Shem—
Nor the Yellow Man—
Nor the Brown Man—
Nor the Piebald Man—
We have no guide as to our relations with
them !
Who says so ?
The Argus says so.
Consequently, it is imperative that if it be not
so, the sooner it becomes so the better.
Eh ?
I repeat that if things be otherwise to that
which they seem, the more speedily they adjust
themselves to the vision of 100 color-blind eyes
the more enjoyable will life become.
As how ?
Because if things are not what they seem they
cannot seem what they are.—Q.E.D.
I beg your pardon ?
I allude to the Petriana Myth, the Bruce
Myth, and other Myths.
These are noble and truthful things—
Events—
Stejis on the road of our national reconstruction,
which adumbrate perennially through the arch-
ways of the void—
Who says so ?
The Argus says so.
Therefore ! !!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic
complaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I have taken (including those from Drs.) none have
proved so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended it to many others. Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER, Proprietor of “The Lilydale Express, ' Lilydale, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Copmanhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine for
obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me cured one man that had a distressing cough for twelve years.
Please find post-office order enclosed for payment. Yours thankfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM, Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this particular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours
very truly,
GEO. S. CALDWELL, Camberwell, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having used your Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest. lam sending you this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines, and can unhesitatingly say that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishing you every success—l am, yours truly,
J. ERSKINE, Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir,—Some months ago in Sydney, I suffered from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my
room for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact my busi-
ness as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the
doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and
for four long weeks I was confined to my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his
medicine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where I resided, told me of a
medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in
the chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second
bottle, my cough had ceased ; but what is more astonishing, the pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and in about
a week I was able to attend to my duties as usual,—Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM, Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and gave it a
trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT, Ohiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often bear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of. A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite cured in three doses. We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, OHATER and CO., 69 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASH.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREATMENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer from bronchitis for a number of years and not being able
to get relief from doctors I started taking your Bronchitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it on and
off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its worth,— l
am yours truly,
W J. CLARKE, Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible, as
I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she was
seven months old. She had been suffering from bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old, and has
not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE, Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.—COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis and asthma from whidh I had
suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the
difficulty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write to you this acknow-
ledgment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the
medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily, improved as I continued the treatment, until I became as I am now,
quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE OASES CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thankfulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had previously suffered terribly from asthma for about three years,
and had tried everything, and had advice, but without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time without moving
day or night out of my chair. If I went to bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand about three
years ago from Tasmania. One of m3’ uncles there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he took 3’our cure
about five years ago, and has never had the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of my mind until read-
ing 3’our advertisement in some Tasmanian papers brought it to my memory. I told my husband, and he got your
cure for me, which I have taken with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE, Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS A
SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your favor of the 27th inst., in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in London. lam sure their annual bronchial attacks will be
greatly relieved if not cured or prevented, b}'your valuable preparation. My own experience, and that in connec-
tion with my two-year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I shall continue to highly recommend it for
both old ana young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you deem it worth using.’—Yours truly,
HERBERT E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale," Bowral Street, Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. Can confidently say it has saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try it. —Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON, 223 Chapel Street, Prahran, Victoria.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARN E’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Offices No. 5 f First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
■a
<r
<Sf
m
A
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
&enger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, everywhere.
Another man comes back from a journey
satisfied that Japan proposes to make Australia
the Monkey’s wood-and-water joey. This other
manisLindlev, formerly the MeArthur-McMillan’s
wheat manager :
The (Japanese) tariff differentiates in favor of the raw
material. Japan is bent on doing its own milling. Last
year alone 13 new mills were erected. But Japan, having
reached what for practical purposes may be considered
the absolute limit of its own agricultural production,
looks abroad for the raw material, and is learning by
experience to look to Australia as the best source of
supply.
Australia slaving in the fields as the coolie of
Japan—it makes a beautiful picture.
“ 0.K.” speaks words of truth and earn-
estness :
I would like to add a postscript to “ Martin Luther’s ’
two columns of understated facts concerning- John
Wesley in a recent Bulletin. As regards what Mrs. Wesley
suffered through being married to a vain, religious crank
“ Martin Luther ’* merely states that she “ fretted out he
life in vague unending jealousies,” which would suggest
that the unfortunate woman retained a measure of love
for tthe insufferable apostle to the day of her death I
have always understood that Mrs. Wesley was taught by
bitter lessons of experience to despise the long-haired
hot gospeller who sat at the receipt of homage fr< ni
kindred fanatics, and that whilst his precious flock would
be swaying their bodies and rolling their eyes under the
influence of his wild harangues, the woman who knew him
would sit at the far end, of his chapel and put out
her tongue at him. To Mrs. Wesley the apostle John
was as plainly a hard-hearted, unconscious hypocrite as
was “ prison philanthropist" John Howard to his son—
the son whom he used to tie to a bedpost, and flog and
flog and flog. Indeed, it Was inevitable that Mrs. Wesley,
being a mother, should come to dislike, if not to hate, a
man who prescribed a joyless childhood for all human
offspring. John Wesley forbade holidays to children,
They were to be kept at their lessons and their Bible
every day of evety year until they were old
enough to go forth into the world to work and
pray. Not only the most harmless amusements*
but the ordinary holiday relaxations from dis-
cipline were denied to the children of the Faithful*
as far as Wesley could enforce the law of his damnable
religion. There wt. • not one drop of the milk of human
kindness in his composition. A life-destroying eruption
of a volcano was to him a matter for rejoicing. God in
His mercy—said John the Fanatic—had planted volcanoes
in the Roman Catholic countries (the fool gave his dupes
to understand that the volcanoes arrived after the arrival
of Christianity), and whenever He—the Almighty—de-
sired to put. the fear of Him into the R.C. breast, and to
emphasise the virtue of Wesleyanism, He put a Heavenly
match to a volcano, and set it vomiting destruction. The
man who could conceive so malignant a working of
Nature in the interests of sectarianism was essentially a
Bad man, arid if there be a Sheol in the Hereafter, the
soul of John Wesley is, in my opinion, undoubtedly thete*
condemned to preach and snuffle evermore to myriads of
other lost souls, whose only response to his awful elo-
quence is “ Rats 1"


N.S.W. Branch Office :
No. 5. First Floor. Greer's Chambers.
522 George Street. Sydney.
Hie Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SIMPLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight,,FallingEyeIaslies r Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
HYPNOTISM
cV-
can learn to exert a magic
influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
"The Scientific Wonder of the Age," 64 pages, pro-
fusely , illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS, :
29 O’CONNELL STREET.
SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless,,
and easy to administer. It qperates so quietly, and with
such .certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Address : THE. EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Sydneyr
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For pjfe Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO T.TUTVTTI ° n Security or Freehold or Leasehold
AUUIDXIX llltiV U C i ty or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
or Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Rills or any or the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our Hew Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winohcombe, Esq. ; Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
UJf'C.
.22 »
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONL Y.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
CONSULT
HERR RASSMUSSEN
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
ADVICE FREE.
Send for Free Circular.
25 YEARS 1 PRACTICE
IN AUSTRALIA.
Awarded Several Gold Medals and
Thousands pf Testimonials.
SPECIAL TREATMENT: Diseases of the Nerves, Skin and Blood,
Piles, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Liver and Kidneys.
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
Delightful Pipes
CUARAMTt^ 1 -^
means
SOLD everywhere:
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable From all Tobacconists
have you
noticed how
thin it is
growing on top ? Does’nt show
when your hair is dressed, but it
worries you just the same.
BARRY’S
TRI-CO PH-ERO US
will cure those thin places. It
will nourish, and rebuild your
scalp out of which your hair
grows and upon which it depends
for strength, and life. Be sure
you get Barry’s.
Reuter’s Soap improves complexions
¥
I
«>#/
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy tor Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as " run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunciion with the
Pills. ,It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords mo- c * welcome relief
in a very short time.
yv**
.#
m OINTMENT
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
FRBITUIIS
THE NEW CUBE FOB
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, so encourage
business in your own district. If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No. 5, First Floor. Greer’s Chambers. 522 George Street. Sydney
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
> Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from, the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, The head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of <the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this, should be borne in
min'd, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make-worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by aptibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses -with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
, to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, wiien suffering, take a
dose of Froocoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of-the' ‘necessity of 'taking
any aperient medicine; ’
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty-
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Iiearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
, mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers, can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies 1 from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.


Legal Notices.
ARCHIBALD MOUAT.
WHEREAS by an Order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of
Lancaster Manchester District in an Action the
short title whereof is “In the Matter of the
Estate of George Mouat deceased Mouat r.
Mouat ” it was ordered that it be referred to the
Registrar to enquire who are the,,persons entitled
by virtue of or according to the Statutes of Dis-
tribution to the Estate of the above-named George
Mouat deceased living at the time of his death,
and whether any of them have since died and
if so who are their respective legal personal
representatives.
WHEREAS Archibald Mouat a brother of the
said George Mouat (the said George Mouat having
died on the 7th day of February 1907) left Eng-
land in or’about the year 1851 for Australia and
when he was last heard of namely in the year 1872
it is believed he was residing at Yandoit Talbot
County Victoria.
All persons claiming to be the said Archibald
Mouat if living or if he is dead to be his legal
personal representatives or if he died before the
said 9th day of February 1907 to be his child or
children then living or if any of such children are
since dead to be the legal personal representatives
of such children respectively are by their Solici-
tors on or before the 11th day of November 1907
to come in and prove their Claims at the Chambers
of the Registrar of the Manchester District of the
said Court situate at Duchy Chambers No. 4
Clarence Street in the City of Manchester Eng-
land or in default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Thursday the 21st day of November 1907 at eleven
o’clock in the forenoon at the said Chambers is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Any person having any knowledge or informa-
tion of the whereabouts of the said Archibald
Mouat if living or whether and where he was
married and to whom and the whereabouts of his
Wife and children (if any) or if the said Archibald
Mouat is dead of the date and place of his death
and the name and address of his legal personal
representative (if any) js requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned Messrs. Sale & Co. of
No. 29 Booth Street Manchester in the County of
Lancaster England Solicitors.
DATED this 24th day of July 1907.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
SALE & CO.
29 Booth Street Manchester England
Solicitors for Miss Mary Scott
Mouat the Administratrix of the
said George Mouat deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice
made in the matter of the Estate of FANNY
STEVERSON Spinster deceased Behrend v.
Owen 1907 S. 362 whereby (inter alia) the
following Enquiry was directed, viz. : An Enquiry
what brothers and sisters of the above-named
Testatrix Fanny Steverson (who died on the
26th November 1906) of the whole blood sur-
vived her and whether such brothers and sisters are
living or dead and if any such brothers or sisters
be dead who are their respective legal personal
representatives And it appearing that the said
Testatrix had a brother Arthur Steverson who
left England for Australia many years ago and
went on an expedition, in to the bush in New South
Wales about the year 1891 and has not since been
heard of.
NOTICE is hereby given that the said
Arthur Steverson or if dead his legal personal
representatives are by their Solicitor on or before
the 26th day of November 1907 to come in and
prove his or their claim at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Swinfen Eady and Mr. Justice Neville at
the Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London,
England, or in default thereof they will be per-
emptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
Order.
Wednesday the 4th day of December 1907 at
11.30 of the clock in the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 30th day of July 1807.
J. C. FOX
Master.
R. H. Behrend & Rodger,
Solicitors,
17 Surrey Street, Strand, London, W.C.
Amusements.
BESSES O’ TH’ BABN BAND
Under Direction of J. and N. Tait.
FINAL CONCERTS—
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND,
25tb, 26th, 27th, 28th, and 30th SEPTEMBER,
at 3 and 8 p.m. Each Day.
Admission—ONE SHILLING. Grand Stand Is. Extra.
No Afternoon Concert on Friday.
Amusements.
O W N HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction of .. .. J. and N. Tait.
THE CLARA BUTT
.... and ....
KENNERLEY RUMFORD CONCERTS.
sth, Bth, 10th, 12th, and 15th
OCTOBER.
tw PRICES—2Is., 10s. 6d., 55., and 3s.
s
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of ED\VfN GEACH.
(By Arrangement with J. C. WILLIAMSON.)
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING.
AN INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS.
HUMAN HEART S.
A DRAMATIC TRIUMPH.
Box Plan at Elvy’s (No Booking Fee). Popular Prices.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
STRIKING AND SINGULAR TRIUMPH of
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn’s Superb Production of
HER LOVE AGAINST THE WORLD
In which Play, Australia’s Favorite Actor,
lIARCOURT BEATTY, and the celebrated and popular
classic English Actress, MADGE McINTOSH, scored
A GENUINE SUCCESS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING. GREAT CROWDS WITNESS
ANDREW MACK in
THE RAGGED EARL.
Full of INCIDENT, HUMOR, SENTIMENT.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor* Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Magnificent Reception of HAYMAN and FRANKLIN,
Hebrew Comedians and London’s Laughter Distributors.
Indescribable Success of PRICE and REVOST, The
Greatest Comedy Acrobats of the Day.
MISS LOTTIE KAY, The Celebrated Yorkshire Soprano.
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
MONAHAN and SHRAHAN, Refined Musical Artists.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY’.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FIVE WHITELEYS, Acrobats, Wire Walkers.
HAMILTON HILL. ERNEST FITTS.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Descriptive Vocalist.
AGNES HAZEL, Vocaliste Comedienne.
HENRI ALEXANDER, Unique Specialty Act.
MOLASSOS TROUPE, Continental Eccentric Dancers.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
EDWARD CRANSTON and Company in Comedy Sketch,
entitled “THE ADVENTURESS.”
Plan at Allan’s. OS' PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is-
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS of
MISS FLORENCE BAINES’ SEASON.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS of
MTSS LANCASHIRE, LID.
POPULAR PRICES Box Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
First Appearance of MISS FANNY DANGO
and MISS EMMA TEMPLE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 28, FRIDAY, SEPT. 27,
Last Two Nights of THE BONDMAN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Co. in
THE GREAT RESCUE.
Spectacular Tableaux by, Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
Great Success of
JULIUS KNIGHT
SUPPORTED BY A NOTABLE Go.
... IN ...
R A E F L E S.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies, and The Grand.
New bijou theatre, Melbourne.
Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 26, FRIDAY, SEPT. 27,
Last Two Nights of THE COAL KING.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28.
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
In the Exciting Sensational Drama,
WHY WOMAN SINS.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THE Gr LACIARI U M,
MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING,
LAST NIGHT, SATURDAY, 28th INST.
ONE SHILLING EVERY EVENING.
Morning and Afternoon—Admission, 2s. ; Skates, 6d.
School Children—Saturday Morning, 6d. ; Skates, 6d.
ADJOINING
THE TOWN OF
fdsg
FOR SUBDIVISION
Under instructions from the Owners, Messrs. Stirton Bros, and Beauchamp.
21,000 Acres Rich Basaltic Soil
Divided into 127 Farms, ranging- from 40 to 1100 acres. Buyers will be given the option of taking adjoining
blocks where arranged. Will be submitted by Public Auction on
WEDNESDAY, 30th OCTOBER, 1907, at INVERELL.
The whole of Auburn Vale consists of the very richest Volcanic Soil suitable for Lucerne
Growing-, and admirably adapted for Dairying, Mixed Farming and Grazing. A large and
well-equipped Butter Factory is established close to town, and within easy reach of all parts of the instate.
The land is wonderfully productive, growing luxuriantly Lucerne, Wheat, Oats, Maize, Peas
and Beans, while all' Root Crops return splendid yields.
Average Annual Rainfall 31 inches. Title, Torrens.
Terms: 20 per cent. Deposit; balance in equal Annual Payments, extending over 10 Years,
bearing interest at 5 per cent. Instalments to commence on February 1,1909. The Estate is watered by
numerous creeks and gullies run by springs, and water can be obtained anywhere at shallow depths or sinking.
Lithos, Descriptive Sheets, and full particulars from the Auctioneers
THE NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY C 0 LTD.,
T. A. STIRTON & CO., Narrators. ARMSTRONG & FARRAND, Inverell.
Specially reduced Railway Fares will be granted from all Stations in N.S.W. to bona fide land seekers upon
making written application to the Director, Intelligence Department, Sydney. Ist class return tare, Albury
to Inverell, £4 9s. lOd. ; 2nd class return, £2 15s. lOd.
Half per cent. Commission allowed to anv Agent introducing Buyers. Buyers met and driven to inspect
by Local Agents, Armstrong & Farrand.
WITHOUT
PAYMENT
FOR TWO SEASONS.
234
Crop prospects over a large portion of Australia’s wheat-growing area are very bad
at the present time,
The season’s output of all Harvesters appears likely to be greatly reduced from
former years.
Many farmers will have too small a grain crop this year to Justify their making,
out of its proceeds, any payments on a Harvester. /
We are Just landing an unusually large consignment of our celebrated Deerlng
and “McCormick” 3-HORSE Harvesters, the lightest draught Harvesters in the world,
and positively unequalled in their ability to make an A 1 sample.
Our supply Is now almost sure to be in excess of our usual demand.
Under ordinary circumstances we should have to store and insure several hundreds
of them until the harvest of 1908, but, with a view of avoiding this useless expense, we
offer the following terms on them, viz.
Ist Payment on February Ist, 1909
2nd ~ ~ 1910
3rd ~ ~ 19”
4th ~ 1912
£23 13 O
23 13 O
23 15 O
23 15 O
Thus you pay NOTHING until you have harvested TWO crops, and then a small
payment out of the proceeds of each the second, third, fourth, and fifth crops harvested.
No interest is charged on these deferred payments if met promptly when due.
'■‘'T'.fev •
Machines will be delivered free on board trucks or steamer at Brisbane. Sydney,
Melbourne, or Port Adelaide.
A competent expert sent to start each machine free of charge.
All Harvesters thoroughly overhauled and put in good order prior to the harvest of
1908 FREE OF ALL EXPENSE to user except for parts damaged by misuse.
dsfg
DON’T PAY MONEY FOR A HARVESTER OUT OF THE PROCEEDS OF A
POOR CROP WHEN YOU CAN GET THE USE THIS YEAR-ABSOLUTELY
FREE—OF A HARVESTER THAT HAS INVARIABLY BROUGHT ITS USERS
A HIGHER PRICE FOR THEIR GRAIN THAN ANY OTHER MAKE.
The many hundreds of clients who have this year bought " Deering” and
Harvesters on less favorable terms may have their orders changed to
herein on making immediate application to our nearest branch.
“ McCormick”
terms quoted
aw®
For the best of machinery and the most liberal treat-
ment apply to
iTjSF O DEPARTMENT B
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AMERICA (Incorporated),
Roma Street, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney;
543 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Bank Street, Adelaide.
We reserve the right to decline any order received under this offer.
A few lines from “ J.Gr.” in Victoria
The other day Ben Goddard, of Kyabram, got into
such a state of frenzy because the Australian Parliament
voted itself something resembling a living wage, that he
wrote a letter to J. P. Oarolin, this year’s Pooh Bah of
Bendi(»>, and asked him to call a meeting to protest
against the Federal Parliament. Goddard said it con-
sisted of a lot of damned, infernal grabbers. He also re-
marked that Bent was making far too many costly billets,
and was going away from the Kyabram programme.
Poor old Benny seems to forget that the Kyabram pro-
gramme is dead like the old Doges of Venice, and that
Bent is anxious to get as far away from its carcase as
possible. BeJfboddard also said that some Mayors and pub-
lic men “don’t care one damn ” what money they spend.
This is quite true, but the Kyabram push keeps very quiet
about the £300,000 it got from the public in the matter of
the Rodney Irrigation Trust. This irrigation scheme raised
the value of the property of the Kyabram land grabbers
from about £4 an acre to over £ll. But instead of being
grateful and decently honest, and paying up the interest
according to promise, the Kyabram liars, defaulters, and
thieves let the arrears run On for a good few years, and
then asked the Government to pay. And a weak-kneed
Government and an ill-paid Parliament consented to the
swindle. If Victoria could, by paying its State
£IOOO a year, get men who would suppress huge frauds
like the Kyabram swindle, those members would be cheap
at the price.
Language from a man bn the spot:—
The urgent need for some apostle of the C.O.D. cult is
again apparent. Tarro shire council(N.S.W.) is classified
under the Actas a first-class shire. It has a revenue, at Id.
in the £l, of £2439 6s. 6d. Its expenditure is £3896. The
deficit, on the basis of a tax of Id. in the £, is £1456135. 6d.
per annum. The N.S.W. Local Government Act allows a
minimum tax of Id., and leaves every shire council full
liberty to levy 2d. if it wants to. If this first-class shire took
the obviously proper course, it would levy a rate of lid.
or 2d., and have a surplus (or better roads). Instead, it
tearfully deplores its first-ciass status, and wants to be
reduced in classification, so that it can claim a subsidy
from the Treasury, paid to a great extent at the cost of
the city workers. It also incidentally remarks that it
has “ had to borrow ” £I3OO. And the Sydney dailies
publish the impudent wail of this first-class shire
that it has “ had to borrow ” £I3OO without any attempt
to point out that it is solely through its refusal to pay
taxes that there has arisen a need to borrow anything.


WEIGHING
V
/
f/
“10
V
lbs.”
Because of its delicate, medicinal,
emollient, sanative, antiseptic prop-
erties derived from Cuticura, the
great Skin Cure, united with the
purest of saponaceous ingredients
and most refreshing of flower odours,
has become the mother’s favourite
for preserving, purifying, and beau-
tifying the skin of infants and chil-
dren, as well as for all the purposes
of the toilet and bath. Guaranteed
absolutely pure, and may be used
from the hour of birth.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston,
U. S. A. Cuticura Booklet.
AFTER
ITS
FIRST
BATH
WITH
SOAP.
sfd
This
American
Glace
Kid
Oxford
for
17/6
It is a Shoe that for
good appearance,
comfort, and wear
cannot be excelled,
whilst its stylishness
is evident at a glance. Has patent cap and'facings,
and may be had in all sizes and fittings. The price is
very low, and has not risen since the increase in dutv.
Posted in Victoria 9d. extra ; to other States Is. 2d.
extra. We are also showing a new shipment of Tan
and Enamelled Kid Shoes at very low prices. Write
for particulars.
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price it can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glao<s Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering.
Price, #4/6. Posted in Victoria, 1/- extra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEE MING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swans ton Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
110,000
The Way back Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 8.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT Waik.*.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation!
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Note the name "Hunyndi Janos,”
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the
of the Label.
the signature of the Proprietor,
medallion, oh the Red Centre Par
The First Motor Tyres Made
TARGO-FLORIO WIN.
In the Targo-Florio Race—one of the greatest Inter-
national Motoring Contests—the Ist, 2nd, Srd, 4th,
sth, and 6th cars were fitted with “ MICIIELINS.”
The race was over 300 miles, and the winner’s speed
averaged 65 miles per hour.
50-MILE MOTOR CYCLE WIN.
_At the 50-Mile Motor Cycle Contest, held at
Gampbellfield, Vic., there were only three out of 27
machines fitted with Michelin tyres, yet these three
secured Ist, 3rd, and fastest time.
Sole Australian Agents :
BARNET, GLASS (Si CO.
Back to the old Sydney address :
85 CLARENCE STREET.
226 Flinders Lane Melbourne ; 30 McHenry Street,
Adelaide ; Agents at Hobart, Perth and Brisbane.’
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney,
mm
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
f Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd., 374 George St., Sydney
Sole Australian Asent Wabasii Systems.
The BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is :
Packet of Ten, lOd.
muniiHiiH!
Genuine EDISON Records,
Best of all— 1(6 —each.
You may possibly be tired of the Records that you have, and think that
the Phonograph has outlived its usefulness. If your instrument
does not give you the pleasure it did, make it up with some of the
GOOD NEW THINGS ib ed he-.. which
ON SALE AT ALL DEALERS NOW.
AMERICAN SELECTION>S.-August List.
9602
9003
9601
9605
9600
9607
9608
9609
9610
9611
9612
Minuet and Gavotte from “Pagliacci” ( Leon -
Mvallo) Edison Concert Band.
He Never Even Said Good-bye ( Gumble)
„ _ , „ Ada Jones.
My Dear (Ball) Reinald Werrenrath.
Sonoma ( Friedman ) Edison Venetian Trio.
I’m Tying- the Leaves so They Won’t Come
Down (llelf) Byron G. Harlan.
Work, for the Night is Coming (Mason)
Edison Mixed Quartette.
I lanagan and His Money ( Original )
T , „ Steve Porter.
Joyce s 71st Regiment March (Boyer)
Edison Military Band.
Dearest, Sweetest, Best (Peabody)
_ , „ Harry Anthony.
Ev’ry Little Bit Added to What You’ve Got
Makes Just a Little Bit More (Dillon Bros.)
TT „ Collins and Harlan.
He Goes to Church on Sunday (Goetz)
Billy Murray.
9613
9614
9615
9616
9617
9618
9619
9620
9621
9622
9623
9624
9625
Heather Bells (Losey) Albert Benzler.
She was a Grand Old Lady (Ilenry)
„ Harvey Ilindermyer.
Street Piano Medley (Original) August Molinari.
Harrig-an (Cohan) Edward Meeker.
Miss Dixie (Hager) Edison Concert Band.
So Long, So Long (Clark) Art hur Collins.
In the Good Old Steamboat Days (Hill)
Murry K. Hill.
My Word 1 What a Lot of It (Reed)
Will F. Denny.
The Merry Lark (Benclix)
Edison Symphony Orchestra.
Red Wing (Mills) Frederick 11. Potter & Chorus.
Burying the Hatchet (Original)
Ada Jones and Len Spencer.
The Sailor’s Chorus (Parry)
Edison Male Quartette.
School Days Medley (Original)
Edison Military Band.
BRITISH SELECTIONS.—JuIy List,
13602 Selection from H.M.S. Pinafore ( Sullivan)
, National Military Band.
Algy (The Piccadilly Johnny) {Norris)
Miss Vesta Tilley.
Band of Hope and Glory {Elgar)
_ J. H. Scotland.
Courtship and Marriage {Cardoio)
Miss Yolande Noble and Chas. Cardow.
13606 The Taximeter Car {Hyde and Heath)
Billy Williams.
13603
13604
13605
13607 When the Wedding Bells Rang Oat for You
and Me (Maurice Scott) Walter Hyde.
13608 She Hadn’t Left the County Very Long
(Vousden) Miss Yolande Noble.
13609 Mr. Knick-Knock (Luck) Harry Champion.
13610 Say, Hello ! Old Man ( Stevens )
Miss Victoria Monks.
13611 Thy Voice is Near, March (Dennett)
British Military Band.
If you have not had them we will be glad to send you the complete lists.
BETTER WRITE NOW.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :
. . Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. otf. serves.
Aug., 1902.. £2511 AboutB p.e. = £2351 £3OB £1452
Feb., 1903.. 2427 „ 7| „ „ 2181 329 1369
Aug., 1903.. 2286 „ 7J „ „ 2179 242 1234
Peb., 1904.. 2433 „ 7} „ 2152 254 1261
Aug., 1904.. 2629 „ 7f „ „ 2104 364 1322
Peb., 1905.. 2680 „ 7} ~ ~ 2208 299 1495
Aug., 1905.. 2399 „ s „ „ 231] 251 1332
Peb., 1906.. 3128 „ s „ „ 2349 523 1588
Aug., 1906.. 3150 ~ 8 ~ „ 2405 423 1910
*eb., 1907.. 2898 „ s ~ ~ 2435 282 2091
Approx 9o7 "} 3B96 >• ».. .. 2500 573 2914
The figures for the last half-year are necessarily approxi-
mate only, because the amounts payable for income-tax
and as fees to committee and auditors are not set out
until the next statement is issued ; also the exact amount
payable in dividend is for the present unknown.
Phis society—-one of the oldest co-operative concerns in ]
Australia, being now in its 40th j'ear—has two lots of capi-
tal : one lot it calls capital, and the other loans, but they
carry the same dividend, and they are equally open to
withdrawal on very short notice. For the 12 months
from February, 1906, to February, 1907, the average
amount of capital and loans, so far as the balance sheet
shows it, was £62,731 ; the so-called interest and divi-
dends totalled £4838, which works out at a trifle under
8 per cent. As a matter of fact, the capital (of both
sorts) carries only 4 per cent. ; the balance is a bonus on
members’ purchases (l'Od. in the £). The disbursements
are not, however, separated—which is one of the old ruts
out of which the management might very well get; for
the present method of representing the div. as about
8 per cent, on capital is to some extent misleading. To
do it justice, though, the management never mentions 8
per cent.; it just mentions the total distribution. For
very many years the society had a sentimental objection
to a reserve fund; the management reckoned that, as
members had the right to withdraw at any time, it was
not fair to accumulate reserves which they could not with-
draw. But it is getting over that piece of quaint altruism,
and recognises now that its business is to make the
concern secure, and it sees that for security reserves are
necessary, else some day some unexpected and unforeseen
disaster may make it impossible to return even the mem-
bers’ capital. Apart from capital (including the members
“ loans,” which are equally capital), the society works
absolutely on no-borrowing and C.O.D. principles ; there
is positively not a penny owing to outside creditors.
Profits have been good ; that is mainly due to the exten-
sion of business. “The past half-year,” the directors
say, “is a record one for turn-over and membership.”
The society is very prudently managed, and the sincerity
of the management in regard to co-operative ideals com-
mands for it much respect.
* * * •
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vie.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, 1902.. £5588 14 per cent. = £4725 £863 £64,870
Jan., 1903.. 4214 14 „ „ 4725 - 64 359
July, 1903.. 5044 14 „ „ 4725 319 64,678
Jan., 1904.. 4554 14 ~ ~ 4725 64 507
July, 1904.. 5012 14 „ „ 4725 287 64’794
Jan., 1905.. 4438 14 „ „ 4725 64’507
July, 1905.. 4800 12 „ „ 4050 750 65! 257
Jan., 1906.. 4455 12 „ „ 4050 405 65,662
July, 1906.. 4112 12 „ „ 4050 62 65 724
Jan., 1907.. 4376 12 „ „ 4050 326 66,050
July, 1907.. 3971 12 „ „ 4050 65,971
The profits are stated net ■; that is to say, a certain
amount is charged direct to profit and loss to cover wear
[ and tear. In the past half-year this amount is £l7Ol,
making £2722 ur the year, as against £2440 for the
preceding year. To what extent this goes in repairs and
renewals, and to what extent it is available to write
the undertaking down on account of general deprecia-
tion, it is impossible to say. Still the money charged for
wear and tear is pretty clearly not all spent on repairs
and renewals ; in the “ Receipts and Expenditure ” state-
ment “general repairs” are debited with £705 for the
past half-year, or less than half the total amount charged
to wear and tear in the profit and loss account. It looks,
therefore, as though there were a provision for depre-
ciation apart from the general reserve fund. Some sort
of support is given to that theory by the fact
that plant, stock, etc., stood in the books at £622
more in January than they did in July; but that
may be due to the sale of plant or the reduc-
tion of stocks. Provision for depreciation is nearly
always the doubtful quantity about gas and light-
ing cos. Some of them, by charging excessive amounts
for depreciation, stuff hidden profits away in works, etc. •
so that, if municipalities or public kick presently, the
directors may make concessions and still be on a good
I wicket. Others don’t make any provision worth men-
tioning, in which case what reserves they have are only
represented by rust and decay, and are therefore not
real reserves, and the stated profits are consequently not
true profits either. Between the two lots, one nearly
always needs to know more than the published balance-
sheet tells him before he becomes or decides to remain
interested in a gasco.
* • » *
The market didn’t like chairman Darling’s
announcement at the Broken Hill Prop, meeting that “ at
depth the ore is getting denser, and, therefore, harder
and more expensive to work.” But if every shareholder
didn’t know that in connection with the B. H. Prop., it is
simplj because the co. has neglected to publish milling
results, as the South, Block 10, and, in fact, every other
Broken Hill mine does. Practically, there has been no
increase in silver and lead extraction at Broken Hill
during the past 10 years ; but there has been no falling
away either. The improvements in appliances have, in
other words, just about counterbalanced the adverse
changes in the character of the ore. Moreover, there is
room yet for very great improvements. The B. H Prop
does not show its mill results, but it probably does not
recover more than 70 percent, of its lead and 55 per cent,
of its silver. That fact has to be considered in connection
with chairman Darling’s announcement; the ore is
getting more refractory at increased depth, but the limit
of improvement in the appliances, and the consequent
extraction, has not been reached yet.
* * * *
It is to be hoped that the people who expect
Australia to set up the iron and steel and similar indus-
tries without substantial Protection will turn up the
recent history of the Broken Hill’s Prop.’s attempt to
establish a spelter (zinc) smelting business. It is a dis-
tilling process in the main. When it was started excess-
ive heat was generated; consequently the fire-blocks
were spoiled, and the works had to be closed. New
retorts were made: and then these were found to be
faulty, and again the works had to be closed. It is doubt-
ful whether any co in the world has a finer metallurgical
staff than the B. H. Prop. ; yet with all the co.’s expert
advice there has been little but failure so far. Fortu-
nately, the B. H. Prop, has enormous resources ; so
general-manager Delprat has looked round the world for
a specialist, and he will arrive some time next month.
But what would happen in the case of a co. that didn’t
have the B. H. Prop.’s resources ?
* * * *
“Blister”: Apropos a recent discussion, in-
augurated by parson Worrall, who alleged that 49,0000 z.
of gold (Worrall is a very exact man) is stolen every year
at Bendigo. Anybody who knows Bendigo mines knows
that extensive gold-stealing therein is nowadays mythi-
cal. Rich patches such as would tempt the underground
man to run the gauntlet are rare enough to be considered
practically non-existent, and for the most part the gold
is so finely diffused through the stone that it is not visible
to the naked eye. Also on most Bendigo mines the men
change into surface clothes under conditions that make
theft undesirable, supposing that the stone was rich
enough to tempt the potentially dishonest, which
generally speaking, it is not. The fact that there are
many gold-buyers other than banks in Bendigo proves
nothing against the miner, for most of the gold purchased
by pawnbrokers and others comes from fossickers outside
Bendigo. Gold-stealing exists wherever gold is coarse
and supervision is lax, but the Bendigo miner has little
chance of becoming a thief, even if he wanted to. And a
long experience tells me that he generally doesn’t want to.
Queensland Public Service Act provides
that every public servant may be asked to retire
at the age of 65. In practice, however, the Board
seldom rushes the official to the door till he is 70,
and a weary race of elderly juniors disapproves
greatly.


Just an easy handful of KODAK FILMS will
tell the story of where you went, what you did,
■
Hi
Ml
mu
•• r
and the funny things you saw. There’s film enough there for sixty pictures,
gdfs
and with a Panoram Kodak like this for £3 lOs* you can
get Pictures like this all day long.
The Kodak itself
slips into the pocket,
and the picture - making i s
simple from start to finish. Press
the button —do the rest or leave it
to another —just as you please.
Ir f
fin
i
iH#
illSSfsb
■lf
Sole Australian Agents for Kodak Limited
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne / 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane ; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide .
These handsome new styles
are all very special value. They
combine the best finish with real
gems and full quality gold. We are
positive that every piece shown here
will be highly prized.
We forward by registered post daily on
receipt of remittance. The most careful
attention to country orders.
TO MAIL ORDER BUYERS.-In send-
ing your orders to ns you run no
risk, as the money you send us is
at your disposal, if the goods are not in
every way satisfactory* We are not
satisfied until you are*
Dl277—Fine Diamond, Pearl, and
15ct. Gold Brooch, J159/10/-.
k.". r^l
C3334.—15ct. Gold Brooch, Pearlsj.
and Australian Rubies, dB3/3/-.
R927B—lBct. Gold Ring-,
Half-Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubios, or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-.
H64o.—lBct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
£7/10/-.
H 641. —18ct. Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
£7/10/-.
GS9B2. —Fine Diamond,
18et. A-Hoop Ring',
£lO/10/-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7llO/-.
H 5274
18ct. Ring, Diamonds
and Olivine, £2/15/-
G 2793.
18ct. Gold, Ruby, and
G 8984. —Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring,
£lBllO/-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£ll/10/-.
1911. —18ct. Gold Ring,
set fine Golden Topaz,
£2/5/-.
H 731
Diamonds or Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £5/15/-.
G 8986. —Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring-,
£3O.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lB/10/-.
H 6240
Fine Diamond and
Emerald Ring, £ B/8/-.
C 8829
Five Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3/10/-
GB9BO. —Fine Diamond
Ring-, 18ct., £5/5/-
If Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £ 3/10 /-.
171 A Gold, Five
Fine Opals, £2/10/-.
G 5296. —Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £ lO/10/ -
D1276.—15ct. Gold, Pine Diamond
and Pearl Brooch, £7/10/-.
C 3332. —15ct. Gold Brooch and
Pendant, Pearls and Cape
Rubies, £4/15/-.
03814.—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Broodi, £2/7/6.
03312. —lsct. Gold and Real Pearl Brooch, £2/15/-.
You may have seen this style of Brooch advertised at a seemingly lower
price, only no quality of gold is mentioned, and the word
paste is omitted before “ Pearl Set.”
03313.—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch, £2/5/-.
Io
4 4#
zn
'Mm
026X9. —Handsome Bangle, Real Pearls and Sapphires,
15ct. Gold, £7/101-.
F 5419. —Two
Diamonds, Three
Sapphires, 18ct.
Gold, £2.
C 3324.— Daisy Bangle, Real Pearls, 15ct. Gold, £ 3/15 /-.
H 1228
Five Diamond
Bing, 18ct. Gold,
£5/5/-.
03322.—Fine Scroll Bangle, j.„eal Pearls, Turquoise,
and 15ct. Gold, £6/10/-
ORDER BY MAIL IF UNABLE TO CALL . MONEY BACK IF WE FAIL TO PLEASE YOU.
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery, Silver and Silver-Plated Goods SENT FREE ON REQUEST.


SYDNEY, 23rd September, 1907.
PROSPECTUS OF
WILLIAM SANDFORD LIMITED
Iron and Steel Manufacturers and
Land and Colliery Proprietors,
LITHGOW, N.5.W.
Incorporated under the New South Wales Companies Act 1899, whereby the liability of a Shareholder is limited to the amount of his Share.
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION DATED sth JULY, 1901.
This PROSPECTUS is issued to invite subscription for 118j093 Shares of £1 each, the Balance of the available Unissued Capital of the Company.
CAPITAL: Authorised—2so,ooo Shares of £! each
£250,000.
Issued as fully paid up to William Sandford, under agreement of 18th
July, 1901
Subscribed and fully paid up in cash
Capital to this date
To be issued as fully paid up to William Sandford in part payment for
the purchase of his Eskbank Estate and Colliery by Agreement
dated 28th June, 1907 ...
Reserved for William Thornley, General Manager, under Agreement
dated 11th December, 1906, and to be paid for in cash by him
Reserved for certain other officers of the Company, and to be taken
up at their sole respective options, and to be paid for in cash by
them ...
Reserved for Edward Pease Sturge under Agreement dated 18th June,
1907, and to be paid for in cash by him ...
BALANCE —The available unissued Capital of the Company now
offered for public subscription under this Prospectus
NOTE. —1000 Shares have been issued for cash since the date of the herein contained Balance Sheet.
Such remaining 118,093 Shares are now offered to the public, payable as follows, viz. :
ss. on application ; ss. on allotment; 10s. within two months from the date of allotment.
The applications may be sent and application and allotment money may be paid either co :
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited, Head Office—Sydney.
’> '• ~ ~ ~ ~ Brisbane.
ahe National Bank of Australasia Limited, Head Office —Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Broken Hill.
Or directly to Messrs. Miles, Vane & Miles, Public Accountants, Mutual Life Building, Martin
Place. Sydney.
The balance of 10s. per Share will be payable at the Sydney Office of Messrs. William Sandford
Limited, Equitable Building, George Street, within two months after allotment.
lhe subscription list will be closed on 14th October, 1907, and allotment proceeded with forthwith.
The Directors will allot Shares at their absolute discretion.
The whole of the proceeds of allotted Shares, less legal and other expenses and brokerage, will be
paid to the Company.
The application money for Shares not allotted will be immediately returned to applicants without
deduction.
The Company being a going concern the Directors will proceed to allotment no matter what the
number of Shares applied for may be.
The
Sandford No I Blast Furnace, officially opened;by
the Hon.. J. H. Carruthers. M.L.A., Premier
Treasurer of New South Wales, and Hgn. C. A.* Lee,
M.L.A., Secretary for Works.
Lithgow, May 13th. 1907..
X
T\ A
; •••
* ■
&*>
*-««B
>rt
■< • - - .
:i
,’iE‘Jy
'-i
> ’
*
MP&:
* ,** lr •• '-'f' ' ■• -
F^
It is the intention of the Directors to erect more Steel Furnaces and subsidiary plant for the conversion of the
pig-iron manufactured at its Blast Furnace into steel (bars, sheets, etc.) for the purpose of supplying the New South
Wales Government with all the requirements under the “ Seven Years ” Contract, and to increase the output an ,
extend operations generally*
DIRECTORS:
The Directors of the Company are
Mr. WILLIAM SANDFORD . .
Mr. WILLIAM THORN LEY . .
Mr. EDWIN E. SOHIER . .
Mr. JOHN HUXTABLE, J.P. . .
Mr. GEORGE F. W. DANDO, J.P.
Mr. JOHN SANDFORD . . .
Mr. W. FITZROY SANDFORD .
Governing Director and Chairman
General Manager and Vice-Chairman
Manager of the Eskbank Estate
Representative in New South Wales
Sydney Representative
Acting Works Manger
Inter-State Salesman.
Mr. J ohn Sandford and Mr. W. Fitzroy Sandford have agreed to retire when
called on so to do by the other Directors, so as to permit of new Directors being
appointed.
Under the Company s Articles of Association all the Directors retire annually
except Mr. William Sandford and Mr. William Thornley, who retain their
positions on the Board for seven and five years respectively.
SECRETARY & ACCOUNTANT:
'Mr. GEORGE FREDERICK TAYLOR.
AUDITORS :
Messrs. MILES, VANE & MILES,
Members of the Sydney Institute of Public Accountants and Licensed Audito
under the Victorian Companies Act, of Mutual Life Building,
Martin Place, Sydney,
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. DIBBS & PARKER, Eldon Chambers, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
THe “Seven Years**
Contract.
The Company has entered into a contract with the New South Wales Government, the Railway
Commissioners of New South Wales, and the Sydney Harbor Trust Commissioners for the supply for
seven years of certain requirements in iron and steel. When the contract was entered into the esti-
mate of probable requirements was based on past experience, and allowance made for natural in-
crease ; but the prosperous condition of the State, and the vigorous works policy of the Government,
have shown the requirements to have been largely under-estimated, and the Company is, as a conse-
qu nee, compelled to decline many orders from its usual customers in the attempt to supply the
overnment iully. There is, moreover, a steadily increasing demand for steel in preference to iron.
IQO7 f UCtI aS - e ° ou . Wales Government is a certain customer for seven years from Ist March,
f nl % var,ety , of requirements in large quantities at mutually satisfactory prices, and orders
ro n e Company s usual customers are continuously increasing, an addition to Capital may be said
o ,be necessary. Apart from the practical service of the “Seven Years” Contract, the State


Government has thoroughly sympathised with and given its moral support to the development of the
iron industry in New South Wales, and the Commonwealth Government also appears anxious to do |
all it can to that end. It is unnecessary to point out the advantages accruing to a nation from the
possession of large iron ore deposits, and the enterprise to reduce from the ore commercial iron and
steel. Increased plant would enable tenders to be given for material for the Government not in-
cluded in the “Seven Years” Contract.
Description of tHe Plant and Business.
The Ikon and Steel Works of the Company are situated at Lithgow, but are known as the
Eskbank Iron and Steel Works. (Eskbank is the name given to the Eastern of the two stations at
Lithgow, and is the name of the Lithgow Municipality’s East Ward.) It is acknowledged that the
situation is a singularly favorable one for the industry, owing to its cheap coal, abundant water, and
proximity to two of the largest iron ore deposits in New South Wales (those of Carcoar and Cadia).
Lithgow is also a particularly favorable site strategically for the manufacture of arms of war.
In the year 1901 the Company purchased (as per agreement of the 18th day of July, 1901) from
Mr. William Sandford, who had carried them on for about 15 years, his Eskbank Iron Works, a site of
20 acres or thereabouts, which it still holds (with the exception of a portion containing an area of
about half an acre recently sold to Great Cobar Limited), and his furnaces, bar and sheet rolling
mills, plant, machinery, tools, buildings, etc., and since then has continuously enlarged its plant and
extended its business.
These Works are situated on the boundary of Farmer’s Creek, and now consist of four bar
Rolling Mills and one 24" bar Rolling Mill, under construction and almost completed ; one sheet
Rolling Mill, together with Boilers, Engines, Furnaces, and all appliances fully equipped ; three
Siemens’ Modern Open Hearth Steel Furnaces in full working order ; Steel Foundry with all
necessary appliances ; also Iron Foundry, Galvanising and Corrugating Plants. Engineering Work-
shops with modern machinery, practically all of which has been purchased within the last five years ;
there is also a Bolt and Nut Department; one New Locomotive with steam crane attached, and
Skips, Tools, Sidings, and general labor-saving appliances.
This branch of the Works is not claimed as being wholly laid out on modern lines, but there has
been a great deal of up-to-date machinery added during the last five years, and there are many works
in England being profitably worked with older and less effective plant.
The sales from these Works for the year ended 30th June last amounted to over £119,000.
The sales for July, 1907, amounted to over £lO,lOO.
The sales for August, 1907, amounted to over £10,500.
• The Sandford No. 1 Blast Furnace is the result of Mr. William Sandford’s enterprise,
warranted by the New South Wales Government entering into the contract with the Company in
1905 for seven years (already referred to above) from Ist March, 1907, for all the State Government’s
requirements in the iron and steel included in that contract.
The Blast Furnace is situated on part of the land the subject of the said Agreement of the 28th
day of June, 1907, but which is additional to the 406 acres mentioned hereafter. The site is an
excellent one adjoining the main Western Line at Eskbank, with an area of about 58 acres reserved for
future extension. The Blast Furnace and Plant are erected on an elevated position, and there is a
large quantity of low-lying ground round about it, thus affording a convenient and cheaply worked
place for the disposal of slag for many years to come.
The plant consists of one thoroughly-well-equipped modern Blast Furnace, 75 feet above its
foundation; three Cowper Stoves, 74 feet above their foundations; one powerful Vertical Blowing
Engine, made by Davy Brothers; and the latest model Turbo Blowing Engine, by Parsons; an
Electric Lighting Plant, Feed and Circulating Pumps, and an electrically-driven Centrifugal Pump ;
Steam Hoist for lifting railway hopper trucks with raw material, and Truck Drop, together with
Bunkers, Sidings, Locomotive, and the most up-to-date labor-saving appliances.
The Furnace is at present turning out from 700 to 800 tons of pig iron per week, but it is capable
of turning out from 1000 to 1500 tons per week.
In the year 1901 certain arrangements were entered into with regard to obtaining an option
for a lease of certain land on the Coombing Park Estate, near Carcoar, from Mr. A. W. Whitney.
The Company is now obtaining the iron ore used in the manufacture of its pig iron from an open-
face quarry thereon, and has constructed a railway with bridge from the main Blayney-Harden line
to the said quarry ; but ic having been found that a larger area was required, and that it was
desirable to obtain certain modifications of the original option, the Company is now in negotiation
for a lease of the said land, with an additional area for 21 years from the 30th day of April, 1902, with
an option of renewal for 21 years, and the draft leases have been approved by the respective
Solicitors.
The Company also has a lease of Iron Ore on the Cadia property of the Scottish Australian
Mining Company, Limited.
The Portland Commonwealth Cement Co., Ltd., near Wallerawang, supply the limestone ; and
the Oakey Park Coal Mining and Coke Co., Ltd., of Lithgow, and the North Bulli Colliery Co.,
Ltd., of Bulli, supply the coke. Since the starting of the Blast Furnace, on 29th April last, it has
worked most satisfactorily under the management of Major P. G. Pennymore. Apart from sales to
outsiders, the Company is a big customer, and if further steel-producing furnaces were erected,
would be in a position to consume much more of its own pig iron.
The Company should be its Blast Furnace’s best customer.
Unsolicited testimonials as to the quality of the pig iron manufactured may be seen at the Com-
pany’s Office in Sydney from users in New Zealand, Queensland, South Australia and Victoria, as
well as New South Wales.
The bar iron made from the pig iron puddled is equal to anything imported. The steel made
from the pig iron by the Siemens’ Furnaces is of excellent quality, and fully meets the tests of
Government inspection.
The sales of pig iron (additional to the sales mentioned above) for July amounted to over £4300,
and for August to over £B9OO.
CskbanK Estate and Colliery.
The Company has recently entered into an agreement with Mr. William Sandford to purchase
from him as at the Bth May, 1907, for the price of £70,000 (£50,000 to be paid forthwith in fully-
paid-up shares, and the balance on the Ist day of May, 1914, or earlier at the Company’s option,
with interest in the meantime at the rate of 5% per annum) as per an agreement of the 28th day of
June, 1907, the residue of the Eskbank Estate, which residue consists of the unsold portion (about
406 acres with houses, brickyard and sawmills, etc.) of Mr. William Sandford’s freehold land at
Lithgow (with the exception of about one acre that has been reserved to the vendor), and the Esk-
bank Colliery and the Ironworks Tunnel, including the beds and seams of coal in and under the
said land, and all other seams and beds of coal in the said agreement of the 28th June, 1907, men-
tioned, and all plant, buildings and machinery connected therewith.
The 406 acres above referred to are situated in the town and municipality of Lithgow, and are.
in addition to the two sites of 20 acres and 56 acres used by the Company for its operations, and are
good business and residential sites, and at the present time are a very valuable asset, as may be
judged from the fact that from the Bth May last to the 30th June an area of about 4f acres was sold
on behalf of the Company for £3930.
Apart from the present value of the lands, they must have a large prospective value, as Lithgow
is rapidly increasing in population and importance.
The Colliery, which is managed by Mr. J. W. Spooner, the Mayor of Lithgow, has its adit or
tunnel within 300 feet of the rolling milis and steel producing furnaces. It is well equipped with
up-to-date winding plant, and is connected with a system of tram lines and wire ropes, which enable
the skips of coal as filled by the miner to be moved direct to the furnace bins. There are available
about 151 acres of untouched coal, representing a total quantity of about one and a-half million tons.
Cheap coal is thus assured to the Company for many years. The lease of the 3rd August, 1900, and
any restrictions subject to which the said coal is worked, will not affect the right of the Company to
supply coal to themselves and all manufactures now or hereafter to be carried on on the Eskbank
Estate.
The Company is possessed of a good site of land at Sydenham, near Sydney, for the erection of
works and stores should occasion arise, and the Company also possesses a small property at Bulli, on
the South Coast, for the mining of a particular kind of clay for making bricks at its brick kilns and
yards on the Eskbank Estate suitable for its own and other furnaces.
Mr. William Sandford has given the Company the right for seven years to take silica, which has
been made into fire bricks of excellent quality, from his private property at Bowenfels for a small
royalty.
The Balance Sheet on 30th June last, in which the Goodwill is not reckoned as an Asset, is as
follows, viz. :
Liabilities.
William Sandford £142,917 0 9
Of which £50,000 0 0 is to be taken in
Shares.
and £65,295 0 0 or thereabouts is
to be transferred
to the. Comme-
rcial Banking- Co.
of. Sydney, Ltd. ; .
and £25,700 0 0 or. thereabouts is (
to remain on de-
posit for seven
years at 5% per
annum ;
and £1,922 0 9is balance of
account due to
him for Coal,
Bricks, etc., less
amounts held in
trust for Com-
pany.
Co. of Sydney, Limited
Co nmercial Bankin^
Deposit with Accrued Interest
Bills Payable
Sundry Business Creditors
55,063 4 10
507 2 2'
5,267 16 7
27,981 19 0
£231,737 3 4
Capital Account—
Authorised £250,000 in 250,000 Shares of
£1 each.
Subscribed and fully
paid up .. .. 72,807 Shares.. 72,807 0 0
Reserved for William
Sandford (as shown
above).. .. • .. 50,000 ~ '
Reserved for issue to
certain of the Com-
pany’s Officers .. 8,100 ~
For future issue .. ..119,093 ~
250,000 Shares.
Reserve Account ... .. 10,000 0 0
(Contingent Liability on Bills unde*
discount, £10,206 2s. 3d.)
£314,544 3 4
Assets,
The Sandford No. 1 Blast
Furnace .. .. .. £1)4,444 011
Less Depreciation and
Renewal Account .. 800 0 0
93,644 0 11
BlastFurnaceSiteofs6Acres 5,683 0 0
. . ■ \ —■ —r- .99,327 011
Eskbank Iron and Steel
Works and Site of 20 Acres, 89,142 9,7.
Less Depreciation and
Renewal Account .. 15,000 0 0
; 74,142 9 7
Eskbank Estate of about 406
Acres Freehold—Building'
Land 'and Houses in and
adjoining the Town, of
Lithgow , .. .. 50,000 0 0 .
Less Sales since Bth Hay,
1907 (about 4f Acres).. 3,930 9 1
Add ■ owing by the pur-
chasers : .
Eskbank Colliery
Less Sinking Fund from
' Bth May,-1907 ..
Land at Sydenham (near
Sydney)
Land at Bulli .. •
Carcoar Railway Siding and '
Plant on leased Iron Ore
Property
Less Sinking Fund from
Ist March, 1907
Sundry Debtors
Less Reserve for Doubt-
ful Debts and Dis-
counts
Deposits on Contracts with
Accrued Interest
Stocks on Hand-
Pig Iron and Raw Materials
at the Blast Furnace ..
Finished and Raw Materials
a.t the Iron and Steel
Works
Iron Slag Heap being
drawn on by Blast Fur-
nace
Cash on Hand.. ..
46,069 10 11
3,128 !) 2
49,198 0 1
20,000 0 0
165 10 10
19,834 9 2
1,000 0 0
40 0 0
4,881 2 1
142 6 9
20,650 11 5
1,017 10 7
19,633 0 10
6,254 0 0
• 25,887 0 10
14,536 15 11
20,626 3 0
5,000 0 0
40,162 18 11
213 8 6
£314,544 3 4
We have been the Auditors of Messrs. William. Sandford, Limited, since the Company’s inception, and are well
acquainted with its affairs, and we hereby certify that the above Balance Sheet correctly presents the Liabilities and
Assets of the Company at 30th June, 1907, and that the form in which they are set forth is approved by us.
MILES, VANE & MILES, Auditors.
The list of present Shareholders and Stock Sheets may be inspected at, Prospectuses and
Application Forms obtained from, the offices of Messrs. Miles, Vane and Miles, Mutual Life Build-
ing, Martin Place, Sydney.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, the above-mentioned Draft
Leases, and all the,,documents hereinafter enumerated, or copies thereof, and all contracts for the
sale of allotments, may be perused at the offices of Messrs. Dibbs & Parker, the Company’s Solicitors,
Eldon Chambers, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney. __
The following Contracts have been made, namely :
An Agreement dated the 6th July 1898 and made between the Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Company Limited
of the first part Thomas Talbot Wilton Edward Gell and Alfred E. Ivatt of the Hermitage Colliery and
Liquidators of the Lithgow Valley Colliery Company Limited of the second part the Bank of New Zealand
Estates Coy. Ltd. Proprietors of the Vale Colliery of the third part the Oakey Park Coal Mining Company
Limited of the fourth part Thomas Saywell of the fifth part and William Sandford of the sixth part.
A Memorandum of Lease dated the 3rd August 1900 and made between William Sandford of the one part and
Thomas Saywell of the other part.
An Indenture dated the 3rd August 1900 and made between William Sandford of the one part and Thomas
Saywell of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 18th July 1901 and made between William Sandford of the one part and William
Sandford Limited of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 21st October 1905 and made between William Sandford Limited of the first part His
Majesty King Edward VII. of the second part The Railway Commissioners of N.S. W. of the third part and
The Sydney Harbor Trust Commissioners of the fourth part.
An Agreement dated the 19th day of August 1901 and made between Arthur William Whitney of the one part
and William Sandford and Alexander Bremner Thomson of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 24th August 1901 and made between Alexander Bremner Thomson of the one
part and William Sandford of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 12th February 1902 and made between Arthur William Whitney of the one part
and William Sandford and Alexander Bremner Thomson of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 12th February' 1902 and made between William Sandford Limited of the first part
William Sandford of the second part and Alexander Bremner Thomson of the third part.
An Agreement dated the 12th February' 1902 and made between Alexander Bremner Thomson of the one
part and William Sandford of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 16th January' 1906 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part
and Percy George Pennymore of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 18th January 1906 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one
part and The Railway Commissioners of New South Wales of the other part.
An Agreement dated the sth March-1906 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part
and James Williams Of the other part.
An Agreement dated the sth March, 1906, and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part
and Sydney' C. Poole of the other part. _ .
An Agreement, dated the 13th March 1906 made between William Sandford Limited and Richard Wilkinson
of the other part. ■ . , ,
An Agreement dated the 19th April 1906 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part
and Esau Penzer of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 21st August 1906 and made between The Oakey' Park Coal Mining and* Coke
Company' Ltd. of the one part and William Sandford Limited of the other part to which is annexed a
letter dated 21st August 1906 from William Sandford Limited addressed to the Oakey Park Coal Mining
and Coke Coy. Ltd.
An Agreement dated the 27th November 1906 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part
and Frederick Henry Wigham of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 3rd September 1906 made between William Sandford Limited of the one part
and Harold Vosper Nicholls of the other part.
Minute dated the 24th October 1906 whereby an option was conferred by the Company on Messrs. William
Thornley John Huxtable George Frederick Taylor George Frank Wentworth Dando .and Edwin Sohier
to take up certain shares. A minute dated the 7th day of December 1906. A minute , dated the 16th
April 1907 whereby certain shares were reserved for John Huxtable. Minute of the 24th April 1907
confirming same. . . *
An Agreement dated 11th December 1906 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part and
William Thornley of the other part.
Letters dated the 27th December 1906 and the 2nd January 1907 from the Managing Director of the Com-
monwealth Portland Cement Company' Limited addressed to W. Sandford Limited and letter dated the
31st December 1906 from William Sandford Limited to the Managing Director Commonwealth Lime and
Cement Co.
An Agreement dated the 25th March 1907 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part and
William Alexander Paul of the other part. . .
An Agreement dated the 18th June 1907 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part and
Edward Pease Sturge of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 28th June 1907 and made between William Sandford of the one part and William
Sandford Limited of the other part.
An Agreement dated the Ist July 1907 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part and the
Adelaide Steamship Company Limited of the other part.
An Agreement dated the Ist July 1907 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part and the
Adelaide Steamship Company Limited of the other part.
An Agreement dated the 26th July 1907 and made between William Sandford Limited of the one part and
the Adelaide Steamship Company Limited of the other part.
A Lease dated the 19th day of September 1907 and made between the Scottish Australian Mining Coy. Ltd.
of the one part and William Sandford Limited of the other part.
Memorandum of Mortgage dated 26th June 1906 from William Sandford Limited to The Commercial Banking
Company of Sy'dney Limited.
Debenture dated Ist February 1907 from William Sandford Limited to the Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited.
An Agreement dated Ist September 1907 between William Sandford of the one part and William Sandford
Limited of the other part.
The following Leases have also been entered into
24th January 190B —Memorandum of Lease William Sandford to Robert Hay Alfred Joseph Genders
Alfred Moore Richard Jones Samuel Hodge Gannon and Ralph Ta.vlor.
10th March 1904—William Sandford of the one part and William Slattery of the other part.
4th May 1904—William Sandford of the one part and Duncan Hird Forbes of the other part.
Besides the documents specified above there are Agreements of the ordinary trade character and necessary
for the working’ of the concern, but including as they do numerous contracts for the sale of allotments, con-
tracts with employees, customers, manufacturers and others, they cannot be specified. There are also other
leases and contracts which may technically fall within Section 66 of the Companies Act 1899.
3rd February 1905—Memorandum of Lease : William Sandford to The Lloyd Copper Coy. Ltd.
3rd March 1897—Memorandum of Lease ; William Sandford to John L. Brown William Foxton Hayley and
Morris Asher.
17th June 1907—William Sandford Limited of the one part and Hon. Charles Alfred Lee Minister for Public
Works of the other part.
18th July 1907—Memorandum of Lease : William Sandford to Frank George Tydeman.
Subscribers will be held to have had notice of all the above contracts and leases and to have waived all rights to
be supplied with particulars of such contracts and leases and to have agreed with the Company as Trustee for the
Directors and other persons liable not to make any claim whatsoever in respect of any non-compliance with the said
Section or any mis-statement in the Prospectus made by the Directors in the bona-fide belief that it is true.
Applications must be made in the following form :
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors of WILLIAM SANDFORD LIMITED.
Gentlemen,
Having paid to the sum of £ being a deposit of Five Shillings per
Share on Shares in the above-named Company, I request you to allot me that number of Shares, upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus
dated the 23rd day of September, 1907, and I hereby agree to accept the same or any smaller number that may be allotted to me, and to pay the sum of Five Shillings per Share on allotment, and the
balance of Ten Shillings per Share within two calendar months of such allotment, as provided by the said Prospectus ; and I authorise you to register me as the holder of the said Shares. And I agree
with the Company as Trustee for the Directors and other persons liable to waive any claim I may have against them for not more fully complying in the said Prospectus with the requirements of Section
66 of the Companies Act, 1899, exceif. as to statements therein known by such person or persons to be untrue.
Name in full Date
Address...
Description Signature


A Mew Massage Treatment
The CRESCENT VIBRATOR.
g
A stimulating massage treatment, electrically
driven, that is totally different from and vastly
better than the old system of hand massage.
It is for the use of medical men, massage
establishments, hairdressers, etc. It is for the
body, face and hand, and cures headache,
Neuralgia, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, etc.
Can be driven by the ordinary electric current,
or by self-driven battery for home use, and thus
be your own masseur.
Is a simple contrivance—easy to use, and is
under perfect control. By its rapid and power-
ful movements it gives new life to the tired
muscles and exhausted tissues—the blood is
awakened, and readily does its duty in elimina-
ting waste matter through proper channels.
FILL IN THIS COUPON.
Write your name and address below —out it out—send it to us, and we will forward
you a Free Booklet all about Massage.
Names
Address
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., Hy opt r£
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
fdsg
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist ? Do yon want to know how to utilize th e most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATI. E, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and lie will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely i lustrateri, containing beau'Jful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of thi* mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sv ay the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
sfd
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
00
§0
r rr
T r
r 'r r
o
ffll
esj
m,
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or
the pin-holed tin with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unr >ll it on the roof and nail it
down! Ihen forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to
remind you of it.
We call Congo the “Never-Leak Roof.” We mean it.
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Cc. Philadelphia.U.S.A., & London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE &. SONS, Ltd, Sydney.
__ JOHN SANDERSON & Co., Ltd., Melbourne
GEORGE WILLS & Co., Brisbane.
7 7 Free
Sample
Write Today
T
\
V
X
r/y
/
TIKE DRUGS!
don’t you Stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors
▼ ▼ does not cure you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same
disgusting disappointment. You are a “ medicine-doser,” and the only change
in your condition is for the worse. Why don’t you stop this medicine
habit? Why don’t you avail yourself of the modern remedy?
Proceed on Nature s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing, strengthening forces of
Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every hand the wonders of
Electricity. You don t need doctors; you don’t need medicine, for medicine gives no
nourishment. You DO need Electric Eife Force. Use it as we apply it and you will
be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity—outside of contagious diseases—is due to the
breaking-down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the
entire machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health —even life —is to rebuild the
weak part which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy.
This can only be properly done with the new improved
Dr, MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
With Its special attachments fop men and women. There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for
weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of
applying it. The doctor s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not
McLATTOHr"tN’S 7in a do ? tor ’ S office never reach the trouble. Electricity, as applied by DR.
McEAUGHEIN S EEECTRIC BEET, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shock, no burning* OP blistering, and you
wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day. Its price is as low as £1 M most eases. It is
guaranteed I no charge for repairs, and will last a life-time.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varieoeele, Rheumatism Wr
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
k Back, Seiatiea,
If you have an old-style Belt which burns and blisters, or gives no current, we will allow you
a liberal discount for it, to show the superiority of ours over all others.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong- and
Vigorous, with your veins full of youthful
fire; your eyes clear; your muscles strong
and active, then send us this Coupon today,
and we will send you, postpaid, our new free book, which every
man should read, and which will inspire you with courage to help
yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel like BEING
a man. Send the COUPON or Write to-day.
the mclaughun go.,
Dept. 10, Casttereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
THE DR. McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, SYDNEY.
Please send me your FREE lERUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
- 2
If privacy is desired, address: SECRETARY. M. E. B. CO
THe GRANDEST LIVER PILL/ ii\ the WORLD
Take a Cockle s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from to 22/-
COCKLE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS


The Bushman
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA.
Lever
14/6.
/
DUNTarrNrc
315
MELBOURNE
ENi
M
'• iff i
'pH IS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas. We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will bo of interest to you.
Watch
14/6.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315, 317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
BITTERS
Ladies:—
The Secret
Of a
Fair Face
Is a
Beautiful
Skin.
Sulphur Bitters
Will give you
A lovely
Complexion.
CJffIEENEH
fi
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
f
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps"
' The BEST SHOOTING
\ Gun in the World.
For Cata? ujjues write W. P. Thomp-
son,3l7, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address‘Greener,Birmingham.’
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
. BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Eaoh Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England—l/Is, 2J9, 4J6.
Williams
Shaving
Soap
produces a lather that differs from all others.
First, in body. It is thick and close and profuse.
Second, in lasting qualities. It holds its moisture and remains on the
face, thick and creamy,without the drying and smarting effects of other kinds.
Third, in its action. It softens the beard and soothes the face as no
other lather does.
Fourth, in its after effect. Unlike the lather of other
soaps, it always leaves the face cool, comfortable and
refreshed.
“The only kind that won’t smart or dry on the face.”
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all over the
worhh or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets
W iUiams’ American Shaving Tablets. 6d. (Trial sizel of
Williams’ Shaving Stick, 2d. '
The J. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Bussell St., London, W. C.; 4 Rue Chauveaux
Lagarde, Paris; 161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South
US 6 A eUC * °® ce factories, Glastonbury, Conn.,
mm
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write -for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALEi STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TRIALS after TYPHOID.
SCARCELY ABLE: TO MOVE.
Clements Tonic
Is recommended by a friend—Good effect
follows first dose The result is a
PERFECT RECOVERY.
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
Mrs. Teresa Vaughan, of No. 39 Elizabeth Street, Camperdown, said:—
“The first sickness I ever had in my life came to me six years ago, and it was a very severe
illness, too.”
“What was it?” asked the writer.
“ It was an attack of typhoid that had laid me low, and I had taken a turn for the better and was
getting on fine when I made the mistake of leaving my bed too soon. A relapse was the consequence,
and, of course, I had to take to my bed again. I believe I was worse then than before, for the pains
which came to my head were frightful. Those in the house told me that often I was quite delirious,
so that will give you an idea of how bad I was. Well, I had been losing and losing flesh till at last there
was no more to waste away, nothing being left of me but a portion of my former self. Everybody
who saw me thought that my case was hopeless, and I’m sure I thought so, too ; but the old saying
that ‘while there is life there is hope’ proved to be a true one in my case. It was when I was so ill
that I couldn’t possibly have been worse—scarcely able to move myself, in fact, that a friend of mine,
a lady about seventy, told me what a grand thing Clements Tonic was, and that it would be sinful
not to give it a trial. Well, what could I say? Nothing had done me any good so far. so could I
expect this one remaining remedy to benefit me ? I asked myself. My friend’s persistent “ Give it
a trial,” answered the question for me, so I sent for some Clements Tonic that day. I don’t suppose
you’ll believe this, but it is perfectly true, the very day I first took Clements Tonic the retching
stopped, and if that didn’t make me joyful nothing would. Oh ! I was so thankful, for I knew then
that so long as I persevered with Clements Tonic there was still a hope for me left. My friends were
almost spellbound with amazement, and when I told them that Clements Tonic had also created a
feeling of hunger within me they could hardly believe their ears, they said. But I had still more to
boast about, for this latest medicine of mine had brought me such general relief from pain, that it was
as much as I could do to realise that I was the same woman who so recently had endured such a great
amount of torture. My chest had been very badly affected with the weightiness that was almost un-
bearable, but in a week or two I was quite free from it.”
“ When you had taken some solid food what were your feelings like ?”
“ Well, at first, I did not feel too comfortable, but after a while, and by taking Clements Tonic
regularly, the overburdened sensations passed away, and eventually my stomach became so strong
that I could eat anything, and never have the least unpleasantness to contend with afterwards.
Why, the agony I used to endure from windy spasms was something terrible, but Clements Tonic
eradicated them for good. Several times a day, too, I was subject to fits of uncontrollable giddiness—
the room seemed to be turning round and round, and then everything would go dark for a space ; but
even to this trouble Clements Tonic proved to me my staunch and only friend. My eyes used to feel
much larger than they should have been, so heavy, and so defective in sight, too—and you only
wanted to catch a glimpse of the whiteness of my tongue to understand what a disordered state my
internal organs were in.. And what a terrible taste I had in the mouth ! As though I had been
drinking gall, even after I had rinsed it out with vinegar and water, which I often did. But there,
what a small matter Clements Tonic made of these things, besides which it soothed me so well that I
soon got a sound rest every night without any of the fearful dreams that used to terrorise me. There
is no doubt when I first used Clements Tonic I was as near the portals of death as I could be. I
earnestly hope this account of my recovery will come under the notice of delicate women, so please
publish this in any way you may think fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Teresa Vaughan, of No. 39 Elizabeth Street, Camperdown, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have read the annexed document, and that it contains, and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements, which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment, and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Signed) TERESA VAUGHAN.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, O. S. MALLETT, J.P.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten
.. Is.
... lOd.
STRANGE
PREDICTIONS
Planetary Professor Foretells
Events, and Quickly Reads the
Lives of People, though Thou-
sands of Miles Away.
Sends Letters to the Rich and Poor
Alike, in which he advises them about
BUSINESS, MARRIAGE, SPECULATION,
LOVE AFFAIRS, WEALTH, ETC.
OfTers Readings to all who write and
send Date of Birth, Sex, Married or
Single, with 1/- to cover cost of
postage, etc.
IN his office in Melbourne, surrounded by
Charts and Dials of strange design, Prof.
Henri De Astro studies daily over the lives
of men and women who have written him for
advice on affairs of business, love, speculation,
travel, marriage, health, and the important
events of life. The following letter gives an
idea of
MR. DE ASTRO’S ABILITY.
m
m
m
My Advice Brought Money,
Brisbane.
I am proud to tell you that I have profited greatly
by following the advice contained in my Horoscope.
I had about given up taking a journey, but when you
advised it so strongly, I reconsidered and took the
journey, passed my examinations, and am now in a
position to earn from £2O to £25 per month. I would
not take £lO for the advice you gave me.
I believe every young person starting in life should
by all means secure a Horoscope from you. Nothing
I ever received has given me such power to control
conditions and circumstances as your Horoscope.
Wishing you every success, I am, yours truly,
B. H. RANDALL.
THE accuracy of recent predictions made by
this eminent Astrologer has caused many
of his friends to believe that he possesses
a supernatural power, but he modestly asserts
that his predictions are due alone to a scien-
tific understanding of natural laws. The many
thankful letters Prof. De Astro has received
from people who have benefited by his advice
furnish ample proof that he is sincere in his
work and has a kindly feeling towards
humanity.
Readers of The Bulletin can obtain a
Reading by addressing a letter to Prof. De
Astro, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Simply
say you wish a Reading of your Life, stating
your birth date, sex, and whether married
or single, enclosing Is. Stamps or Postal Note
to pay postage etc., and the Reading will
be promptly sent.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA, LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
JLllall O rheumatic
They Neuer Fall.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at j/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
g
THE BALLET GIRL
gfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, la.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.


BECHSTEIN PIANOS
- m
C B F C"H *'7 EI
&
| -
WSm
HANDSOME
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
FREE BY POST.
Are used by the
World’s
Greatest
Pianists
Mfm, s
Exquisite Tone.
Perfect Touch.
Artistic Case Desig'ns.
*
Sold for Cash or on
Easy Terms.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE
Sole
Agents
W. H. PALING ®. CO. Ltd. ALLAN <& CO. Propy. Ltd.
338 George St., Sydney, Brisbane (EL Newcastle* 278-8 Collins St., Melbourne.
OUSNESS # HEADACHE REMOVED
THE EFFECTS OF A BAD LIVER.
The brilliant work of Pawlow and his pupils has brought
to light many important facts concerned with the action of
the liver: His investigations go to prove that in many
diseases the battle is lost or won according as the safety-valve
functions of the liver rise and fall. The consequences which
follow liver derangement are very extensive. The symptoms
are pale and sallow complexion, headache, a bitter taste,
coated tongue, depression of spirits, languor, cantankerous
moods, insomnia, loss of appetite, flatulency, acrid eructations,
irregular bowels, usually constipated, and pain between the
shoulder-blades. To a sluggish liver is to be ascribed the
mental deterioration, the loss of memory, and gradual extinc-
tion of the intellectual powers. When liver trouble arises
from any cause take a dessertspoonful of Kutnow’s Powder
in the morning before breakfast. The action of this refresh-
ing corrective is materially hastened by a cup of hot tea
taken about ten. minutes after ; in twenty or thirty minutes
the desired effect is attained, and the entire system is
cleansed and invigorated. X ou can try it free of all cost!
iKUITNOW’S 1 !'
III,POWDER.
ft®
1
m
mrschensprung, op Deer Leap
LONOONi
41 PA ABINGDON ROAD, £JC
The EXPERIENCE of PUBLIC MEN
A FAMOUS NOVELIST
WRITES:
“31 Gfatton Road, Bristol,
“ August 14th, 1906.
“ Dears Sirs,—For a considerable
period I suffered from severe head-
ache and mental depression, no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary
occupation as a novelist, but I now
always fly to Kutuow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent,
which never fails to afford instant
and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efficacious remedy,
and I do not wonder at its enormous
sale. “Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
AN ARMY OFFICER
WHITES :
“ 104 Seymour Place, W.,
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much plea-
sure in stating that I have derived
much benefit from Kutnow’s Pow-
der, and, after taking four bottles,
am completely cured of abscess on
liver, contracted after a residence
in an Eastern climate of twenty
years. I now take a dose once or
twice weekly, and would not be
without a bottle.
v “ I am, yours truly,
“0. ANDERSON,
“(General, Retired).”
How to Detect Fraudulent Substitutes*
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently cause
irreparable injury. The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is
strongly recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach,
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which
you can obtain at all conscientious chemists throughout the world.
Examine the package (shown in the reduced illustration) and see
that it bears the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow and Co. Ltd.,”
and the registered trade mark, “ Hirscliensprung, or Deer Leap.”
You will then avoid imitations, and know
How to secure Genuine Kutnow’s Powder
The British
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“It is gentle, effer-
vescent, and is a very
efficient and agreeable
aperient.”
Prof. I. N. LOVE, M.D.,
WROTE : V
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., himself a
sufferer from a gouty diathesis, found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to himself personally and in his practice, and this remedy is
one of the few he conspicuously endorsed over his own signature.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels and
kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a tumblerful of water tak'en
immediately on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels, acts as
a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no better eliminator
than Kutnow’s Powder.”
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children
and Hygiene, Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.)
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH 1
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
[6—l2.


IF
Zam-Buk Soap Purifies and Protects the
Skin and brings out all its Natural Health
' ' * ■' : : ; \r, r ' ■' v * ■ ■ - '
and Beauty.
- - - ——
The mother’s uppermost thought and care is for the health, safety, and well-being of her babe.
It is but natural that it should be so, seeing what a helpless, weak, frail little being it is, and how
susceptible it becomes to various ailments, principally affections of the skin, such as chafing, irritation,
rash, milk crust, etc. The risk of the child being affected with these troubles is ever present, hence
special care and attention must be shown to prevent them.
A most important factor in the health of the child is its bath, and every care should be taken
to secure a soap suitable for its delicate immatured skin. The use of common soaps tend to set up
skin irritation, which, in many cases, have resulted in skin affections of various painful forms.
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL TOILET SOAP.
is a pure skin soap unsurpassed for use on the tender skin of the babe, as well as the hardest
skin of the adult. It has the same result on each, viz., it soothes, softens, and gives perfect
health and refinement, and sanitates and safeguards it against any form of skin diseases.
Zam-Buk Soap possesses valuable medicinal qualities of a new and unique character.
It replaces the natural oil in the pores that, through ignorance in the use of common soaps
containing injurious substances, has been allowed to drain away Bor toilet purposes Zam-
Buk Soap is unexcelled. It beautifies the complexion, and makes the skin clear, pure, and
healthy. That is just what you want. To keep your skin as Nature intended, and to assist
in the prevention of the many skin affections that occur, Zam-Buk Soap should be
regular y used.
m
it-
is
IV'TwJ
PmSlSllSttll|®ttSS22
m
Ainoi v ~i
m
m
lif®
uiiWiimit'
mm
*=>w
&■:
The uniquely cleansing skin medicines in
Zam-Buk Soap purify and protect the skin as no
ordinary soap can. That is why it is necessary
for use. Zam-Buk Soap is economical to use,
and is best for the prevention of all skin
affections. It is sold by all Chemists and
Stores in dainty tablets, or may be obtained
direct from the ZAM-BUK MFC. CO., 39
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ft
WP
Sa
PP}',
ZAM-BUK
SOAP
DEFIES SKIN
DISEASE,
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stony” : There is a shot in my locker for the
Maoriland importer (B. 22/8/’O7) who is said to have
affirmed that “boot 3 and shoes can’t be made in this
country.” Although the portly one’s statement has
been tested and found deficient in fatty solids, it can
hardly do any harm to Australia’s home-made trade if I
give the details of my own boot-career. Most of my life
I have worn Australian goods, although now and again I
have been tempted from the way of easy walking to tread
the corny track of the article which is “ just as cheap ” and
“ just as good.” Also, there have been times when 1
bought boots some thousands of miles outside Australia.
It is on these varied experiences that I venture
to lift a large Australian hoof to help in the dehiolish-
ment of the unpatriotic Maorilander. For several years
past I have been buying my boots from the one maker,
in Melbourne. They are “ expensive ” boots—w'hieh is to
say that they are not a cheap line to catch the short-
sighted bargain-hunter, but they are cheap in the long
run, on account of the long run I get for my money.
Either for light, strong street-boots, or for ploughed-
paddock negotiators, my boot-factor charges two guineas,
made to order—the boots, that is; I make the
guineas myself. And my experience is that I
had just as soon (to put it calmly and conserva-
tively) wear Australian boots as any other boots on the
world’s market. I have worn Pinet’s Parisian needle-
points, the acme of European boot-excellence, all up and
down the giddy sidewalks of the city of the low-necked
ballet-girl. These boots cost 25fr. (say a quid), and were
right in the front stalls for quality. I have also worn
Clapp’s American goods, which I bought in Oklahoma, at
$5 the pair (say a sov. andfid.)—a big price for boots in
the States. These were also right in the early straw-
berry class, both for appearance and price, and for
general Satisfactoriness. But I put the particular make
of Australian boots I wear up against these French and
American makes, and find that I am satisfied with
Australian goods in Australia, as against imported—and
eminently so. Tell you why, as far as price goes. One
day I went to an Australian shop dealing with American
goods, and asked for a top-notcher. They brought out
a pair which was practically a replica of the Clapp pair
I had bought for a sov. ; at least they were not superior.
Price demanded in Australia, as against my two-guinea
local boot, equally as good, £2 10s. After coming back
to consciousness, I girded up my coins and left the
“store.” Mind, I don’t say that’s a regular charge—l
simply go by the facts in this case. Perhaps they
sell those boots elsewhere at 305., and p’r’aps they
don’t. As for “ Continental ” goods, I once pid
a front-row price for a pair of German-made, shiny
“ for-eity-wears,” which lasted me just six weeks before
they split clean across both toe-caps. Certainly I should
like to pay Jess than two guineas for the very best Aus-
tralians, as one does in America for American sole-cases ;
but that will come in time, as it did over there once they
had their tariff greased and going like clockwork. In the
meantime, I am abundantly satisfied with the goods and
their price, considering that I am getting good goods,
and know it, and that my boot-bill doesn’t come
to as much these times as it did when I wore
bluchers and blueys—and that’s a fact. But you
will notice that it’s not so often the toiler
that growls about boot-prices as the swindled city-
man who buys imported shoddy, and doesn’t take the
trouble to find out where the stuff came from. You can
get good stuff in Australia, made on the spot, and you
can get dashed bad imports, only the melancholy Dead
Fish won’t open his wall eye to look at the labels and
find out what they mean. Twelfthly, I reckon the im-
porter is the last person to growl about the doubtful
manufacture of Australian boots, taking into account his
scandalous overcharges and the lying excuses he makes
for the non-lasting qualities of his top-dressed rubbish.
I have spoken.
* * » *
The N. S. Wales prisons have their grog bill.
Still, a N.S.W. gaol isn’t a good place to go on the off-
chance of getting a drink. Last year “the value of
stimulants actually used for prisoners ” was £1 19s. 2d,
As the number of prisoners received in the 12 months
was 12,134, the grog cuts up at an average of one-
twenty-fifth of a penny per head. Apparently', about
75 “ nips ” were served out; so each prisoner’s chance of
getting one nip during the year seems to be about one in
160. It’s hardly worth risking. It has to be a pretty
dry year outside when it’s 160 to 1 against somebody at
shine time in the 365 days asking if you’ve got a mouth.
“ F.C.” : I am surprised to observe that Sydney
encourages the coupon system. What is that strenuous
statesman Crowthers doing (correct me if I have not
got his name aright)? Doesn’t he know that this coupon
system is a Victorian cast-off—a reject ? If N. S. Wales
wants any more discarded nuisances from here, we can
let him have Mudkins and the Citizens’ League. We will
even throw in the Women’s National League, with a
dozen of matches.
* • * tr
“Flinderino” : A certain shipowner who runs
a small fleet out of a big Australian port has a good,
sound financial instinct. Some time ago he decided that
the eost of feeding the crews of his boats amounted to
more than it should do, and that the men were wallowing
in luxury, like Vitellius. He therefore resolved to cut
down the food bill. Not being able to reduce the crews’
appetites, he did the other thing, and supplied cheaper
victuals. Also he lowered the cooks’ and stewards’
wages, and, where possible, employed a boy in place of a
man. But even with the alterations the monthly tucker
bill reminded him of the banquets of Lucullus. He then
decided to fiave the provfdoring of his boats done by
contract. He fixed what he considered would be a fair
’price per month for each of the boats ; and the figures he
decided on were all painfully economical. F’rinstance,
on a vessel that had always cost at least £5O a month to
providore, the contract price is £45. By having a separate
contract for each boat the owner has no difficulty in getting
men to take on the job, although the microscopic figure
leaves the providore no margin for profit. In almost
every instance the contractor acts as chief steward on the
craft he providores. He receives his cheque from the
owner at the end of the first month, and, after paying
the butcher, the baker, and other tradesmen, and paying
wages to the cook and stewardess, he finds that he has
about 30 c . or 355. left, as his own wages. He is more care-
ful the second month, and, by making use of all the
scraps and pieces, and letting nothing go. to waste, he
generally manages to make wages, but nothing more.
As a rule, he clears out before the third month is through.
But, strange as it seems, there are always others willing
to take his place. The victims are usually poorly-paid
second and third stewards on the inter-State boats, who
imagine there are unbounded pleasures in being a chief
steward and one’s own boss. But a few weeks’ trial
settles them, and they go back to the big boats sadder
but wiser stewards. A rise in the price of meat would
send the providore bankrupt in a week. One managed
to hang on a little longer than the others. He employed
a boy as steward, did the'cooking'himself, and his wife
travelled with the boat as stewardess. But this, provi-
dore offended the shipowner. Said owner was in the
habit of dining aboard the boat when it was in the
home port. The look of shocked astonishment on his
dial was worth seeing when the steward handed him a
bill for 12 meals at Is. 6d. a time. The method described
is in practice elsewhere. so it’s about up to the Cooks’
and Stewards' Union to take a hand in the matter.
“ Stony ”: In the spring the draper’s fancy (as in
most other seasons) turns consistently to thoughts of
cash. Sometimes he breaks forth in prose-poems of ex-
ceeding charm to help him in his chase after the skittish
Is. lljd.—as witness these caressing syllables from a Mel-
bourne draper’s advt. : “ All Nature is responding to the
first Blushes of Spring. The hedgerows are 'bursting into
life and beauty. Woodland and Vale are Adorned with
the Golden Wattle and Flora Blossoms of Spring- Her
breath is laden with the perfume of every' living flower,
and her Beauty inspires the World with renewed breath
for the work to come. These suggestions appeal to the ;
lovers of the Beautiful.” Can’t you just hear the prices
Springing, and see the Lambs coming in to be shorn, and
notice the Ber-reath of Sper-ring warming the language
on the overdue accounts, and observe the bounding of the
male beauties at the ribbon-counter, and mark the
Pigeons hovering about the Remnant-table —also the
extra Early Spring Tariff bursting into Bloom, and the
Lover of the Beautiful working Overtime at his office in
order to buy the Wife a Beautiful Hat—price, Three
Guineas?
* • * *
“ Lone Hand ”: A serious obstacle to the
enterprise of many honest traders —particularly those in
a small way of business —is the avarice of w hat may be
termed the trade-mark shark or monopolist. Owing to
the extreme liberality of the Trade-Mark Acts of the
various States of Australia prior to the transfer of their
administration to the Commonwealth, it was possible for
one manufacturer, at small expense, to collar for his s le
right and use 150 trade-marks, and his registrations are in
most cases in class 42, i.e., “ All substances used as food or
as ingredients in food.” Fully one-half of these marks are
altogether unknown to the. trade, and orders for the food-
stuffs under such brands cannot be supplied, but, as no
other trader can use the said marks or any of them, the
monopolist is quite content. Should a man apply “ Jim-
jam ” brand to his ice-creams, a food substance which the
monopolist doesn’t manufacture, he is almost certain to
receive a legal letter as long as Bent’s budget threatening
him with all the pains and penalties of the law for in-
fringing the monopolist’s trade-mark. The intention
of trade-mark law primarily is for the protection of
consumers, and legally no trader can uphold at law
his trade-mark registration if' it covers goods to which
the mark is not applied by him. But the cost
of fighting the monopolist’s illegal claim is so great
that the small trader generally submits to his ex-
tortionate demands to save further persecution. To
remedy this obvious injustice the Commonwealth trade-
mark regulations should be amended. The regulations
should set forth that an application must be accompanied
with a statutory declaration to the effect that the mark
desired to be registered has been applied to the articles of
manufacture to be covered, or will be applied within
three months of the registration, if granted. Further,
renewal declarations should be filed at periods of every
two or three years from the date of registration.
* * * »
“Phoenix”: What a simple and interesting
little game is the “ thimble and pea,” especially when
the juggins, after intently watching the manipulation,
planks down his cash, and finds the pea has fled. “I
could have sworn it was there,” says he, “ for I watched
his fingers all the time he was moving the thimbles. I
thought I was robbing- him.” I once fell foul of a party
of swindle-riggers in a mining- transaction, and planked
down my money, but in place of gel ting £425 (the value
of the interest purchased) I found the pea had vanished,
and I had to pay costs for its disappearance. I purchased,
a twelfth share in aprivate mining company from the'
chairman and directors. Said share they had declaredl
forfeited months previously for non-payment of calls..
The defaulting shareholder had also left the district..
The company consisted of 20 shareholders, some holding;
a larger interest than others. I was offered a similar-
interest by a shareholder, but decided to purchase front
the directors. This shareholder, while I was thinking-
over the matter, split his share in two, and disposed of it.
to two different persons. I paid the purchase money and
got a receipt, and then continutd to pay the calls when
made. Got receipts for the calls. Attended meetings of
shareholders, and my name appeared in the minute-
book. Took a very active part in the business, and was
always a prominent partner. At last we struck the reef,
showing Heavy, coarse gold and specimens. Assisted to
cart said specimens to the bank, and was con-
gratulated by friends and publicans especially
the latter upon my good fortune. Now, all
this may appear rather dry, but just wait awhile and try
to find the pea. The directors had illegally forfeited the
share they sold to me, and were compelled on some tech-
nicality to restore it to the original owner. That was no
fault of mine, was it ? Nevertheless, I was politely and
firmly informed I was not a shareholder and had no
interest whatever in the co. Interviewed a sharp (?)
mining solicitor, and produced all receipts and particulars.
He laughed and said it was a pure case of bluff. He
would write them a letter and “ fix ’em.” He wrote, but
they didn’t fix. “ They haven’t a leg to stand on ” said
he, but. to put the matter bey'ond doubt, he would get a
: barrister’s opinion. (The barrister is now a Chief Justice.)
His opinion was favorable except one part, which was
that “ if the plaintiff was not possessed of a miner’s right
when his title first accrued his claim might be barred.”
1 had that necessary document, and as the company still
treated my claim with contempt we sued them for the
share or the value thereof. The case was heard, and
judgment given for defendant, with Costs. Now, con-
sidering that all my friends, lawyers, barristers and self;
were so sanguine and cocksure that I must succeed,,
where was the pea? In the hunt for it I never-
had a look in. I didn’t have the ghost of a show..
The answer is that unincorporated companies must,
not consist of more than 20 shareholders. That’s all ?!
There had been 20. The share of one was forfeited, which i
made 19. Then one man split his share between two*
buyers, which made 20 again. I was the 21st shareholder);,
so I wasn’t a shareholder, never had been, never couldl
be. I had no standing and no sitting accommodation- 1
was legally dead, and t he pea had disappeared.
WHEN I GET OUT OF DEBT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some men’s ambitions tower
Unto the distant stars ;
They yearn o’ nights for power
To guide the hosts of Mars !
Some sigh for wealth like Astor’s—
For pyramids of cash,
That they may roll on castors
And cut a hefty dash !
Some ask for proud dominion
O’er land and leaping sea ;
But Lord ! on humble pinion
My prayer flaps forth to Thee
I envy no king’s burden—
For power I do not fret;
I ask this simple guerdon—
Help me get out of Debt !
The rich may keep their plunder—
The rulers on their thrones
May bid the cannon thunder
And fill the world with groans 1
I want no motor-pistons
To agitate my car;
A plain, back-street existence
Will haul me just as far !
Some ache to write the letters
“ M.P.” behind the name
Of Smith. I leave my betters
The Legislator’s fame!
I laugh at kingly splendor
On thrones so fragile set;
My thanks to God I’ll render
Wnen I get out of Debt;
When my last bill’s receipted
And my last dun is paid,
My bliss will-be completed—
My earthly woes shall fade 1
My pathway will run straight then—
’Twill know no twist nor turn ;
I’ll be the lord i f Fate then,
And live on what I earn !
Serbonian bog of sorrow—
Too long I’ve known thy deeps,
And that most dread To-morrow
Where Debt grim vigil keeps !
Alas for fools who stumble
Like me thro’ swamps of sweat !
Ha ! none shall hear me grumble
When I get out of Debt!
Some folks’ ambitions tower
Beyond the shining stars—
They plot o’ nights for power
To guide the hosts of Mars ;
Some yearn for wealth like Astor’s —
Yea, mighty mounds of cash ;
That they, like cads on castors,
May make a pompous splash.
Some wish for proud dominion
O’er land and leaping sea ;
But, Lord ! on humble pinion
My prayer flaps forth to Thee !
I envy no king’s burden —
For Power, I do not fret;
I ask this simple guerdon—
HELP ME GET OUT OF DEBT 1
VIC.
CRANT HERVEY.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
E6g LEADING
HOUSE ,oR
sg
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHINQ AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"THE MAINE
PiFle
<Sheu/tnq Pifle A parr
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. Tt. is a take-down, find
caij be, taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
undetpeath the forearm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly sjmple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards,-weight'2flb., fitted with plain V back sight
Or with Winchester. Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
16
Postage on one Rifle—-Is 3d, N.S.W. ;2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO Bu-
g-raving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
•of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Bs, Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. MyNeigiihor Raymond, Is ; post,ls 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bullki in series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Frrkm asonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Cd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
-God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for. the
■British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Tiie Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
iHow to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Cd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls 6d.
fdsg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d ddzen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads or Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, *ss 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
[an His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense,' can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wan Nan's Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers or Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The W a tracks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want. I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into payings more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FkOfl THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la ikfc, Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all' I'egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bf.t and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Here is a face cream that will keep
your complexion soft, clear 'and
beautiful right through the hot
Australian summer.
It is Oatine, the great English face cream,
made from pure, healing oats and free from
dangerous animal fats and mineral salts,
Oatine removes from the pores of the skin
the dust and grime, which soap and water
cannot reach, and leaves the skin clear and
soft as satin.
It prevents freckles, sun-burn, cracking and
drying of the skin, and enables the careful
woman to preserve the charm of a good com-
plexion, however trying the climate. It does
no' grow hair.
For men's use aftpr shaving it is an ideal
soothing cream, Price 1/3 per dainty jar,
or a larger size, containing four times the
amount, 3/S.
To be obtained at all chemists jand
stores throughout Australia. jGet a
Jar to-day.
%Ti
at
ril
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 101-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-dav. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free. I x
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun Uullktin.] [5
X>
YSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
Hghtful and wickedly true.I’* 1 ’*
De-
fdsgfds
PRIZES value £l5OO.
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
■■ TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McOOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
I Trades Hall, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties,
The 4 Son of a Gun *’ Squirt Pistol.
gfds
Will stop the most
vicious dog 1 (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful
durable, rel able, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
!!!ll HI}!!!!! 1
!V : U
! I!!!!!
■
■v.
L ...jMSsiiiUi
:
.
iiiiiiiiliilliill
SaG;
!!!!::
HU
! '' 1
B
The Look and Laugh Glass
See the Passing- Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on |
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, -
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
gfdgs
fat from laughter. It The Laughing Camera.
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price //-, post free anywhere.
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, 2/». Do not miss thischanqe of obtaining-cmeL
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced,
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST B.
H. L. Hutchinson,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
hkab depot-
-710 George Street, Sydney.
Postal Address : Box 3, Post Office, Haymarket
No. 1 Branch : 25 & 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
&/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
§2 British Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price post FI < EE > P er year,
* i ivc tiu, j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In- ,
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDOM, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David graham $ Co.
MERCHANT TAILORS, MERCERS,
and SHIRTMAKERS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Oar New Spring Suitings
are arriving by FORTNIGHTLY
SHIPMENTS during the Season ;
While Novelties in TROUSERINGS, VEST-
INGS, NECK WEAR, etc,, reach us by
Parcels Post EVERY MAIL.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W. for
AERTEX CELLULAR
Underwear and Shirts.
Illustrated Price '
List’& Samples ■
.Post-Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.


Mrs. MACLUROAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2/6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
Australia’s Exquisite Production.
“BOOMERANG’’
PURE GRAPE BRANDY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895.
THE LANCET says:
"It is a sound, honest Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
&M
It is supplied
under Royal Warrant
to
His Majesty the King
3
ft
m
S'
\
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
A. ®, F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights* etc.
Ltd.
Peter, the Converted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PETIJR was a person vicious,
As a rule.fjr
Peter ran a' surreptitious
Two-up school,
With a push each night conspiring,
Tough as rope,
Till we started our inspiring
Band of Hope.
Peter Leary was converted—
Testified—
Told us hbw his soul he’d dirtied
So, in pride,
To the central city mission
Him we led ‘ '
For triumphant exhibition,
And he said :
“ Fren’s, at las’ the tr.ufe I’m learning
Strike me dead,
If I chanst the tire what’s hornin'
On ahead. /;,■
Though I’ve bin a boshter sniper,
This is prime ; ; •
Heaven is a blanky winner
Every time.”
When you’re satisfied that you rid
Souls of sin, A--' ;
You can stand some language lurid
When it’s in
Deep confessions filled with glory,
Truth and tears.
So the mission heard his story
Loud with cheers.
Peter was the constellation
Of the week ;
Thronged the aisles the congregation
When he’d speak.
Hardened eyes within a minute
Would grow dim ;
Mr. Judl vins wasn’t in it
There with him.
Then we held a mighty meeting,
Funds to raise ;
Pete said : “This’ll take some beating.
Spare me days,
Ef I thought they’d bite so willing ;
Still I’ve found,
We are short —with every shilling—
Seven pound.”
Shook his head the pastor sadly.
“ I deplore, ”
Said he, “ though we’ve not done badly,
It’s not more.”
Then spoke Peter : “ Praised be Heaven—
Lend’s a quid—
Quick I’ll catch the blcediu’ seven.”
And I did.
Peter rushed, with features glowing,
Through the gate;
Of his project, all unknowing,
We’d to wait.
Glad were we when back he bounded
Into view,
That suspicions were unfounded —
He was true.
Peter flushed with fervor pious,
As the gold
On a little table by us
Proud he rolled.
Said I: “ Out of all we needed
You’re the best.
Brother, tell how you succeeded
In your quest.”
“Closed upon a mug dead easy,
Let him shout,”
Peter said. Then, by degrees, he
Let it out
“That some wealf he’d be creatin’—
In a trice
I had lured him on ter shakin’
Loaded dice.”
N.s.w.
MILTON MACGBEGOR.
Pale Hands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"171/7"E were still tied up at the wharf, though
\\ it was past sailing time, the last bell
having gone ten minutes before. The
firemen and deck hands stood about idly on the
battened-down hatches, and the chief engineer
and purser were still on the deck wallowing a
j r 7 way through a basket of mangoes. To-day
toe forecabin was full, but I had no passengers.
The travelling Townsville elect, having forecasted
the summer, had gone weeks before.
“ Safe for a loaf as far as Mackay at any rate,” I
was thinking hopefully, when someone called out
“ Here they come !”
The buggy clattered into sight on the dusty
road which led up from the bay and sea-wall to
the township, and the sweating skeleton in the
shafts propped with alacrity, in glad response to a
tug on the reins. Freckled, pale-faced children,
diligently fishing the bay with pin and cotton,
neglected their squirming bait —-the death struggles
of which had previously formed their sport —and
stood with dragging lines, alert and all attention.
Loafers, who spring from nowhere into life round
a departing steamer, like fungus round a damp
stump, climbed enthusiastically off some empty fruit
cases and lounged up. One and all they
congregated round, staring. Their slow eyes
probed the raw and quivering wound of her whose
crime was the greatest of all—the crime that has
been found out.
Jennings, the driver, threw the lines to an
officious small boy, and spoke familiarly to Senior-
Sergeant Smith, who occupied the back seat. He
had become aware—yet not blatantly so—of a social
chasm bridged, when the Senior-Sergeant sat
behind on a nubbly six inches of buckboard, and
felt the iron enter his' soul at every jar on the un-
blinded road metal. Besides, Jennings, himself
merely mortal, could hot be entirely indifferent to
the part he would .play later at the “ Bushman’s
Rest ” in the recital of “‘ what I sez to Smith,”
or “ what Smith sez to me,” and how she had sat
like a lady taking an airing in her motor car, and
“ sez nothing to jfiobody.”
Senior-SergeantSmith was going on with his
captive, and why shouldn’t he ? It was entirely
owing to his conspicuous bravery that her smart
capture had been effected/ though she was merely
standing on the verandah with a child’s shoe in
her hand when he hgff’td surrender at the
nomination of Edward Rex. Just now? she
sprang from the backboard, drawings herself Up
superbly at the stigge^pbn w of tassis&ince, and
the wink which Senior-Sergeant Smith threw
out at Jennings further ratified the abridgment of
the social gulf.
A little girl, trailing a pin and a drowned worm
in the dust behind her, regarded her, saucer-eyed,
with the unblinking insolence of youth ; and, at
the sight of the child, a sudden flutter in the
long, whitcj, throat, and an avoidance of all visible
things w.itli -two liap'ds pressed over her eyes,
.made 'the sergeant gferirt to attention. She ' '’ell a
moment in the clfiktfiipt the baby’s leet, iw,_:. ..une
slowly anil indifferently up the gangway.
I had po ladies.whose fine sensibilities might be
wounded by f her nearness ; and as the forecabin
passengers >\ ere madder than usual with an extra
;heat and ary hxtra thirst, they brought her up
.to me. 1 d',
. The telegraph clangs its alarm in the engine-
room, awakening the s. mer’s great heart. The
gangway \yais:.hauled up, ropes thrown off, afid as
the purser withdrew his face from a mango he
shredded its fibres-from his teeth.
She walked down the companion and into the
saloon with the swinging, upright grace of an
Eastern water-carrier. Her intense black eyes
glanced neither to right nor left, but looked from
under drooping lids, straight ahead.
Senior-Sergeant Smith left her with me, with
instructions to take her to her cabin, and “keep
an eye on her.” I have a glimmering that, in
the excess of his official zeal, he would fain have
gone so far as to personally oversee her toilette,
although I rapped out tartly that even a woman
under conviction could not possibly get through
the By his general and uncompromis-
ing inflexibility of bearing, it was evident that he
meant to do his duty.
But just then the unexpected, the beastly,
the unprecedented, the altogether unspeak-
able happened. Senior-Sergeant Sniith get
sick, the result of heat, beer and sun, and fell, a
green-tinged heap of demoralisation, into his
bunk. The bedroom steward took off his promo-
tion stripes, his boots and official helmet, >■ and
deposited them in a locker. . . , j v : j
To the throbbing accompaniment of the engines,
we strolled leisurely down the Queensland ctbast,
in a sea like oil, with even the old Fitzroy keep-
ing an even keel. At 6.30 I brought her. her;
dinner, together with the information that the
dejected heap on the port side alleyway permitted
her to go on deck for an hour after. But, sitting
indifferent on the settee, with hands listlessly
clasped and heavy-lidded eyelids closed, she
merely indrew her red lips between small tigerish
teeth. - |
She was lovely, with a loveliness which whis-
pered of floating lilies, of hibiscus and frarngi-
panni twining her blue-black hair ; and told of
flame-shot poinsettia, and honey-drunk humming
birds. Looking at her cheek, like a down-
dropped magnolia petal, one realised obscurely
that life would be well lost, and death well died
a thousand times, for love, as she knew it —love
white-flamed and burning to the bone.
And, so thinking, I stood before her with a
plate of soup—this woman, guilty of double
murder.
* * *• *
The stars are always pretty bright up Queens-
land way, but to-night there seemed almost an
element of vulgarity in the perfervidness of their
display, and the familiarity with which they
jostled the Southern Cross. The great white
funnel swaying overhead occasionally contributed
a shower of fire-flies to the serial illuminations,
and as we loped along the flat Queensland coast,
jagged here and there with sudden hill spurs,
earth, sea, and sky seemed stilled in expectancy.
I got her a deck-chair, and sat opposite on the
skylight, just for the sensuous pleasure of letting
her beauty percolate through my senses. She had
been entrusted to my care with many, instructions
as to my course of action in a hypothetical situa-
tion, but so far she had not made any call on my
latent heroism, or attempted to defeat the ends of
justice. She sat <as though the end of all things
was reached.
The men were in the saloon plhying Bridge,
and mopping the oozing whisky from their faces.
Down in the forecabin the voice of a demented
girl, securely bound to a stanchipn, rose in alter-
nate shrieks or died down in monotone. All the
way from Townsville to Sydney her seething brain
poured its vortex of meaningless ideas through the
channel of her lips, arid long after, when the doors
of an asylum had closed on her, still, talking, she
talked herself ' into Eternity. My prisoner
seemed to hear nothing. Her eyes were fixed
on the white feather of foam we trailed from our
propeller in the starlit sapphire sea. Presently
she spoke, each word dropping clear and meant
for the listening silence, but stolen by me :
“ The dear, good, hooded women, with blood-
less hands and crosses of gold .laid on their flat,
thin breasts —perhaps their love, and theirs alone,
had been best. .. . But who can say ?. . . The
love of woman for man, the hurling avalanche
tearing at one’s heart in its impetuosity, sub-
merging one’s conscious being under streams of
delight. . . . Yes, better that thari the pale wraiths of
affection, the apotheosis of.Desire’s crucifixion. . . .
And then, too, there was the silken-haired bit of
immortality. ...” She stopped, and presently,
in a crooning voice, Came 'Laurence Hope’s
Kashmiri plaint:—
Pale hands, pink tipped, like Lotus buds, that float
On those cool waters where we used to dwell.
I would have rather felt you round my throat,
Crushing out life, than waving me farewell.
Pale hands... Where are you now ?
(Gbntmued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASES
Creep Quietly to the Attack. Do not Mis-
understand the Symptoms—Backache,
Tiredness, Broken Sleep, Depression,
Urinary Troubles, Pains in the Limbs.
“Every
Picture
Tells cb
Story.’*
Do you know that
Rheumatism, Dropsy,
Gravel, Stone, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, are all
kidney diseases ? The
kidneys when healthy
filter the blood ; when
weak or diseased they
cannot do their work,
and the whole body
suffers. Only a special kidney medicine can cure
them. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a kidney medi-
cine and a Kidney Medicine only. They keep the kidneys
well, and the kidneys will keep you well. .Neglected
kidney disease is fatal.
Sydney People Cured.
A Sydney Man.
Mr. Jos. Hamon, Painter and Paperhanger, 3 Stanley Street, Sydney, says :
‘‘ At intervals during the past five years I have suffered with kidney trouble. I
had an aching back, which w/Ts particularly bad when I had any stooping to do. I
tried plasters, but they had no beneficial effect. I then procured Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and since using them have had no return of the pain ; in fact, all
trace of kidney trouble has left me.”
Eight years later Mr. Hamon says: “I was very bad with my kidneys
previous to using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but I am very pleased to say
that this remedy cured me. I have recommended these pills to a great many
people, and they are favorably spoken of by all who use them.”
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road, Artarmon, Sydney, says : “I suffered for
a long time with severe pains in my back. They were so bad that I could scarcely
move about. Rest was out of the question. I would be tossing about all night,
moaning with the pain. I could not bend my back, and I had to neglect my work.
I was really very ill, and would be confined to bed for days at a time. I saw
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised as a cure for backache, and got a box.
After a few doses I got relief, and then gradually I got better, until I was quite
cured. There is no doubt about it being a cure, for it is two years since I stopped
taking the pills, and I’ve not had the backache all that time. I cannot tell you
how pleased I am to be free of the backache, and if sufferers will only try Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, there will be no aching backs.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes 15/3), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster=McC!el!an Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
ECZEMA,
Nothing spoils a good disposition quicker.
Nothing taxes a man’s patience
Like any irritation of the skin ;
Piles almost drive you mad.
All day they make you miserable, all night
they keep you awake.
Just the same with Eczema. Such miseries
are daily decreasing. People are learning
they can be cured. Learning the merit of
Doan’s Ointment. Plenty of proof that
Doan’s Ointment will cure Piles, Eczema,
or any skin irritation.
Mrs. Fletcher, 81 Bellevue Street, North
Sydney, says:—“For some months I suffered
with a form of Eczema, which broke out
on my legs and arms. The irritation was
so dreadful at night that 1 could not sleep.
I used a great number of remedies, but none
of them gave me any ease. I commenced
to think that there was r.o cure for Eczema,
but a treatment of Doan’s Ointment proved
that I was wrong in this. The first appli-
cation gave me ease, and a few pots cured
me. This was two years ago, and I have
never had a sign of the ailment since. To
all who suffer with Eczema I recommend
Doan's Ointment.” Do not neglect any sign
of skin trouble, for it is very hard to cure
and may become chronic. At the first sign
get Doan’s Ointment, the great specific for
every torturing skin irritation. Doan’s
Ointment is sold by all chemists and store-
keepers at 2/9 per pot, or will be posted on
receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
She trailed off with a sob, and afterwards
addressed me direct. “ Yes, there was the baby,
and what depths of a woman’s affection could
have averted that ?. . . The man ! He was ugly,
beautifully ugly, and I loathed while I adored
him. He had a keen, crafty face, as inscrutable
as the Book of Fate, and as irresistible. Clinging
lips he had over teeth fashioned to crunch out life,
and his eyes were rosary beads of jet. Such he was,
and as such I made his heart my sacristy. At
first he would kiss my throat, my hands, my feet,
crushing my flesh with hot caresses—it was all so
new and exquisite. What had the world, the
whole wide world, aye, Paradise itself, to offer in
its exchange ! . . . Marriage, that mere conven-
tionality, the introduction of the commonplace
into the realms of the sublime, the binding in red
tape of two souls already one —-what had we to do
with such a thing ? He despised it —and so did
I. Then she came. She was begotten of my
intuition that love is a flower-stre'wn hillside, the
summit of which is never reached till the path is
traced by baby hands.
“Ah, how I loved her, with lips as honey
dropped into the heart of blue periwinkles, and
hands like pink crumpled petals where dew spangles
creep. For her sake I would have hugged the
hated bands of conventionality, which would
stamp her with the seal of the accredited ; but he
was tiring already—not of her, but of me. Then
the tiger that sleeps in every woman woke and
snarled. I fought... for her sake .. . truly, for
her sake.
“ Then he consented, but in Townsville we
were too well known. We would go to Sydney
for the ceremony, for there he was comparatively,
I entirely, a stranger. In Sydney, that heartless
Babylon On the shining harbor, he left me—
slipped out into the dark of the night with my
kisses hot on his mouth, and the warmth of my
clinging arms at his throat—left me penniless and
alone.”
She stopped and moistened dry, burning lips.
“The walls of a hospital closed round weeks
of delirium and almost comatose convalescence.
Then came a further period of alternating frenzy
and lethargic acceptance of things. Oh, but they
were good to me in that ward by the sea !
“Then on a sudden I woke to delight. On
hands and knees, each night when the lights were
lit and the city glittered under spurious yellow
daylight, I would creep to hell’s rim and laugh
with the waiting crew, as, one after another,
Babylon dragged her children from her breasts,
and tossed them over into the spaces, whose sur-
rounding fires were devil stoked. They shrieked
as their clutching fingers grabbed her knees—for
Babylon’s feet are warmed in hell—and shrieked
as flesh, cartilage and bone crumbled beneath
their touch, and, filling their mouths with dust
and noisome things, silenced them.
“ I watched them every night, torn from their
mother’s poisoned nipples and kicked off from her
contemptuous lap, and I saw that each clutching
hand made Hell’s mouth yawn wider, but Babylon
no less. O! it was rare fun, for I was only a
spectator, and the actors all played for me.
“No little children came hurling over, none
save men ! men ! and women stamped with the
vices, the craft, the lust of men. But when the
silvery sheen of baby curls had deepened into -
gold, and the periwinkle sweet of their lips cloyed
with deadly nightshade, then and not till then,
they too, enveloped in a sickly odor of sweetness,
and trammelled with the trailing golden masses
of their allurements, came headlong with the rest.
“ A little child with sheeny curls, I had known
in another and far-off world. A world where a
man and woman had crooned moonlit melodies in
the dusk, his hands caressing the keys, hers
caressing him, where hoya, white and pink, clung
to the walls of a wide verandah, and drowsy
moon - moths flitted among the stars of the
jasmine.
‘ ‘ Where was that world ?
“ Suddenly I remembered, and, in remember-
ing, my laugh dried at its source. That baby’s
soul must be saved from its birthright of doom
which would fall when its hair turned gold’!
“ I dragged myself away from the crumbling
edge of Babylon, for a saviour’s work was mine.
Those sheeny curls must never bronze ; that baby
soul was for Heaven.
“Do not ask me how I got there, for an
eternity of eternities rolls between Babylon and
the furthest North. It was dusk, the dusk that I
remembered in the world of far-off ideals, and in a
dim, half-forgotten way, it seemed in keeping
with memory that the oleanders should be in
bloom, and the jasmine starring the porch. A
withered trail of bougainvillea and a little shoe lay
on the verandah, and at the sight of the shoe I
laughed. It struck me as humorous to see the
material possessions of a soul which would soon
be wandering naked-footed among the flowers of
Paradise. On the ghostly white-painted step to
the verandah, like well-tended grave stones, my
bruised and bleeding feet left a sinister impression.
I knew where to find her—he had r.ot moved her
room—and she lay in her cot, her cheek resting
on her hand. . . O pale hands,” the tortured
voice wailed out, “ where are you now ?. . .
‘‘ It was only momentary, the sensation of
sending a little soul to Heaven. She scarcely
stirred, only her eyes looked up at me, and...
the black bruise at her throat. . .
“ Then a sound stole to me standing there —the
sound of music notes with loving hands laid on.
An inspiration ! One soul to Heaven, the other
to Hell! Hell’s lips were twitching over there in
Babylon, and Hell needed some placating for the
soul now winging its flight away. I glided to the
music-room door, and, as in that other world, I
saw his hands caressing the keys, hers caressing
him. She stooped, and the melody broke and
died, as their souls met through their lips. . . I
knew. . my soul, my lips, my whole conscious
being too, once. .. She trailed her long dra-
peries from the room, and he took up the refrain...
Was it a steel grip from these small hands, or was
it a jolly laugh from Hell, that brought his bulging
eyeballs and blackened tongue starting up at me
standing just behind him. Was it their pressure
that shaped his neck like an eggshell, or was that
chuckle from the waiting band below ? I cannot
stayed by him, lying a jumbled unlovely
heap, till she returned, for I could not tear myself
away. This was my revenge... she had been a
friend of mine in that other world and knew all
... It would surely have been inartistic to have
awarded her, too, death’s oblivion. For her there
would be many long future nights with memory
as her bedfellow, the memory of that shuddersome
heap on the carpet. ”...
At her last words some force impelled me from
my seat to her side, and I had her gripped by the
shoulder.
“ You are going to Babylon to be hanged !” I
almost shrieked. “ You will be hanged by the
neck till you are dead, and a party of fools will
hold a travesty of a post-mortem on your body to
ascertain the cause of death. Your eyes will
bulge, your tongue will blacken, even as his ; your
neck will sear with a black line, as hers —little pale
hands. You will be hanged ! hanged !! ”
Stooping swiftly, I pressed hot, agonised lips to
hers. Then deliberately I walked away to where
the port light reddened the waters on the other
side.
Suddenly my hands were gripped. “ Thank
you,” she said at my side. “Please God you
will not suffer. . . . Thank you.”
I gritted my teeth, and pressed my hands to my
ears. . . .
But I did suffer. I lost my billet, and Senior-
Sergeant Smith lost his stripes, for the undertow
is treacherous inside the Barrier Reef.
MARY LEITH.
The Promise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE had been dead three years. Three
years 1
Caroline sighed, perhaps at the futility
of such reckoning, and as she put the photograph
back upon the piano her tender eyes defied the
hardness showing in every line of her face.
She was not more than thirty, and she was cer-
tainly a handsome woman ; yet. in spite of it, her
looks proclaimed her something older than the
dead man who smiled at her from the photograph.
His had been the boyish, ever-living youth that
women worship.
But Caroline was not one of those women who
deal in anniversaries, and therefore the sudden
sound of voices in the hall sent her hurrying away
from the piano.
When the door opened her eyes were hard again
and they glittered.
The girl who entered might have been twenty-
three. She was pretty and fluffy-haired, with an
air of appealing inconsequence about her that
seemed to call for masculine protection. Four
years ago, it had made her the wife of the man in
the photograph.
“I wondered if you would come to-day,” said
Caroline, as she greeted her. “ Somehow, from
something I heard, I almost fancied not.”
The girl laughed, half-indignantly.
“Oh!” she said, “that’s always the way.
People begin to talk long before there is the
slightest occasion. It’s—it’s ridiculous.”
Then she flung herself into a chair.
“Caroline,” she said, in a different tone, “I
I don’t know what to do.”
Caroline watched her closely.
“ There is no law against marrying again,” she
said in a matter-of-fact tone.
“No,” said the girl, brightening, “there is no
law against it.” But she drooped again imme-
diately. “Oh! you know I adored him, Caro-
line,” she said. “You were such friends, you
and he, and you know how I could never bear to
be away from him for a moment. But I am so
young—-and so lonely—and—and Gordon wants
me. He says he will go to the bad, or something
dreadful like that—and —and it can’t matter to
Dick —now.”
“ One would suppose not,” said Caroline. She
seemed puzzled at the girl’s attitude. “ What is
the matter?” she said. “ What is worrying you ?
No one could blame you if you wish to marry
again. I don’t understand.”
After a while the girl looked up.
“I’ve never told anyone before,” she said, in a
dreary, piteous little voice. “You see—l—l’m
afraid it would be wicked, and something dread-
ful might happen to me. That—last day before
he died—he asked me to promise not to—never to
marry again—and I did.”
Caroline went away and stood beside the win-
dow. She looked out at the riot of rose-pink
oleanders flaming among the cool summer green
of the trees, and remembered absently that he
had always loved that part of the garden.
Familiar expressions, little ways of his, came
crowding back upon her; his boyish laughter
hung in her memory like a material thing. Her
heart was beating to the tune of old times in
which the girl behind her had had no part. Then
slowly a resolution formed itself. She went back
and stood behind the girl’s chair.
“ It was unlike him to ask you to make a pro-
mise of that kind,” she said, deliberately. “ I’m
sure he could not have been properly conscious,
because, a day or two before, he spoke to me
about leaving you. You were so young, he said,
to be left alone. He—hoped you would soon
marry again, so that you—would have someone—
to take care of you. Can’t you see that it wasn’t
like him ? ”
“ Did he ? ” exclaimed the girl, jumping up ex-
citedly and grasping her arm. “ Did he, really ?
Oh ! I can see it wasn’t like him now. He
couldn’t have been properly conscious. Did he
really and truly say he wanted me to ? ”
“Yes,” said the woman, steadily; but she
drew herself away. She was not a demonstrative
person. . .
“Then,” exclaimed the girl, in an illumined
tone, “ then, he wanted me to marry again, so I
ought to do it, Caroline, to please him ; shouldn’t
I ? Oh ! I will. I would do anything on earth
for Dick.”
She turned away, her eyes full of affectionate,
joyful tears, then rushed back for a moment to
kiss the woman good-bye.
When she had gone, Caroline crossed the room
to the piano and took up the photograph.
“She—would have done it anyhow,” she said,
as though in extenuation ; “and you are all mine
now—all mine.”
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.


m.
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends his
photo and writes that he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Pills. He took
in all three bottles of the Sarsaparilla
'and two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S SarsaparSSSa
acts directly upon the blood-forming glands of the body, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color i;d the lips and cheeks, clearing away pimples and blackheads.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S," not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
gdsgdfsgfd
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
■ NO MONEY WANTED., '
Send us vour name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 1 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at Cd. per packet. When you
have sold the cards,.return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent, ’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must,give you full satisfaction^
V? K p *!
We .take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
a , r n, the lar » esfc dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
sobs
A PRETTY NOVELTY for
PRESENTATION PURPOSES.
Something' that is quite new, is inexpensive and
we know that it will please you if you are looking
out for an article for a little present, at a slight
expenditure. ”
These are dainty little’ trinket boxes ; the box
portion being covered in plush or morocco leather
while the top is of solid silver in a hammered
<* ch box hav l n e a daintily-tinted female
head in the centre.
' boxes are the style shown here but without
the ornamentation on the sides.
The prices are :—For 2 inches square,
2 h ! 3 inches square, 3/6; 4 inches
square, 6/6.
If you cannot conveniently come and see thes a
you can order by mail, leaving the selection to us
and we feel quite sure that you will thoroughly
approve of our choice. Sent post free to any
address at the price.
Other articles for presentation are fully illus-
trated and described in the big “ A.&C.” catalogue
Let us send you a copy.
AFtfB COOTE,
“ The Store where Quality counts,"
George Street, Corner Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
(Opp. the Barometer, Q.v. Markets.)
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Reined''
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHIELINGS. “
Write To-day.
Afictress : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop ns a post card with vour name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
Int S’ unproved high grade ELECTRIC
BRI/l'S FREE '
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC* BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women,
We will give Freeds
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,!
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AM XMTERESTIMG
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney-
gsdgsdfgsdfg
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted,
'ooo ! iy
sfdgdsfgsfdg
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Goto Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds.
All you have to do is to. sand us your Name ana Address, ;,ud
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell ihe packets at 3d per packeti send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you — the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, for they are spleud id value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer-is withdrawn
Florists’ Seed Supplu co. 52
sfdgfdsgdsf
gfdgfdsgsfd
Overcome Your Doubt
Don't hesitate to put your faith in the world famous Beecham's
Pills, the best, safest, surest and most reliable remedy for all
stomach, liver and kidney troubles. When your stomach is out
of order, it needs help, it must be thoroughly cleansed, strengthened
and settled. Give
BEECHAMS
PILLS
a chance. Let them prove that they can do for you what they
have done for thousands of others during the past half century.
They will promptly and effectively remove all the discomforts
which arise from undigested food: will put your system in good
condition and make life worth living. Any troubles arising from
derangement of the digestive organs will be quickly corrected by
taking Beecham's Pills. They will without a doubt promptly
Cure and Convince.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price lilk (56 pit s) * 219 (168 pills). a
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
gfdgfdfg
The only Infatunm Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with Unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
fdgdgfdfd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon- v
Each Capsule Pears the name ®*r-
gfdgfdgfd
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
!
&
NO
MONEY
WANTED
M > OTTO S ,®n? addr '*« «»<1 ” ®IH torw.rd you ,1* of our (.moos
f _ r \, O BROOCHES ° for us at 1/- each. You will have no trouble in doing- this
■nrr^V7a° ne t y ou as k w « wa one as soon as they see them. When you have sold the
? C n,l S r e i ur ? u ? our , b/ ‘ and . we will send you, for your trouble, any prize you may select
from the list which we forward with the Brooches. By continuing the sale of our Brooches
you can earn a Lady’s or Gent.’s Solid Silver Watch, Photo. Cameras loaded
Hanri°n USe ’ M 1 StP»« y Chased Silver Plated Matchboxes, Best Steel Razors,
BrflHf,f° n Gold e ca S ed C ci e hi S ’ [l ashi , onab »® Screw Earrings in Coral, Pearls, or
w* rrfotrf’ • Cased Cable Bangles, and many other choice and exquisite gifts.
Ou r I fr?^nHs®* 3 lm P ort our o '’i‘ jewellery, or we could not make you this unparalleled offer
thnnlands nf * a * tounde , d the prizes we are able to give for so little work, and we have
ihe Rifk I lmonlals f f om k° sts of gratified agents. Remember, we take ail
the Risk, and you may return the goods if unable to sell them. Write now, don’t delay
r,
mm
m
KZZJ
■ /. , •• •
JEWELLERY CO.
Postal
Address:
622 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ssoa
MEN
and
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physioian in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home
from aft BooksoUcrs G p°i Roberfcson and . Co., jiti'd,, and
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This mairnificent medical work contains P 32 Pages
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colofld
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable mfedical work published. It is a true guide fm ffll
the diseases of Men and Women It is entirely different to those so-called medical books adverttsed ffee
to the public. It isa complete Encyclopiedia of, ..formation for suffering humanity afflicted with Ion®!
standing chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever beenpubuTed °
FREE • • paffe spe «"' ,e '' ) cop -r °l th W"d work, containing 34 illustrations and colorl 1 plate
r Itbb giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent poirraw
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES - (the Austin Pre so. Dr. Mmfin ™fc
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special ’’ Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is-6d (stamps). VSTNote Address: F ls posted
0/?» IVIARTINj /ViaDm f ”Elmtey House," “fltZliZClbGth
Please mention this paper when writing. H>DE PARK SYDNEY^*^
"host


Players of Cricket,
NOTE!
WHITE CANVAS BOOTS, White
Soles, 7/6 pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, White
Soles (a Special Shoe for Matting
Wicket), 6/- pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, Black
Soles, First Quality, 5/- pair.
WHITE, BROWN, or BLACK
CANVAS SHOES, Champion
Brand, 3/3 pair.
See Display in Window.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues Posted Free on request.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about ISlbs. Operated by eobfmressgd air, Consiimin<r about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
inOHXIAI AXNIVXH3D ON
“RISKS”
OLD
SCOTCH
gfdgfdgfd
ALL LEADING HOTELS,
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“ PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
//-
. 16
- - 1
gfdgfdgfd
gdgfd
Lockwood Bros. Ltd. $
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
gfd
Difficulty in expectoration. A sthma. Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bald by all Chemists.
■■■—
WOLFE’S
A DRINK-
ATONIC...
A MEDICINE.
Buy Whole Bottles.
gfd
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
Low Price. High Efficiency. Evety Pnmp Guaranteed.
FOR . . .
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service.
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
PARKE & LACY CO., Lick, 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Selling Agents: BEVAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melbourne? SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. »
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK- SOLE AGENTS —
Marshall's Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Oredge Engines and Beilerc.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, «fcc., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron —Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
THE CARD CONCENTRATOR “ MAKES GOOD”
g
fd
■:. '■
N. GUf LRIDGE, .LTD., manufacturers, 263 George Street, Sydney ; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
