

DEWAR’S the WHISKY
107 Kent: street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Mac^ e T^yiL^^ i R 0 *! 11181 * 1 ® 8
® EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS And GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Columbus Portable Oil Engine.
HOBART.
—alte ■
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
SEE
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
Are Specially Adapted to
the Requirements of
STATION' FARM and DAIRY .
*
Send for Illustrated Descriptive
Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY, NS W.
’ . . —— l^^
vcb
"Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
cbcv
the royal
EDISWAN LAMP.
mk
1
v-'-
go
SSf^
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EDISON & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST„
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
all,
u ~6U
TELEPHONES
PASTORALIST, STOCK, and
bcvb
Write for our FREE BOOK on
TELEPHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
Silvertown Telegraph Works Coy.!
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ,
cvb
cv
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
CURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated. Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
■
YOURS-MINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
iPT“ 9 out of Every 10 Men are Asking for it.
Agents : LOHMANN AND CO.
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
™ E ANNUAL SALE
OF
Crockery, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
&c., is now in Full Swihg.
Including Several Bankrupt Stocks bought by Mr. A.
Harris on his recent Woi IcE’s Tour tor Bargains.
I
I
i
(Wholesale ana Retail).
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
—Melbourne.
Watch Melbourne Daily Papers for Detailed Prices at this
Sale, which will astound the Public and the Trade.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A Table Water which renders food
fermentation impossible.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
V01.28.— N0, 1438.]
[Thursday, September 5, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office,, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


bcv
b
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
I SYDNEY.
Griffiths, World Peril of 1910, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Fca, Nooks and Corners of Old England, 7s 6d, post 9d.
Corelli, Delicia and Other Stories, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Adams, Land Values and Taxation, Is 3d, postage 3d.
The Smart Set Annual, 1907, Is 3d, post 3d.
Writers and Artists’ Year Book, 1907, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Barton, Ferriers, Their Points, etc., 6s, post 6d.
Hobbes, John Oliver, Life and To-morrow, 6s, post 6d.
Wev, Telephone Troubles ; Location and Remedy, 2s 6d,
post 4d. Sayers, Brakes for Tramway Cars, 4s, p. 6d.
Crockett, Me and Myn, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
McCutcheon, Brewster’s Millions, author of “ Nedra ”
“Beverley of Graustark,” etc., paper covers 2s 6d
cloth 3s 6d, post 6d. ’
Gunter, A. 0., Dr. Burton, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Kielland, Napoleon’s Men and Methods, 12s, postage 8d
Lisle, Forms and Precedents for Accountants, 2 vols. 48s
postage is 6d.
Nixon and Stagg, Accounting and Banking, 12s 6d, p. Bd.
Sliarp, The Balancing of Engines, 7s, postage 6d.
Jensen, Essentials of Milk Hygiene, 9s, postage Bd.
Matthews, Princ. of Intellectual Education, 3s, post 4d.
vc
VUIDSO/V
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d.
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic .
Suitable for old and young'.
Tub Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bactejricidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette: “Of gjreat service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner: “Useful in Tonsilitis, /Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.” !
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Solo Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Quer»nsland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. {
Agencies in all the Australi. n States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, Londck, 18.
THE RED PAGE
THE MINOK
are poets and minor poets. The
I poets are those that are dead. This
seems a piece of luck for the minors,
but the poets get even by never
dying. (There is also the minus poet ; bu
we will leave him for another article.)
Edward B. Loughran, author of The Ivory
Gate (G. Robertson and Co.), unfortunately
for him, comes along to serve as a peg upon
which to hang the minor ppet. If the peg
turns out to be a gallows, that is no;
Loughran’s fault. As a minor he is merely
a handy martyr ; he suffers for the sins of
his fellows ; we will give him the central
cross. For Loughran is the typical minor,
as much above the minus poet as he is below
the plus. He lias all the minor marks —
damnable diffuseness, gentle humor, com-
monplace imagery, fair narrative power,
imitativeness, fatal fluency, and the inca-
pacity to suppress his worst work. He is
not by any means unreadable : he is merely
unnecessary. His verse is neither good nor
bad, but it is undeniably verse. The point
is that it isn’t poetry.
All night,, from the dusky gloaming
Till the ad vent of morning’s beams,
Over the earth are roaming
Lost songs, like beautiful dreams.
Loitering amid the roses,
Sporting amid the dew-gleams !
These are the poets’ voices
Which the angels heard alone !
Sweet strains, that the world's harsh noises
Drowned with their deafening tone —
Sweet, sad, and low ; and singer and song
Both passed unheard and unknown.
But the exquisite music liveth,
And is heard on the evening breeze
By him who his spirit giveth
To list to the melodies
Floating along the mountain side,
And murmuring among the trees.
Now, in all this, there is nothing to offend
nor shock. Loughran has all the ‘ ‘ properties ”
of poetry ready to pen. These ready-made
phrases are his for the asking ; they are
imported free. Consider the first stanza
with its two unnecessary and weakening final
lines. If there was a poetic copyright, this
is the sort of bill Loughran would find one
morning in his mail: —
E. B. Loughran,
Minor Poet.
Dr. to Poetry (Ltd.),
Wholesale Furnishers of Ready-made
Phrases to the Trade.
. Item ... 1 Dusky Gloaming
Item ... 1 Lot Morning Beams
Item ... 1 Assortment Beautiful Dreams
Item ... 1 Bunch Roses
Item ... 1 Pint (Sample) Dew-gleams.
All this lot, except the sample dew-
gleams, could be got cheap. There is at
present little demand for dew-gleams. Now,
this is not poetry ; it is a mean meal made
from the scraps of the banquet left on the
table where the gods have dined. The am-
brosia is stale, the nectar flat. “Dusky
gloaming ” is a beautiful phrase. Gloamings
have always been dusky ; but the phrase has
become commercialised. The first man who
saw and pointed out that a gloaming was
dusky was a poet; the thousand men or
women who have echoed his discovery are
not. It is “up to” the poet to find some
other quality in a gloaming than duskiness,
or if he can't, he should merely write
“gloaming.” It connotes duskiness now,
thanks to the poet who pointed it out to us.
Phrases become so commercialised by hard
wear that if Shakespeare were living among
us now he would be compelled to re-write
his works in other language, leaving
out all his own quotations. His own
phrases are now our stock-in-trade. Shake-
speare would, without seeking, find other
implements for his thoughts.
Youthful verse is merely measles ; every-
body should have measles, but people
do not have chronic measles. If verse-
writing persists beyond its proper period
of youth and first-love, it turns out
not to be measles, but genius, or
cacoethes seribendi, or suppressed femininity.
But Loughran has not youth, nor genius,
nor femininity ; he suffers from a capacity to
express the common-places of thought in a
clever metrical manner. And this has been
the suicide of many an editor and publisher’s
reader. The amount of metrical ability
abroad in the modern world—the disease is
endemic in Austi’alasia—is deplorable. The
amount of verse that is good enough and
not good is depressing to contemplate.
Verse-writing must be a highly infectious
complaint. A tariff that would keep out the
“border-line ’ poets would be welcomed by
every editor on earth. But our personal
grievance has led us far from Loughran.
The Ivory Gate —a title used before—is
quite readable, but Loughran has nothing to
tell, nothing, even, to hint. Occasionally he
puts an old thought in a new way, as in
“ The Dreamer.” He can thrum a story in
the “Banjo” style; but frequently he is
just Words. Here, shaken together, are the
ingredients of another sample stanza:
Weird sheoak—quaint kingfisher’s laughter—
magpie’s note—forest rafter—kangaroo —
hopping—parrot—tall emu—upland grass-
cropping. This precis is quite as interesting
as the verse, possibly it is more stimulating.
Yet here and there we catch an uplift into
poetry.
The hand of clay, the thought divine
Ne’er iii its fulness may pourtray ;
From marble, canvas, poet-line,
The nobjest part still slips away.
And here is an irregular sonnet that is
well done :
Do you remember that fair afternoon,
Beneath the lofty elm-trees colonnade?
Still lay the land, as in a deadly swoon,
And the sole sound was by our voices made.
No least breeze stirred ; yet, as we sat, anon,
As though some unseen hand did them impel,
Shower upon shower, our startled forms upon,
Myriads of fluttering yellow dead leaves fell.
“ ’Tis Nature’s shudder at the change,” you said,
“ Now mellow Autumn into Winter turns ;
The Earth knows more than we do. and discerns
The moment the Sun’s love wanes, cold and dead. l }’
I smiled, nor omen to myself dreamt then.
Who love within those eyes ne’er saw again.
That is charming. You see, Loughran,
judged by this one sample, is not so minor,
after all. Yet he who had the taste to iwrite
that verse had not the heart to destroy the
bulk of his bad work. But compare this
minor with a master, the subject of whose
poem is similar : <
In our old shipwrecked days there was an hour,
When in the firelight steadily aglow,
Joined slackly, we beheld the red chasm glow
Among the clicking coals. Our library-bower
That eve was left to us ; and hushed we sat
As lovers to whom Time is whispering.
From sudden-opened doors we heard them sing;
The nodding elders mixed good wine with chat.
Well knew we that Life’s greatest treasure lay
With us, and of it was our talk. “ Ah, yes !
Love dies 1 ” I said ; I never thought it less.
She to me that sentence to unsav.
Then when the fire domed blackening, I found
Her cheek was salt against my kiss, and swift
Up the sharp scale of sobs her breast did lift:
Now am I haunted by that taste 1 that sound !
This parallel and comparison is perhaps the
most unfair thing in this unfair article.
OUR SAUSAGR SERIAL
It is evident that the serial-writers of the Com-
monwealth haven’t any trend towards retrospec-
tion. “ Cripps Clark ” remarks that this seems
the sort of serial that would surprise no one if the
prologue appeared in the middle of it. It was
meant to be just that sort; but, as no suitable pro-
logue came along, prologuingisoff, and wecontinue
with Alice. “Judex” sends three chapters on
approval from Boulder, W.A., as the mails don’t
suit. Unfortunately, none of the chanters fit, as
he did nofrantieipate that Alice would flit down
a smoke-stack. By a curious coincidence, that
ohimney was stuffed with wire-netting, tariffs
and surpluses. Half-a-dozen contributors made
that discovery. Here is a fragment from B.A.C.
which, when the novel is published in book-form,
will find its place in the narrative.
“Look!” she cried. “What is that black
thing that hangs over the coast ? ”
“ That,” said Charles, “is Night.”
“Do you know,” she explained, “I thought it
might be the tariff.”
The air had an earthqqakey feel.
Chas. H. Bertie ends his instalment with a
situation which we have reluctantly to suppress:
“Alice and Charlie opened a window and saw a
ten-feet drbp. They leapt together, but an earth-
quake opened a crevasse under their feet, 2D feet
wide and a mile deep.”
Of the new chapters sent in those of H. Paton,
Lane Cove Road, Killara, and A. Norton were
the best. Norton’s chapter was somewhat too
allegorical, so it is H. Paton who now adds his
name to our list of authors.
So far Charles, as a hero, has been rather a dis-
appointment. ■ He* seems to clog the action, and
the time has now come for his removal. Con-
tributors’will kindly slay him by Tuesday.
THE TREND THAT DIDN'T.
By The Red Page, Hunt Coleman, J.M.
Leave and H. Paton.)
CHAPTER IV. - PINEAPPLES, N.E.I.
When Alice recovered her senses she found she
had alighted on a sofa in the fireplace.
She looked carefully round the room. A maga-
zine on the table attracted her attention.
She took it up and started to read it—it was the
new Tariff Act.
Just as she had reached the item, “Sawdust
N.E.I. 3856 per cent.,” the door of the room was
flung open, and in rushed 54 Commonwealth
policemen and 185 detecti ves.
“To what must I ascribe this intrusion,” she
said with fine sarcasm.
“Murderess,” they replied as they saw the
title of her book, “we have caught you in the
Act.”
She looked again at the table, and, to her
horror, saw on it the dead body of a man. To the
dagger that was sticking through his heart was
attached a postcard inscribed, “ The Revenge of
the Carruthers Black-hand Society (Limited).”
“Ah,” sighed our heroine as her tears splashed
on the floor, “I knew this wire-netting affair
would lead to complications.”
A terrific explosion shook the house.
She galloped to the window.
All she could see was a man in the street selling
pineapples.
(Why t.)
Alcohol enables Parliament to do things at
eleven at night that no sane person would do at
eleven in the morning.— G. B. Pshaw.
THIEVES AND THIEVING.
Apropos remarks (B. 20/6/’O7) re Jack London s
Before Adam being practically a steal from
Waterloo’s The Story of Ah, it might be interesting
to record all this famous Yankee s alleged ‘‘bor-
rowings.” Even London himself by this time
most be forced to admit that the accusations are
becomingdistressingly numerous. In fact, almost
from the commencement of his meteoric career,
the suspicion of wilful and deliberate plagiarism
has dogged his footsteps along the road to Fame
with the persistent tenacity of an unsatisfied
creditor. Many years ago he published in the San
Francisco Argonaut a short story entitled Moon-
face. A journalist noticed a strange similarity
between it and a yarn by the late Frank Norris,
published in The Century. He immediately
wrote an article pointing out the fact, and then a
peculiar thing happened. Someone else brought
to light the same tale published a year previously
by an unknown author in The Black Cat. Finally
Chicago hustled round and unearthed the same
old story, by still another author, in a newspaper
published prior to all the others ! London ex-
plained that he got his original idea from an old
newspaper report, and that, this being a common
practice amongst authors, the others had evi-
dently done the same. So the tumult ceased. In
the Christmas number of McClure's for 1905,
London published a powerful story, Love of
Life. While the magazine was still warm
from the press a New York Sunday news-
paper “featured” a comparison between this
and an article entitled, Lost in the Land of the
Midnight Sun, by Augustus Bridle and J. K.
Macdonald, that had appeared in McClure’s some
months previously. This was where London was
first fairly cornered. The similarity between the
two stories was such that there was no Chance of
slipping out. So London confessed ! He claimed
that Lost in the Land of the Midnight Sun was not
a story, but a definite narrative of fact (which, by
the way, it was). It told of the sufferings of a
man with a sprained ankle in the country of the
Coppermine River. London held that it was
neither fiction nor literature. So he frankly
admitted that he took the facts of life
contained in it, added a trifle from a
newspaper report concerning the wanderings
of a lost prospector, stole a portion of a book
describing a Polar Expedition, added what
he knew personally of human suffering, and then
(in his own words) “ turned the facts, into litera-
ture.” Having admitted all this, he started out
after his accusers and smote them heavily for
being “sensatidn-mongers.” And so suspicion
was forced to slink into hiding once, again, to
think some and marvel at the author’s audacity.
Soon someone fell upon London’s most popular
book. The Call of the Wild, and printed excerpts
from it in The Independent (New York) in deadly
parallel with portions from My Dogs in the North
Land, by Eger ton R. Young, published two years
before London’s book. Again London had to
admit the facts, but pleaded justification, and
asked for a workable definition of plagiarism.
Hearken unto his arguments. ,s Mr. Young’s
book,” he explains, “was a narrative of fact,
and fiction writers have always considered
actual experiences of life to be a lawful field for
exploration—witness the historical novel. Take
an instance from the article accusing me of
plagiarism—that of the dog that lay down on its
back and, with its paws in the air, begged for
mocassins. This happened to one of Mr. Young’s
dogs, and I exploited it in my story. Suppose I
any in the Klondike and this incident occurs to
one of my own dogs, I can utilise this material in
a story, can I not ? Agreed. Npw, suppose it
doesn’t happen with my dog, but with someone
else’s dog, but that I happen to see the incident.
May I use it? Again agreed. Now, however, I
do not see the incident, but the man with
whose dog it occurred tells me about it.
May I use it ? Again agreed. A step
further, instead of telling about it, a man
writes the incident, not in a story, but in a
plain narrative of incidents. May I use it in my
story ? And if not, why not ?. . . I may say that,
two years ago, in writing to Mr. Young, I
thanked him for the help his book had been to
me.” All this was, of course, exceedingly in-
genious, and sounded very convincing, until Mr.
Young butted into the controversy and denied
that he had ever had a line from London ! So
suspicion continued to hang about. Now cometh
Waterloo with his frantic howl about larceny of
his property, The Story of Ab. As London is still
scribbling hurriedly fOr 15 cents a word (about
£3O per 1000), probably the end is not yet. The
amazing thing about the Yankee is the cool way
he knocks the wind out of his accusers by
calmly admitting their, charges. He declares
that, at the commencement of his career,
he made the resolution “to deny nothing
charged against me in the newspapers.” His plea
that he writes and informs the original authors
from whom he purloins possesses all the elements
of humor. It is on a par with the burglar who,
having stolen your family plate, writes to thank
you for the help the said plate has been to him,
admits that he stole it because it was solid silver
and not electro-plate ; and then, when arrested,
persists that the fact that the plate was real
silver and that he wrote and told you of the theft
is proof absolute of his innocence/
JOHN P.
The “literary competition” of the N.S.W.
Bookstall Company has brought to light two un-
known prize-winners. The first prize (£l5) for a
short story goes to Miss T. Carnett, Forbes,
N.S.W. ; the third to Miss Dora L. Spark,
Waratah, Newcastle, N.S.W. Edward Dyson
occupies a place between the ladies. Thos. E.
Spencer, R. J. Cassidy (“Gilrooney ”) and R. J.
Withers, Strathfield, Sydney, are the prize-win-
ners in the humorous verse competition.
“There are no absolute scoundrels. Every
practical man (and woman) is a potential scoundrel
and a potential good citizen.... The character-
istics that ruin a man in one class make him
eminent in another.... The faults of the burglar
■ire the qualities of the financier ; the manners and
habits of a duke would cost a city clerk his situa-
tion.—O. B. Pshaw.
MORE AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
Here are three new novels compiled by Aus-
tralians. The Narrow Margin, by Annie Thomp-
son (Sisley, London;, deserves mention as an
Australian novel- simply because it looks quite
like a novel and is written by a resident in
Australia. It is a vague and rambling production,
with the usual sketchily-drawn characters and the
usual plot and the usual intrusion of the long,
hairy arm of coincidence, and the usual con-
venient death of the usual villain, and a few of
the usual descriptions of Sydney. Also, it has
got into a second edition. F 4.
In Bachelor Betty (Constable). Winifred James
has been deliberately Louise-Macking. It has
become the custom for every Australian writing
girl who goes to England to Alack. But Wini-
fred James does it with a delightful Australian
zest. Her novel is really a series of letters
home. She tells us all about her trip, her adven-
tures on the steamer, her pursuit of a toupee in
Colombo, her encounters with her London char-
woman, her purchase of the baby elephant (de-
corated with a blue silk sash), her sight of the
King, her experiences in English country houses,
her impressions of the men who called at her Hat
and took her out to dine, and the Big Book she
wrote about it all. It is all brightly, frankly,
audaciously written, and wp-are all in love with
Betty. This plotless narrative is worth a dozen
more ambitious efforts. Winifred James has
humor, and recognises her limits. And she has
sunny Australian comments to makealioutLondon.
“One day I saw a fox-terrier getting its nose
wiped on a real lace handkerchief in Leicester
Square. Another time, I was sitting in the park,
when a lady of much adipose hove in sight. She
held a long blue ribbon, and at the extreme end
of it was a dog that must have weighed fully
eight or nine ounces. Sometimes he walked,
sometimes he ran, and sometimes he hung.
Then suddenly lie sat down flat and waited. When
the rope refused to' pay out any more, she
stopped short and spoke. Her voice was heavy
with sorrow. ‘Edward,’ she said, ‘this is more
than I can hear ; you are wearing me out.’ Then
she walked wearily back to Edward, picked .the
ruffian up, stuffed him into her pocket, and tot-
tered home.”
But most fascinating of all is Betty’s welcome
to The Youngest Man.' When she heard that he
was coming to call, she bought all the flowers the
greengrocer had, turned the sitting-room out her-
self, tied a new blue sash round the elephant’s
waist, and put on her best pair of silk stockings.
“ But the silk stockings ! (she explains). It is at
that point that the tide of favoritism reaches its
high-water mark. I put it to If you had
three pairs, two of which were worn out, and
there was not a remotely speculative possibility
of new-ones, would you not consider that every
time you put them on you were performing a
religious ceremony and sacrificing your ewe lamb
on the high altar ?”
Wo would. F 3. 1
Rocky Section, by Sydney Partridge (Steele
Rudd.and Co., Ltd., Brisbane), looks more like
the real thing. It is produced and printed in a.
way expressly designed to warn off readers, and
the illustrations by E. IJ. Murray are not only
badly drawn but contrive to picture a heroine of
an astonishing ugliness. But the story survives.
Sydney Partridge’s first novel gives hope for
better work ; but as a first novel it is more than
readable. The story is the old one of a girl
thrown into a man’s power, and the slow changfi
of their mutual hatred into love. Arid in the treat-'
ment of this ancient situation, Sydney Partridge
has made it convincing. The girl is real flesh and
blood, arid the man’s blindness to her charms is
quite explicable. There is no sentimentality in a
situation that Seems made for sentimentality.
The author is devoid of literary graces ; but she
writes of what she knows. Rocky Section is a
worthy first attempt. F 3.
THE KAILYARD AND CHICAGO
The sentimental Scotch village still survives,
despite its desecration by The House with the
Green Shutters. Here, in The Daft Days (Black-
wood), Neil Munro leads us gently back to
Thrums —the name of the sentimental Scotch
village doesn’t matter: all sentimental Scotch
villages are alike. And Munro gives us all the
charming characters of the Barrie romance—the
dear old characters that must be chained up by
jealous Scotch authors, for you never meet them
anywhere but in Scotch fiction. Here we have the
two gentle old maiden,aunts, and the dame’s school,
and the bell-ringer, and the cynical (but, you may
be sure, generous-hearted) Scotch lawyer—or, it
may l>e he is a writer or an advocate—and the
buxom Scotch kitchen-maid with a love affair
of her own, and .. . Bud, Bud certainly is an
anachronism in the sentimental Scotch village
of romance. But readers grow tired of the kail-
yard. “Why not mix the kail with Chicago?”
mused the cunning Neil Munro, author of GUian,
the Dreamer. So we have Bud: Munro plumps
this frank, precocious, slangy child down in his
sleepy Scotch village, ,and Bud plays pranks.
The formula is easily worked, once you know
your Scots and your Barrie, Bud is wept over
by her shocked aunts, and Bud is sent to the
dame’s school, and Bud—Oh, Bud is delightful !
And Munro is worthy of Bud ; his easy gossipy
style, his gentle humor, his pathos, his delight in
Bud and her Americanisms, make a book that
will be immensely popular.
“‘Spring,’ Alie remarks, ‘is a time when a
delicious feeling steals over you of wanting to sit
down and watch other people work.’
“ ‘ I’ll need to have the lawn-mower sharpened }.
it may be needed at any moment by the neigh*
bors,’ says her brother, Dan.”
Neil Munro is on the broad path that leads to
popularity. F 2.
De Quincey, Crabbe, Dante, Gabriel Rossetti,
Coleridge, all practically subsisted upon opium.
De Quincey took eight thousand drops of laudanum
a day ; the ordinary dose, medically prescribed, is
less than thirty drops. Rossetti took 180 grains
of chloral in eight hours. Coleridge’s dose was a
pint of laudanum a day. So, in the last analysis,
The Ancient Mariner and The Blessed Damozel
may be merely poppy-juice.


A
aae
IMPLEMENTS for tne
MAN ON THE LAND ...
y At ANTNONY HORPCRNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICCS.
bvc
The Matthews New
Universal Steel Frame
Garden Plough and
Attachments (No. 592).
No. 592
A very accept-
able implement.
The wheel is ad-
justable and is
in
diameter.
17s. 6d.
FERTILIZER
zrnwmmsmm
No. 5*5.
Star Billings Planter and
Fertilizer (No. 505) £5 10s.
The Hopper is made with
two apartments, one for the
seed and the other for the
fertilizer. By an ingenious
arrangement the fertilizer
drops at the same instant in
the rear separately and to
the right and left, and
mixes with the soil, thus
avoiding all danger of in-
jury to the seed.
The Matthews New Universal
Model Combination Drill,
with Hoe, Cultivator, Seeder, Plough and Rake
attachments (No. 593) 3&s.
The cultivating attachments in-
cluded in the price consists of one
pair Hoes, Ploughs, Rakes, Narrow
Cultivator Teeth, Wide Cultivator
Teeth, and one Centre Cultivator
Tooth as shewn.
No. 593.
Send for ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST,
Post Free Anywhere.
Empire All-Steel Cultivator,
with Attachments shown in the sketch
(No. 604) weight, 901 b.,
345.
We specially'recommend this Cultivator, as with the
.attachments it can be used for cultivating
almost any crop.
No. 604.
Extra Tines, IJ, IJ, 2, 2|in. 6ct. each. Sweeps, 10, 12, and 14in., Is. each.
Pair of Hilling- Board Attachments, fls. 6 cl. pair.
Extension pieces to make into 7 Tine Cultivator, 6/6 pair.
The Matthews New Universal High Arch Expansion Wheel
Hoe, Cultivator, Rake and Plough.
A double or single wheel implement at will (No. 595) 365.
The wheels are 12in. in diameter, and the arch
high enough to cultivate over plants 20in. or
more in height. The adjustable arch is made of
best spring steel, and affords means of regula-
ting depth, and for setting pitch of teeth, a very
valuable feature in using the hoe blades.
The cultivating attachments included in the
price are as follows: —One pair each Long
Bladed Hoes, Short Bladed Hoes, Narrow Culti-
vators, Wide Cultivators, Ploughs, Bakes, Vine
Guards, one Centre Tooth Holder, and one
Centre Cultivator.
■S6Q ’OH
0"
WIARD STEAM BEAM PLOUGHS (Right Hand).
Forged Steel Beam, Chilled or Steel Moldboard, Jointer or Coulter, Scotch
Clevis. Handles raise and lower. Wheel adjusts to either side of Beam.
No. 586.
No. 62, Pony Plough, will plough 3in. to sin. deep, 6in. to Bin. wide; weight, 401 b. .. ’22s. Od.
No. 74, One-Horse Plough „ 4in. to 6in. „ 4in. to llin. „ „ 841 b. £2 lOs. Od.
No. 75, ~ ~ ~ 4in. to 7jn. „ 6in. to lOin. ~ „ 801 b. £2 10s. Od.
No. 72, Two-Horse Plough „ 4in. to 7in. ~ 9in. to 12in. „ „ 118 lb. £3 10s. Od.
No. 90, Three-Horse Plough, same as No. 586; weight, 1321 b. .. .. £3 15s. Od.
No. 120, Steel Beam Swivel Plough, sin. to Bin. deep, Bin. to 12in. wide ; weight, 1181 b... £3 18s. 6d.
No. 21, One-Horse Swivel Plough, will plough 4in. to 7in. deep, 6in. to lOin. wide ; weight, 771 b. £2 4s. Od.
b
7 Morgan
Patent
Spading'
Harrow.
We have secured the exclusive rights to sell the
Morgan Spading Harrow for New South Wales, and
our experience of its sale has only confirmed the
opinion, formed after special investigation and exten-
ded inquiry, that it is the implement for pulverising
the soil, and that, as now perfected, it is unquestion-
ably the best and cheapest harrow ever invented.
No. 602. THItEE FEET.
A, 3ft., one horse, 16in. spades
(No. 602), £5 17s. 6d.
SETS OF DISCS, to fit to 3ft.,
sft., and 6ft. A, so as to imme-
diately convert them into Disc
Harrows—3ft., 43/9 ; sft.,
54/3 ; 6ft., 62/6. By this
addition the purchaser has
Two Harrows in One.
No. 603.
These Harrows are
fully rigged with
whiffletrees, neck
yoke, cleaners, and
transport wheels.
We stock the fol-
lowing- sizes :
A, 4ft., two horses, 16in. spades
A, sft., two lig-ht horses, 16in. spades
A, 6ft., standard, two horses, 16in. spades
<3, 6ft., heavy, two horses, 18in. spades..
<3, 7ft., two or three horses, 18in. spades
<3, Bft., three horses, 18in. spades
.. £6 10s. Otf.
£6 12s. 6d.
£7 6s. Otf.
No. ®O3) .. £8 2s. 6tf.
£8 12s. 6d.
£8 17s. Gd.
ANTHONY HORDERN O. SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MAKE MONEY
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
vcb
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send us your name and address and you will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Photo
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; it describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
grad- Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
you will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to Bend yon a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we tan sell
the liighest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices ; how we
arc able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, UBing sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CC. 9 DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
Q-B
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
C.B. Tailor=Made Corsets are
rapidly causing ordinary
types to become things
of the past.
1n59
different
styles.
Any and every
figure can be
made straight-
fronted by C.B.
Taii< r-Made
Corsets.
vc
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
the elixir of elegance,
smartness, refined dis-
tinction and comfort.
Light as air, yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made
Corsets are an
insurance policy
on smart and
stylish dressing.
Ail c.b. Corsets haye rust-proof supports From 8/11 to 4 Guineas per pair.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type as
far ahead of all other straight-fronted corsets as latter are in advance ot
the old woven corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, 75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair toots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
“I have only used your ‘HARLENE* for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/-, 2/6 ff4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
bvc
b
vc
Edwards’ “Harlene" Co. s* London, w.c.
TOOTH & CQ., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMPBTITIONT.
WINES ”* Best *£*. ° f SPIRITS,
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
bvc
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
■ Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
PLEASE MENTION THIS
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling, Is. 3d. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
20/ Bourke St., Melbourne
bvc
b
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“Newßival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us yoUr name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulas printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
<3
£lOO
a Weeß
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,® FRUIT
salt:
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s * Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S 1 FRUIT SALT;' Without It you haro «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
ffnparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. SBNG.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
ARTEItt
mm
\PW\LL%.
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
Fo« INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public irt cautionea to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
vc


The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
%air Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., LoweN, Mass., U.S. A.
m
-V
In consequence
the gTeat demand, the
Samples of Creme
Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
k fresh supplies arrive
* we will post a full-
■ size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/6, or
White,Cream or. Pink
Powder for 2/6.
CLAUDE HEALY & Co.,
C 3 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
The Evidence & Reason Why
TEETHING
Without Trouble
The Evidence
from
3 Pritchard St.,
Marrickville,
N.S.W.
bcv
“I gave my little Triffie,
who was very delicate, and
suffered severely from diarr-
hoea while teething, Scott’s
Emulsion, and from the first
dose I noticed an improve-
ment ; she was able to digest
her food, the diarrhoea grad-
ually ceased, and she has
cut five teeth without any
trouble. My little one is
now well and rosy.”
(Mrs.) T. M. VOGAN.
THE REASON
why she is rosy
Strength—that is the secret,
and Scott’s Emulsion gives it
without fail, because Scott’s
is always made of the finest
Cod Liver Oil in the world,
made perfectly digestible
(and therefore far more
nourishing) by the original
Scott process of manufacture.
Stomach and bowel troubles
are cleared away and, better
still, the lime in Scott’s
brings the teeth out white,
straight and strong, and a
pleasure and pride to look at.
All this is only
true of Scott’s
and you will
have to make
sure “the fish-
man with the
fish ” is on the
package.
TRADE MARK
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
FROM ALL CHEMISTS & DEALERS
IN MEDICINES
WILL CURE THAT . . ,
Hacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
~ DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
By Royal
Warrant to
bvcbvc
His Majesty
the King:.
BOVRIL
is a true food and contains Albumen and Fibrine which go to
form Blood, Bone, Brain and Muscle. Beef-teas and Meat-Extracts
are stimulants only.
BOVRIL is liquid life.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle. Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. ®*-Send for Catalosi
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE
By
Royal Warran
Purveyors to
bvc
His Majesty tub,'
King and
Roy ar, Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Inimited.
HERBERT </. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
£ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for■“ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
5 It is nice to do the
j necessary cleaning with
! Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how J
splendidly, how easily, and how (
thoroughly it cleans. <
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.<
fl
The name
Plasmofl|
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND of'
i \
, PlasfflOft ,
CONTAINS THE '
ENTIRE \
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK. \
•>.- - ————
Most foods are deficient in
proteid, which Is required to I
support life,
PLASMON '
should be added to all
foods because it supplies \
this element. .
Foods mixed with
PLASMON ,
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others. )
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS )
AND STORES.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Why Should Life All Labor Be?”
Let us take our sketching tackle
And a well-thumbed book or two,
Out of ear-shot of the cackle
Of the tattered city shrew ;
We will laugh at all the solemn
Pageantries of life and death,
Idling on the cool sea-beaches
Where no sound of labor reaches,
And the wild wave murmureth.
Down the harbor-stream our route is
Through the deep-sea ships’ domains;
There they sleep, the masted beauties,
Dreaming at their anchor-chains !
How they chafe and strain their fetters,
Swaying to the beating tide,
Wakened to divine emotion
When the errant scouts of Ocean
Come to seek them where they hide.
It is quite Arcadian weather,
Mellow sunshine, crested sea ;
Plain as life it is that never
Work was meant for you and me ;
’Tis an ideal day for dreaming
With sweet-voiced philosophers,
While the elves of inspiration
Flutter round imagination,
Clad in mist-blue gossamers.
Where the wrangling breakers riot,
Changeful yet unchangeable,
And the beach’s trancing quiet
Weaves an amethystine spell,
We will laze and dream together,
Smoke and sketch, and read and dream,
Musset, Tennyson, Rossetti,
Make the desk’s dry task seem petty,
And unfettered minds supreme.
Let us trick the tyrant-master
Ere our truant thoughts be known,
’Tis a nobler life and vaster
In the artist’s perfect zone ;
We will breathe the scent of sonnets,
Drink the music of pure song,
Spellbound in their kingly mercies
In a dream of tranquil verses
Far from the dishevelled throng.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Other One.
Sorry you’re gone ! Of course lam ! We were
friends both tried and steady.
If one of us had wanted help the other was always
ready;
We have stood together by tumbling seas when
moons waxed or grew dim.
Have watched together ’neath midday suns the
leap of the silver bream;
Have quarrelled and made friends again, with
never a venom after ;
Have heard the long verandahs ring to sound of
our mutual laughter.
Of course I’m sorry, for Time goes on and the
whirligigs go round ;
Not often over the ruts of life is such easy
trav’ling found.
We stood last night where a white moon played a
game with the driving cloud,
And a wet wind wrapped the trees in mist till
each was a gleaming shroud ;
And you caught my hand in a sudden grasp, your
voice was soft and low,
And a stranger looked from your eyes of brown
as you whispered “Shall I go?”
What if in the treachery of the night, while on
beaches far away
The waves were grieving o’er other wrecks, I had
spoken to bid you stay,
Where the moon and cloud wrack flecked the
lawn with elusive dancing elves ?
If we had forgotten the Other One, and thought
only of ourselves ?
And what if my woman heart, so weak under all
its world veneer,
Had broken bonds of repressive years with frenzy
to keep you here ?
What if we had let friendship go with the chill
of its moonlight charms,
And the hot heart of a man and girl merged
fiercely in close-locked arms ?
I want you so, when the dusk lies soft on grass,
and flowers, and trees,
Where the shrill of crickets has replaced the drone'
of the drowsy bees,
Till the grey of a lonely life seems ever a toiling
without a goal,
And the glamor of a man’s dear love full price for
a woman’s soul,
Shall we take our Friendship up again ? Where
a sly imp laughs behind it,
The still rock under washing seas—shall we
search again to find it?
Shall there be no stir of flame again in the ash of
hidden fires,
Shall the sexless comradeship we hold be summit
of our desires ?
Sorry you’re gone ! But the walls of Heaven are
ringed by roads of Hell,
And just because of the Other One—l think lam
glad as well !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Sin and Death.
Sin and Death, sisters twain,
Sat in the dawning side by side.
“Sister, be wedded, so I may gain
A home with thee,” Death cried.
And Sin was wedded, and Death laughed loud,
And gaily danced on the bridal day ;
But when night came, she took a shroud,
And bore the groom away.
And Sin lay weeping the whole night through,
And Death, at the dawning, sat by her side.
“ He whom thou lovest, I love too—
He is here,” Death cried.
VIC.
NICK.


Ike Seal of 3
l 2j4rt3ieta£
Trade dlark /
I
Sydney Show Rooms
56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
THE TIE TH2&T BINDS
CADBURY’S cocoa can be obtained in eve ry corner of the British Empire
everybody agrees that for Strength. Purity. Flavour & Economy i.U$. unequalled.
Jr 94 British * 4 /X
isles_A
JgSjfr 'S$4
C^J|P"r*'HIV»FOUNDL»NB
/ lip
/1
ip*
BRITISH 4r _
V
THE GIFT™"
Ws
e
NTRY
NEW
ZEALAND
to,her COLONIES
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
b
vcb
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacconists.
Facsimile of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine
vcbvcbvc
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
*.RIS
V«Oi,
'Ba a
on a
ie*'
*B6,
1092
Estab'
*750.
s»
ROTMC
HAfIS
LON
fH
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SPECIAL lIQIIIUR
Scotch whisky
w<m
m
i
h
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
bvc
MAKES «e SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
# e 9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
MOT WEATHES,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—El liott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwadc & Co., Melbourne.
Beautiful Home Decorations
m
easily and economically obtained by tbe most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOIiIW” FIjOOU STAIAS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
‘‘SAPOtIW” AIAJMIUfPM EJiAMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brushit on.
JAPANESE GOLD PA lAT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
.For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLI> ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
bvc
HOTEL
METROPOLE
•^SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quaym
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Anchor Fence
THE
FENCE
THAT
LAST S
m
What those who Have it say “ I find it much better
than tbe ordinary fence, and VERY MUCH CHEAPER.”
—Mr. Fisber THwaite, Roma, Q.
Wholesale
Agents :
E. RICH
<a co. m
SYDNEY
and . .
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.-No. 1438.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1907.
Prick 6d.
BLOODSHED!!
N.S.W. State Premier Carruthers has commenced to hint at the possibility of “bloodshed” unless he immediately gets everything he
wants. This represents Sydney’s first Day of Barricades. The State Premier is in the front rank, demanding that the Australian capital
shall be planted just where he pleases and nowhere else.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
” Australia /or the A ustralinns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkoo, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. The Bulletin p/tsted
regularly to you every 'week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
II aw to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige thegpaper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the. Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
altvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inalears in lllaclt and 'Virile.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kofta.—Breiver and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —-Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x llein.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1907.
N. S. WALES’ PROSPERITY UNDER
FEDERATION.
A strange, excited, raving kind of a State elec-
tion is expected to happen in N.S.W. next week,
when the Premier who stole the wire netting will
apply for a new lease of power, chiefly on a pro-
gramme of alleged Ma State disasters and
grievances. The atmosphere of Sydney—the one
Australian city which has been consistently
against Australian industry and which has con-
sistently howled for the importer—is electric with
excitement. The importers’ papers—agitated by
the advent of a tariff which threatens to promote
that hated thing, Australian manufacture —are in
a condition of frenzy, and are explaining at great
length how obviously impossible it is for the poor
wretched Australian to make anything, and how
he must obviously import everything, and how
“the duties will be added to the price of
the goods.” The whole crowd of rich com-
mercial men —the men who, at other times,
denounce the Labor party, and declare that
niggers should be imported to take away the
Australian workman’s job, and who believe that
trades unions should be abolished by Act of
Parliament, and declare Arbitration laws and
Wages Boards abominations, and hold that
strikes ought to be put down by military force,
and who believe in low wages, and who are raving
mad because the Commonwealth no longer allows
them to swindle the worker by importing cotton
blankets marked “ pure wool” and 21,-carat watch-
chains marked 9-carat this great commercial
crowd, which at other times wouldn’t be seen dead
along with a mere working man, is weeping inces-
santly over his alleged misfortunes. The silliest
newspaper in Sydney has started what it calls a
secession movement, on the ground that N.S.W.
is being ruined by Protection and Federation, and
some foolish clerks, and such-like, are reported to
have taken the yarn seriously, and to have laid in
guns with a view to prospective revolution and
street fighting. And meantime, amid the clamor,
the N.S.W. Government has inopportunely issued
its “Statistical View of the Progress of the State
of N.S.W.” and its “Monthly Statistical Bulle-
tin ’’"and some other publications, wherein the
alleged ruin of N.S.W. can be traced, and the
size of the importers’ huge confidence trick re-
vealed. _ „
* * *
During most of the last six years of the Sepa-
ratist system N.S.W. was alleged to be a Free-
trade State. During the first six years of I edera-
t'on it has been a Protectionist State—inefficiently
protected, it is true, but still protected. During
most of the last six years of Separatism N.S.W.
had ihe blessing of a Reid-Carruthers Govern-
ment, just as it has the blessing of a Carruthers
Government now, the difference being that in the
old days the State was under a supreme Reid-
Carruthers Government, whereas it is now under
a Carruthers whose pitiful folly is, to a great
extent, repressed by the superior power of the
Australian Parliament. There was drought in
the last years of Separatism, and there was worse
drought in the first years of Federation, which
makes things fairly level. Therefore it is a
reasonable thing to institute a comparison, and
see how the ruin of N.S.W. through Federation
pans out.
* « ■» *
To begin with, in the last six years of Separa-
tism and alleged Freetrade, the population of
N.S.W. increased by 119,020; in the first six
years of Federation and partial Protection it
increased by 166,394. And the increase becomes
more rapid as time goes on; for the first 64
years of Federation and partial Protection the
growth of N.S.W.’s population amounted to
190,663. In the year just closed the births
(40,948) and the marriages (11,551) were the record
since the State first existed ; people could afford
to marry under tiie new order of things, and
could afford to be born. But, apparently, they
were too busy making money to die, or they
could pay for the food, medicine and sanitary
conditions required to keep them alive, for
the deaths (14,975) had been exceeded in
13 previous years; in 1898, for instance,
with a far smaller population and with the
blessings of Separatism and alleged Free-
trade, the deaths were 16,661. Immigration, too,
has resumed again under the new regime. In the
last six years previous to Federation the Ma State
lost 4319 people by excess of departures over
arrivals ; in the first six years of Federation fit
gained 30,079 by excess of arrivals over de-
partures. One simple and obvious reason for this
lies in the increase of employment. At the end
of 1906 there were 77,758 hands employed in
N.S.W. factories, an unprecedented increase of
16,979 in six years of union and Protection ; and
the value of the gross output of these factories is
roughly estimated (the full information is not yet
available) at £34,000,000, an increase of about
£12,000,000 in six years. Roughly speaking, the
N.S.W. factories turn £23,000,000 worth of raw
material into £34,000,000 of manufactured goods,
leaving £11,000,000 profit for the community.
N.S.W. is now ahead of Victoria in manufactur-
ing profits, though any one who listened to the
bellowing discords of the Sydney dailies would
imagine that Victoria was the only manufacturing
State in the Commonwealth. Under Federation
751 new factories have started in N.S.W. That
is six years increase; in the last 15 years of
Separatism there was a decrease of 342 factories.
The Protection that N.S.W. has enjoyed
since 1901 was not nearly so efficient as it
should have been, hence the demand for a
new tariff, and consequently neither the
increase in population, in immigration, in the
number of factory employees, nor in the output
of goods was anything like what was hoped
for. Compared with that little kitchen-garden,
Belgium, which turns out nearly 6,000,000 tons
of iron and steel goods per annum, and other
manufactures in proportion, the increase is piti-
ably small. Yet compared to the utterly wretched
state of things which prevailed under Separatism,
that same small increase is amazingly large, and
it is especially large when it is considered that the
really great industries—iron, steel, cottons and
woollens —have either hardly started or not
started at all. If the old low tariff, which left the
greatest industries unprotected, has done so much
for N.S.W., there are splendid hopes for the
State with a higher and wider tariff specially
designed to start the great manufactures that
were completely neglected under the old order of
things.
* * * *
In other ways, too, affairs have been going well
—though they should have gone better—with the
N.S.W. people under the union which a crazy
secession push desires to wreck in order that it
may gather up its parochial dignity and crawl
back, in an important sort of way, to the old rut
and the old mud-hole. Wages have gone up
all round. The State railways, by reason of
the general prosperity, have put up a record
year ; the surplus of earnings over expenditure,
which was £1,462,649 in the last year of Separa-
tism, was £2,112,807 in 1906. There are 101 more
post offices in the State than there were in 1900,
and they received about 36,000,000 more letters,
12,000,000 more cards, and 6,000,000 more items in
the way of packets, books, parcels, papers, etc.
The Commonwealth has given N. S. Wales
cheaper telegrams, and increased its telegraph
offices from 961 in 1900 to 1122, while the length of
its telegraph lines has expanded from 41,494 miles
in 1900 to 74,754 miles in 1906. Yet
for all these extra post offices and telegraph
offices, and for the extra 33,000 odd miles of wire,
the Commonwealth has not incurred one penny
of debt. Also, in the six years of Federal manage-
ment the number of telephones supplied in
N.S.W. has increased from 12,197 to 20,373 —
also without incurring a penny of debt. In the
same six years of Federal rule the shipping that
annually enters and leaves N.S.W. ports has
increased from under 8,000,000 tons to over
10,500,000 tons ; and the blessed “trade” which
the commercial class declares to be the secret of
all greatness has gone up from less than
£56,000,000 to over £80,000,000. The deposits in
N.S.W. banks of all sorts (over £55,000,000)
are now the very largest in all the State’s
history, and £11,000,000 ahead of the best
record under Separatism. And in place of
the long dreadful series of deficits which
existed in the days when the incompetent
State politicians had full control of the finances,
there is now—when the most important section of
the State’s finance is under Federal control—such
an overflowing Treasury that last financial year,
incredible as it may seem, N.S.W. slightly re-
duced its debt. And there are many other items
of good fortune which might be quoted, but space
makes it impossible to pursue the whole subject
to its lair.
* * * *
Of course, the Secesh push and the Ma State
grievance crowd—which are simply the old Sydney
Anti-Federal gang in a new disguise—make the
easy reply that all this prosperity would have
happened in any case. It may be so, but
nothing dimly resembling it ever did happen in
the old Separatist and alleged Freetrade days,
when Reid and the awful Carruthers were in
full charge. And if it would have happened in
any case then the dingo herd which follows
the Telegraph is an unspeakable liar, for
when Federation was first mooted, the Secesh
herd and the Ma State Grievance horde —then
organised as the Anti-Federal gang—declared,
without any reservation whatever, that the ruin
of N.S.W. would follow as surely as night followed
day. They w 7 ere liars then, as the event has
proved, and that discredits any statement they
may make now to the effect that Federation is not
in the least responsible for the vast improvement
N.S.W. has shown in recent years. The same
blatant folk assured N.S.W., when Reid and
Carruthers took office in 1894, that the period of
fatness and jollity had really arrived. Instead,
there came a hideously lean period, when popula-
tion fled from the State as from a pestilence, so then
also they were liars, and more discredit is thereby
cast on their present statement. And they are
so obviously lying to-day over the bogus Federal
capital grievance and the sham wire-netting out-
rage, that any statement they can make is calcu-
lated to excite disbelief. It is in their capacity as
proven and convicted liars that they now ask
N.S.W. to take their unsupported word again to
the effect that the new Federal tariff will bring
ruin, and that a continuance of Federation means
disaster. The results of Federation so far as it
has gone, and the results of the tariff so far as it
has gone, convict them of gross, shameless and
premeditated falsehood ; but they are in no way
abashed.
* * * *
Federation has been N.S.W.’s mascotte, and it
is a fool of a State which throws mud at its mas-
cotte. Under Federation N.S.W. has profited
more than any other State, and to an extent that
it never dreamt of before. So when the Deakin
Government says that its new tariff will make
N.S.W. still more prosperous, it has at least some
right to be believed, because the results have
justified its predictions over the old tariff,
inefficient as that was. On the other hand, when
the Carruthers gang and its disreputable
hangers-on allege that the new tariff will bring dis-
aster, and that a continuance of Federation
will spell ruin, they have a right to be
disbelieved, because their past predictions fell
in the mud every time. It is a misguided com-
munity that doesn’t know when to let well alone.
N.S.W. is quite aware that it was a dreadfully
poor and beggarly affair in the latter days of
Separatism. It also knows that it is now richer
than it ever was before. Its good luck came with
union. Now, if it returns Carruthers to power,
it puts itself in the hands of a frenzied, clamorous
little solicitor who never brought it anything but
bad luck, and who is fooling with the edged tools
of disunion and insurrection ; and it gives him
authority to throw clods and insults at the source
of N.S.W.’s good fortune. A people that does
that sort of thing can hardly meet with any worse
luck than it deserves.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pianos, Safes, Ink—and Incidentally
Freetrade Liars.
When the new tariff was published it was found
that the duties on pianos had gone up somewhat.
On grands and semi-grands it had risen from £ls
(with the alternative of 30 per cent, ad valorem )
to £l6 10s. (with the alternative of 40 per cent.
ad valorem). On upright grands it had increased
from £5 (or 30 per cent, a.v.) to £5 10s. (or 40 per
cent. a.v.). The importers arose and declared,
per medium of the daily press, that this meant that
the public would have to take an inferior article
at a higher price, and the importers wept in their
agony for the tnusical sufferings of an harmonious
public. The possibility of Australia making its
own pianos was ignored—scouted as such an im-
possibility as to be unworthy of mention. Now,
as a matter of fact, the difference between the
new and the old duty is roughly about 30s. per
piano, and the importers expect a cynical public
to believe that a difference of 30s. per instru-
ment means the difference between a high-
grade piano and a low-grade one. Unfor-
tunately, the truth of the matter is that,
right through the piece, Australia has been re-
ceiving pianos of a shockingly low grade. The
average price of the instrument to the Australian
public ranges from £3O to £65, and it has been
generally understood that, to get a really durable
instrument is impossible below £45 or £SO. In
1906 there were imported into the Commonwealth
12,263 pianos (German, British, Canadian, Yankee,
etc.), valued at the port of shipment at £241,357, or
£l9 13s. lid. each. The German and Belgian
were low grade, some of them so low as to be no
grade at all, and many of these were landed on the
wharves at Sydney for £lllos. each, to be after-
wards retailed to the public at anything from £3O
to £45, while the pianos retailed to the public at
from £SO to £7O are imported from Germany at
from £l6 to £2O. And, in the face of these facts,
the importers, had the gall to threaten the public
with a lower-grade piano. It is impossible
to get a lower-grade instrument ; no such
thing exists. As for the impossibility
of making pianos here—out at Annandale
(Sydney) there is a factory run by Beale
and Cos. which not only makes pianos, but
all parts of the instrument excepting the action,
and when the writer went over their factory some
time ago they were experimenting with that.
That factory is capable of turning out 60 pianos
per week, or 3120 per annum, equal to roughly
one-third of the whole Australian demand as
based on the importing figures for 1906. And the
firm is ready to expand to an unlimited extent at
short notice. For a time at least N.S.W. will
have a practical monopoly of the home-made piano
business (as it has now of the wire-netting busi-
ness) for when the starting of Beale’s factory sup-
plied the opportunity, the Australian inventive
faculty got to work, and the result was what
is now patented throughout the world as the
Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-plank. The
possession of this patent must always give N.S. W.
a preference in the matter of supplying Australia
with home-made pianos. (Will the people who
are howling about the tariff being for the benefit
of Victorian manufactures, please note?) Another
Australian industry that richly deserves encour-
agement is the making of steel safes. So far no
Freetrade paper has arisen to declare that fire-
proof safes cannot be made in Australia, but con-
sidering that they have been made in Sydney for
37 years, that is merely an oversight. The Aus-
tralian safe is a much superior product to the
imported one, as the space between the walls is
filled in with a substance which is a non-conductor
of heat, and moreover it is hand-made
throughout. For the want of a Protective duty
this industry has struggled along in back lanes,
instead of occupying great factories and employ-
ing hundreds of men. Ever since 1870 safes have
been hammered together in Sydney, and have
dribbled away across the continent, some of them
having travelled even as far as Westralia, and the
makers proudly assert that no man who has used
a Sydney-made safe ever buys an imported one
afterwards. Then there are other things. One of
the most flagrant of the many outrageous and
deliberate lies perpetrated by the Sydney Even-
ing News, in its hatred of Australian industry,
was that in the issue of Tuesday, August 27th, on
page 6. The lie in its entirety read like this :
NO MORE PENNY INK.
An example of the extreme effect of the new duties is
furnished by the case of penny bottles of ink. A Sydney
business man states that what they had been previously
selling as penny bottles of ink would now have to be raised
to 2d., owing to the fact that the duty on bottles under
2oz. the new tariff charge had been raised to Is. per
dozen, or just double. It was impossible to obtain these
bottles here at anything like the price, and consequently
school children would hereafter have to pay double for
this article.
The day after this appeared the traveller of an
Australian manufacturing firm called at the News
office to explain that the statement was wrong,
and that the “penny ink ” business was an Aus-
tralian monopoly. He produced a box of samples
in which the bottles that held the ink were Aus-
tralian made, the sealing wax that covered the
corks was Australian made, the ink was Australian
made, and the strawboard box in which they were
packed, and the labels on the bottles, were all Aus-
tralian made. Did the Evening News regret that
it had made a mistake and publish a correction ?
No. Itordered the Australian manufacturer’s agent
off the premises, and declined to listen to him or
make any correction. Probably Sydney is the
only city in the world where there is a paper with
so deep a hatred of local manufactures that the
very sight of a representative of local indus-
try moves it to frenzy. The Bulletin is in a
position to assure public and retailers that the
“Penny Ink” is being sold at a price which
leaves the retailer, if he buys from the manu-
facturer direct, an enormous margin of profit, and
if he buys through a wholesale house, he will
still have a bigger margin of profit than he has on
most lines. If the wholesale agents have raised
the price on the retailer, he can get all he wants
from Messrs. Sands & McDougall at a figure
that will enable him to sell at a penny and make
a big profit. The Evening News lie could hardly
have been the result of ignorance ; the facts of the
case were obtainable had the slightest inquiry
been made, for this “Penny Ink” business has
been an Australian monopoly for the last five
years. Ink only came down to a penny when the
local industry started, and when it was able to
get its bottles and sealing wax from local makers.
The Wire-Netting Insurrection.
Joseph Carruthers labors heavily in his wire-
netting entanglements to try to give some color
of legality to the insurrectionary act by which he
seized property belonging to the Australian Cus-
toms. But there is not a shadow of a legal
quibble behind which he can take shelter. It is not
a question of the legal right of the N. S. Wales
State Government to import goods free of duty.
Were that legal right fully established it would
in no way warrant the violent breach of the law
by which, with the law’s own officers, Car-
ruthers seized goods then in the custody of the
Australian Government. There are proper means
of establishing legal rights. It was open to Car-
ruthers to approach the High Court and seek a
remedy for any wrong that he alleged. But as
it happens, the merits of the case as to payment
or otherwise of duty are not with Carruthers.
There exists a N. S. Wales Full Court decision
that the Australian Customs may not levy any
tariff on goods imported by the State for the
State’s own use, such as locomotives. Whether
that will stand the test of appeal to a higher Court
has yet to be seen. The indications are that it
will not, since it is based upon the theory that
“ the Crown” may not be taxed, and that a State
Government is as much “the Crown” as the
Federal Government. Yet if “the Crown” of
the State Government is as puissant as “ the
Crown ” of the Federal Government, there comes
an end at once to the Federal idea, which is, at
the root, a subordination of the States to the
Federation. However that may be, if the “ State
Crown ” is outside the range of Federal Customs
taxation, and may import for its own use free, there
is not much help given to the Carruthers con-
tention that wire-netting imported by the State,
to be retailed to rich pastoralists, is also free.
Suppose the State, as a State, in carrying out fits
necessary and proper functions as a State, is en-
titled to Customs-free goods, it does not follow at
all that if that State becomes an indent agent for
private buyers, it can still claim freedom from
tariff taxation. Otherwise the whole Federal
Customs law could be nullified by a State import-
ing everything in its own name, and then distribu-
ting the goods to retailers. The law points may
be summarised
(1.) It is doubtful whether a State Government has the
ria'ht to import its own necessary goods free of duty. The
N.S.W. Full Court says it has ; but the N.S.W. Full Court
is notorious for bad law.
(2.) If a State Government has the right to import its
own goods free, it is still more than doubtful whether it
can import free when it is importing, not for its own use,
but as an indent agent.
(3.) Making the almost impossible supposition that
Carruthers is right on both the above points, it is still
quite clear that he was absolutely wrong in using the
power of the police to forcibly seize the goods in dispute.
It is necessary also to keep in mind that the ver-
sion of the Carruthers Government as to the
facts of the N.S.W. Supreme Court decision is
distorted to give an altogether inaccurate idea of
the position in regard to that detail. The facts
are, that before the institution of the High Court,
the N. S. Wales Full Court decided that State
imports were Customs-free. The Australian
Government paid the duty in dispute, with
costs, but did not accept the decision as
right, announcing that it intended in the
future to collect duty on State Government
imports, and inviting the State Governments to
challenge the right again so soon as the High
Court was established. The State Governments
have since failed to do so, and any responsibility
for the question being left in doubt rests with
them, and them alone. These points are not of
very great importance compared with the main
issue involved ; but it is well to keep in mind that
on every point the Australian Government has
acted with patience and with strict legality. It
seems to have had too much patience judging
from the latest antics of the unspanked cub who
makes N. S. Wales Government ridiculous.
—.— -
The Steel-Rails Lie.
S.M. Herald (28/8/’O7) discovered another tariff
iniquity
Mr. Carruthers has already announced that it will
add to the cost of the North Coast railway some £40,000.
That is the biggest work that the State has in hand at
the present time, and is indeed almost the only one.
But theye is the Mudgee to Dundee railway, a compara-
tively short line of 60 miles, which will have to be made
in the future, and the rails for this line will also have to
be imported. Roughly, 4800 or 5000 tons of rails will be
required for that line, and the extra cost will be about
£5300 or £5500, because of the duty which the Federal
Government has imposed upon rails. If the fish-plates
and other etceteras, or any of them, are imported, the
extra cost will be still more enhanced. There are also
tramwav works in which rails are used. If, therefore,
the tariff is not lowered the tramways will also suffer.
And here several points stick out like the bow-
sprit of the old derelict Secesh (Ananias, master
and owner) going down stern first in the gale of
contumely :
(1) Joseph Carruthers says that he knows for certain
that rails come under the heading of “ State property ”
which doesn’t pay duty. He is so sure that he is right on
this point that he turned brigand and started seizing
“ State property ” on the wharves by violence. Therefore
he either told a lie when he said that rails, etc., were
free of duty as “State property,” or he told a lie when


he said thac the duty on them would add to the cost of
his railway.
(2) If Carruthers imports rails, etc. (other than
British) under Division VI. of the tariff, he will
only pay at the most 3J per cent., because the
other three-quarters of the 12£ per cent, duty will
be returned to him by the Commonwealth, and if
3( per cent, is going to make a difference of £40,000 in
the North Coast railway, Carrutiiers must be going- to
put down rails to the value of £1,280,000 on a line that is
only to cost about £2,000,000 in all. This is too ridi-
culous a lie to be worth considering. And if Carrutiiers
likes to import British rails he will pay nothing ; they
are absolutely free. So are fish-plates, switches, points,
and other appliances.
(3) If Carrutiiers imported rails under Division VI B,
he would have to pay duty no matter where the goods
came from ; but he can’t import under that division
because it isn’t in force. It doesn’t come in force till the
local industry is thoroughly established, and when that
happens Carrutiiers won’t require to import at all.
(4) Why import rails in any case ? What is Sandford
doing atLithgow? Didn’t Carruthers recently crow like
a rooster with ten tails to the effect that he had started
the steel industry, “ without Protection,” by giving
Sandford the contract to supply all the rails required by
the Government for seven years. Where is that contract,
and where are those Lithgow rails ? Was the contract all
a lie, like so many other things ?
The moral of all this is that either Carruthers
or the S. M. Herald stands convicted of pre-
meditated falsehood, devised for no visible or
possible purpose save to stir up hatred, strife,
malice and uncharitableness, to weaken the
Australian people by internal dissension, and
incidentally, it would appear, to advertise a petty
solicitor whose political existence is a blot on
the fair fame of Australia.
♦ -
How Not to Deal With. Carruthers.
The Australian Crown Law authorities are mud-
dling with the Carruthers episode in a way to
make the angels weep. Last week they might
have said as truly as Cromwell at Dunbar, “ The
Lord hath delivered the enemy into our hands,”
and crushed for ever in a storm of ridicule the
silly anti-Australianism which disgraces N. S.
Wales. Carruthers, after many months of
safe manoeuvring in a campaign of slander,
misrepresentation and invective, came out into
the open with a definite act of lawlessness.
What madness moved him is neither here nor
there; the fact alone is important that he chal-
lenged the authority of the Commonwealth with
an attack on its strongest Act—the statute which
is a monument to sturdy, forthright Charles
Kingston, and which shows in its every line his
dominant personality and relentless vigor. From
that moment Carruthers was at the mercy of
the Federal law. Consider what might have been
done. The Customs Act says :
Sec. 30. Goods shall be subject to the control of the
Customs .. . from the time of importation until delivery
for home consumption.
Sec. 33. No goods, subject to the control of the
Customs, shall be moved, altered or interfered with, ex-
cept by authority and in accordance with this Act.
Penalty £IOO.
Sec. 230. Whoever aids, abets, counsels or procures,
or by act is in any way directly or indirectly concerned
in the commission of any offence against this Act shall be
deemed to have committed such offence and shall be
punishable accordingly.
Sec. 255. The averment of the prosecution contained
in the information shall be deemed to be proved in the
absence of proof to the contrary.
Note the strength of the chain. There is not a
weak link. It was only necessary for the Aus-
tralian Government, the day after the lawless
seizure, to prosecute Joseph Carruthers (in the
police court among the drunks), for in that he was
concerned in the commission of an offence against
the Customs Act (see Sec. 230), to wit, the re-
moval of goods subject to the control of
the Customs (see Sec. 33), being goods not then
delivered for home consumption (see Sec. 30).
The averment of the prosecution that Joseph
Carruthers was so concerned would be there-
upon held as proved (Sec. 255) unless Joseph Car-
ruthers proved to the contrary. The only course
open to him would be to submit to the penalty
or to swear that he had had nothing to do with
the illegal seizure. Similarly the other Minister
who attended the Executive Council, the Clerk of
the Executive Council and the Acting-Governor
could have been prosecuted. The last might raise
the objection that he took the advice of his
responsible Ministers and didn’t know it was
loaded. But for the others there would have been
no loophole. Thus in the drink-sodden atmosphere
of a common police court, in between the fining of
the lady of easy and beery virtue and the impo-
sition of a ten-shilling penalty on the offenders
against the Dog Act, the wire-netting insurrec-
tion would have spluttered out. That was the
co urse open. The Commonwealth neglected that,
and has indulged in all sorts of inane proceedings
in the High Court against the State Government,
and in other directions against the carriers!
who, after all, only obeyed orders, and should
not be punished whilst their instigators go free.
It is a great opportunity deplorably muddled—ari
example of cowardice, incapacity and stupidity
that passes all understanding.
A Plea for Fiscal Peace.
Those newspapers which assume the right to
speak for the “ business community ” of Australia
and which, on behalf of that community, are
conducting a wild agitation against the new'tariff
serve their clients badly. Business interests
above all things need settlement; in so far as they
are distinct from manufacturing interests,
high tariff or low tariff is a point of
minor importance compared with settled
tariff. Financial institutions, wholesale houses,
retail houses all feel this. Provided they
know what the fiscal policy is they can make
their arrangements with some hope of stability.
Constant change and threats of change make
business uncertain and transitory here below.
Now, if there is one deduction which caii
be • surely drawn from Australian politics,
State and Federal, it is that Protection, and
reasonably high Protection at that, is the only
possible ‘‘settled” policy. Freetrade, of a sort,
survived in one State (N. S. Wales) for some
years by a curious set of circumstances. In that
State the primary industries were extraordinarily
prosperous; huge coal, copper, silver, tin and gold
mines added vastly to the wealth from pastoral
sources; the so-called Freetrade Governments
always practised a very extensive sort of
Protection and helped the agricultural, sugar,
confectionery, beer, wine, tobacco, biscuit
and other industries with tariff protection, or with
direct or indirect bonuses in the shape of rail-
way rebates and similar surreptitious aids; and
whenever industrial crises arose the same Freetrade
Governments were always willing to borrow money
and spend it on absolutely unproductive work,
such as shifting sand-hills about from one place to
another. It was never real Freetrade, and such
as it was, its life was always threatened. On two
occasions the Protectionists won a majority. Once
they obtained office and imposed a Protective
tariff a good deal of which was left
undisturbed by succeeding “Freetrade” Govern-
ments ; the second time they were deprived
of the fruits of victory by a Freetrade
alliance with the Labor party. With the
exception of N. S. Wales, the rest of Australia
had a settled policy of Protection before the
union. As soon as Protection got the chance it
became a settled policy; Freetrade even of a sort
never enjoyed anything more than a threatened
and precarious life. With Federation the hope-
lessness of Freetrade as a national policy was early
made manifest. True, in the first Parliament,
owing to the absence of Standing Orders, a Free-
trade minority, by sheer power of jaw, was able to
wear down the Protectionist majority and maim the
Kingston tariff; but the result was never looked
upon as a “settled ” verdict. Agitation began at
once for a truer expression of the Australian senti-
ment—which is to make Australia a self-contained
national entity, producing within its own borders
every article necessary for civilised life, and for
defending that life. The result of that agitation
is the present tariff ; and that tariff represents
the irreducible minimum which the Protectionist
cause will accept. If it is whittled down, the fight
will start again. There can be no fiscal peace
without reasonable Protection. It is to the busi-
ness interest, therefore, to accept the verdict of
the country, even if it is distasteful. If the
tariff is once settled on the lines now set down, no
general revision will be necessary for a long time
to come; the industries which were threatened
with extinction will revive; the new under-
takings, which are even now being planned, will
be established ; and a manufacturing boom will
follow the boom in primary products, and set Aus-
tralia’s feet steadily in the path of prosperity.
State Extravagance.
A letter to Australia generally and to N.S.W.
more especially
Dear Bulletin, —Having become “ genuinely alarmed ”
at the “gross and growing extravagance ”of the States
of Australia, I wish to enter “an emphatic protest”
against the several governments that are “ heaping such
excessive burdens on the people of this country.” In
other words, I want to throw a few of the half-bricks back
at the States which they have hurled at the Federation
during the past six years.
Here is the first. The Public Debt of Australia at the
inception of the Commonwealth was £201,600,000. It is
now £214,000,000 —an increase of over £42,000,000. The in-
terest bill in 1901 was £7,255,000. It is to-day £8,733,000,
an increase of £1,500,000. This means that 6s. Bd. per
head has been permanently added to the annual taxa-
tion of the people of Australia. But this is not all. Of
the total sum borrowed by Australia since Federation,
New South Wales is responsible for a little more than
one-half, nearly £21,868,000. Asa consequence, her
interest bill has increased by £775,000 per annum, or
putting it into a Joe Carrutiiers fee, each unit of the
Ma State has had 13s. 4d. added to its annual burden.
Such an awful imposition on the people seems to warrant
two half-bricks, and the aim should be deadly.
Take another view (also another half-brick): State ex-
penditure at the time of Federation, 1901, exclusive of
the services transferred to the Commonwealth, equalled
£25,500,000, of which sum New South Wales was re-
sponsible for £9,000,000. To-day, despite the fact
that the States are not now responsible for the
Post Office, Customs, Defence, External Affairs, and
several other services, with which the Federal Parlia-
ment now deals, the States have increased their
annual expenditure by £4,285,000. Yet the States
howl themselves hoarse about the alleged extravagance
of the Commonwealth—hoping, no doubt, that the noise
they make will distract the attention of the people from
the holes in the State Treasury chest, through which the
real leakages come. It should also be noted that of the
four millions odd above referred to, New South Wales is
responsible for £2,350,000. Verily tbe State of New
South Wales excels itself in economy, and has reason
therefore to constitute itself the guardian of public
finance throughout Australia.
Take still another set of facts, and don’t forget the
missile. Since Federation, the Commonwealth has not
borrowed a single penny. All its works have been con-
structed out of' revenue. These works have averaged
£280,000 a year, or for the six years past, in exact
£1,683,128. During' the same period, and despite
the obligation to carry on its public works policy out of
the ordinary revenue of the year, the Commonwealth
has, out of its own share of the tariff revenue, made a
„ t0 the States of £5,728,000, of which sum the
Ala (state has had £2,361,000. The gross extravagance of
appalt ™' ll0nWealth *^ e h'ffht of these figures is truly
During the six years since Federation the States have
!>o? e £ ded 0ld Loan Funds the poor little sum of
£3.),755 000. Of this sum New South Wales stands re-
sponsible for £17,400,000, or something like £3,000,000
sterling per annum. This is no orgy : only iust a
common drunk.
To summarise the situation, permit me to add the fol-
lowing tables, showing more concisely the actual posi-
tion
Debts and Interest, at and Since Federation.
N.S.W.’s
Australia. share.
1. Public debt at time of
Federation, 1/1/1901 .. £201,580,185 £63,774,146
2. Interest on same .. 7,254,948 2,278,084
3. Debt incurred by States
since Federation .. 41,893,600 21,867,587
4. Interest on same .. 1,478,285 774,772
5. Debt incurred by Com-
monwealth .. .. Nil
6. Interest on same .. Nil —
Loan expenditure and expenditure out of revenue by
the Commonwealth, and by the State of New South
Wales :
„ Australia. N.S.W.
State expenditure at time
of Federation (1899-
1900) exclusive of trans-
ferred services .. .. £25,469,084 £9,045,096
State expenditure, 1905-6 29,754,259 11,395,243
Total loan expenditure on
works and buildings,
1900-1 to 1905-6.. 35,755,468 17,356,692
Total loan expenditure by
Commonwealth on addi-
tions, new works and
buildings since Federa-
tion, 1901-2 to 1906-7 .. Nil —
Total interest on same .. Nil
If the intelligent elector of New South Wales will paste
the foregoing tables in his hat they may serve to remind
him of the curious perversity of a humorless community.
Yours in truth,
J. Hume Cook.
4 .
The Brute Selfishness of Wilks.
A CURIOUS person is Wilks, of Balmain (N.S.W.),
who represents an iron-working and ship-building
electorate—almost the only ship-building elec-
torate in Australia. He is a Freetrader,
so he told the House of Reps. (31/7/’07),
“holding strenuously as ever to the fiscal
views of a life time,” the same being that
“ Protection means stagnation and ruin wherever
introduced.” -Nevertheless, so far as concerns
Protection (the thing that stagnates and ruins)
in Balmain, Wilks is “determined to get his
share for his electorate.” “The basis of Protec-
tion,” proceeded this sturdy Freetrader, “is the
iron industry, and a true Protectionist would
commence there.” Having next explained to
the House that the sole object the Laborites
had in supporting things like bounties, etc.,
was the creation of monopolies for the pur-
pose of later on nationalising the same, Mr.
Wilks observed that personally he was bitterly
opposed to the creation and nationalisation of
monopolies ; and then once more he reiterated his
firm determination to ruin Balmain and foster a
monopoly there by supporting Protection and
bounties for iron. So in the end this is the
amazing attitude of Wilks : —
(1) Protection is ruinous.
(2) If there is any ruin going about Wilks is going to
grab a share of it with both hands.
(3) In fact Wilks demands that his electorate shall be
ruined first, and shall get the biggest share of the ruin.
After all, the only possible inference seems to be
that Wilkes knows Protection to be a mighty
good thing, though for some inexplicable reason
he lies about it; that he knows the lack of Protec-
tion to be injurious ; that he wants to grab all of
the good thing for his own electorate ; and that,
for some villainous reason or other, he wants to
injure the rest of N.S.W. and the rest of Aus-
tralia. If there is any other inference to be
drawn from the attitude of W. Wilks a great
many persons would like to know what it is.
, 4 .
Australian Kerosene Possibilities.
The mineral oil-producing business has not been
much of a success in Australia. In fact, in recent
years it has been so severe a frost that, when a
while ago a £600,000 “corporation” was formed
in England to exploit certain N. S. Wales shale
measures, this paper regarded the promoters’
hifalutin with all the suspicion that it had on the
premises. The Commonwealth Oil Corporation
wasn’t, however, all hifalutin. It began to pour
out money, and has about 1300 men on its works—
mostly, so far, getting things ready. In from 12 to
18 months it expects to have its works completed,
and then, unless its plans are all at sea, it will
be able to turn out something like 20,000,000
gallons of oil of one sort and another a year. Of
those 20,000,000 gallons, about half might be kero-
sene oil. Whether it will be kerosene oil or not
depends on several things. One of those things is
the vast Standard Oil concern of America, pro-
bably the most powerful and cold-blooded organi-
sation in the world. If that concern makes up its
mind that kerosene shall not be made in Aus-
tralia, out of Australian shale for Australian use,
then, unless there is a tariff to stop the Standard
Oil people, it is certain that Australian kerosene
will not be made. For many years past the N. S.
Wales Shale and Oil Co. —whose business the
Commonwealth co. took over—made no kerosene.
The Standard Oil people wouldn’t let it. The
question now is whether Australia is going to let
the Standard Oil people have their way, or
whether it will encourage an effort to use its
own great natural oil resources. The new
tariff says pretty frankly that the effort
is not worth while. It proposes to let kero-
sene oil in free, so long as it comes in
bulk ; all it proposes to do is to give a little
encouragement to the tinning industry. At
present Russian and Burmah and Malay oil
arrives in bulk, and is mostly distributed in that
form ; that is to say, it is mostly not tinned and
cased. This bulk oil is still to come in duty free.
That possibly may lead to the Standard Oil people
also importing in bulk. Whatever happens, so
long as bulk oil comes in free, the Australian
kerosene trade seems to have no hope at all. The
tariff, in short, doesn’t protect the Australian
oil-producer to the smallest extent. Whether
Australia can produce enough oil for its own
consumption is another matter. If it can,
and a duty of anything up to 20 or
25 per cent, will put it on its feet, then
the duty ought to go on. The present import
value is about lOd. per gallon ; so even a 25 per
cent, duty would amount to less than 3d. per
gallon. The Commonwealth co.’s plant will, it
is alleged, have a capacity of 10,000,000 gallons a
year; the Australian consumption amounts to
about 15,000,000 gallons. The Commonwealth
Corporation is not, however, the only shale co. in
N. S. Wales; if the big concern can supply
10,000,000 gallons, the others ought to be able to
make up 5,000,000 gallons among them. It has,
however, to be admitted that the actual capacity
of all these works is not yet proved ; and, anyway,
they are at least 12 months off production on a
large scale. Under the circumstance, Tariff Bill
Lyne no doubt did the right thing when, for the
present, he made bulk kerosene free. But,
sin ?® .is to be hoped that the present
tariff will fix things for some years to
come, this also appears to be - one of the pro-
ducts as to which Lyne might apply the provision
he has already applied to iron. If, later on, this
Commonwealth co., and other cos. can show
that they are in a position to supply the Aus-
tralian demand—if also they can show (which
obviously they can’t at present) that their oil is of
good quality—then if 3d. or so a gallon will fill
Australian lamps with Australian oil, and make
them independent of the big soulless American
octopus, the 3d. ought to be provided for now
under those conditions. Twenty years ago the
Australian Kerosene Oil and Mineral Cos. had the
“bouthern Cross” kerosene on the Australian
market, and if the firm promise of a threepenny
duty will bring it back again, it will be a well-
promised thrippence. This country’s wholesale
kerosene bill runs to half-a-million a year, and
Australia wants every half-million it can get.
-
A Wasted River and a Federal Capital.
One of the side issues of the question re the
Federal capital is the Snowy River. The out-
standing feature of by far the greater portion of
Australia is the desperate scarcity of water. This
country requires to utilise what water it possesses
most carefully, for drinking, washing, irrigation,
and the supply of electric power, light and heat;
there is also a question about navigation, but
there is so little water to spare for navigation
purposes that that aspect of the case is about
dead. Yet amid this scarcity there is the lament-
able spectacle of the swift, copious, ever reliable
Snowy going to waste. It is never likely to be of
much use for irrigation, for it runs through a
well-watered part of N.S.W. and then turns into
the wettest region of Victoria and pervades a dis-
trict where there is practically nothing to irrigate
except rocks. There is very little human popula-
tion to drink out of the Snowy, and over the
greatest part of its course even sheep and cattle
are scarce. The proposal to establish a Federal
city at Dalgety means the utilisation of this
magnificent waste product. It means that
it will be the drinking and washing supply
of a large population, that it will be used
to furnish light, heat and power; that instead of
letting good N.S. W. water run to waste among
the inaccessible Victorian valleys of Tambo and
Croajingolong, it will be turned into a source of
great wealth. On the other hand the parochial
party proposes to let this waste of Australia’s
most essential product continue, and to put the
Federal capital where it must depend on such
water as the N.S.W. State Government likes to
allow it out of Barren Jack reservoir. Barren
Jack is an irrigation reservoir. Its waters should
all be wanted when the irrigation system is full-
grown, and when dry seasons return, to wet the
thirsty plains and dry lowlands of Western
Kaverina and other districts. The folly of
pitching a city alongside Barren Jack to con-
sume a whole lot of the water which is other-
wise required, while the Snowy runs to waste as
it has run ever since Australia first existed, should
be patent to everyone, and it is patent to most
people save those who define State Rights
as the art and mystery of being cantankerous
to the Australian Government at all times and
about everything. This question of the waste of
the Snowy River is quite independent of the
other question about the absolute necessity of
placing the Federal capital where it will have its
own water supply—not where it will have to go
round humbly with a jug to Carrothers’ back
door and ask for a drink, not where it will only
get what water the State can spare, and not where
it will have no control over the cleanliness of the
supply. Irrigation is yet in its infancy in N.S.W.,
and the peopling of the western Kaverina has
only just commenced. Both time and affairs will
change, and if the Federal capital is located at
Canberra or Yass, where it will depend on a
State-owned reservoir, a dry time will almost
assuredly come when the infuriated population of
Riverina will besiege the State Premier, and
want to know why they should go short so that
the Federal capital can have its daily bath, and
water its streets and its gardens, and have its
electric light and heat and power supply. And
that infuriated populace will intimate that unless
it gets more of what fluid is going, and the
Federal city puts up with less, there will be bad
trouble at the forthcoming elections. And all the
time the Snowy River will be babbling busily
over the rocks of Tambo and Croajingolong to the
sea, making scenery and music with good Corn-
stalk water for the beastly and ungrateful Vic-
torian, but serving no material purpose.
Licking.
The thoughtless persons who disputed B. Smith’s
theory that the Motherland, with its foreign-
import system and absence of harassing legisla-
tive checks on Private Enterprise, is the best
place on earth for the worker, simply calls for
scorn and silent contempt. Take, for instance,
Britain’s label-licking industry. In this benighted
Commonwealth there is nothing of the sort; and
yet in England label-licking flourishes muchly,
and gives employment to hundreds. Labels
could be licked by a mechanical process,
but girls are so cheap in England that the
work is done by human mouth. According
to the Inspector of Factories’ latest report (Daily
Mail, l!)/7/’07), the future British mother (label-
licking is all done by girls, for the sake of
economy) “gets her first taste of the gum when
12 years old.” By the time she has reached 14,
ancl sometimes before, she is working the
full nine hours and a half a day, and is fully
accomplished in the task of licking labels.
A typical case cited is that of a girl of 15 in a
Leek (Staffordshire) establishment, who,
working full time (viz., % hours) for five days, received
for those five days 2s. 9d. In a few cases the inspector
heard of girls earning as much as 10s. a week, but in the
course of inquiries among numerous workers he spoke to
no individual who earned as much as that.
After which an alluring picture is given of the
girl at work :
I saw a bright-eyed, pale-faced girl putting labels oh
reels of silk with the bewildering- rapidity of a juggler.
Before her, on the table, was a tray about two feet
square, packed with reels on end. Her head was bent
forward over them. Her left hand and her right hand
were travelling alternately to her mouth with machine-
like swiftness, and it was quite impossible to analyse her
movements. It could only be observed that the tray of
reels was acquiring a surface of paper discs as a ceiling
acquires whitewash.
“Do you taste the gum ?” I asked. “ No,” .she said.
“ I don’t notice it. I have been licking labels for a year ”
she continued. “At times it makes me feel very sick
after my day’s work is done. I work nine and a half
hours a day, and I can get through 25 gross in that time
It takes me about five minutes to box up each gross • the
rest of the time is spent in licking the labels ” ’
Another frail, white-faced girl of 19, told me she had
“Swadeshi.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The real cause of the unrest in India, as evinced in the
violence of the movement for “Swadeshi ” —which means
“ My own country’s products for me is to be looked
for in our having 1 forced on the country a fiscal system
which we choose to call “ Freetrade,” but which every
educated Indian, without a single exception, believes to
be destructive of all their indigenous industries. All the
speeches and writings of all their leaders ring with this
indictment. And as our so-called “Freetrade” has
absolutely prevented any development of Indian com-
mercial and industrial life, the many thousands of clever
and ambitious young Indians who every year leave the
Indian Universities and high schools find no scope what-
ever for their talents. — Sir Boper Lethbridge.
Just a word of Hindustanee
From that great, dependent land
Where each rajah and his ranee
Fret beneath a foreign hand ;
But a comprehensive yearning—
“ What my country makes for me ” —
From a people who are learning
What a nation ought to be.
Year by year the Path of Knowledge
Throngful more and more is seen.
Year by year, from school and college,
Pour fresh students, finished, keen,
Who, with wakened reason, hanker
For Protection’s kindly sway,
As they watch the “ Freetrade ” canker
Eat their industries away.
And these phrase their faith’s confession,
Find a patriotic plan
In “Swadeshi,” an expression—
Though it hails from Hindustan—
Which is also Anglo-Saxon
In its healthy point of view,
For it preaches “Put a tax on
Foreign profiters by you.
“ Penalise the exploitation,
Of your country from outside.
Buy the products of your nation,
As becomes your proper pride.
So, the folks at home employing,
You shall self-supporting be ;
And may Siva, the Destroying,
Take the grasping Feringhee ! ”
And, by all the stars that twinkle
In the firmament on high,
This “Swadeshi ” is a wrinkle
Which we well might profit by.
Succinct, serviceable teaching !
May the days soon dawn that see
All Australia go a-preaching
Just “My country’s works for me ! ”
For this word of Hindustanee,
From the mystic, restive land
Of the rajah and the ranee,
Is a cry we understand.
Though no full accordance showing,
Lest the dark man flout the white, •
In our hearts we can’t help knowing
That the tinted one is right.
N.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.


been licking labels for five years. About two-third 8
of the day would be occupied in the process.
“ Do you ever feel the effects after your work is done ? ”
“ Yes, I’m sick sometimes.”
Britain may have retired from its old position of
premier manufacturing country of the world since
it took to Freetrade; also its farming industry
may be decaying ; but in exchange it has got the
label-licking industry, and others like it, whereat
thousands are employed at a round ha’penny
an hour apiece. And that should satisfy any
country.
♦
The Song of the Shirt.
A Select Committee of the British House of
Commons has been sitting to inquire into the con-
dition of home workers in England. The latest
London papers supply some facts. In Soho one
witness found
houses used for domestic purposes that contained as
many as twelve workshops, and each was a living room, a
bedroom, a kitchen, and a nursery for the children. . . .
.Morning visits to these places disclosed parents and
children asleep on or at the table in their work-a-day
clothes, there being every indication that they had been
at work all night.
Six shillings these people got for making a twenty-
guinea motor-coat. The price paid for making
the same coat a few years ago was 11s. 6d.; but
“wages have been falling steadily since.”
“ Trousers which used to fetch 10s. per dozen for
the making are now made for 2s. lid.” And
so on. The Government would deal with
this somehow, it is understood, were it not that
there is at stake the inalienable right of the Free-
trader and individualist to get all he can as cheap
as he can. Truly, England is due for another
Song of the Shirt. The old song failed miserably.
It moved the great heart of England, and England
arose with tears in its eyes and reduced the wages
of the woman who “sat in unwomanly rags plying
needle and thread.” Freetrade and “free com-
petition,” and “ the inalienable right of freedom
of contract,” and the operation of “the law of
demand and supply,” and all the rest of the cal-
lous, heartless, soulless rubbish that Carruthkrs
and Reid, and Bruce Smith and Grace Watson’s
Women’s League know all about, have made her
eyelids redder and her frame bonier, and made it
a longer, thinner, gaunter shadow that she casts
when she gets between the guttering candle and
the blank wall. Great indeed are Freetrade and
freedom of contract. They are said to make
food cheap—at least cheap food from Protectionist
countries is imported into the Freetrade country.
They also make sewing-women so pitifully cheap,
and if the food wasn’t cheap as well as adulte-
rated the poor wretch wouldn’t get any at all. As
it is, she gets so little that she is almost too
transparent to cast a shadow these days.
♦
One tariff item that has specially grieved the
Argus, and has made the Sydney Telegraph
quite hilarious, is the duty on chairs —30 per
cent, or 7s. 6d., whichever is highest, A big im-
porter whom the Argus interviewed spoke
The duty of 7s. 6d. per chair means that the local sell-
ing price is increased by 200 or 300 per cent. Vienna
chairs ordinarily cost ss. 9d.; now they will cost 14s. 10d.,
the difference being made up by the duty and the extra
percentage on total cost retained by the firm.
Can these chairs be made here ?
I WILL NOT SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THAT. . . We have 2000
chairs at the wharf now for which the public will have to
pay 14s. lOd. each instead of ss. 9d.
Consider the touching solicitude for the public
that will either have to pay 14s. lOd. or sit on the
floor. And, having considered that, recall that it
is only a few weeks since the Richmond (Vic.)
council bought 60 chairs for its Town Hall from
an importer at ss. 6d. each, though a local maker’s
tender was ss. 9d. To-day, according to the im-
porter, that council would have to pay 14s. lOd. for
its seats, if it employed foreign workmen to make
them ; therefore, for the next lot that is wanted,
the local maker, who can do the job for ss. 9d.,
will assuredly get the contract. And, by reason
of having the local market assured to him, he will
probably get in more machinery and reduce his
price to ss. ; but those 2000 imported chairs at 14s.
lOd. each are likely to stay at the wharf, or get
very dusty in the warehouse. And that explains
all the pitiful howling of the importer who, when
asked if the chairs couldn’t be made in Australia,
“wouldn’t say anything about that.”
Queensland will have Wages Boards soon ; and
it can’t have them too soon. In the last Parlia-
ment they were provided for in the Factories Bill;
but one or two members of the House of Fat were
so horrified at some of the Bill’s provisions that
they threw it out bodily. Wages Boards and all.
They won’t be able to defeat the scheme by that
trick this time; for now the Boards have a Bill to
themselves. Works Minister O’Sullivan pro-
duced a bundle of awful examples when he moved
the second reading, including the Brisbane tailor’s
shop where 84 hands are employed—two get
nothing, 24 get 2s. 6d., and 53 out of the 84
average 3s. 7d. Practically the Bill has had no
opposition in the Assembly, though Digby
Denham, the produce-store rat, “warned the
Government against a result from the measure
such as had been realised in Victoria the
sacrifice of the weak workers for the benefit of
the strong.” Denham probably doesn’t know
that in V ictoria that gag is worn out and isn’t
used now, since Chief Inspector Ord trod violently
on it in his reports. And the State where the
weakest of its workers in a tailor’s shop get
nothing needn’t worry about the direful effects
of Wages Boards on weak workers. No Wages
Board can squeeze the weak workers’ wages below
nothing a week, anyhow.
♦
The community is still waiting to hear what
Chief Justice Darley has to say, or what he
means to do. In his capacity as the Governor’s
deputy, he presided at that remarkable meeting
of the N.S.W. Executive which authorised the
seizure of a quantity of wire netting—an out-
rageous breach of the law, and an act of silly
insurrection. But for the ill-advised leniency or
utter cowardice of the Australian Government the
parties responsible—who seem to have been Car-
ruthers, Hogue, and the Deputy-Governor—
would have been dragged to the police court next
day, and there—unless the Governor’s deputy
could plead some special privilege to save him
from the consequences of his action—they would
have been fined along with the drunks and the
sneak thieves. And this painful event may yet
happen; the Australian Government may simply
be saving up the joy of taking Carruthers and
the rest to Court among the drunks and sneak
thieves as a show for election day. It is an un-
dignified position for any foolish Deputy-Governor
to get into, and after such an episode it seems
about time for him to step down and out. A
Deputy-Governor who lends his name to violence,
lawlessness and insurrection is due to step down
from all his public positions.
+
Supposing the N.S.W. Government wins its case,
and all the duty hitherto paid to the Common-
wealth on goods imported by the State for its own
use is ordered to be refunded, and the Common-
wealth is ordered to pay costs, a most interesting
situation will arise. Call the duty involved
£500,000—any old sum will do for purposes of
illustration. Of that sum about £450,000 has been
refunded to N.S.W. ; so, to begin with, N.S.W.
must pay that back to the Australian Govern-
ment. Then the Australian Government will pay
the State Government £500,000 —the £450,000
already mentioned, and £50,000 which it will have
to stop out of N.S.W.’s share at the next
division of surplus revenue, so N.S.W. will
be exactly where it would have been if it
had lost the case. For if N.S.W. has
been paying the Commonwealth money that it
shouldn’t have paid, N.S.W. has been getting
back surplus that it shouldn’t have received.
As to the Costs, they will simply mean less
Customs and Excise surplus to hand back, so
N.S.W. will pay them too. The point that the
wall-headed grievance-mongers can’t get into
their skulls is that in this matter they are
furiously proceeding against themselves. In
their State capacity they are suing themselves in
their Federal capacity, which is just the same as
a man in his capacity as a book-keeper attacking
himself in his capacity as a Primitive Methodist
under the impression that the Primitive
Methodist is somebody else.
«
A bit of history : —
Oarruthers talked to the N.S.W. Country Shop-
keepers’Association the other day about “this monster
of Federation,” which they had created. Oarruthers is
apparently quite capable of presently posing as a person
who always knew that it was a monster, and who spent
strenuous days and nights trying to protect N. S. Wales
from it. It is just as well, under those circumstances, to
state what Oarruthers’ attitude was right through the
Federal fight. Elected as an avowed Federalist, he
attended all three sessions of the Convention. There,
right from the jump he set himself up among the ardent
Australians—the men who scouted the idea that the
small States would impose burdens upon the big States.
The most important thing he did was in connection with
deadlocks. The Convention had first adopted the idea
of two Houses. Then it had adopted the idea of
equal representation in the Senate. Some of the
big States’ representatives fought that. Isaacs, of Vic-
toria, led the Radical opposition from the big States.
“ You ask for a shield,” he told the small States men,
“ and you grasp a sword.” Still the idea of equal repre-
sentation of big and little States was adopted. Then
came the question of deadlocks —the question of how to
have two Houses, one not representing the people on a
population basis, and yet to provide for government by
the people. That originated about the biggest fight in
the whole session. Isaacs and his party, fearful of the
little States (Dobson, in reply to an interjection, had told
the Convention that in Tasmania they gave people
“as many votes as they deserved”), insisted on the
supremacy of the people, and therefore of the House of
Reps. After some days of talk, Oarruthers, who now
laments about this “ monster of Federation,” proposed
(Sept. 20, 1897) that, after the double dissolution, there
should be a joint sitting of the two Houses. Isaacs
fought it; he said it would give the representatives of a
minority of the people power to impose their will upon
the majority, as represented in the Reps. Oarruthers
followed Isaacs, and called on the Convention to trust
Australia—at the worst, the joint sitting couldn’t amend
a Bill; it must either accept or reject. Finally, Car-
ruthkrs’ provision was adopted. The incident shows
how Oarruthers posed at a time when Federation was
new and enthusiasm at fever heat. He was the Whole Hog
Federalist. He was the Australian. He was no State Frights
man (the State Frights man just then was the man who in-
sisted upon the “rights” of the big States)—in fact, he
was the man who proposed that the Senate representa-
tive of the mere handful of people in Tasmania should
sit in the same meeting, with the same powers, as the
direct representative of the biggest constituency in N. S.
Wales. Now the same man makes his disorderly scrap of
bread and butter out of State Frights, and talks of the
“ monster of Federation.”
There are some stirring issues in the N.S.W.
State elections. The O’Sullivan is being assailed
in Belmore by the youthful and intense Teece,
mainly on the question of whether, some time in
his murk-stained past, he did or did not close up
a street in the Chow-infested locality which both
are seeking to represent: —
“ Ask Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan who closed Devonshire-
street—that great artery of the city— to the people of
Belmore,” said Mr. F. S. Boyce, speaking last night in
support of Mr. C. Teecb’s candidature for Belmore.—
S. M. Herald, 31/7/’07.
And each Sullyite present quailed somewhat and
shuddered considerably at the words. Then Mr.
P. H. Sullivan has put the electioneering kybosh
on the patriot Meagher by proving
(1) that he (P.H.S.) does not live in a' house worth £3000,
(2) nor wear a diamond ring on his finger as Mr. Meagher
does. Oh, no. (Cheers.)
If Meagher has any sense of decency he will now
consider himself politically dead. At Bathurst
Bill Young and one Miller, a Carruthersite, in
the intervals of advocating ultra-Socialism, dis-
pute bitterly as to which is the more likely, if
elected, to get large sums of money borrowed for
the constituency. On that scorching point the
ultimate result is understood to hang. To come
down to Oarruthers, he practically bases his
claim to office just now on the fact tnat he has
recently smuggled a quantity of wire netting, and
Wade, Waddle, etc., rely on the proved circum-
stance that they hit their leader approvingly on
the back when he smuggled the netting, and
remarked “ Good on yer,” “ Hear, hear,” and the
like.
Rampant foes of the New Tariff before
raging at large should put in a few quiet moments
with that spirit of progress, D.O.L. Whisky.
Indeed all thinking men should approach the
Tariff question in a D.C.L, spirit.*
The shameful and wicked time-server (or
the madman, whichever he may be) who acts as
Local Premier in N.S.W., has now begun to talk
openly about “ bloodshed,” and foolish fat men
and silly women who never saw “bloodshed,” and
who can’t seem to understand that it may be
their blood, applaud cheerfully. Nowadays any
lingering shred of truth and coherence seems to
have fled from Joe. He raves about N.S.W. having
been “drawn into” the Federal compact, and
about “Melbourne” having “offered us this
gift,” quite oblivious of the fact that it was
N.S.W. which originated the Federal movement;
and in his incoherences about the Federal capital
he seems to shout in a new direction every day.
Two or three of Joe’s satellites are now
permitted by the daily papers to advocate
rebellion, battle, and other crazy things; and
Jim Gannon has decided that Oarruthers put on
the Federal Customs duties, and was thus wholly
responsible for the abundance of money in the
N.S.W. Treasury, and that all the prosperity of
the State is due to Joe. “Far be it from me to
rob the Almighty of any limelight,” says Gannon,
but still, Joe did it all. Some of Oarruthers’
supporters seem even madder than himself; yet
it is a great thing to know that Jim Gannon,
racehorse owner, isn’t going to rob the Almighty
—that he won’t pick the tail-pocket of Jehovah,
so to speak. It is really kind of Jim Gannon.
Now that summer is close at hand, it will
be advisable for all Local Bodies to get supplied
with Tyree Sprayers, as under the new Local
Government Act, Local Bodies are held respon-
sible for the good health of the public. The
quickest thing to prevent disease is the Tyree
Sprayer. Send for printed matter and particulars
to Tyree Ltd., 314 George Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Way to Kenmare.”
Criterion “Human Hearts.”
Royal “ The Fatal Wedding."
Palace “Miss Lancashire, Limited.
Tivoli Rickards’ Cos.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Robin Hood.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Dairy Maids.”
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Bijou “ Two Little Vagabonds.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Cos.
Town Hall Clara Butt Concerts (commencing
September 10th).
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Exhibition Building. .. Besses o’ th’ Barn.
After one act of “ Tom Moore ” on Satur-
day night, a committee of Irishmen wandered on
to the stage of Her Majesty’s (Sydney) to wel-
come Andrew Mack back to Sydney. Dr. McCarthy
having said what a wonderful fellow Andrew
Mack was, Andrew Mack replied that he was
back so soon among the warm Australian hearts
because he had been feeling lonesome. Mack’s
voice certainly is thinner even than it was ; still
there was no reason why his shows elsewhere
should have been deserted. But perhaps he didn’t
mean that. The warmth of the welcome to
Sydney was certainly scorching; yet just how
long a Mack boom would last even there
it would be hard to say. He is too good
a showman to put it to the test —he jumps in
for three weeks or a month, offers anew piece every
few evenings, and is off again before the public
has had time to form an opinion of its own. Good
puffing should see any moderately capable mum-
mer through a three-weeks season—especially the
mummer who will tell Ireland abroad that Ireland
at home is a much more distressful country than
it ought to be.
* * * *
Asa matter of cold fact, Mack, because
he appeals to the warm Celtic heart, gets a recep-
tion out of all proportion to his merits; and the
phlegmatic person who hasn’t got the Celtic
enthusiasm is liable to be misled thereby.
And Mack’s pieces are even less worthy
of the noise that is made about them.
Take this “ Tom Moore.” Dr. McCarthy talked
about Mack “raising the tone of Irish drama.”
Well, true, Mack doesn’t say “Damn” more than
25 times, but where’s the elevation in the tone
apart from the fact that Tom mixes with lords
and other people who wear fine clothes, no doubt,
but are of very doubtful character ? If it is eleva-
ting the tone of Irish drama to make a hash of
history, to have an utter disregard for facts and
dates, then “Tom Moore” attains tremendous
heights. From start to finish the play makes
ducks and drakes of practically every
leading feature in Moore’s life; the final
scene shows the Prince Regent, after a quarrel
which never occurred, at a place that never ex-
isted, giving Tom the office of Poet Laureate
(which he never held), in the presence of Bessie
Dyke, whom he had married before ever he left
Ireland, years and years previous to the alleged
date of this alleged happening.
* * * *
It is a one-man show, and the piece is
built for one-man purposes. The end and aim of
the dialogue is that Thomas may score. Every
other character is the flint on which the princi-
pal strikes out sparks. Looked at from this
point of view, it is clever. The introduction of
the school in the first act, to give Tom a
chance to show how he loves the chil-
dren, is part of the cleverness. But it
really gets - monotonous. You want somebody
else to score at least one hole sometimes. Cer-
tainly there isn’t anything very striking about
the support. Miss Kelton, as Bessie Dyke, is
coquettish. But it is a part very difficult to
follow, and there is little reality about it. Miss
Mack Berlein repeats her old success as Mrs.
Malone who wants the rint. Mack sings to her
and melts her heart. He sings the old songs
mostly—the songs he sang two years ago; and,
though he puts a good deal of expression into
them, it is doubtful whether the effect of his
warbling in this case isn’t exaggerated. Fred.
Cambourne supplies comic relief, Mr. McCormick
draws a good picture of McDermott the pub-
lisher —and there will be a change to “ The Way
to Kenmare ” next Saturday.
** * *
The Ward and Willoughby combination
(not forgetting Miss Grace Palotta, who is its
life and soul) concludes this week at Sydney
Criterion an Australian season which has ex-
tended over two smiling years. It was a merry
crowd, and Australia will be sorry to think that
the time has come for a last laugh at its quips.
Beginning with “The Man from Mexico,” which
was farce at its broadest, the co. worked up to
“Mr. Hopkinson,” which was a comedy of wit
as much as of humor, and always scored well.
Miss Palotta as the Duchess, as the Circus girl,
as the athletic American girl, as the credulous
wife of “the Man from Mexico”; Hugh Ward
as “ Hoppy,” as Lord Cyril Garstin, and as the
farcical convict; Willoughby as the circus-master
—these humorous creations deserve to be remem-
bered. The Sydney season closes on Friday, when
Miss Grace Palotta has a benefit; and Sydney,
which owes her many a benefit, will probably
attend in as much force as the theatre will permit.
** * *
“Human Hearts,” which can proudly
claim to have shared the American record success
with “The Fatal Wedding,” will be staged at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday; Edwin Geach,
manager. It is said to abound in all the things
that make a drama a payable proposition, and on
the prospectus the public will probably apply for
all the seats on opening night.
** * *
Owing—so it is darkly hinted in importing
circles —to the infamous Commonwealth impost
on morphia and vitriol, “A Warning to Women,”
which depends wholly for existence on a free use
by Miss Hildyard of these commodities, ceases to
warn at Sydney Royal after next Friday; and
the talented lady, who was herself the chiefest
warning of them all, goes away to Maoriland.
Which is yet another black mark for Sydneyites
to register up in connection with the man
Lyne against the day when the glorious
Oarruthers gets his revolutionary tumbrils going
and the street lamp-posts in hanging trim.
By way of compensation (or aggravation, as the
case may be), Gaston Mervale produces on the
following Saturday (or perpetrates ; it is purely a
question of the point of view) “ The Fatal Wed-
ding.” The heroine, Miss Mclntosh, is already
among us (she arrived on Tuesday), and Harcourt
Beatty and Gaston Mervale propose to support
her in the coming trouble, therefore she will net
lack for sustenance. A clever band of children
has been engaged, and all round this particular
wedding promises to be fatal enough to give
Divorce Judge G. B. Simpson the spasms, and
induce him to lie down and gasp in his tracks.
A benefit concert, given by the citizens
of Sydney last week to Blanche Arral, was one
of the happiest musical events of the year. The
French lady, with her vivacious freshness and
absolute perfection of voice production, is material
for a fine concert herself; and she was helped for
this evening by tenor Chester Fentress, violinist
Staell, pianist Godfrey Smith, Alfred Wunder-
lich (an amateur with an artistic baritone voice),
J. E. Sykes, and Miss Alice Bryant. It was a
friendly festival of music. Blanche Arral, in re-
sponse to pressing encores, sang time and again,
from the grand “ Hamlet” aria and the “Faust
finale to a Spanish drinking song and a simple
English ballad; and the other volunteer singers
gave, too, of their best. “A generous compli-
ment to a great artiste” the advt. said, and
for once the advt. was about right.
* * # *
Miss Florence Baines’ company-promo-
ting, punctuated with songs and the wrecking of
furniture, still holds the floor at Sydney Palace.
The public must have wanted “ Miss Lancashire,
Limited,” for the farce is getting unlimited
support, and is in its second month.
* # * *
Miss Maisie Schell is the latest maid of
the ivories to come back from foreign study with
a dilly-bag full of diplomas from famous teachers.
On Wednesday, September 10, she will give a
concert in the Centenary Hall, assisted by Miss
Fiorelli, F. Mowat Carter, J. E. Sykes, and
Charles Callow. Last-named is a warbler from
Maoriland. Miss Schell, in spite of her Hoch Der
Kaiser name, is a pretty Australian. She gave
successful concerts in such fanatically musical
centres as Munich and Mayence.
* * *
If the rest of explorer Rickards’ dis-
coveries in the ’alls of Europe are as good as those
he has already sent out, Sydney Tivoli will have
to add another storey to its cash-box. No two
better turns of their sort than those of the
Geraldos andof Price and Re vost —thelatter couple
arrived on Saturday—have ever been unshipped.
Every juggler is allowed an occasional slip; but
in their amazing play with hoops and clubs, the
Geraldo four, if they do slip, have the art that
conceals blunders. Price and Revost are a pair
of another sort. Price (if it isn’t Revost)
is an india-rubber ball ; Revost (if it
isn’t Price) is apparently an ex-Governor
in a heavy disguise, who has at last turned his
vast capacity for falling-off into money. Add to
these star items the singing of Hamilton Hill, the
man of the fine, robustious voice and the remark-
able manner, and of Rochfort and Hart, and you
get good value for the money—even if you do
have to put up with Irving Sayles, whose per-
formance nowadays really amounts to little more
than a roar.
* * ¥ *
“ The Spring Chicken ” is supplying this
Agricultural Show week want at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne). With Roberts back in his old place
as the husband who chicks in the spring, and
Miss Barber adorning the part that Miss Moroll
merely filled, the revival of “T.S.C.”is better
than the original performance of nine months ago.
But it is only a six nights’ affair. On Saturday,
for the first time in Australia, “ The Dairy-
maids” will be staged, and in this much-expected
frivolity a new lady from London will join the
co., and Miss Emma Temple will make her re-
appearance—after long years—in a Williamsonian
musical piece. The advt. says she is making her
on the lyric stage, but the word of an advt.
is worth about as much as that of anofficah and a
gentleman—in a divorce case.
* # * *
When Charles Holloway ventured to
revive “ Two Little Vagabonds,” at Melbourne
Bijou, he gave the house its first chance
to accommodate a large audience since it was
“done up.” The “Vags” is a drama notable
for spots of genuine pathos in its other-
wise foolish story, and the Holloway Co. — ;
identically the same as appeared at the Princess’s
a while ago—is good in the name parts. Also it
is good enough in many other places, and would
be better if J. P. O’Neill were to talk in a
humanly Irish tone of voice instead of adopting a
long-drawn-out, hybrid accent which gets upon
the nerves of his fellow-creatures. “ Bill Mullins,
the Gaffer,” is understood to be an Irishman,
anyhow ; therefore O’Neill has no excuse for
trifling with the character’s native tongue. The
drama is neatly staged, and the non-emaciated
Wally will presumably die of a corf for another
week.
*- *• * *
The amateur performance of “ The
Tyranny of Tears,” which happened at Her
Majesty’s on Friday, proved to be justifiable in
nearly all of its details. The sins that Charity
was required to cover were less multitudinous
than had been expected, and although the first
act at the beginning threatened a dismal failure,
the last act closed in a blaze of amateur theatrical
triumph. Seemingly it is the rule in Melbourne
nowadays for the occasional male actors to be more
capable than the amateurs of the other sex who line
up to receive tons of vegetable offerings at the
finish. “ The Tyranny of Tears ” showed some very
intelligent mumming among the men. D. M.
Beere (in Brough’s old part) gave a very unequal
performance, but his best bits were almost first
class, and it is by his best work that the bona fide
amateur should be estimated. F. A. Newman,
despite a restless tendency to over-act, played the
giddy old Colonel more acceptably than the
common or garden professional would have
played it; the butler was applauded in
accordance with the best traditions of ama-
teur stage butlers; and the bachelor friend
—the “serpent” of the piece — was very
passable. In the characters of the weeping wife
and the practical lady-secretarv, the two Misses
Pinschof fell short of the success scored by the
men. Both of them were overdressed and in-
artistically theatrical in appearance. Miss
Carmen Pinschof, as the lady sec., showed more
grip of her part and knowledge of stage business
than her sister, but in half-a-dozen respects —and
especially in respect of her expensive furnishings
—she was everything that the thrifty daughter
of a needy clergyman ought not to have been.
* *- * *
At Melbourne Town Hall the first of the
Clara Butt-cwm-Kennerley Rumford concerts is
fixed for Tuesday, September 10. The next three
will transpire on the 12th, 14th, and 17th, and the
fifth (a matinee) on the 19th. Which important
announcements will be duly reiterated in next
issue of The Bulletin.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how —write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
There is no danger of croup resulting
seriously if Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
given.*
“ Taps ” : The rehearsals had beett well atten'ded, and
now before the Curtain on the first night, only one thing
remained to be done. That was to find a tall super <to
replace th'e gentleman who had thrown ov'er the pro-
mised 126. 6d. for a billet as kitchenmah) 'for the trium-
phal entry of the N.S.W. Lancers in the last act. So ol'd
Tom, the super master, w&s sent out to look for something
that would answer the purpose. Torn madefor the Domain,
and returned with a seedy-iooking person, of the re-
quired largeness, in tow. This apparition carried a
parcel of newspapers, neatly tied with hayband. The
hew sUper, whose name was Willy, stoutly objected to
Undressing before the other 19 Lancers, and his objec-
tion was understood to have some connection with
the fact that his garments couldn’t bear inspec-
tion. Permission was, therefore, given to Willy to
undress and become a Lancer in the corridor, and hte
hid his civilian clothes in a corner. The show Wehfc
splendidly, the bold advance of Willy as a Lahcer beihg
one of the successes of the evening. The last act over, the
supers were busy cleaning up, when it was discovered
that some gnome of the darkness had removed Willy’s
outdoor garments, and a half-hour’s diligent search found
only a battered black hat. The management ruled
against Willy’s offer to sleep in the dressing-room, and so
midnight in Park-street saw a tall Lancer, carrying a
neatly-tied parcel of newspapers, and wearing a hat that
simply would not look the part, making for the Domain.
Melbourne’s one-time popular music-hall artist, “ Billy ’
Whitburn, now dwells placidly in the home of Victoria’s
late Auditor-General, J. V. Bagge—a big place with 25
acres of ground, out Notting Hill way, beyond Oakleigh.
Here William breeds and trains trotters, and puts them
through their paces on a nicely-banked track, that runs
three laps to the mile.
Arthur Rae hangs out the anti-borrowing
flag conspicuously at Parramatta (N.S.W.), just
as Hutton does at Gordon, Carmichael at Leich-
hardt, West in the King Division of Sydney,
Vincent at Gough, Dacey at Alexandria, and
many other good Democrats elsewhere. But for
the dead, dreary silence of slow-going old James
McGowen, the whole Democratic party might
have rallied under the anti-loan banner. Every
good Australian should vote for the advocate of
honest finance where such a candidate presents
himself.
A step forward towards a rational defence
scheme is the declaration of Defence Minister
Ewing (22/8/’07) re the motion of W. M. Hughes
in favor of compulsory military training:—
Patriotic spasms simply mean a rabble in time of war.
If men are to fight, they must be drilled and disciplined,
just as men have to be trained to play football. Therefore
we must make it obligatory on the manhood of Australia
to accept this portion of their national responsibility. At
as early a date as possible—though it must take time—I
will submit to my colleagues a scheme in the direction
suggested by this resolution.
“ Yarrum ” : How Government grants ate
obtained. Some time ago, in the Illawarra dis*
trict (N.S.W.), State Premier Carruthers was
taken to view some falls fed by a gutter, and over
which the waters sometimes trickle. Eor a month
previously the gutter had been dammed ; and,
just before the great little man reached the foot,
a couple of boys on top let her go. The rush of
water —very muddy stuff, with much green slime
and a few dead ’possums—was something splendid,
and a couple of cockies have now got a contract
to make a road to the glorious scene. The £100
will come in very handy for the two cockies, and
the road will also come in very handy as a means
of access to their little holdings. Carruthers is
seeking support vigorously in the southern part Of
the State. At Goulburn he was quite shocked to
find that there was no memorial to a policeman
who was killed by bushrangers about two genera-
tions ago, and with something like tears in his
eyes he ordered that a monument should be put
Up at once. That policeman has waited a long,
long time for his tombstone, but political neces-
sities have brought it along at last.
By a lawyer :—
An extraordinary case has just been tried at Sydney
Quarter Sessions. A respectable citizen named Robinson
was charged with forging and uttering a cheque for
£500. The name used was that of Ross Say well, a wealthy
resident of Rockdale. Robinson, who was a trusted em-
ployee and personal friend of Saywell’s, tendered the
cheque at the Rockdale bank. The manager didn’t dis-
pute the signature, but demurred to handing over £500 in
cash. Robinson then produced a letter signed with Say-
well’s name, asking him to get the £500, and give it to a
man named Jordan to take toSaywell at the Canterbury
races, where, to Robinson’s knowledge, he was going that
day. The manager thereupon cashed the cheque, and
Robinson, who didn’t know Jordan from a packet of
crackers, handed the money over, and got Jordan’s
receipt. Next day, when having a drink with Saywell,
he expressed a hope that Jordan had arrived all right.
Saywell stared, and when Robinson explained, informed
him that he didn’t know Jordan either, didn’t
give anyone a cheque or an order, didn’t need
£500, and, worst of all, didn’t get it. The obvious
explanation between friends was that a clever trickster,
knowing that the bank manager would not hand over
£500 to a total stranger named Jordan, duped Robinson
by a clever forgery. Saywell had Robinson arrested.
Robinson’s defence was that Saywell did really sign
both cheque and note, and was now repudiating them
for his own ends. To prove this Reid, K.O., called
an array of expert witnesses to prove that the signa-
ture of the cheque and the handwriting of the letter
were undoubtedly Saywell’s. The experts, however, had
reflections cast on them by the alleged fact that some of
the signatures they swore to had been written by an
officer of the Crown Law Department then in the Court.
Neither side could produce Jordan. The jury found
not guilty. Altogether it is a curious case with a
lot of uncertainty about it, and in some quarters the
desire to see Jordan is as acute as the Polite Lunatic’s
yearning to kill Bronson.
Now is the time to buy Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. It is the best medicine for
croup.*
Thus the S. M. Herald :—
A LESSON IN FREETRADE.
London, Aug. 28.
Mr. R. B. Haldane, Secretary of State for War, in the
House of Commons last night confirmed the report that
the War Office had ordered 100,000 pairs of horseshoes in
America. He declared that the contra . ;, was satisfactory
both as to price and efficiency.
There are really two lessons there. One is that
the Protectionist country, despite the higher
wages it pays, makes horseshoes cheaper than the
Freetrade one. The other is that Freetrade is a
grand thing for putting an English blacksmith
out of a job.
Whenever there seems a chance of a manu-
facturer making more than a bare pittance, some-
body always arises to demand that the said
manufacturer shall give a guarantee that prices
will not be raised if the proposed tariff is agreed
to. Apparently everybody thinks that’s quite
right; yet nobody ever seems to insist that, if a
duty be lowered or abolished, the importer shall
bind himself not to raise prices when he gets con-
trol of the market. When the whisky importers
got their tool, Aloysius Fox, to induce certain
Australian legislators to lower the duty at last
tariff and so kill the Australian distilling indus-
try, did anybody demand that the said importers
should guarantee not to raise the prices, or that
they should guarantee decent wages to their
employees ? Not much.
ONLY ONE “ BROMO QUININE”
That is LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine. Used
the world over to Cure Colds in One Day. E. W.
Grove’s signature on box. Is. l$d.*
Melbourne got its much-deferred presenta-
tion of “Robin Hood,” on Saturday night, at the
Princess’s. In February, when a Julius Knight
Robin and his green-dad myrmidons should have
roamed the extensive woods of Her Majesty’s
stage, the outlaws were crowded out by “ Mother
■Goose,” and they got no nearer to Melbourne than
Ballarat. There is no doubt of the broadly artistic
effect that Julius Knight will always get out
of any romantic scenes, and “Robin Hood ” is a
succession of them —scenes idyllic, and therefore
historically inaccurate. Elbert Orton the Mag-
nificent, the warm-haired Maid Marion, poses
with fine effect all through. She shows great im-
provement since her early appearances, having
modified her exuberance of tone and gesture; and
little Dorothy Sydney, a vivacious damsel, makes
a happy and natural part of her attendant maid-
ship. There is harmonious and unusual equality
in the strength of the company. The
minor parts are carried out with sufficient
naturalness, though Plinmier scarcely infuses a
kingly impressiveness into his Lion Heart part.
Herbert Bentley, as Prince John, shows off a fine
voice. The work and make-up of Hubert Willis
as Friar Tuck are particularly good—full of humor
and of just enough restraint; and Walter Whyte,
as Allan a’Dale, puts a pleasing voice into his
many forest songs. The music written round
the play is gently soothing, and the all-pervading
green of the forest leafage (the setting is alto-
gether magnificent) is most restful to the eye, so
that a keenly critical faculty would be more or
less killed by the soothing attack on the senses.
These remarks are made in a restful spirit, and
are somewhat haunted by the suspicion that
“Robin Hood,” notwithstanding its want of
dramatic force, is going to prosper considerably
at the Princess’s.
*# « *
To-night (Thursday), also to-morrow and
Saturday, the Besses o’ th’ Barn Band will perform
twice a day at Melbourne Exhibition build-
ing. The charge for admission on this occasion is
only one shilling, and for one shilling extra a
delighted multitude will be admitted to a “ special
reserve ” and the seats appertaining thereto. The
Exhibition is the building where the Besses Band
should have appeared in the first instance. In
comparison with the prices charged at the Town
Hall a few weeks ago, the present season is a bar-
gain sale, and the Taits have made every arrange-
ment for a well-sustained rush.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal on Saturday Bland
Holt’s tragic players revived “Riding to Win.”
No one, after seeing it, can complain that we
have no Australian drama. The story drags its
agonised length through a spring season, and
proves that a chap with a talent for crime may be
as heavy a heavy vil-lain in South Melbourne as
he could possibly be in Maida Vale, London ;
that attempted homicide by the murky Yarra can
be as vitally sensational as a gory murder in the
Italian Alps ; and all the thrills of the melo-
dramatic hour strike as luridly in Swanston-street
as in the Whitechapel-road. One touch of bellow-
drama makes the whole world homicidal.
“ Riding to Win ” is an effort more in the style of
Euripides than of Sophocles. It’s a work
wherein the One is sacrificed by the Many,
wherein harmony is shattered by an avalanche
of romantic detail (this is according to Aristotle !).
In bellowdrama, it is commonly supposed that
virtue triumphs over vice. In truth it is the
downfall of intellect before overwhelming forces
of imbecility. In the drammer under considera-
tion, the only people who show any sighs of
norma] intelligence, or average business capacity,
are Philip Evers, the seductive villain, Charles
Brown as a criminal estate agent, and a drunken,
violent gentleman who runs a boat-shed.’
They all come to a bad end. The virtuous
married couple have only enough enterprise to
starve in a suburban shanty. A real good girl
stumbles through the action “shut out-er from
Gawd’s own sun.’’ The comic relief who provides
a square meal for the hungry angels slaps the
potatoes on to their humble board floor before he
puts them on the plates, chases an intrusive bailiff
with a red-hot poker, and behaves generally with a
degree of clumsiness and inanity only discoverable
in a diamond. His assault on the man-o’-
law inspires the tender heroine to remark, “ There
are hundreds of such good, kind souls amongst
what are called the common people ! ” So there
are, and like the fools in melodrama, they beat
their more subtle fellows. All the inept blitherers
in “ Riding to Win ” succeed, whereas the villain,
who is the motive-power of every sensation, has
his achievements rewarded with a sloppy death.
The cycle race, which is the apex of the play’s
sensations, reveals some eloquent, autobiographi-
cal, exquisite, and futile legs, plain and colored.
How typical of life are those stationary racers,
expending Vulcanic energy, with their vehicles
gummed to the stage ! Unfortunately, the
spiritual significance of this incident is ignored
by a sporting section. The hero shows originality
by riding to win a race on a bike instead of a
horse.
• * * *
Asa fount of Mafeking jokes Bland ’Olt
burbles with plaintive melodiousness. Miss Ross
and other ladies are strenuously sad, but Miss
Maggie Knight relieves the gloom with a reason-
able performance of a Richmond tart. Albert
Norman on Saturday was a rather screechy axis
for a play to revolve upon, but he has probahly
been greased since then. Arthur Styan, as usual,
is careful and characteristic. The half-starved
hero, Max Maxwell, portrays hunger most
truthfully as far as his shanks are concerned ; but
his voice has a well-fed resonance like unto that of a
popular pulpit orator, and his manner of getting
into “ form ” for the stationary bike race is open
to question.
#* * *
At Melbourne Opera House nothing else
is nearly so good as The Molassos (whose French
dancing “ turn ” improves on acquaintance), and
nothing is tamer than Techow’s cats. The cats
will end their long meow this week. They have
repeated their feeble performance for about ten
weeks, and their departure will be hailed with
satisfaction by Rickards’ most frequent patrons.
** * *
“The Blue Moon”—mixed-race love-
making, crocodile’s tail and all—has at last reached
Adelaide Royal, and the little theatre has returned
to normal prices, after playing to “ three, two and
one” houses for nearly two months —an unpre-
cedented thing for the middle of winter. Leslie
Harris has moved on, but the Besses have come
J? the open air for the general
xi j e ™ c< ?* as over bodily to
I. ie Hippodrome; and at the former house the
Dorenz Svengahs give a thought-reading per-
. rmance o n old-fashioned lines with up-to-date
approvements. At the Town Hall are West’s
pictures and. the 4 Brescian ’ crowd, which in-
eludes Maurice Ohenoweth, an Adelaide tenor,
And concerts are like the sands down by Glenelg
in eir in uumerableness.
AT POVERTY POINT.
There waa a great demonstration at Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney, last Saturday night. Dr. C. W.
McCarthy, the O’Sullivan, and 20 more filed on to the
stage, and presented an address to actor-singer Andrew
Mack, welcoming him as a great artist and a fine Irish-
man, who had done no end of things to elevate
the tone of Irish drama. Nobody mentioned
that Mack was an Irishman from America —it
seemed hardly worth mentioning, because there is
more of Ireland in America nowadays than there
is in Ireland. Yet probably there were quite a number
of people in the big, cheering audience who have been
cursing the Protectionist tariff, and feeling quite mad
about it. Evidently they want Australia to be another
Ireland, so that when, 50 years hence, anybody welcomes
an Australian, it will be taken for granted that he doesn’t
really live in Australia, but comes from Canada, or the
U.S., or some other Protectionist country, like Mack.
MISS FANNY DANGO, J. C, Williamson's
latest engagement for the Royal Comic Opera
Company.
“Prowler”: Saw that fine Australian actor, Howard
Vernon, the other day, in Wharf-road, Snail’s Bay
(Sydney), loading - a cart. He looks the jovial farmer to
the life. Evidently rural pursuits agree with this favorite
of the footlights, who is as keen on “going on the land”
as the most devout leader-writer who ever pushed a pen
for the Mary Ann journal. Vernon is quite unlike his
amusing study of Rocco, the farmer, in “La Mascotte,”
but he is just as thorough, and the way he handled h’is
horse showed that he still puts local color and artistic
finish into his work. If the dramatic critics had been
around to study the grand old actor’s masterly perform-
ance of the character of a N.S.W. agriculturist that
morning on Wharf-road they would have given him a half-
column notice for sure.
George Robey, a London music-hall comedian, who is
due in Australia some time in the future, has an income
of £4OOO a year. He stated this during the hearing of a
case in which he took action against a Shylock who
charged him 200 per cent, on a loan. The court reduced
it to 25 per cent. But why isn’t there a Judge sitting in
every music hall vestibule, so that, when you’ve paid ss.
to hear Robey and find he’s only worth 25., you can appeal
to the Court to make the ticket-office disgorge 3s. ?
Mamma Clara Butt and Pa Rumford are knocking thea-
trical conventions on the head with their method of adver-
tising. Hitherto the usual idea has been to keep the family
in the background, but Mamma Butt and Pa Rumford
glory m their domesticity, and advertise it in all the
photographs presented for reproduction. Pictures in
the Melbourne papers have shown pa and mamma at
meals in a dozen affectionate attitudes. We have had
mamma kissing baby, and baby kissing pa ; mamma with
the family hung around her ; pa with the little Rumfords
climbing up his legs; and mamma and pa sharing the
caresses of their numerous brood. “ I want no husbands
and wives in mine ! ” was long the dictum of a conspicu-
ous Australian entrepreneur, but Clara rings in her hus-
band, the whole family, and the domestic hearth every
time. She is a splendid advt. for the sanctity of the
home.
“Theorbo”: In the Strand Magazine, just to hand
Clara Butt writes of her career. She is not the stalwart
woman of traditional fame. She says that severe exercise
must never be taken by the vocalist. Neophytes must
be careful not to sing too much. It is easy to wear out
the voice. An hour’s singing is as hard on the muscles
of the throat as a day’s work on those of the body She
tells of her two worst adventures. One was being
pitched out of a gig, whereby she sustained concussion of
the brain. The other was a capsize by night on the
Thames. Rumford dragged her out of the water bv her
hair, which is numerous. Miss Butt receives the usual
collection of extraordinary letters. One lady claimed
relationship because they were both fond of monkeys
A girl contortionist and skirt-dancer wrote, asking to
be engaged for the Australian trip, because she could
put in a couple of turns which would agreeably varv
the programme. J
V The /xr io o n w x iC u h att , ack ? d and near] y killed a tamer at
Yass (N.S. W.), has already three deaths of human beings
to its discredit. The law should interfere to have it
executed. One kill is enough for any lion. The noble
beast should then be asked firmly to attend its own
funeral.
Beaumont Read, of the girly voice, had his 74th birth*
day in Adelaide a week or so back. He first toured Aus-
tralia with the Madame Anna Bishop Concert Co. in the
early ’seventies.
It has just struck The Bulletin that its familial- ac-
quaintances, the people ol the Bland Bolt c'o., soon to
be disbanded, are practically unknown, except by reputa-
tion, to the Australian public outside of Sydney and
Melbourne. Some of them travelled around with other
companies in the long ago, before Holt engaged them,
and some of them went through Maoriland under his
banner. But for the past ten years or so they have made
only one journey in 12 months—from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, or vice versa —and all the time, save during
the week dedicated to their annual change of quarters,
they have Worked without ceasing—one piece in actual
production, and another in rehearsal. A Bland Holt
drama contains so many characters as a rule that the
principals rarely escape active service. Take the case of
Miss Harrie Ireland, of the Titian tresses, who is a very
interesting case. There was no part for her in
“The Bondman,” so she got a rest for four
weeks — i.e., a rest from acting in public. Previous
to that accidental vacation she had played the lurid
villainess (with an occasional lapse into injured
innocence, or joyous bush girlishness) for 96 consecutive
months. On a rough calculation she was murdered
by her partner in crime about 150 times a year during
that long period, and sometimes her end was very
violent. Or, if she wasn’t killed outright, one of the
other gentlemen called her a she-devil and flung her
against the furniture, and gave her bruises. Practice has
perfected Miss Ireland in the art of luring the good young
men of stageland from their happy homes. She has
an evil smile which distinguishes her from ordinary
villainesses, and in her artistic management of a long-
tailed skirt she is without an Australian rival. Neverthe-
less, if she and Miss Ross, the Bland Holts, Styan, and
Brown, and half-a-dozen others of the best known members
of the co. were to go to Brisbane, Adelaide or the West,
they would rank as newcomers in comparison with Tittell
Brune and a lot of people whose touring visits are in-
variably announced with a fresh flourish of photographs.
“ J.A.O.”: A recent Sydney Royal advt. began with :
“ The doors open wide to the poor and the stranger,”
and wound up with : “ Clergymen of all denominations
admitted on presentation of their cards.” There is, of
course, no intention of sequence in the two announce-
ments. The poor parson is a rara avis outside of namby-
pamby fiction (in this country, at all events) and, so far
from being a stranger, the parson is as familiar as there
is any need for. “ Avoid plays which appeal to the
clergy" may be taken as an axiom ; they are
sure to be piffle. There never was, and never
can be, any affinity between church and stage.
True, there is a good deal that is legendary about each
of them, and, to a certain extent, they have the same
aim—to get money out of the public. But the actor
gives something in return, not merely vague promises.
Still, why, in this instance, was the parson invited in
“ on the nod ” ? Was it to teach him a moral lesson ? If
so, why not invite me? I need a moral lesson as much
as anybody. Surely it cannot be intended to make ad-
vertising capital out of the holy men.
“ J.P. ” from Maoriland: —The “ Kelly Gang” Biograph
show has proved fruitful in Maoriland. It visited a
remote township in the North Island, and the local youth
rushed to observe the flicker. Next day, three of the
-youths aforesaid stole three horses and broke into a store,
where they secured rifles and 2000 rounds of ammunition.
Than they made hurriedly for the back-country, with the
oca loop, in hot pursuit of them and promotion. They
stuck up sundry persons on the way, and broke into
another store to relieve the monotony of the thing,
When they struck the wild, untamed bush, they turned
the horses loose to return home, and took to the hills.
While I,write, they are still in the hills, if they are not
dead or starving, and a large quantity of cop. from Wel-
lington is reconnoitring the vicinity. The most inte-
rested parties in the adventure are the Maoris there-
abouts. They are informing all and sundry that the hill
country is so rough that the “ bushrangers ” will never
be taken. Then they dance a haka and exclaim de-
lightedly, “ Kapai te plurry pakeha ! ”
“Dagonet” Sims, the veteran author of “The Lights
of London,” has been retained by Klaw and Erlanger to
write four special pieces of a new kind for their “ad-
vanced vaudeville ” shows in America. Each play is to
be strongly emotional or sensational, to contain three or
four scenes—and to be all over in half an hour. This is
the century of haste and skurry.
There’s no uncertainty about the U,S. “ prohibited
immigrant” laws. Stated that tenor Caruso’s recent
New York conviction (for lady-ogling, etc., more
especially etc.) will, under the prohibition clause in
regard to convicted persons, prevent him landing in the
States again after his London season to fulfil his four
years’ contract—at £40,000 per year—with Hammerstein,
manager of the Manhattan Opera House. Caruso says
wildly that he doesn’t care.
“ Kook ”: The gold halo for pious imposture belongs
to the Sunday evening “Sacred Concert,” as it is done
by wandering footlighters. Heaven and Little Eva only
know what law, written or moral, they endeavor to com-
ply with. The only one apparent on the surface is that
they may not charge for admission. Hence most of the
humbug. In an up-country town, recently, I was
attracted on Sunday night by a flare of light and a crowd
round the School of Arts, and on investigation found there
was to be a “grand sacred concert" by the “Ail-Con-
stellation Dramatic Company.” Just inside the door sat a
lady behind a plate containing a thin layer of what is called
“silver coin.” The lady was nothing, said nothing, did
nothing ; only gazed reproachfully at the soulless ruffians
who took in three girls on a “ thrum ” contribution. Just
as I was hanging fire in the doorway a gentleman in
evening dress and grease paint, who had been endeavor-
ing to keep back the crowd of boys and other deadheads,
dashed forward, saying: “Front seat, sir,” and handed
me a ticket with the legend in large letters : “ FRONT
SEAT, 2s.” Mind you, he never asked for the two bob,
but he put the obligation rather neatly and looked hard
at the plate. The same decorated gentleman presently
took his frescoed countenance to the piano, and fell
upon that rocky instrument with great slaughter.
He kept one eye on the keys and the other on the
door, to which he made dashes from time to time as
likely “front seaters ” looked in. He opened the
“ sacred ” entertainment with an improvisation on the
“ Holy City,” slid gracefully thence into “O Dry Those
Tears ” in waltz time, then jumped with two discordant
bangs into the “ Zampa” overture, blended towards the
end with the “ Carnival of Venice ” ; and as the stage was
not yet ready, stumbled into the “ Mikado,” and was
arrested by the rise of the curtain in the middle
of the “ Honolulu Lady.” Rise of the curtain
disclosed the company seated in a semicircle, minstrel
fashion, painted ladies in the centre, painted gents at the
corners, all in evening dress. The rest of the entertain-
ment consisted of a series of melancholy wails by the
company, together or separately, like this: “Daddy,”
“The old Rustic Pub by the Creek,” “ Never Forget your
Uncle, Jim,” “Little Willie with the Angels,” “Only
Because you Loved Me,” “ My old Mother’s Grave o’er the
Sea,” “Perhaps you’ll Forgive me when I’m Dead."
The song tunes were all much the same. At the end of
it, the chief corner-man came forward with, “ Thanking
you for your kind patronage, and I beg to announce that
next evening the All-Consternation, etc., will give a mag-
nificent performance in this hall of that most laughable
comedy, ‘Charley’s Aunt.’” Gloom and cheek are the
two essentials of the Sunday sacred concert.
“Sr.” : I witnessed a tragedy at a Melbourne suburban
show through the gun going on strike. It was at a
sixpenny “gaff” of the Danbarry order. The villain
speaks: “ Yes, Amarilda, your husband’s a felon, a
forger, do you hear? And—ha-ha-ha—he shall suffer for
it! Now, Amarilda, who Is it to be? Your answer?”
And just here the hero has to enter swiftly, and say:
“Take it from me.” Then he shoots and accidentally
blinds Amarilda, and wounds the villain half-way between
the collar stud and the diamond pin. But the gun
wouldn’t go off, and there was the wife howling “Oh!
the pain, the pain,” and the villain writhing on the floor,
and exclaiming “ You’ve—ha-ha—done for me,” and the
gun suddenly not going off all the time. And did the
audience shriek with laughter? Not a laugh. It just
let Amarilda writhe. Also it seemed quite satisfied.
Now I’m going to suggest a sensation to Mr. Blolt in
which a waterspout bursts and destroys a village, and
I’m going to fix up the mechanism of the scene by
shaking the back cloth violently, breaking three bottles,
and throwing down 81b. of rice on the village to repre-
sent the breaking of the spout. Then there’ll be a quick
curtain. It’ll be all right. The audience won’t know any
difference. It’ll only say “ What a nice waterspout."
A GAY RONDEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The End. . . . What do we struggle for ?
The fruits of Life unto the core,
The wines of Life unto the lees
Some taste ; some muse by stagnant seas
Whose leaden waves drone “ Nevermore.”
Wealth is a bauble, work a bore;
Love finds us sick, and leaves us sore;
’Tis drink, debt, dreams, or dire disease—
The End.
For greed or glory, God or gore,
Men battle ; but Time’s moments hoar
Change mediaeval vanities
To trousers baggy at the knees,
Some frayed tall hat that once we wore, —
The End.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
DO not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26),;Sydney, N.S.W.
Outdoor Photography
bvcb
The
New
“VICTOR”
FOLDING CAMERAS
Are the most Perfect Cameras ever introduced into Australia. They will take
surprisingly good pictures ; the Lenses are Extremely Rapid ; the Fittings
are Superb. These Magnificent Cameras are Light and Portable, and carry
every possible requisite for first-class work.
THE NO. 1 “FOLDING VICTOR” «/ Postage—N.S.W., Is. 3d.
for J-Plate. Price Ov/ m Interstate, 2s. 2d.
No. 2., with “ Rectimat ” R.S. Lens, price, 555. (J-Plate). The
and Pinion Focussing-, R.S. Lens, DOUBLE EXTENSION.
Price, 87/6 (J-Plate).
No. 3, with Rack
Splendid Value.
PHOTO. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
VERY LARGELY STOCKED.
HARRINGTON AND CO., Limited,
386 George Street, (near G.P.0.), Sydney; and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
There are people who have no considera-
tion for the evening newspapers, and John
Thomas is one of them. He was found lying out-
side the East Melbourne Cricket Ground the
other evening, suffering from an overdose of
bullet in the brain. He was put to bed in the
hospital; then, when his garments were over-
hauled, the chief find was a photo of a man,
woman and baby, the man being quite unlike the
semi-deceased. On the back of the picture was
written—“ Forget and forgive. I have paid the
price. J. Thomas.” Now if Thomas had used a
business-like revolver there were here the makings
of a mystery, a romance, and several columns.
Who was the man in the photo ? Who the
woman ? Why had he to pay such a price? And,
having paid, was atonement made ? Alas!
Thomas presently recovered from his bullet, and
explained that he was a kitchenman, who was a-
weary of polishing pots and scouring dishes ; and
the photo wasn’t anybody in particular, and he
just wrote on the back because the notion took
him ; and so the beautiful romance broke in two
and dropped in the mud. Still, there is a haunt-
ing suspicion concerning the truthfulness of John
Thomas.
MOTOR ETHICS.
THE MATRON : “My dear , there are two things a woman must hold on to in a motor-car —
her hat and her reputation.”
The attention of the Vic. House of Fat,
parson Bevan, book-arcadian Cole and other
Chow-maniacs is directed to the recently-issued
Chinese army order anent opium-smokers. Ah
Fat doesn’t regard himself as a tender plant to
be spoken to mildly, rebuked with a fine, or
corrected with a few days’ imprisonment. “Any
soldier or officer found smoking opium will be
beheaded ” That s all-but it settles the matter.
It leaves the man nothing to smoke opium with.
The new Domestic Workers’ Union in
Melbourne has drawn up a black list of “ unde-
sirable mistresses.” It includes mistresses who
starve their servants and keep all food under lock
and key, mistresses who set themselves to work a
girl to death in six months, mistresses who are bad
pays, and mistresses who get drunk and throw
pans at Mary Ann. All these have their names,
addresses, and unpleasant habits written down in
fair round script in the new biographical
dictionary, and the chief official of the union
admits that the volume, if its contents became
public, would make Melbourne totter on its
foundations. The statement seems probable.
Most cities would totter if the aggregate Mary
Ann told all she knew, and some of the things she
didn’t know.
* • * *
Adelaide can talk of nothing but its chief
streets just now. The Tramways Trust is still
hopelessly divided against itself, four to three, on
the question of running electric trams down the
moderately narrow but populous Rundle and
Hindley streets. And now the City Council has
decided, again by a single vote, to use wood and
not asphalt for its paving. A public meeting on
the question was chiefly addressed by lawyers,
most of whom were freely accused of interested
motives, and the gathering broke up in disorder.
Ex-Senator John Downer led the wood party, on
the ground that, both pavements being good,
Australian industries should be supported.
* * * *
The story of a bright, smart, brilliant-
capture in Tasmania. A criminal lunatic escaped
from New Norfolk Asylum. A full description
of him was sent to every constable in the State,
and photographs were also distributed. From
time to time the Commissioner asked for a report
from each district superintendent, and wanted to
know what had been done in the matter, and
what further “ steps ” were being taken. It was
pointed out that the escapee was a most dangerous
character and that specially herculean efforts
should be made to locate him. Meanwhile the
lunatic was in a country lockup on a charge of
horse stealing, and his gaoler was scouring the
neighborhood for him by day, and writing
reports at night detailing the ponderous measures
adopted to ensure arrest. But the lunatic
got tired of his cell, and he and his
horse-stealing mate walked out in search of
beer and adventure. So that the police might
not miss seeing them, they strolled along the rail-
way line, where they were eventually seen by a
small boy, the son of a trooper. When his father
returned home the small boy told him he “had
seen two strange men walking on the sleepers.”
Then, in the thrilling words of the Mkkcury’s boy
reporter, “ the trooper at once picked up the scent ,
jumped on his bicycle, and skilfully tracked along
the line.” On the road he met two other troopers,
and the trio captured the lunatic mooning on the
railway bridge. Later on, various detectives
identified him, and the energetic officer who
locked him in a leaky cell, and then pranced
around the back streets seeking him, is now
explaining things. All the same, the Mercury
solemnly recorded the affair as a “Smart Police
Action.”
• * * *
The first case under the Victorian Money-
Lenders Act of 1906 came before Judge Eagleson
last week, and resulted in the complete overthrow
of the usual Moss, a financier, who, on a loan of
£5O, had received no less than £77 in four years,
and was still owed the original half-hundred.
Judge Eagleson reckoned that this interest, which
worked out to about 46 per cent., was “harsh and
unconscionable,” as the Act calls it, and reduced
the figure to 12i per cent., the same to be tallied
up from the start. Moss on one occasion assured
his client that the 46 per cent, was too low, and
that he considered himself a philanthropist. Now
that he is,only to get per cent, he will proba-
bly consider himself a ruin.
The weird, unusual nig. One of him—
Babu Kakari Dass—has just been convicted,
aecording to Calcutta Englishman, of murdering
, . ° ’ . ~ i
lls y° un B‘ woman ; the main evidence against the
assassin being the discovery of his blood-stained
brolly on the field of battle. This is probably the
first time in history that any human being has
hesmirched the respectability of a gamp by
. J , ■ ■ . , J
taking it with him when he went to slay his best
girl. The blood-stained bible is known, and the
blood-stained boots, but the gingham represents
such blank and serious respectability that for it
to be mixed up with murder is like a cheese-
monger turning brigand. Yet—come to think of
it—two of the most remarkable generals and
greatest statesmen in history were a brewer, who
made bad beer, and a police-court solicitor, who
used to get the local drunk off for a fine of one
depreciated dollar, so perhaps there have been
cheesemongers who turned brigands as well as
importers who were brigands all the time,
* ,* * *
Some poets rhyme for fame alone,
And some for bread and butter :
Some rhyme because their nature is
Poetic thoughts to utter,
But these poor rhymes have nobler aim,
They’re written to secure
The health of all humanity
By Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A boss procrastinator, over 70 years of
age, turned up at Wellington (M.L.) court re-
cently. His wife left him for the other fellow 40
years ago, and he intended applying for a divorce
at the time, but kept putting it off. Now, being
anxious to marry again, he has wandered into the
legal arena without undue haste. As a set-off to
this, a mere kid lately sprinted into court at
Auckland, and won his case on the ground that
his girl wife had fled with a Chinaman who said
“Whaffor.”
HIS CHOICE.
GUSHING VISITOR (to small defenceless child): “ Which would you rather he, a sailor or a
soldier? ” THE CHILD: :I'd rather be a boshter!"
The cold, self-contained Britisher is mostly
a dreadful fiction. In situations that seem to him
at all emotional he grows as sniffily weepful as
any Bilanderson matinee Miss. Birmingham
(England) Assize Court, for example, has just
witnessed what is described by the bright and
ever fresh Daily Mail (22/7/’O7) as “ an intensely
moving human drama.” Two friends, Harper
and Vallis —a solicitor’s son and a tailor—were in-
dicted on a charge of obtaining £3900 by false pre-
tences. According to the prosecution, they had
had fictitious deeds prepared, with forged signa-
tures attached, and so got the cash. The plea set
up by Vallis was that he acted in ignorance, and
without intent to deceive. In a sudden burst of
righteousness (and probably with a shrewd
eye to a mitigation of sentence) Harper
supported his friend’s story and took all the blame
on himself. “He could not,” he explained
vaguely, “ go to gaol with Vallis on him.” Forth-
with all in the court broke down utterly. “ Har-
per’s wife and mother hurst into tears.” Harper
himself “ broke into violent sobbing in the dock,
and then fell forward in a swoon.” Mr. Buzzard,
K.C. —not Turkey Buzzard—arose, and, “speak-
ing with deep emotion,” advanced the opinion
that “ the prisoner, bad as he was, had proved
himself a man and an Englishman,” which senti-
ment evoked deafening applause, and caused a
woman to faint in the gallery and several more to
he hurried into the open air in strong hysterics.
And then Mr. Justice Jelf stilled the clamor and
stemmed momentarily the flood of human brine
by inflicting, in broken tones, on the noble
fellow Harper a sentence of three years in-
stead of the seven he had originally intended
to deal out. Also he discharged Vallis, who
swam to Harper's side and “wrung his hand,”
while strong policeman leant up against one
another and howled miserably, and more women
collapsed. And all this over one commonplace
swindler and a tailor of a low order of intelligence.
And consider the business aspect of the case. The
14 years the two were likely to get between them
were reduced to three, and the fellow who got the
three years was publicly described as “ a man and
an Englishman,” and there is a movement to get
his sentence cancelled, and a subscription is talked
of. As for the person who was done out of his
money, he has ceased to amount to anything.
“Emu-bush”: Recently a beautiful gum-
tree in front of the Broken Hill court-house was
felled, after taking 10 years to become a thing of
beauty. The Arabs, who live in a dry climate,
have a saying, “ A man, who is a man, should do
three things before he dies ; he should beget a
son, plant a tree, and”—(the third is forgotten) !
The man who would destroy trees in Broken Hill
would fill up wells with sand in the desert. God
help him. I’d like to hang him on a telegraph
wire.
The stage policeman, who only awaits the
entire stranger’s assurance that it’s “all right”
to hand the heroine the disputed £2,000,000 or
so, had his female counterpart in Melbourne,
t’other day. She was one of the frequent ladies
whose husbands “ went West,” and stayed there
in dead silence. One day she met a perfect
stranger who informed her that the missing
husband had “died in Westralia,” and she
took the stranger’s off-hand assurance and married
again. Later she met the missing first husband
in the street, but that didn’t wreck her equanimity
much. She divorced him for desertion, and re-
married husband No. 2. It was all done decently
and in order, with no fuss or hysterics.
* *
“ Peter Pan ” writes from Adelaide about
missing people (some of them may have turned up
while his letter was on the road): —
The moral is, “ Don’t serve writs.” A 15-year-old lad
was sent last week from his employer’s office to offer a
writ to an individual at Bowden. The writ has not yet
been delivered, nor has the boy been heard of since.
The holy city is losing quite a percentage of its popula-
tion through unrecorded departures. A few months ago
a woman left a note (and two children) to the effect that
she reckoned she wouldn’t be seen again. The police
differed, but so far the woman has had the better of the
argument. Some years ago another woman was.
seen to g'et off a car and go towards her
home not many yards away. She never arrived and
she never returned to the tram. Apparently these few
yards swallowed her up. Still another resident’s depar-
ture has to be recorded. It is one of the most painful
heard of in these parts. A young man, the support of
his widowed mother, left for work one morning as usual,
and the last thing she heard was his whistle as he leaped
over the back fence. The whistle stopped suddenly and
never resumed. For two solid years the mother waited
for his return. She said she knew he would come back.
And one day he did return—or rather was returned. A
stranger’s dog yelped and scratched near the woman’s
back fence, and unearthed some clothing. Then the
missing man was discovered. In leaping over the fence
he had dropped, with a broken neck or something, into
the remains of an old well, which had completely swal-
lowed him up. So neat was the job that when the sand
closed together again not a trace was left of the pitfall.
For two years the mother had waited and hoped for her
son’s return while all the time he was lying dead at her
door. The latest S. Australian mystery is that of a
woman who is wandering at large with a revolver in the
hills. The lady has donned “ breeks,” and is evidently
looking for somebody’s gore.
THE IMPORTER’S GRIEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is pointed out by the Flinders Lane (Melb.) mer-
chants that the tariff hits the poor man, and the poor
man’s wife, very hard indeed. —Argus.
via
Do you hear the low, sad groaning
Down “The Lane”?
Tis the poor importer moaning,
Pale with pain.
Tell me quick the cause of trouble !
Who is hurt?
Why with grief they’re bent quite double
In the dirt?
Oh, their tears are swiftly dropping
For “ the pore,”
As they’ll never go out shopping
Any more.
For the “ poor man ” they are crying
All the day.
For the poor man’s wife they’re sighing—
So they say.
So all Flinders Lane is mournful—
Full of grief;
At the tariff it is scornful
Past belief.
But the reason of it this is—
• Don’t forget—
It’s the poor man and his missis
Makes them fret;
And they mention Lyne with hisses,
And regret.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
REWARE of ’ nilfcati o n s and so-called “Galvanic”
in*ai- and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for JST.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
The fa£iE Hand
A MAGAZINE.
A REVIEW.
A PICTURE GALLERY.
It’s Australia at its brightest in Song, Picture,
and Story. Buy the Current Number.
Subscribe for future numbers. •
Price I/-. Annual Subscription, 12/-
(I‘ost Free).
214 GEORGE STREET.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
ANOTHER NEW HAT.
... ... *
m
I4SI
THIS is the very latest arrival
_ of the hat family. We have
imported several new ones lately
—this is the latest, and many
will say it is the best.
It can be worn in several dif-
ferent ways.
Dented in the front it has a
very smar yet neglige appear-
ance, and is quite different from
any other hat.
Made of beautifully soft fur-
in Medium Grey, Light Fawn
and Dark Fawn, with brims
3J inches wide.
Price 12/0,
Postage 9d. Extra.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.. Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Avery commendable institution is the
Young Australia League (W.A.). Its idea is
to make young Australia a little conscious
of its destiny, and one of its means of doing that
is to send 30 picked young Australians to the
Eastern States for a month. The youngsters are
incidentally to play football; primarily they are to
note and observe ; and it’s a pleasure to find that
on the’programme for Sydney is “Visit to The
Bulletin and The Lone Hand offices ” and a tour
through “two big factories.’’ Sydney representative
of the League is Mr. Ballhousen, 42 Young-street,
and Australians wishing to co-operate in teaching
the Westralians how to be patriots should com-
municate with him.
One of Spruce Myth’s brethren—a certain
Yaku Khan—figured, after an interesting fashion,
in Sydney Water Police Court. On August 11, a
Lascar bolted from the steamer Moldavia, and
if he wa,sn’t captured it meant a fine of £IOO
to the ship. Some officers from the ship swore to
Yaku as their missing shipmate. The colored
gentleman indignantly repelled the insinuation,
so the Moldavia folk swore to him some
more. Yaku Khan then proceeded to prove his
side. He had been in Australia seven years, and
was from the Punjaub, and spat at the whole of
the race of coast dwellers who went to sea in
ships. He then gave the magistrate a lesson in
the geography of the country between Brisbane
and Condobolin, and started to produce witnesses
from every township in between. He also offered
to show the Court a lakh of rupees he had in his
possession. He was busy digging out further
proofs of his identity when the Court, in a dazed
frame of mind, announced its intention of going
to lunch, and requested Yaku Khan to go any-
where he pleased, as long as he got out of the
Court’s sight.
An unconsciously humorous ghost story,
intended to confirm spiritualists in their faith, is
republished in Melbourne’s spook chronicle, The
Harbinger oe Light. It is the old story of an
alleged friend of Prince Metternich, who fell
asleep in church, and after awaking to find the
doors locked, went back to his seat and slept
some more. Anything might be expected to
happen to a dozer of that sort. Near midnight
he awoke, or dreamed he was awake, and
saw a priest at the altar, who asked for
somebody to serve during holy Mass. The
locked-in person responded to the request.
When the Mass was finished the priest said,
“lam a spirit, and thou hast” (not “you
have,” but “thou hast”) “redeemed me by
serving me through the holy Mass. Out of
yratitude, I will appear to thee three days
before thy death, so that thou canst die
with all things pertaining to thee in
order.” Some time later Prince Met-
ternich’s friend came to him and said,
“The priest has appeared to me. I
have taken Holy Communion, and am
prepared to depart the day after to-
morrow.” On the day after to-morrow
the thoroughly prepared gentleman did
die—of heart failure. That’s where the
humor of the yarn comes in. If the man had in-
dulged himself with a reassuring “drunk,” instead
of giving himself up for lost, his faint heart might
have gone on beating for another 10 years.
An Adelaide girl fought and won a slander
case last week in the local court. She had grave
doubts whether another girl’s bangle had been
honestly come by, and said so, but was ready on
second thoughts to apologise for the suggestion.
Then, on a public apology being demanded, she
stiffened her spine under her corset and went to
court to conduct her own case. Opposing counsel
was unwilling to believe that she had invented
for herself the plea “and without limiting the
effect thereof pleads not guilty ” ; but she declared
she had, and a good-natured Bench made her a
present of the further defence of Privilege (which
she ought to have pleaded, but hadn’t). So she
won a rather surprising verdict, and became a
local heroine.
NOT THE ANIMAL HE EXPECTED.
HORSE POET (who has been "put up on a had 'un); "If — if —fever I write ver-ver-verscs again
it'll he — about — cows!" (Bump.)
Tommy Bent to the Employers’ Federa-
tion (Melbourne): “Some of the papers chaffed
me on my behavior before the King, but after
being accustomed to the society of gentlemen like
yourselves I had no difficulty in pleasing His
Majesty.” To be sure, Tommy only knows that
the King wasn’t sufficiently displeased to call for
help, and have him tumbled off the royal pre-
mises ; but the Employers’ Federation felt the
compliment keenly all the same.
NIGHT HATH ITS
JEWELS.
HE (sentimental hut slow): “ The stars shine
like diamonds to-night."
SHE (gazing pensively at her ringless left hand):
“ Yes, Mr. Goldsax, how beautiful jewellery
is! ”
Sydney Society of Artists’ show has closed
without the Sydney National Gallery trustees
buying a single picture, though some black-and-
white worthy of hanging in any gallery was on
the walls. It’s a savage reflection on the art
taste of the trustees that the Sydney Gallery has
not a bit of black-and-white from Hopkins,
Lindsay, or Phil May—three of the biggest
artists in their line in the world, and three men
who did their best work in Sydney. Perhaps the
explanation is the importing disease.
♦ * * *
“ C. 5 ” writes :
There is still no news of the results of the 1150 appeals
against the regrading done by the JS'.S.W. Public Service
Board in the clerical division (I am writing on September
2), although it was promised before June last. Conse-
quently the Service is taking a gloomy view of the
situation. The Public School teachers, the police, and
the railway men have got unexpected increases all round,
each increase being carefully published just in time to
affect the polling in favor of Joe. The clerical division,
therefore, argues that if Joe had something nice for it
news would also come out in time to incite a gratified
Public Service to vote the Joe ticket, but that as the
result of the regrading will be to enrage the Service, Joe
is keeping it back. On the other hand, of course, the
delay may be caused by the usual dead-tiredness of the
£3OOO-a-year Board. The regrading was due on Jan. 1,
1906, and the Board had five years in which to get ready
for it. That it is not settled in one year and three-
quarters after the proper date shows that the Board is a
very tired Board indeed, whether Joe is scheming - or not.
* * * *
Guard the health of your family by keeping
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
It has no equal for coughs, colds, and croup.*
The “silken bonds” were mentioned
several times at the annual meeting of the National
Bank of Maoriland, held lately in London. First
the chairman announced that “we have for the
present stopped the transfer of our shares from
the London to the Colonial register”—in other
words, no matter what Maorilanders are prepared
to pay for them, the directors practically won’t
let them buy any more shares in the bank. Then
the “talky ” gentleman who is always put up to
tell the reporters what fine fellows the directors
are, and what a magnificent policy theirs is, was
turned loose ; and he said
I particularly wish to express my gratification that you
have stopped the transfer of shares from the Home to
the Colonial register. I cannot help feeling, sir, that we
cannot do too much to draw closer the bonds between
the Home Country and the Colony.
Good old “bonds of Empire”—in this case carry-
ing a 14 per cent, dividend ! No wonder the
directors don’t want to let them go. Curiously
enough, though, they didn’t see a bit of harm in
letting the bonds go when, a few years ago, they
weren’t paying any dividend at all, and when
there was, instead, a big liability looming ahead.
Maoriland was quite welcome to buy the shares
then and hump the liability, and the bonds of
Empiah were cordially allowed to take care of
themselves.
* * « *
If the “ blue truck ” foolishness had been
a Federal act instead of a quaint little bit of
State muddlement, some excited papers would
have given it half a page of space and headings
that looked like a black conflagration. Last year
the N.S. W. Parliament, as an evidence of State
tyranny and a further interference with the
liberty of the subject, passed many rules and
regulations to make the Sydney bottle-o tread the
narrow path. In its wisdom it enacted that
the “ collector ” who only gathers junk must paint
his cart blue, while the “ dealer,” who is a bottel-o
with a wider range of business, must not paint his
cart blue. Now it has been discovered that the
same man is often both dealer and collector.
1 herefore he has to take out two licenses, and he
is liable to be fined twice every day: (1) for
having his cart painted blue ; (2) for not having
his cart painted blue. And the Act won’t even
allow him to compromise by painting his horse
green.
* * * *
Victorian firsts : The first sermon preached
d ?° rt Phiili P was on Nov. 13, 1803, by parson
Robert Knopwood. The first death was that of
John Skilhorne, which occurred at Sullivan’s Bav
Oct. 10, 1803. The first white child born in the
settlement of Port Phillip was William James
Hobart Thorn, who arrived on Nov. 25, 1803, and
was publicly baptised on Sunday, Christinas Day.
1 he first marriage was on Nov. 28, 1803, the parties
ieing RichardGarratt (bond)and Hannah Harvey
i on e ‘ settlement was abandoned Jan. 27
1804. It might be added that the first Victorian
absconder vvas William Buckley, the Wild White
Man. Unlike many of his successors, he didn’t
take the trust money with him when he left.
It is quite likely that “ Henley-on-the-
Yarra”—that one-day function in which the Mel-
bourne aristocracy apes the week-long spring
outing of Cockaigne—will be performed on the
Albert Park lagoon this year, the soulless city
council having demanded half the net profits for
the use of its ornamental drain—or, at least, for
the use of the right bank thereof. Of course, the
council is well within its rights, though the Board
of Lands and Works has also a say in the matter.
The Yarra banks belong to the public, and for any
self-constituted committee to charge half-a-crown
to the public for the privilege of standing on its
own premises for an hour or so is a piece of fine
impudence. The Henleyites, however, are an-
noyed, and say that, though they cleared £3OO hist
year, they lost £lOO the year before, and may drop
as much this year. Also they profess a tre-
mendous, but new-born, anxiety to send a team of
Australian oarsmen to the other Henley, on the
Thames ; and they want to know how they are to
do that if the council collars half the money. The
argument is getting quite warm ; still, this paper
declines to be disturbed over the outcome, having
serious doubts about the value of this society show
as a means of producing genuine oarsmen, or of
the virtue of sending them to the Cold Country
either. The championships and records now held
by the Britisher are so few that he might at least
be left in peaceful possession of those he has.
Also, even should Henley transpire on Albert
Park lagoon, there won’t be a repetition of last
year’s episode, when a youth was drowned, as
there isn’t moisture enough in the lagoon to
drown anyone unless he acquires the drowning
habit lying down.
* * * *
Discussing racial smells, a writer in
Science Siftings gives some alluring particu-
lars of Spruce Myth’s various-colored friend :
The Chinese in particular have & perfume sui generis.
An ex-attach 6 writes : “ It is a smell to which I defy any
European ever to become accustomed. During my fre-
quent stays in China I have sometimes endeavored to
analyse this smell, with which the natives are saturated,
and which seems to contaminate and to give a taste and
a peculiar odor to everything they touch. For a long
time I was at a loss to account for the reason of this per-
fume, which, though neither very strong nor pungent,
is, nevertheless, to the noses of white people, of an ex-
ceedingly sickening nature.
“ My doubts, however, came to an end when I recalled
to mind that the Chinese consider extremely stale eggs
an infinitely greater delicacy than fresh ones ; that aged
and spoiled oysters and other shellfish cause them to
smack their lips with satisfaction, and that they prefer
their fish very gamey and high. Under the circumstances,
it is hardly surprising that the perfume of their favorite
foods should cling to them.”
Much the same reasoning applies to the Japanese. In
fact, their perfume is even more pungent than that of
the Chinese. This is due to the fact that their tastes run
in the direction of the same kind of food, and to the lack
of cleanliness of their garments. The people, it is true,
bathe every day, mostly in water heated to a temperature
that would parboil any ordinary civilised human being.
But on emerging from the bath they resume the same
old silk, woollen and cotton garments, which not only
they themselves but also their ancestors, even to the
third and fourth generations, may have worn without
interruption.
On the other hand, the writer points out that the
“white” odor is so offensive to Japanese senses
that lengthy residence in a “white” country not
only excludes a son of Nippon from association
with his fellows in the Monkey army and navy,
but is actually a legal ground for Monkey divorce !
Which, if true, shows that two such violently
antagonistic smells can’t be kept too far apart.
“Alba”: Saw my first Chinaman to-day
after being in London for two months. He was
arguing with a crowd of potato men at Covent
Garden, and the argument ended in John getting
a 9in. mangel wurzel planted against his brow.
John flew round a cabbage waggon, pursued by a
crowd of heavy-booted farm bauds, and the boots
proceeded to deal out British fair play until a
couple of policemen prevented them from strew-
ing the market place with Chinese remains. A
whisper had gone abroad, earlier in the day, that
a Chinese syndicate was negotiating to collar the
market, and tear the cabbage and onion profits
from the pockets of Thomas Hodge & Co. Wong
Ho may get his hands on the laundry business,
but he will have to shed his last pigtail before he
can sit on the top of Bull’s vegetables.
A VOICE FROM THE GLASS-HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the Commonwealth legislators to voluntary vote
themselves £2OO per annum more without consulting the
electors, and at the same time to increase the tariff in the
unholy manner in w'hich it had, w : as a blot on the legisla-
tion of the Federal Government. — So saith, ungram,~
marly, that portly person, the Mayor of Adelaide.
“Bring out the cold fowl, and the ham, and shunt the
galantine
Along this way—this is a glorious day
For aldermen. Serve tender lamb and roast meats in
between,
With aspic things, and bulging, brown souffle.
It is a time for splendid speech —shove up the curried
prawns
And pass the krullers and the bottled beer !
Keep on the ice the syruped peach—and w'hen to-morrow
dawns
We’ll see our bloomin’ names in print.” [Hear, hear.]
“ It is an alderman who can, with proper cause to fan
Big thoughts to flame, let forth terrific floods
Of language—for an alderman’s no ordinary man !
Hand down the duck ! Bush up the steaming spuds :
Good, hot plain-boil, and bake, and mash ! At selfish
treachery
Our hearts are full of bitter doubts and fears—
A scoop o’ Stilton ! Local trash, it ain’t for you an’
me !
And, since we have a mind, we’ll speak it.” (Cheers.)
The juicy tinned asparagus, the onion in the soup
Make glad and bold the fatted soul within
The alderman—who, heartened thus, attacks the selfish
troop
Of law-lords, sunk in sore financial sin,
And in these haunts of civic joy wild w'arning words
abound.
Hear ! From faint gravy-sounds, and crunching bones,
A trumpet-voice of vast annoyance cries : “ Two ’undred
pound !
If we ain’t paid—well, w’y should they be ? ” (Groans.)
vie.
FRANK HENTY.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
runton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Ralls. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the United States:—
Total Out- Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses, goings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1897 10,363,676 4,455,378 1,778,534 6,233,912 4,129,763
1898 11,301,446 4,987,464 1,819,464 6,806,928 4,494,518
1899 11,742,265 6,106,596 2,173,613 7,280,209 4,462,056
1900 12,639,630 6,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5,090,612
1901 13,607,221 5,800,186 2,324,663 8,124,849 5,482,372
1902 14,438,370 6,054,346 2,609,330 8,663,676 5,774,694
1903 14,656,981 7,125,791 2,975,574 10,101,365 4,655,616
1904 17,302,203 7,583,435 3,052,345 10,635,780 6,666,423
1905 12,356,380 8,667,720 2,834,610 11,502,330 854,050
1906 14,091,717 9,178,971 2,065,068 11,244,039 2,847,678
The income is shown less amounts written off ; and that
partly explains the variation in the figures. Under the
American law there must be an annual valuation of
securities; if there is a gain, the amount is added to
income, while if there is a shrinkage it is written off. This
however, does not affect the income; a movement in
stock exchange values only matters in the event of
the securities being put upon the market. Taking the
actual income from premiums and interest, etc., these
are the figures
Premiums. Interest, etc.
1902 .. £11,192,427 .. £2,886,149
1903 .. 12,205,839 .. 3,017,184
1904 .. 12,931,442 .. 3,344,887
1905 .. 12,386,891 .. 3,393,535
1906 .. 11,646,293 .. 3,786,791
There has thus been a serious fall in premium receipts.
To what extent this has affected new business it is impos-
sible to say, because this co. does not distinguish its old
and new premium income—a bad flaw, because without
that information it is impossible to tell whether the busi-
ness is really costing much or little. It is true
that expenses have been reduced by about three-
quarters of a million; but if very little new busi-
ness has been done, then the reduction doesn’t
mean anything like what the aggregate figures
would imply. On total income (not deducting the
£1,398,251 written off) the expenses amounted to £l3 6s.
7d. per cent. This is something emphatic in the way of
reduction ; the average a few years ago was about £l7
10s. per cent. But, as said just now, very much depends
upon the amount of new business obtained. No doubt,
apart from that, there have been large economies. Ex-
penses of management ran to £1,114,353 in 1904 and to
£1,111,718 in 1905. Last year they were got down to
£763,662.
So far as Australia is concerned, the most vital
question is the society’s solvency or otherwise. In plain
language, are its policies good enough to hold and con-
tinue payments upon ? The investments have no doubt
had a most searching overhaul. The fire through which
the American insurance cos. had to pass was very hot.
That, and the serious reduction in the market value
df many American securities, have of course
affected the surplus. At the end of 1904 it
was supposed to be £16,582,672. It has been reduced
liow to £14,122,028. That is to say, over and above the
£74,105,425 actuarially found necessary to provide for the
insurance in force, the society still has £14,122,028 to
meet further shrinkages in value of securities and to pro-
vide bonuses on deferred dividend policies. Many—or
most —of the representations as to the vast profits to be
looked for from Equitable policies will no doubt never be
realised. For instance, as at December, 1897, the surplus
was set down at £10,508,995, which was equal to about
28 per cent, of the assurance fund. On December 31 last
the surplus was down to 19 per cent, of the fund. Even
that, however, is very substantial —especially considering
what the society has gone through. The interest earn-
ings are perhaps not much of a guide as to the quality of
the assets ; still they are some. The return last year was
£4 7s. 3d. per cent, on the average funds, reckoning in
earnings from foreign exchange as interest, which can
fairly be done. That figure certainly does not suggest
inflation of book values, which is another way of saying
that the surplus looks like what it is stated to be.
* * * fr
Mutual Life Insurance Cos. of New York
Total Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Outgoings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1897 11,312,833 5,316,642 2,063,053 7,379,695 3,933,138
1898 12,116,267 5,071,029 2,157,406 7,228,435 4,887,832
1899 12,932,673 5,540,220 2,535,825 8,076,045 4,856,628
1900 13,018,126 5,404,560 2,674,923 8,079,483 4,938,643
1901 14,267,844 5,968,433 2,830,329 8,798,762 5,469,082
1902 15,148,791 5,937,070 3,098,214 9,035,284 6,113,507
1903 13,985,720 6,798,278 3,295,234 10,093,512 3,892,208
1904 18,521,964 7,137,351 3,429,108 10,566,459 7,955,505
1905 16,479,675 7,415,984 3,152,985 10,568,969 5,910,706
1906 15,050,711 8,023,006 2,173,715 10,196,721 4,853,990
In this case also the Income figures are affected by
variations in the annual valuation of assets. Disregard-
ing these fluctuations (which don’t affect the income), the
recent history of the co. has been like this :
Premiums Interest, etc.
New. Old.
1902 .. £2,297,564 £8,502,833 £3.050,546
1903 .. 2,362,285 9,255,789 3,416,346
1904 .. 2,266,576 9,909,540 3,667,700
1905 .. 1,778,960 10,585,283 3,941,112
1906 .. 1,005,525 10,523,830 4,404,973
These premium figures do not include consideration re-
ceived for annuities. In spite of the fact that £1,778,960
of new premiums were received in 1905, which should
have made large net additions to the old or renewal pre-
miums receivable in 1906, the latter premiums actually
shrank. The surrenders were very heavy—£1,332,899 for
the year, as against £769,758 in 1904, before the trouble
started. The shrinkage in business, both new and old,
has fortunately been accompanied by an emphatic move-
ment in the expenses—one of the matters as to which
the American insurance upheaval has done real good.
Make a comparison : take 1903 first. Assume renewal pre-
miums cost 7 per cent, to collect, and consideration
for annuities, etc., 3 per cent. ; then, charging the balance
of the expenses to new business, it will be found that
the latter cost 111 percent, of the first year’s premiums
received. Taking 1906 in the same way, it will be found
that the new business cost last year 129 per cent, of first-
year’s premiums received. In the A.M.P. last year the
cost of new business on the same basis was 84 per cent.
Whether 7 per cent, is enough to charge for renewal
business may be doubtful; some American actuaries
have put it at a shade over 10 per cent., though that was
in the days of extravagance. But, whether it is quite
enough or not, the comparison remains good. Actually,
therefore, n spite of the large decrease in aggregate ex-
penses, there has been none so far if the new business
obtained is taken into account. Yet the 129 per cent,
is by no means high, considering the extraordinary
difficulties which this and other American offices
have had to battle against recently. It is still
lower than the rate most Australian offices show under
normal conditions.
As to stability, nothing has transpired to raise
a doubt. In this case, as in others, prospects certainly
were painted too glowingly; yet there is a surplus of
£16,550,600 over the amount found to be required by the
New York State law to meet liabilities under policies;
this surplus amounts to nearly 19 pet cent, of the assur-
ance and annuity fund proper; and is available to meet
further shrinkages in the market value of assets and to
provide bonuses. The bad American system of deferred
dividend distributions, under which these surpluses were
piled up, has, however, been stopped ; so that there will
be a gradual shrinkage in these figures. Thus the bonuses
to be apportioned this current year (£827,500) are not
included with the surplus shown in the balance-sheet
published in America (£16.550,026). As to interest
earnings, the average funds show a return of £4
9s. 7d. per cent. ; and that is some sort of evidence that
values are not inflated, though a high interest return
isn’t conclusive evidence as to the quality of the assets.
The Australian tendency, so far as insurance funds go, is
to prefer the security of public stocks, rather than to
look for a high return. The Mutual’s favorite form of
investment is the mortgage.
The New York insurance law is nowadays
thorough—in some respects, at least. In reckoning up
the assets of an office it rules out such items as stationery
and supplies, advances and other accounts due from
agents, and cash in hands of agents. These, and one or
two other items, total £251,900, so far as the Mutual Life
of New York office is concerned. Beyond the reserve
required by the law of New York, and independent of
these not-admitted assets, there is the surplus of
£16,550,000 previously mentioned. Of this, £3,290,000
represents the fund for the depreciation of securities.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Cos.
Ex- Total Added to
Income. Claims. penses. Outgoings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1897 8,599,400 3,993,715 1,728,702 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898 9,348,131 4,427,956 1,847,549 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 10,775,980 4,569,337 2,168,393 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900 12,122,329 4,805,725 2,421,921 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901 14,568,426 5,680,944 2,751,748 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902 16,255,708 6,257,031 3,355,544 9,642,575 6,613,133
1903 18,138,196 7,110,905 3,755,931 10,866,836 7,271,360
1904 19,909,847 8,298,338 3,996,274 12,294,612 7,615,235
1905 21,165,292 8,316,408 3,704,434 12,020,842 9,144,450
1906 20,047,569 9,186,302 2,803,138 11,989,440 8,058,129
The income is shown net, after writing off amounts
clipped off the book-value of assets on the annual valua-
tion of securities which the American law calls for. But
they don’t show the total amount clipped off. In the
1902 balance-sheet there figured among the assets —
“ Market value of bonds over book value, £1,359,549.”
In 1904 this item was omitted from the balance-sheet,
though a note was added that the excess at Dec. 31 was
£1,489,238. In the following year (1905) the excess had
got down to £1,119,587—5ti1l not included in the balance-
sheet. In the past year apparently not only has all this
excess disappeared, but £896,872 has to be provided to
write down bonds from book value to market value.
Under the circumstances the office had luck in not
formerly taking credit for the market rise ; if it had, the
writing-down in the past year would apparently have
amounted to £2,006,459, in addition to a small sum
written off real estate.
The New York Life has suffered severely
during the year in other respects. The premium income
during the past three years has been as follows: —1904,
£16,239,761; 1905, £17,200,350 ; 1906, £16,646,681. This
is apart from consideration for annuities, etc. The pre-
mium income, therefore, fell during the year by £55.3,669.
To what extent new business was affected cannot be
said ; the present accounts do not distinguish between
new and renewal premiums. The policies in force have
been reduced in number from 1,001,269 to 993,630, so
that the new business has not kept pace with claims and
surrenders to the extent of 7639 policies ; and the assur-
ance in force, and on which premiums have been paid,
has shrunk by no less than £6,573,135. The position of
those policy-holders who remain in has, of course, been
improved by the large surrendering and lapsing. With
less insurance in force, the total assets asat Dec. 31,1906,
were £97,517,245, as against £90,674,783 in 1905 ; and this
in spite of the £2,066,459 written off securities. Cer-
tainly, though the insurances in force are less, the neces-
sary reserves against them are larger, because the policies
are older. Yet, allowing for that, the surplus over and
above the required reserves as ascertained by the New
York Insurance Department shows a fine increase. At
the end of 1906 it amounted to £12,934,000 (£1 =4"86
dollars) ; at the end of 1905 it amounted to £11,990,000,
including the excess value of securities previously men-
tioned. The position has therefore improved by nearly a
million sterling during the year, in spite of the severe
shrinkage in securities—an improvement that could only
have been possible through heavy surrenders and lapses.
The expenses show a large reduction. But until it is
known what amount of new business was done, these par-
ticular figures are not of much real value.
* « * *
Toohey’s, Ltd., brewers, of Sydney, who began
with a deficit of £90,605 (goodwill and preliminary ex-
penses) :
In redue-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
Julv, 1902.. £11,416 £11,416 £79,189
Jan., 1903.. 25,606 6 p.c. = £16,500 9,106 70,083
July, 1903.. 18,603 6 „ „ 16,500 2,103' 67,980
Jan., 1904.. 17,233 5 „ „ 13,750 3,483 64,497
July, 1904 .. 10,440 4 „ „ 11,000 65,057
Jan., 1905 . 15,554 4 „ „ 11,000 4,554 60,503
July, 1905 .. 11,842 4 „ „ 11,000 842 59,661
Jan., 1906.. 9,930 4 „ „ 11,000 60,731
Reserve funds(£lß,ooo) written off ; Capital
written down from £550,000 to £400,000
(goodwill reduced to £22,500), leaving.. 16,231
July, 1906.. 12,128 5 p.c.= 10,000 2,128 14,103
Jan., 1907.. 11,528 5 „ „ 10,000 1,528 12,575
July, 1907 .. 13,471 5 „ „ 10,000 3,471 9,104
Precisely what happened in the reconstruction of last year
hasn’t been made clear. Previously there had been a gene-
ral reserve fund of £II,OOO and a reserve of £7OOO against
goodwill. Then £150,000 came off capital. Of this,
£50,000 was provided by the vendors, who surrendered
50,000 shares. That was equivalent to writing £50,000 off
goodwill, which, with the goodwill reserve, would have
reduced the goodwill from £85,000 to £28,000. Besides
the £50,000 of surrendered shares —reducing the number
to 500,000—£100,000 was also provided by writing shares
down from 20s. to 16s. ; and the old reserve fund or some
of this capital was used to further write down goodwill
to £22,500, though that fact hasn’t been mentioned
until the issue of this present balance-sheet. The rest
of the wiped-out capital went to write down freeholds,
etc. No doubt the disposal of the £150,000 written
off was mostly a matter of book-keeping ; whether
the £168,000 (including the £IB,OOO of reserves)
was used to write down one lot of book assets
or another didn’t really matter much. As, how-
ever, a goodwill item has been left in—presumably
because not enough capital was written off to wipe it
right out —the management ought to lose no time in
applying profits to get rid of it There is no more justi-
fication for keeping such a paper-item in a brewery
balance-sheet than there would be in keeping one in a
bank’s balance-sheet. Toohey’s out of disclosed profits
writes off, as a rule, £2500 per half-year for depreciation
of plant and machinery ; what it writes off its freeholds
and leaseholds (if anything) it is impossible to say. In
fact, its published accounts have the lumping habit so
badly that it is not possible to say very much definitely.
“ Brewery, plant, goodwill, and freehold and leasehold
properties” stand at £336,333 ; and there is room fora lot
of depreciation there. In 1902, when the co. was formed,
the leaseholds certainly didn’t amount to a great deal;
the freehold hotels were valued then at £124,300, and the
leaseholds at £14,250. Still, with an item of this size, it
would be interesting to know what allowance for depreci-
ation is made ; 1 per cent, for the half-year either way
would mean a difference of £3138 in the profits—and that
is after excluding the goodwill item from the lump.
Book debts total £102,368 ; on this big sum a little too
much or a trifle too little provision for bad and doubtful
debts would make another large difference in the profits.
On the whole, therefore, even assuming the most complete
good-faith on the part of the directors, the figures can’t
be regarded as of much value as a guide for investment
purposes. The chairman mentioned at the half-yearly
meeting that £9093 had been added to the assets, and the
stupid dailies made special paragraphs about it, as
though it indicated what improvement the co. showed.
They didn’t mentioil that debts had also increased by
£5622, leaving the net increase £8471 as shown above.
* * * *
The Melbourne Hydraulic Power Cos.
Added
to Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Serves. serves.
1898.. £11,886 10 per cent. = £9OOO £2886 £14,001
1899.. 12,262 10 „ „ 9000 3262 17,263
1900.. 12,381 10 „ „ 9000 3381 20,644
1901.. 12,356 10 „ „ 9000 3356 24,000
1902.. 12,005 10 ~ ~ 9753 2252 26,252
New Share Premiums .. 114 26,366
1903.. 12,233 9 „ „ 9450 2783 29,149
1904.. 11,540 8 „ „ 8400 3140 32,289
1905.. 11,678 8 „ „ 8400 3278 35,567
1906.. 11,736 S „ ~ 8400 3336 38,903
£26,250, being one-fourth of Capital, returned 12,653
1907.. 11,921 8 „ „ 7350 4571 17,224
The return of capital was made after the interim dividend
had been paid ; the S per cent, for the future will call for
£6300 a year. The sum which it is necessary to set aside
annually as a sinking fund contribution was £2300 ; now
the “necessary amount” has been reduced to £lslO.
The figures are taken from the directors’ report, and
presumably they are right. All the same they are by no
means obvious. One hundred pounds a year improved at
3 per cent, will amount to £1146 in 10 years, and at the
end of 30 years the same sinking fund would wipe out
£4757 ; but if you pay away the £1146 at the end of the
first 10 years, and start afresh, then by the end of 30
years (that is to say, after another 20 years) you will only
have £2687 in hand, or enough to pay off £3833 alto-
gether, even though you keep up the £IOO a year all
through. In this case the co. didn’t even wait till its
sinking fund had amounted to the full £26,250 before it
returned capital ; it had to borrow £513 from the
current year’s profits. For the present the £26,250
is kept in the balance-sheet; the buildings, machinery,
etc., are in at full cost, and the £26,250 of returned capi-
tal is represented on the other side by an item, “ Extin-
guishment Account.” In addition there is a reserve for
depreciation and renewals, £11,896 (included among the
reserves shown above); but, for the present, repairs and
renewals are being charged direct to profit and loss —the
item last year was £1177. The reserve is presumably to
pay for extraordinary renewals, etc., that may be called
for. In the list above it will be noted that there has
been a steady increase of profits during the past four
years. It must, however, be remembered that these pro-
fits include the interest additions to the gradually-
increasing sinking fund, which for 1905-6 amounted to
nearly £BOO ;so that there has actually been no improve-
ment in the business profits. On the other hand, the
return of capital does not affect the business profits at
all (the works are just the same as they were) ; yet it
means that 8 per cent, calls for only £6300 as against a
former £B4OO. Ten per cent, on the present capital
means only £7850, or less than 8 per cent, meant on the
old capital.
* * * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc. :
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1898.. £2,731 Nil £2,731 £7,500
1899.. 4,043 Nil 4,043 7,500
1900.. 6,555 Nil 6,555 7,500
1901.. 5,569 Nil 5,569 7,500
1902.. 12,299 Nil 12,299 7,500
1903.. 6,319. Nil 6,319 7,500
1904.. 6,438 5 per cent. =£2500 11,438
1905.. 3,523 5 „ „ 2500 12,461
1906.. 12,561 5 „ „ 2500 7,500 15,022 ■
1907.. 17,033 10 „ „ 5500 17,500 9,055
There has hitherto been a balance-sheet item—“ Goo-
dwill, office furniiure, plant, etc.” For many years
it stood at £25,000 ; but how much of that represented
the paper asset “ goodwill,” and how much represented
substantial “plant, office furniture, etc.,” it was impos-
sible to say. In 1903 £SOOO was added to it, and it stood
at that till 1905, when the directors began to wipe it off ;
and now the item disappears altogether. For many years
the paid capital stood at £50,000 (100,000 shares at 10s.) ;
Is. has been called up lately, so the capital is now £55,000.
Also an item appears: “ Suspense account ; proceeds of
sale of forfeited shares, £4922.” Presumably the whole
or part of this will, however, have to be paid out to the
former owners of the shares. The fine profits, coupled
with the comparatively modest dividends of the last
couple of years, have alkwed the co. to go into new wool
stores at Pyrmont without much increase of debt. This
show's the movements of the figures in that and some
other respects:—
1899. 1906. 1907.
Overdrafts £65,437 £22,544 £21,073
Sundry creditors .. .. .. 6,680 2,809 7,933
Sundry debtors (advances, fore-
closures, etc.) .. .. .. 97,942 36,482 34,348
Freeholds (stores, etc.) .. .. 10,718 38,894 61,712
Goodwill, plant .. .. .. 25,000 25,000 17,500
These are the figures as at each June 30, before the divi-
dend has been paid or the writings-off have been
provided for. In the past year, however, there w'as an
interim div., leaving only £3OOO chargeable at June 30.
“Sundry creditors” for 1907 include the suspense
account before mentioned. The advances have been
written down hard; and evidently the co. proposes,
instead of going again into the risky business of pastoral
finance, to devote itself harder to the less hazardous
business of handling the wool, etc., at the city end. It
is a good resolution ; but it is just about as hard for a co.
of this sort to stick to it as it is for a brewing co. to stick
to the simple manufacture of beer.
** « *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1902 £2083 3Jp.c.=£1875 £2OB £7812
£12,500 capital written off
July, 1902 2583 5 p.c. = 2500 £5054 2841
Jan., 1903 3214 5„ „ 2500 147 567 3408
July, 1903 2584 5 „ „ 2500 B4 3492
Jan., 1904 2604 5„ „ 2500 lO4 3596
Aug., 1904 2513 4 2-7„ „ 2500 300 3309
Feb., 1905 245 2| „ „ 1250 —•— 2304
Aug., 1905 1639 3f „ „ 1666
Jan., 1906 2736 6 „ „ 2500 236 2513
July, 1906 3577 5„ „ 2500 1077 3590
Jan., 1907 3956 5„ „ 2500 1456 5046
July, 1907 4542 5„ „ 2500 2042 7088
The debt on this concern is still very heavy. This com-
parison shows how it and some others items have
moved: —
July, July, Jan., July,
1902. 1906. 1907. 1907.
Mortgage debt .. £69,500 £67,500 £67,000 £66,500
Other debts .. 15,761 19,307 21,982 21,220
Freehold, plant, &c. 110,000 113,981 114,000 113,980
Stock 59,736 58,120 61,634 61,146
Book debts .. .. 20,616 20,795 20,894 22,181
Of “ freehold, plant, etc.,” furniture, plant, and fittings
are in the books at £11,980 ; and if that isn’t an over-
valuation, the co. must have a very elaborate equipment.
The stock is included at cost, less depreciation ; and
where there is a mostly-perishable stock valued at over
£61,000, a large amount of trust has to be put upon the
management, and its ideas of what depreciation really
amounts to. Book debts have also grow'n ; possibly this
is due to an extension of business, but on the other hand
there is always the possibility that this item grows
because not enough has been written off to provide for
bad and doubtful debts. And the reserves are by no
means large enough to provide for any serious miscalcu-
lations with regard to either stock or hook debts.
** * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Cos. (Sydney):—
Pastoral-
Busi- ists’ Sub- Writ- Added
ness sidy re- ten to Re- Re-
Profit. ceived. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1902 .. £2BO £4827 £5107 £68,917
Loss.
Dec., 1902 .. 3732 3222 £SOOO 63,407
June, 1903 .. 4366 3718 5000 57,759
Dec., 1903 .. 9494 5581
June, 1904 .. 7824 4028
Dec., 1904 .. 4367 4549 lB2 50,232
June, 1905 .. 6315 3619
Dec., 1905 .. 4390 4529 139 47,675
June, 1906 .. 4229 4401 172 47,847
Dee., 1906 .. 4949 5663 714 48,561
Profit.
June, 1907 .. £930 930 49,491
This co., which has hitherto shown separately the
amoujnt received from pastoralists by way of subsidy,
now ramps all its receipts, including the subsidy, into
one line. Apparently it is getting a little bit anxious
about that subsidy and what it means. The fact is tnat
this co. is subsidised by the bulk of the pastoralists to
keep a buyer always in the Sydney jive-meat market, if
the market is slack the co.’s agent bids up ; the public, if
it wants the stock, has then to outbid the agent. But as
the co. gets a refund, or subsidy, the public really has to
outbid a fictitious price. From the pastoralists’ point of
View it is a very good scheme; on the other hand, not
only the public, but other meat-preserving works as well,
which have to pay the actual price at which the stock is
knocked down to them, chafe under it. The co. does not
trouble about dividends ; the pastoralists who own it are
no doubt very well paid through having in the market a
buyer who keeps prices firm. Without that buyer, it is
alleged, the butchers would form rings and get
stock at almost their own price; it is, in fact,
that argument which makes it easy to collect the
subsidy. Its turnover in the past six months was over
£150,000, which is considerably above the average of
recent j ears ; this is no doubt mainly due to the fact
that the foreign public begins to look again with a less
suspicious eye upon tinned meat, and larger purchases
have been necessary in order to keep up the local market
to the point at which the co. could buy for shipment
without losing more than the subsidy. The capital of
the co. is £20,315 ; that and the reserves are used in the
business.
* • » *
On this subject of the Sydney Meat Preserving
Co.’s subsidy, a man who is feeling the pinch of the shoe
(with a heavy foot inside it) writes this: “Twelve months
ago the facts as to the Sydney Meat Preserving Cos. were
placed before Parliament by Mr. O’Sullivan ; yet it still
runs its Juggernaut career, and is crushing its legitimate
rivals, thanks to its swelling subsidy, and despite the
assurance of Mr. Carruthers (in reply to Mr. O’Sullivan)
that the matter would receive the fullest investigation.
A Commission to throw some limelight on the abuses
would prove a revelation to the public generally ; and if
the Anti-Trust party requires a substantial justification
for the faith that is avowedly in it, it can get the justifi-
cation here. It is a notorious fact that this company only
this month issued circulars broadcast to all in the trade,
quoting such prices as no legitimate packer of canned
meats could possibly compete with, but which the sub-
sidy it gets enables it to offer, so long anyhow as may be
necessary in order to crumple up Jts rivals.”^
The Wabwick Butter and Dairying Cos.
(Queensland)
Bonus Written De-
Loss. Dividend, to Clients. Off. ficit.
Preliminary expenses .. £329
June, 1903.. £lOl Nil
Dec., 1903.. 161 Nil
June, 1904.. 112 Nil
Profit.
Dec., 1904.. 506 Nil
Loss.
June, 1905.. 433 Nil
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1905.. 1610 Bp.c. = £99 £332 549
June, 1906.. 789 8„ „ 134 £546 491 167
Dec., 1906.. 1058 8,, „ 166 568 491
June, 1907.. 772 8„ „ 210 330 723
This co., which had a tough fight at the beginning, now
seems to have got on its feet, though until it cleared off
its bank overdraft (now £2468) it might very
well have kept its dividend at 6 per cent.
Still the overdraft is being reduced. Last half
year’s output was 403 tons of butter; so the co.’s net
profit, after providing for wear and tear of plant, was
£1 Is. lOd. per ton. At that rate the co. certainly isn’t
getting fat at the suppliers’ expense. Even out of that
the co. has to provide for the bad debts that will arrive
with the turn of the tide of prosperity. , The total cost of
manufacture and sale was 1'265d. per lb., of which manu-
facture absorbed a small fraction more than one-half.
The depreciation written off above for the half-year is at
the rate of 10 per cent, per annum.
» * * *
The N.S.W. Fruit Exchange Co-operative
Cos. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. ’ serves.
1901 ..£1564 10 per cent. = £250 £1314 £6,395
1902 .. 724 10 „ „ 250 474 6,869
1903 .. 902 10 ~ „ 250 652 7,521
1904 .. 1027 10 „ „ 406 621 8,142
1905.. 1386 10 „ „ 500 886 9,028
1906 .. 1397 10 „ „ 500 897 9,925
1907 .. 1498 10 „ „ 500 998 10,923
Twelve months ago this co., with a capital of £SOOO,
owed £SOOO on 6 per cent, debentures and £9OOO on
mortgage, and had also a small overdraft. Though the
balance-sheet doesn’t show it, the directors report that
they have arranged to pay off the debentures, and get
£13,500 on consolidated mortgage at 4 per cent.; and
that is a saving of interest and an improvement in other
ways. The capital, reserves, and debt are practically all
represented by “Freehold property, £29,680.” Nothing
is being written off this for depreciation ; yet surely the
depreciation of market buildings must be substantial.
This raises a doubt whether the true profits are what ti e
profits are said to be ; if only 1 per cent, were put aside
to cover depreciation, it would sweep £296 off the total
for the year. Even then, certainly, they would be hand-
some ; partly because the expenses are very modest.
• * « *
The history of the North Broken Hill since the
present reconstructed co. took it over :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
July, ’OS - £8,482
Dee., ’05£33,753 15 p.c. = £9,750£10,242£13,761 22,243
New Share premiums .. .. 9,785 32,028
June,’o6 15,765 40 „ „ 26,000 4,700 17,093
New Share premiums .. .. 19,500 36,593
Dec., ’O6 50,692 25 „ „ 17,500 5,986 27,206 63,799
June, ’O7 54,167 60 „ „ 42,000 16,225 59,741
This co. charges some of its mine work, as well as addi-
tions to its plant, to capital account; hence the amount
written off includes contributions to wipe out former
capital outlay on shafts, etc. The cost of the three mul-
lock passes has now been written right off, so they no
longer figure as assets ; but there is still £IO,OOO of the
cost of the hew main shaft to be provided out of profits.
The surplus of liquid assets over liabilities on June 30
was £61,050. Six months previously it was £71,228.
Therefore the profit, after deducting money spent on new
plant, shaft-sinking, etc., was £10,178 short of enough to
pay the half-year’s dividends.
* •* * *
The published statement that the lode at the
970 ft. level of the Broken Hill South is 1400 ft. long, and
averages 100 ft. wide, makes good reading; but it is irre-
gular and awkward in contour, and will offer some
engineering difficulties. It was an odd chance that when
the main crosscut was started west, to test the width of
this body, it hit the spot where the lode bulged like
Abraham's bosom. This peculiarity gave rise to con-
siderable misapprehension before the form of the body
was understood. The irregular character of the Broken
Hill lodes has frequently given rise to false hopes. It is
the same with values as with forms and shapes. In
Marsh section of the British, a strip of about 10ft. on the
hanging wall side of an ore body, 30ft. wide, was composed
of rich friable sulphides. The balance, right across to the
footwall, was poor hard tack. The drive didn’t happen
to strike the lode on the friable side ; so that time there
was no commotion on ’Change.
-»■*«*
B.H. Junction North mill is still giving a lot of
trouble. It runs beautifully for two or three shifts, and
then it lies down and kicks. Locally its eccentricities are
coming to be treated as a joke.
Much delay has occurred in getting the water
out of Thompson shaft, British Broken Hill. Ore has
practically been proved through the whole eastern block,
extending from Thompson to Marsh shaft. A sinking
pump is now being installed, which is more sensible than
the baling previously depended on.
* » * *
The Grafton Copper Cos. owns the Cangai
mine, on the Clarence River (N.S.W.). It has been en-
thusiastically stated tLat blister copper can be produced
for £33 6s. Bd. per ton ; but that depends upon picking
out comparatively small quantities of ore running 12
per cent., and easy to treat with wood fuel in reverbera-
tory furnaces. If 6 per cent, ore cost as much as this 12
per cent, stuff to handle, the cost would jump to £66
13s. 4d. Costs per ton of ore, instead of being low, are
really high ; and to compare it with Great Cobar or Mt.
Lyell is absurd. By picking 12 per cent, ore Cangai may
for the present, so long as 12 per cent, ore lasts, produce
blister copper as cheaply as Mt. Lyell; but the latter
co.’s ore averages less than 2 per cent., so that six
times more ore has to be handled to get a ton of metal.
Transport from the Cangai ; salso costly, as the river has
to be crossed several t : . >•>. The mine can be cheaply


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, an
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (5th blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
* » * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I. U.P. and the smaller one 35 I. H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [d.1
* * * *
The Financial Standard (London) wrote in
its issue of 11th September, 1906, regarding The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ Notwith-
standing the utmost conservatism observed by the
Directors, continual progress is being achieved, and the
latest report shows that the trading for the past year is
no exception to past records.”*
* • * •
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
addf ess, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.VV. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Eire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. — For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * « *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberherq and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74,Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the*-e was not £10 of
extras ’’*
* * *
Golden Bendigo. —The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * • * -
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
The Commissioners of Vic. Savings Banks are
calling tenders for the twelfth issue of Government
guaranteed debentures for £100,000 at 34 per cent to
mature on 31st October, 1918. The minimum price is
£98 10s., and allowing for redemption at par, the net
return to investors will be £3 13s. 3d. per cent. A deposit
of only 5 per cent, is required with the tender, and the
balance may be paid at any time up to 31st March, 1908.
The money raised by issuing these debentures will be
lent to farmers under the Credit Foncier system. As
the Commissioners already have the money ..lying, in the
bank, accumulated from farmers’ repayments, they offer
to purchase 1908 debentures from any holders who may
desire to re-invest their money in the new issae.*
worked by tunnelling into the hill, and, as there is plenty
of timber handy, there is no reason why costs should not
be redaoed. Perhaps concentration of the low-grade ore
might help. Certainly present methods cannot last long.
Last year 2183 tone of ore yielded matte containing 208
tons of copper, or less than 10 per cent. Latest weekly
furnace return was 17 tons of matte (40 per cent, copper)
from 61 tons of ore and furnace slag. The show is paying
3d. dividends (80,000 shares), and shares are valued at
over 40s.
• * * *
“Follower On”: “Re “Follower” on Lloyd’s
(29/8/’O7). (1) The mine is not “completely closed
down”; there are still 230 men employed. (2) Those
Burraga teams carting “ on starvation rate" are, I say,
the finest in N.S.W.—which is big talk, but good for my
little fiver. (3) “ Throws Bs. per ton at them.” Lloyd’s
always pays more in winter, as hors s have to be fed
during wet days as well as fine. (4) “Should have paid
(for firewood) Bs., a reasonable rate compared with that
paid by other mines.” No other copper mine in N.S.VV.
pays Bs.; and if Burraga wood-carters cannot make good
money on 7s. per ton in this thickly-wooded district,
they will give up the game and start splitting tooth-
picks. (5) “The recent ‘fault’ in the mine was only
what might have been expected”—months after the
event!
• * » *
From Budgery (N.S.W. ) 33 tons of 8£ per cent,
copper ore returned £139, and 23 tons of 7f per cent, ore
returned £99, after deducting expenses of treatment
and transport. This means that Bud,ery gets about £4
ss. for its ore, with the copper market wobbling between
£76 and £80; and £4 ss. for ore that gives an average
net assay of 8 per cent, which works out at the rate of
only £53 per ton of metal. Still, compared with some
returns, £4 ss. for 8 per cent, ore looks munificent. But
probably the generosity of the smelter is more apparent
than real; deductions from the assay value are a “ slim ”
way of nominally reducing smelting costs. Budgery will
not be able to rush development work with a return of
£4 ss. on small quantities of ore ; and a lot of picking has
to be done to get that much.
• * • •
Developments at the True Blue, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), point to a prosperous future. At a depth of
1100 ft., 230 ft. south of the Brilliant shaft, the lode has
branched off into two channels. The one, turning off in
an easterly direction, is fully Oft. wide, with 2ft. 6in. of
fine mineral ore on the footwall, worth from 10 to 20oz.
gold per ton.
* * • *
North Boulder (W.A.) had better turn it up.
Nothing of permanent value has been found for years
past, and the possibility that deeper workings may
reveal better prospects is too slender to be seen with the
naked eye. Shareholders have been kept on the go
quite long enough, and it is time they were put out of
their suspense—and expense. Some months ago the
management worked itself into frenzy over the alleged
richness of the Kalgoorlie Mint leases, and the people
interested were implored to snap up these blocks. Any-
one, however, who is tempted to subscribe to the further
development of either property will regret it, for almost
a certainty.
* * • *
Some observations by W. R. Feldtman, who
was sent out from ’Ome at a cost of £2OOO or £3OOO to
report on the Associated (W.A.): “While still leaving
something to be desired in order to permit of systematic
and economical work, the condition of the mine work-
ings has been and is at present being rapidly improved...
The equipment and plant is in fairly good order, but the
draught of the furnace flues wants improving, the con-
densing plant requires remodelling, air actuated pumps
are required underground in place of baling tanks, and
new head-gear for Judd’s shaft is badly needed.... The
last official estimate of reserves has been carefully
checked, and, with such future ore supplies as may
reasonably be expected to be opened up on the Aus-
tralia East line, should serve to maintain the present rate
of ore production and profit earning for at least five years
to come The possibilities of picking up the true con-
tinuation of the Iron Dukeshootare distinctly favorable.”
Most of the aforesaid observations are but a repetition of
what the directors have already had drummed into them
by manager Roberts, so that the latter may now briefly
cable the Board “I told you so.” Feldttnan’s theory
about the possibility of the rich shoot being picked up is
not, however, likely to be supported by Roberts, who has
spent the best part of two years burrowing and riddling
the lower levels in search of it. If he is not satisfied by
this time that values have become dispersed on passing
into the Associated, he must be hard to convince. As for
Feldtman, the work done under his supervision ought to
have satisfied him also on this point, but apparently it
hasn’t.
* * • *
Ooolgardie State battery (W.A.) has kept its
end up very well. Since crushing was started in 1904, it
has treated about 16,000 tons of stone for an average of
nearly loz. per ton, and the fact that it has been in full
operation the whole time shows that a living can still be
made by parties of working miners in and near the
locality of Baylev’s historic find. But the gold deposits
are not big enough to. warrant cos. of the old size taking
a hand, and that is where Ba3'ley’s co. (if the proposed
reconstruction comes off) is likely to fail.
*****
Ore treatment is again in full swing at the
North Star, Malcolm (W.A.). This mine was one of the
earliest gold producers north of Kalgoorlie, but gave up
after a few ounce-crushings had been put through the
mill. Later on shareholders were told that the reef was
too small and the country too hard to enable profitable
mining to be carried on, and liquid ition followed. Some
time ago a small local syndicate was formed to work the
property, and with the money thus raised, supplemented
by £ISOO borrowed from the Government, it has again
been put on a producing footing. Success is, however,
doubtful. *
* * .* #
Boom cables are still being sent away from the
Gwalia Consolidated, Wiluna (W. A.). Director Durant is
nominally in charge, but G. W. Hall appears to be the
author of reports about the mine’s wealth ; and G. W.
Hall’s predictions haven’t had much luck, as a rule.
* * * *
Greenbushes tin field ( W. A.) has been reported
on by the local inspector of mines. The tin-bearing
area is, he says, five miles by three. Alluvial was found
from the grass roots to depths varying from 3ft. to 15ft.,
and it was worth from 2s. 6d. to 4s. per cubic yard. In
parts of the field a layer of ironstone conglomerate
occurred near the surface, carrying values ranging from
18s. to 255., and occasionally as high as 60s. per load.
The veins are described as indefinite and irregular
deposits in the stanniferous belts. Total quantity of tin.
won to date is given as 5844 tons, valued at £396,622.
So far, only shallow mining has been carried on ; so,
assuming the lodes maintain their values with depth,
Greenbushes is like the man w'ith the wheelbarrow—it
has 'most everything ahead of it.
* 1 » * ,
So far the Havilah doesn’t hold out much pro-
s' 8 ?™ 0 the Victorians who followed Hans Irvine into
that Black Range (W.A.) show. There always have been
large.doubts about Black Range’s persistence, and work
at this mine has made the doubts still larger. At 160 ft.
nearly 300 ft. of driving east and west has shown the reef
payable only in patches ; and at present there is only six
months’ stone in sight. The co. paid £12,000 for the
leases, and on July 18 still had £4354 cash in hand. With
that and the gold contained in the stone in sight it will
get down to a lower level and see if things improve there.
* * * *
Of the half-dozen Westralian shows held in
Melbourne, Black Range is the only one to give decent
returns. Western-district squattocrats are the big
holders, plus Hans Irvine. So far, bonanza stone has
made divs. easy, 25,000 tons having yielded 47,800 oz.
out of the proceeds of which £47,000 has been paid in
dividends, while £23,000 has gone in plant and develop,
ment, £33,000 in stores and fuel. The directors don’t
ru3 {* dividends, so they have planted away on fixed de-
posit £IO,OOO ; and the Black Range Kohinoor, a pup,
owes them about the same sum. As the co. has now a
tip-top battery, it will be able to treat low-grade stone
and keep up profits. Yet “ speckers ” don’t like the show',
and have kicked shares from 455. to 255. So the sceptic
has the idea that the market is better primed with in-
formation than the Board. In this case, as the Board
runs straight, sympathy is with the holders.
* * * *
Glassford Creek, the much-boomed Central
Queensland show, has burst, “because of transport diffi-
culties and the present state of the copper market.”
Which is_ humorous. The transport difficulty everyone
knew of, but what is wrong with the present state of the
copper market ? The present trade market for copper is
practically £BO per ton (slightly over, as a matter of fact),
or fully £2O over the average for years past; and yet it is
solemnly urged as an excuse for ,closing down. Glass-
ford Greek affairs eall for investigation in a very
serious manner. Still, it is only the first of the Central
Queensland chickens that must and will come home to
roost, and without a feather to fly with. Prom the in-
ception the finance arrangements of Glassford, Hector,
Cannindah and Peak Downs have been simply atrocious.
There may be reasons for this, and reasons, too, which
the public will not appreciate. In not one single case
has money been reasonably spent in developing the
shows; but in each instance there has been much top-
hamper, and there have been kites, and aids to market
rigs in the way of smelters and smelter reports.
Mt. Hector will in all probability be the next
Queensland copper show to burst. Something very un-
foreseen will have to occur to prevent it. What beats
the public, and at the same time keeps up the price of
shares for a while, is that these Queensland concerns in-
variably prefer to get a bank overdraft, instead of calling
up their own capital. And that bank overdraft bursts
them eventually. It will be interesting to see presently
how Mt. Hector will account for things. Where has
Hector got its money from? Not from the shareholders,
and not from the mine.
* • * •
What of the Peak Downs, the ancient Central
Queensland copper producer? Well, annth r month will
see interesting developments there. This co., at best
painfully short of capital and with a very low grade ore,
poorly developed, recently watered its'shares—four to
one. What for? To get more capital for the co.? Oh,
no ! More capital for a few large shareholders, if the
public is stupid enough to buy the watered stock. Pe-’k
Downs is now smelting, but it will never make enough to
keep itself out of the hands of the money-lender under
present methods.
• • • *
Cannindah (Q.)has bad an awful market tumble.
Bewick, Moreing and Cos. sent up Bae, one of its smelting
men, to take charge ; but 8., M. and Cos. evidently didn’t
have the free hand that they expected, and Rae promptly
retired after making hardly any changes, and has gone
south again, and Philp. jun., remains in charge. 8., M.
and Cos. don’t relish the way things have gone, and they
and Cannindah are friends no longer. Hence the tumble.
* * * »
The Adelaide co.’s report on Smith’s Creek
(N.Q.)is the best, for many a day. The co. made £6184
during the half-year. That left a dehit in profit and loss
account of £4031. To get rid of that reproach the direc-
tors calmly write up the value of mine and development
by that much, and, hey presto ! the reproach is gone, and,
so far as the accounts show, you would think that the old
dead-horse had been worked off. Even the auditors
could only swallow that with a gulp ; they mention that,
“ subject to this fact, it is a full and fair halance-sheet,
properly drawn up.’’ That sort of thing makes one sus-
picious, in spite of the improvement shown, ft looks too
much as though the Board was desperately anxious to
show an improvement.
* * * •
Great Northern, Gympie (Q.), which ia being
prospected by a mostly-Sydney co., is still keeping in the
public eye. Within nine or ten months the co. has sunk
a shaft 600 ft. deep, proving over 100 ft. of good gold-hear-
ing country and a strong reef which carries coarse gold in
two out of three places where it has been tapped Asa
result of developments, over 20 leases have been applied
for around the Great Northern. Two cos. have been
floated in Gympie to work adjoining blocks, viz., the
No. 1 N. Great Northern to the north (and including
the Empire reef, the one cut in the Great Northern),
and the Great Northern Extended, a deep-sinking show
to the east of the parent mine. A fortnight hack a co.
called the Great Western was formed, with Sydney
directors and secretary. This property has four reefs and
slates at the shallow depth of 200 ft. Sinking from the
surface will be commenced within three weeks. The
Great Northern shaft is now nearly completed, so within
a week or so the Empire reef will be prospected. Satis-
factory developments in the Great Northern have already
benefited Gympie ; further developments should give a
new life to the goldfield.
• * * *
No. 2 N. Columbia and Smithfield, Gympie
(Q.), exhibited some of its best specimens at the Gympie
show. “ The Dumb-bell ” attracted much attention ; it is
a bar of gold uniting two lumps of quartz. The mine
will add something to its glossy reputation when it
crushes some of the rich stone got north and south of the
crosscourse ; but these good things come only a little
oftener than angels’ visits.
* * * #
“Spider” from the spot: Reported up here
that a £60,000 Bull co. has been formed to develop the
Lawn Hill, south of the Gulf (N.Q.). Something like
£50,000 has been spent thereabouts already, and things
don’t look as well now as they did before find, was spent.
The Silver King has a shaft over 200 ft. deep, and some
crosscutting has been done from the bottom ; result,
small seams of galena. This is considered the best show
on the field ; so from that you can get an idea of the
Lilydale and the Mended Hill, the other two most-
mentioned shows.
* • * •
Phoebe has a lease of 6| acres at Charters
Towers, wedged in alongside Kelly’s Q. Block. It has been
a disappointing show, because great expectations were
based on its having the Brilliant formation ; besides, it
had such an affluent neighbor as the Brilliant and 't.
George United. For years past the Brilliant has eclipsed
the old-time traditions of the St. George, but the latter
seems likely to gain a renewal of interest, for the Phoebe
has developed a payable vein in the St. George formation
They are stoping on 12in. of fair stone. The last crush-
ing from the mine was 126 tons for 1630 z., a small
lot certainly fora co. with 40,000 paids and 60,000 con-
tributing shares. It is time the Tdwers set seriously to
work to reduce the swag of shares it is burdened with.
The old Day Dawn P.C., which has the largest area
some time threw off half of its 500,000, and the Deep
Levels now proposes to reduce its issue of 200,000 of
which no less than 150,000 are paid up. Some of these
shows are now only prospecting ventures. New Victoria
and Caledonia Blocks, which is prospecting a leader left
in the old times, has also a big swag of scrip (96,000),
but a lot are forfeited and on the co.’s hands.
* * * *
“Quartpot” from Cloncurry: “Tkona’s”
statement (B. 8/8/’O7) that men are holding on to their
copper ore in order to avoid paying £6 carriage to Julia
Creek won’t hold water. These men knew they had
everything to gain by getting their ore in while copper
was in the neighborhood of £IOO, and that it was better
to pay £6 carriage than risk a fall, such as has taken
place, in price. That too much exemption has been given
in many cases is true ; but the chief offender is not the
“business” man, but the prospector, who in many cases
holds half-a-dozen shows, and works none, but waits for
the Southerner to arrive and buy him out. Most of these
men are old station hands—“gougers ” in name and fact
who root the surface a little at times, get out the rich
stuff, and as soon as a bit of iron or quartz shows, stop
and put down another pot-hole. The result is that
very little good work is done; and in many cases,
no doubt, where the lode, or rather ore, appears
to cut out, it would make again if followed
down •> few feet. What is “ scandalous ”is the utter
want of consideration shown to the men who will work
by the Divisional Board. This body (composed of
squatters) has £I9OO lying to its credit, but, instead of
putting down wells on the various roads, it leaves the
money lying in the b ■nk, thus retarding the progress of
the district. Nearly all the surface water is now gone
and in many cases men willing to work their shows
cannot (this did not apply when I wrote about the re-
duced quantity of ore that was leaving). Water is obtain-
able on most of the creek flats at from 30ft. to 50ft., and
much good could be done if the Board had any go’in it.
Until more facilities are given, the working of small claims
must be intermittent, and exemptions the order of the
day.
• * * *
J. P. Madden’s raining office has been dead out
of luck ever since Lonergan first quitted for London, and
next quitted this world for the abode of the blest. Crotty,
Lonergan, and Madden were the trinity that made the
North Lyell possible until Bull and Yankee Trent took a
hand in the management. The last orphan fathered by
the Madden office is the Murchison River, near Zeehan
(Tas.). The show is as in-and-out as a Sussex-street rat.
Six months back, when the new plant was finished, debts
were to be paid off and divs. made out of ore in sight and
at surface. This wasn’t too much to expect either from
a mine that had had “whips” of cash laid out in its
development. Yet consider the reality : while £6789 came
from ore last half-year, expenses totted up £6729, so
that the difference was only enough to provide petty cash.
The co. has debts totalling £3683, and to wipe these out
a reconstructed co. of the same size is iii the air—
£l2s,ooo shares of £1 each, 62,500 fully paid to go to
existing holders, the balance to be call-paying (6d. on
application and 6d. in a month). As the present co. has
plenty of calling: power, but is restricted to 3d. calls, this
is an expedient to get money in quickly. When it gets
the new float through, the Board ought to reconstruct
a 25,000 share co. The chances of paying divs.
on 125,000 shares are too thin.
* * * *
Talk about the “ Federal salary grab,” it was
nothing compared with the rush of the directors of the
Ajax, Daylesford, to put up the Board fees. There was
little excuse, because the directors were the crowd that
stood in on bed rock, and had the best of the market,
wow it is told on the housetop that only two fees on the
big scale were drawn, and that the fees have been reduced
again. That suggests things. If the mine is as good as
fu er ’r> aS j a ' rnlan Buchanan has preached, why should
,? arc * have cut down the fees so quickly? Or why
should the directors have encouraged the legal manager
to. resign a portion of his pittance? The mine smells fusty
if it wants his odd guinea a week. Buchanan says what
is needed is sampling. Good, if the public gets the
results promptly. Otherwise, no.
• * * *
Cassilia, Gippsland (Vic.), is shut down, and
there is not a crumble left among: the teasing Tommies
who have worried Saddler and his co-directors. Coote,
the manager, says the mine must have a power scheme.
This means that there is no decent fuel within miles of
the God-forsaken coiner on which Cassilis lies. The co.
has about £SOOO, and w nts £16,000 for the work. It will
be able to provide cash for half the amount, and will go
cap-in-hand for the rest to a friendly hanker. The Board
knew two years ago that the scheme had to he faced, and
iet it paid divs. in the meantime. Considering that share-
holders got £15,000. in return for calls of £4500,
capital ought to be increased, and a couple of shilling
calls made. Bather than do this, the idea is to
go to the hank, or the machinery people. Saddler
told the grumblers again and again that they ought to
put up cash. Rut there was no backbone in the manage-
ment to say “ You must.” The costs last half-year were
21s. B£d. for mining and 18s. l£d. for treatment, which
includes breaking, ooncentraling, washing, chlorinating
and cyaniding. Wood alone costs 19s. a cord.
* * • *
Outside Ballarat, the Jubilee (Vic.) was the
luckiest hit made for a long time by any Melbourne
crowd. Who put the crowd on to the mine isn't clear,
but honors iie between H. J. Daly and Tom Harvey. The
show has paid £107,000 in divs. since 1900, or nearly 29
per cent. ,of the gold won, of which 72,3500 z. has been got
from 165,000 tons. Putting it another way, from every
ton of stone crushed shareholders have got 13s. And
they are not a poor lot, from Big Baillieu down to Little
Riley. Recently, 10 head of heavy stamps were put up
to make profits out of low-grade quartz left standing in
the upper levels. Work there may account for the lower
grade of the stone ; but it will be contrary to all experi-
ence in the Berringa district if the gold doesn’t taper off
with depth. Anyway, it would be instructive to have a
statement of the stone in sight, and its value, to figure
out whether shares are worth 505., even now that the
reef is cut at 1400 ft.
• * * *
Beech worth (Vic.) is going to have a look at its
neglected reefs; and a favorable report has been given !>v
geologist Dunn, of the Mines Dept., on the Twist Creek
field, near Yackandandah. Dunn advises the deeper ex-
ploring of reefs which were very rich to water level.
Also : “ There is plenty of scope for the miner in opening
out other reefs than those already proved.” Shortly after
this report was published a Yackandandah syndicate, the
Go Ahead, sent through 38 tons for 98oz! 6dwt. The
syndicate is now putting up machinery. Two small
batteries are already on the field, and crush for Bs.
per ton.
• • * *
The compensation or mining royalty swindle
received a good ad. in the Warden’s Court at Chines
(Vic.), the other day, when Bewick-Moreing’s applica-
tion for a lease of a slice of country on the northern
extension of the Berry Leads was adjudicated on. The
land is private property, and as the depth at which
mining would be carried on is 300 ft., and the country
carries a heavy stratum of basalt, the warden decided that
the surface would not he damaged in any way by the
mining operations, and therefore awarded no compensa-
tion to the owners. Yet the same cr< wd, a few years
back, squeezed nearly £6OOO out of the defunct Kingston
Leads Cos. for the right to mine on this same area—and
the Kingston Cos. never exercised the right after all.
* * • •
Lady Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), has its new
plant, comprising a 10-head battery and Wilfley concen-
trators, together with a galvanised iron cyanide plant,
nearly compl ted ; and crosscutting for the reef at the
bottom of the straight shaft is proceeding. The plant,
situated at themine, instead of 300 yards away as formerly |
is serviceable enough ; hut the most important question
at present is the value of the stone that the crosscut is
going for. The local public’s belief is shown by the
manner in which the steady 3d. calls have been paid up.
But the “ local public ” isn’t a disinterested judge.
* « * *
It is not often that a mining co. produces a fair
tailings heap without crushing a ton of stone; hut this
is what the Economic, St. Arnaud (Vic.), has succeeded
in doing. When the mine was working some years ago
a quantity of sand was poured down into the stopes as
filling, and as a great deal of this in course of time ran
into the shaft, the present co. has had to reverse the
usual order of things. It is the eo.’s had luck that the
sand is poor. Sinking with machines is now proceeding
in a praiseworthy effort to prove that the mine is as
good at a depth as it was on top.
• * * *
Warrandyte (Vic.), which the Caledonia pups
nd off-shoots but a year ago made a busy township,
returns to its former placid existence as the most
beautiful of Melbourne’s picnic grounds, where the Yarra
ripples between the woocWl hills, and the air is heavy with
the scent of wattles. Only the parent mine is working,
though a trifle of prospecting goes on at the Victory
North, and the old Victory threatens to make a fresh
start. The worst example of the lot is Caledonia
South, now closed over a month. The management
apparently splashed its last half-penny in anew
engine and crushing outfit—and went bung before
these ornaments could be erected. The stamper-box and
frame are in place, but the stampers, rods, engine, etc.,
lie outside. Near at hand are four costly pumps going
the way of all neglected machinery. Even the engine-
bed, a solid mass of cement and rubble that could have
cost hardly less than £BO to build, is left unfinished. As
for Warrandyte’s Beer Club, the joyous gathering that
used to buy a hogshead on Saturday night and spend
Sunday afternoon in a handy paddock with it, it has
vanished—chiefly because the president has gone away,
the committee has departed, the members have scattered,
the money is exhausted and the beer is finished.
• • • *
“ Arltunga ” Northey will have to look out for
his honors if Windred goes scouring the far corners
bursting up mining shows. Narlaria he blotted out in a
sentence ; now he cuts up the copper and lead deposits in
the Victoria River(Northern Territory). The trip thither
was his own, and, like a man, when he drew a blank he
said so. He heard of the distant field when at Narlaria,
and distance made it look a beautiful coppery green. He
went back to Melbourne, and from that point it looked
still more attractive. So a little co. took up the venture
and sent Windred away to the Victoria River, with some
of the old hands who ought to have known of the copper
and lead deposits. Now, with his pack-horses and mates,
he has got back to Wyndham, and wires that it was all a
fiasco.
* • * •
A.M.P. : (1) No; the society’s principal Act
(1857) gave “the same power to invest in securities in
Great Britain as in the colonies.” (Evidence of R. Teece,
on the Amending Bill, 1902.) The 1902 Amending Bill
didn’t affect the power of the society t®buy Government
securities—it had that power before. (2) On Dec. 31
last the British Consols held by the society totalled
£102,340. (3) No ; the money wasn’t “ borrowed ” by
the Industrial branch. It was included among the
Ordinary branch expenses.
* * *
There was great joy among N.S.W. antimony
miners a few weeks ago. There had been an announcement
that the bottom was out of the market; but the people
who had just started the smelting works at Balmain
(Sydney) rushed out advertisements offering prices that
put the reported quotations to shame. The cheerfulness
that followed the announcement didn’t, however, last
long; after a few lots had been delivered, the local market
seemed satisfied. No improvement being reported from
Europe, antimony-mining at Hillgrove has, therefore,
practically ceased, and the N.Q. producers are also down
to half-a-dozen or so. Along the Mitchell and Alioe
Rivers big antimony lodes have been found (or found
again) during the last couple of years; veteran prospector
John Dickie quite lately reported something special from
Alice River way. But with present prices their remote"
ness doesn’t give these shows a hope.
* * * *
The original million shares in the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. were cut up as follows :—
W. K. Daroy, Rockhampton .. 358,334
Win. Pattison, Rockhampton ... 125,000
T. S. Hall, Rockhampton .. ... 158,332
W. R. Hall, Sydney.. .. .. 125,000
John Wagner, Melbourne .. .. 29,167
A. W. Robertson, Melbourne .. 29,166
C. C. Skarratt, Sydney .. .. 58,334
John Ferguson, Rockhampton .. 116,667
The co. was registered in 1886, and since then the dive,
have reached £6,841,667.
* * * *
“Janor ” : One hears a good deal just now of
thefts of gold from mines by the workmen. But it is not
always the toiler who “does a bit on his own.” A
manager of a Vic. mine, making his usual round of in-
spection, while in one of the faces got a slight cut on the
hand from a flying st.one-splinter. He hurriedly jerked
his handkerchief from his pocket to stanch the blood,
when, to the astonishment of the miners (tributors), a
lump of amalgam the size of an egg fell on the floor of the
drive. He recovered the metal in confusion, and scooted.
As the tributors had cleaned up a disappointing crushing
the previous day, and the mine manager was also battery
manager, the episode caused no end of a shindy, which
ended in the “sack ” for that boss.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
15s. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
“COSY CORNER and LOUNGE EAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
David kStorer <SL >Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
In Three Colors:
black, red,
(EL BLUE.
<•£& <spft
Kept by .. .
ALL MERCHANTS
®. STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OB
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER,
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
WHEN LANGUAGE FAILS.
BONSOR : “In presenting you with this—er—
bosht—I mean beautiful — er — exquisitely—er
— embellished—er —gob—goblin—cup—I—er—
say—I repeat — I— I—O! take the darned
mug; it’s yourn.”
You don’t have to go far after you quit the
modern Australian mining prospector before you
reach the explorer. Just now, men are reaching
out from Cloncurry (Q.) in all directions, especially
west, mostly in unknown or little-known coun-
try. The furthest point was recently reached by
two men, Eskdale and Cundy, who, diving into
the Territory, inspected properties near Boroo-
loola on behalf of a Victorian syndicate.
Mr. P. E. Harris writes from Townsville:—
__ Having spent about 10 put of the last 34 years in the
North, I must join issue with Mr. Merivale over his
reckless utterances before the N.S.W. Chamber of Com-
merce, and his utterly unfounded statements that a
vigorous ivhite population cannot be raised in the tropics.
In 1877 I went to Port Darwin, and spent four years
between there and Powell’s Creek. I never had better
health in my life, and a more healthy lot of men than
those employed on the overland line could not have been
found in Australia. Some of them are there still ; and in
Port Darwin are men who went out before that time and
are alive and well to-day.
From ’9l to ’93 I lived on the Etheridge, and frequently
visited Croydon and other parts of the peninsula, and
since that time I have paid various visits to North
Queensland, the last six months having been spent at
Cloncurry.
At Croydon are many men who have been there since
the opening of the field, now well over 20 years ago, and
some of them had been on the Palmer and other northern
fields before that. These men are going strong to-day,
doing-work that would break Mr. Merivale up in a day,
yet they have worked hard and roughed it most of the
time.
The same remarks apply to the Etheridge and Clon-
curry. I personally know many who have lived in these
places for 20 to 30 years, and in spite of rough living and
camping out in all weathers, a healthier or stronger lot
could not be found. As for the younger generations
bred in the country, I will back them for vigor and
endurance against anything Mr. Merivale, or any other
anti-Australian slanderer, can produce from the South.
They can live on a bit of corned beef and damper, sleep
on anything or anywhere, and work all the time, and
there is no harder or more enduring White race any-
where.
As regards the children —for size and thickness of limbs
the rising- generation will very, well compare with the
Southerners ; and, with the better conditions of living
which will follow the opening up of the interior by rail-
ways, there is no doubt about the physique of the future
Northerners.
As for the white not being able to work, it is a well-
established fact that the working men and women are
the healthiest. The woman who does nothing goes to
pieces fast, while the one who does a good day’s work is
as healthy as possible. All the people I know who have
lived long in the country agree that, to retain good
health, the strenuous life is a necessity.
For the future safety of Australia it is sincerely to be
hoped the Australian Government will not let the grass
grow under its feet in the business of taking over the
N.T., making the railways, and starting to fill the coun-
try with whites. If not, Mr. Merivaleand all other croaking
anti-Australians will probably have more of the black or
brown element than they care about before many years.
If they don’t, it is a certainty their children will.
» * * ■»
In Port Darwin (N.T.), where most people
wear “ washatbles,” a Chinese tailor is in partner-
ship with a ditto washerman. You can’t lick these
heathens. Ah Ping- makes the clothes, and Ah
Pong scrubs them vigorously and wears them out.
* * * *
“Janor” : New chums underground are
an infernal nuisance, but miners treat them with
good-humored tolerance, and try to teach them.
The old hand must do all the hammer work, and
some new chums take weeks to learn to turn the
drill. The firing always scares the be-
ginner. It is told of a party of ’chums,
who were sinking a shaft in the early
reefing days of Gfympie, that, having
bored and charged a hole, all hands
built a roaring fire on the shaft -head,
and dropped blazing limbs down
below until the explosion came to
pass. On a Vic. quartz field I saw
two ex-counter-jumpers working an
outside show. Asked one of them
one day how they were getting on
with their shaft, and was told that
they had abandoned it because they
couldn’t get fuse long enough. They
believed in having one end of the
fuse in the hole and the other at
the surface, it being safer that way ;
and when at length the shaft became
too deep for a whole coil to reach
from top to bottom, they quitted.
The learner will often charge a hole
coolly enough, but he develops a
wild desire to break all pedestrian
records directly the fuse gives off
smoke, in spite of the fact that light-
ing the fuse is the less dangerous
operation of the two. It is not often
one bumps against “quick ” fuse—that is,
fuse so badly timed that ignition travels
rapidly. That kind of stuff has only come
my way once in a good many years, and then
I had the surprise of my life. The shot, a
lifting hole with five plugs, went when the rope
had me a few feet from the bottom, and I never
sat on so many rocks at one time before or since.
Michael Carr writes :
Re “ Flinderino’s ” par (B. 22/8/’O7), it is all bunkum
for “the toilers of the deep ” to say that the seals on the
Victorian coast will destroy the fishing- industry. Was
in Portland lately, and heard the fishermen’s story. On
that coast, Julia Percy Island is the only place where there
are any seals, and they are protected all the year. For some
time back an agitation has been raised for permission to
kill the seals, ostensibly for the reasons which “Flinder-
ino ” quotes. And I heard the fishermen boast that if they
are allowed a chance for only a little time, there won’t be
a seal left. Portland is the very earliest Victorian set-
tlement, and it is well known that when the Hentys
arrived seals were plentiful, not only all along the coast,
but in Portland Bay itself. Yet the sea literally teemed
with fish. The seals don’t kill off the fish, or the harvest
of the sea would have ended long ago. But apparently
the seals pick off the older fish —the culls, in fact —
for observers tell me they follow the shoals and
secure the laggards, leaving the strong and healthy to
breed. People are only too anxious to kill our
native fauna or fish if they get a ghost of a reason.
Some people kill for no reason at all. The other
day I came across a selector near the Grampians
who had just proudly slain a porcupine. I asked him
why he did it, and what harm he thought porky did him.
All he had to say was that he always knocked them on
the head when he saw them. lam sorry to say I was
not big enough to knock this selector on the head, good
and hard. Some day we shall reap a crop of trouble
through senselessly exterminating our native animals.
Coming back to the seals, I am glad to say the Field
Naturalists Club has been advised of the fishermen’s sense-
less craving to exterminate something, and is taking
steps to avert the proposed butchery.
« « * *
“Kosciusko”: “Jimmie Pannikin ” (B.
l/8/’O7) found trouble in trying to photograph
some Afghan camel drivers. Well, he didn’t try
them all. On the Bourke-Hungerford road I
photographed one of Gunny Khan’s lieutenants
on his special riding camel, and also took the
caravan and its driers— everyone helping to the
fullest extent. I saw the same Afghan and camel
later, by the way, at Hungerford, and, as the
outcome of a controversy re relative staying
powers of camel and horse, the Afghan offered to
wager £SO he would leave Hungerford on his
camel that evening at nine, and report himself in
Bourke at nine following morning—distance, 132
miles. And this after a day’s journey—so he said
—of over 70 miles. The camel was specially bred
for speed, and was said to be the fastest in
Australia.
* * * *
A flight of colds set out one day,
Great ugly things, and flew away,
Across the hills and o’er the sea,
Determined vengeful thus to be.
But all at once these colds grew fewer,
Vanquished by Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ;
And so they died, all one by one,
Their deadly work left all undone.*'
A PROFESSIONAL DISPUTE.
“ Thief You call me a thief? Who was it robbed me o’ Jim's muver's fowls an' the four
quid I got fer the swell’s watch?”
A man tells what life is like at Camoo-
weal, the furthest out-back town in Queensland
(after you pass Camooweal you’re supposed to
drop over the Edge ; as a matter of fact, you drop
into some of the finest downs or tableland country
in Australia) •
There is no romance about Camooweal. It is built-
no, it isn’t built; it sprawls—on a waterhole. Just a
waterhole. There is no sign of a tree anywhere, and the
tbwnship would hardly know a fence if it saw one. The
stranger just wanders through back-yards or front ones
as he pleases. Three public houses, two stores a police-
station, a post-office, and various nondescript domiciles
make up the village. Mobs of cattle from the station
browse on tlie backs of Georgina Creek, which feeds the
waterhole ; occasionally they die in the water, and then
the inhabitants take their whisky neat. There is no
common or reserve, and the nearest Divisional Board is
at Bnrketown, 200 miles away Drinks costa shilling,
and The Bulletin nmepence. The only excitement the
place gets is when a bushman turns up to knock down a
cheque. Sometimes a pub runs short of grog; but it
keeps the materials handy. Once upon a time, the only
gallon of real whisky in the place was at Synnott’s store,
A man came in with a cheque and handed it over to one
of the pubs. With that cheque the pub bought the
gallon, and then proceeded to sell it (or what was
alleged to be it) back to him at a shilling a time. It cost
him £2B— l can’t figure it out ; but they all swear to it.
A carrier here not long ago drank his pockets empty, and
then swallowed his waggon and team. The population
numbers 200. The climate is healthy and girls out-
number boys by about 10 to one. Sickness is rare in
Camooweal; just as well—the nearest medico lives 200
miles away. The surrounding country should he under
sheep, but it isn’t; huge areas are held by absentees, who
depasture a few cattle.
* * . * *
It is now 30 years since Truganini, the last
of the Tasmanian aborigines, passed away to the
, , i l > j
happy corroboree ground where possums and
flying wombats wear halos. There is an appro-
priate memorial to the departed one, in the shape
of a small, 40-ton sailing craft that dodges about
between Melbourne and Westernport (Vic.). The
ketch Truganini is a native of the Common-
wealth, having been built of Tasmanian hardwood
on the Huon River in 1876—the year that old
Mrs. Truganini died. Thirty odd years of bob-
bing and battling in Bass Strait has produced no
visible effect on the stability of the little vessel,
which speaks well for the Hobart ship-builder.
Truganini, the woman, lived for 64 years, and
Truganini, the ship, to all appearances, will last
just as long. It is a sorrowful thing that the
importing craze should have practically killed the
old Tassy ship-producing industry. The island
ought to be a great shipping centre. Yet Cogh-
lan’s last volume showed that it had 26 men
employed at making, repairing, and hiring out
boats, or standing around looking at boats when
there was no work to do. They represented the
remnant of an industry that was slain for want of
a 50 per cent, duty on the imported tub.
At Canberra, the unpeopled town which is
suggested by some as a site for the Australian
capital, there is a church 60 years old, and built
on the fine old English principle which teaches
Giles to be ’umble and Hodge to bear himself
reverently before his betters. It stands on the
old Crown grant of the Campbell family. In the
front of it, where people get the first helping of
the gospel, are well-cushioned seats for theadjaeent
“squires.” At the back, under the gallery, where
people get any indigestible bit of gospel that
the squires haven’t eaten, are hard, wooden
boards for Giles and Hodge. The church was to
be the nucleus of a town, built on private pro-
perty, and inhabited by Giles and Hodge to the
great enrichment of the squire, but the squire’s
ideas of rent were probably too vast, and the race
of Giles and Hodge didn’t grow and multiply
quite as expected, so there is no town, and the
church is a bad debt, instead of being the profit
that was expected. But it contains some in-
teresting memorial tablets about squires who have
died and gone to Heaven. They have all gone to
Heaven, it seems —the church is dead sure about
that.
* * * *
“ Pick” : Some miles below the site chosen
for the Federal capital the Snowy River has its
“ Iron Gate.” Through this the waters, narrowed
in by walls of granite to about one-third their
usual width, shoot with such force that perch and
other fish, common enough below, are never found
above the rapids. They can’t swim through that
hurricane of water. I saw a wallaby and a pur-
suing collie attempt to swim the river above the
Gate once, and never before saw two animals have
their ardor so suddenly cooled. The instant they
got within the influence of the channel, where the
vortex hummed like a dynamo, they were whirled
under, and a second later shot through the foam
some 50yds. below, As they scrambled together
on a rock in midstream, they appeared to have
forgotten their late difference. The wallaby ex-
hibited a profound indifference to the presence
of the collie, and the latter’s sole object in life
was to reach dry land and shake himself.
* * * *
“P. 8.” : Re some recent “abo.” pars :
(1) If you meet a snake just after it has had a
heavy dinner you can stroll for a stick with your
hat on. If the snake is lying on an empty tummy
you won’t have time to undress your head. (2)
It is said that snakes won’t enter tents. During
30 years’ bush experience I have killed over 100
snakes in tents. A snake will go wherever its
innate cussedness leads it, and it generally gets
there. (3) Someone says that stink wort is “easily
eradicated.” So it is. Also an ant is easily
killed. But try to kill all the ants in a parish, and
the real inwardness of the situation may dawn
upon you.
THE LANGUAGE OF THE COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, the Language of the Country ! It is frisky, it is free,
And it lashes out its meaning with a plentitude of d ;
And it cheers the boggled teamster on the breezy morning
air;
And it shakes the lazy ’possum like a gunshot in his lair.
It was born in good old Britain, but we soaked it in the
sea,
And we curled its little topknot as we pannikinned the
. tea,
Ai.d we used it on the bullocks (it was whip and spur
and goad)
Till it left a flow’rv fragrance over many a mile of road.
When the mud was o’er the axle and the team was done
and dead,
And the greenhide failed to lift them and their backs
were raw and red,
Juslra burst of Berserk lingo would go down along the
line,
And they’d shift the hobs of Hades at the chant in-
carnadine.
There are some who like a language that is built for
poetree,
But the lingo with a bite in is the lingo pleases me ;
You may have your “fancy trinnnins” if you’re in the
“ trimmins ” line,
But a language minus color is a bottle minus wine.
Can the Dago with “ Carramba ! ” and such washy stuff
as that,
Ever hope to raise your spirits, or the hair within your
hat ?
Cxn you wonder how in battle he’s a feeble thing and
tame
When he lacks the lurid phrases that are half the ruddy
game ?
There are speeches sweeter spoken when ye come to bill
and coo;
There are softer tongues to plead in when ye gang to win
and woo;
But the tongue we love to lisp in hath an adjective that’s
red
And a lurid cloud of incense as a halo round its head.
We’ve a good old tongue—we love it; ’tis a thing of joy
and pride ;
Many a hero tall embellished and adorned it ere he died ;
And the shadow' of its glory is on many a berg and sea,
And its brimstone breath is brooding over all eternity.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


A SIMULANT , T ,
.It imparts lasting exhilaration
SCHNAPPS
OUR
GUINEA
BROOCHES..
Solid 15ct., with choice
Opals, 21/-.
Solid 15ct., set with choice
whole Pearls, 21/-.
Are in Solid 15ct. Gold, set with Choice
Whole Pearls or other jewels. The range of designs is a large one.
The designs are unique, absolutely new and from the latest approved in
England. We make them in our workshops; we finish them exquisitely. We receive the Pearls direct
from the Fisheries. Our prices are less than those of London.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
Plain Figures Strictly Cash.
“ Arsemo ” : Throwing a hat in front of a
snake to hold his attention while you get a stick
may be a good plan in some cases, hut the only
time I tried it it failed. On that occasion, meet-
ing a, serpent, I threw a new fifteen-and-sixpenny
hat in its path ; then, seeing a stick about 6ft.
long some 10yds. away, I slowly backed towards
the same, meantime keeping my eye on the rep-
tile. Arrived at the right spot, I reached one
hand behind me to pick up the stick, and grabbed
hold of another snake. I must have run in a
circle, for, about a week later, I came back to the
place whence I had started, and there, sure
enough, was the snake I had seized hold of, dead.
It had either been dead all the time, or the shock
of meeting me had killed it. The other snake had
disappeared, likewise my hat. I suppose the
snake swallowed the hat, but could not say
whether it had slimed the tile beforehand or not.
The Arcmcaria Bidwelli, which forestry
experts are now discussing, is no other than the
bunya bunya of the bushman. It abounds parti-
cularly on the Queensland coast, about the Wide
Bay district. Its botanical name is an injustice
to Queensland. The bunya was brought in to the
world of white men by Andrew Petrie, of Bris-
bane, in 1838, and entered on the records as Pinus
Petriana, The fame of the tree spread to Eng-
land, and the Botanical Society there sent out an
office clerk called Bidwell (no relation to the
stupendous forger) to collect a few of the young
plants for transference to England. English
botanists appropriated the tree, rejected its Aus-
tralian name, and gave clerk Bidwell the credit
of discovering it. And Australian botanists and
botanical treatises perpetuate the injustice.
THE FEAR OF IT.
BATTLER BILL: “Let's go up to the bloke up
here and get some tucker.”
DEAF JIM (in a hoarse whisper): “ But I say,
Billy, me boy, do you think there's any fear
of a job?”
t( m cs ~ T £ .
iWO oeas :it you are not jack of
the jaykass wrangle, allow me just to express my
surprise that no one has noted that our hilarious
bird is a champion mouser. He will sit on a fence,
near a hay-stack ora barn, apparently thinking of
nothino- -it 'ill—like tbp Yllb
notning at all like the jolly young waterman,
But let a mouse stir m the hay, and Jack makes
a dart like buttered lightning, drives his beak
into the Stack, and returns to his post with a
victim, clouts him against the rail, and swallows
his meal tail first. Then he goes into a deceptive
.•,° . . A
trance until the next mouse puts his nose out to
see where his mate went.
A CONVENIENT MEMORY.
FATHER HOGAN: “Tim, Tim, you promised me you'd put th' dthrink clane out in your mind.”
TIM: “ Bad luck £ me, yer riv’rence, I disremembered t’ forget.”
According to a local resident, just returned
from an English trip, Lancefield ( Vic.) boasts a
distinction rare among places with English-sound-
ing names. He states that if he addressed a
cablegram simply to “Lancefield” it was quite
sufficient, there being only one post-town of that
name in the world. Bondi (N.S.W.) enjoys a
similar distinction. This writer once cabled there
from Lahore (India), and learned from the black
official with the petticoat and the torrent of
whiskers that it wasn’t necessary to put “Aus-
tralia ” on the message. In the gigantic tome
which gave all the telegraph offices on earth there
was only one Bondi.
* * » *
“Specker” writes “ Flinderino’s ” par
(B. 25/7/’O7) re gold specking at Ballarat shows
he “don’t know.” Well, I’ll tell him
why he needn’t wonder any longer at
the kiddies getting specks after each
shower, and after the ground has been
worked over and over again by the
miners. Also, I’ll explain the “ inex-
haustibleness ” of the supply, and prove
that the showers don't grow it. In
alluvial workings only the lowest few
inches of the wash-dirt on the bed-rock
is taken by the original miner, as thefew
specks to be found in the higher portion
of the wash-dirt, which is often several
feet in thickness, would be unpayable.
Consequently some specks will nearly
always be found in the heaps thrown on
one side of the shaft and left there.
It is on the surface of these heaps that
the “specking” is done, and as a
shower of rain washes away some dirt
from that surface, disclosing specks (if
any), it follows that every subsequent
shower will present a new surface to the
speaker's eyes, and gold will be got as
long as the heap holds out against the
attacks of rain. And when individual
heaps are washed away altogether so
as to have their individuality destroyed
(as “ Flinderino’s ” will be when he
deceases), the clay and stones which
composed them (like the flesh and bones
which compose him) will simply amal-
gamate with the remains of other heaps
and form new ones from which will be
gathered specks that were missed pre-
viously, and thus will go on with beauti-
ful harmony an inexhaustible supply
both of gold and “Flinderinos.”
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : So much has been
said about the gates of Outback, that it’s time the
gates of Gloser-in received a little notice. Between
Hall and Tallangandra there are 14 gates in a
10-mile journey. The Oloser-in gates are largely
used as notice boards. During a fortnight’s tour
through the suburbs of the Canberra Federal
capital site, I came across the following written
notices: —
Please, Mr. Brown, call for my rabbits last; they are
about half a mile up the wire fence.— Arthur O’Briarbush.
Dear Little Satin-Skin. —Can’t marry you to-day. My
wife won’t let me. She come out unexpect ed to my camp
last night. Goodbye and Good luck.- Rudolph the
Rabbiter.
NOTlCE.—Granny Manybairn’s funeral takes place to-
morrow at 3 p m. in the afternoon sharp.—J.T. for the
family.
There will be a fox-drive next Sunday. Meet at the
Stone Hut eight o’clock sharp. Bring vour own lunch.
Hot dinner at five will be provided at Wallaby Villa.—
John Northbodd.
The next cow that leaves this gate open and the Wonga
Gully sliprails down will get a sudden'jerk from Bert
Oldfield.
“ Pakeha” (Gisborne, M.L.) makes a few
remarks:—
Me “Bromide,” in Bulletin of July 25, on the Maori
as a “cowardly, shiftless, and dirty waster.” Have
had experience of Maoris in Poverty Bay, and the
Maori isn’t cowardly, he isn’t dirty,' and he is not
so shiftless as “ Bromide ” makes out. Let it he
admitted that very few Maoris toil steadily from year’s
end to year’s end. Yet they get through a lot of work
one way and another. F’rinstance, the Maoris do most
of the shearing in this district, and do it well and
quickly. Have known a gang of fifteen do their 2000
sheep a day, and keep it up. Nuhaka (south of Gisborne)
Maoris are dairying, and are making a success of it.
They are the chief suppliers to the local factory. It was
a surprise to many, including myself, that they should
tackle the constant work necessary in dairying, hut they
have done so. The Maoris fell a good deal of the hush
that is felled north of Gisborne.
As to being dirty, I have been on stations where Maoris
were working, and have worked at grass-seed sowing
with a gang of them. They bathe regularly in the creek.
And the women employed on stations as “ fleece ohs ” and
lock-pickers at shearing time, wash their clothes very
regularly, and presumably their bodies.
“Bromide” asks: “How many of the alleged Maoris
who cleared and ran the Poverty Bay station, referred to
in a recent issue, were full-blooded Maoris ?” That ques-
tion would be almost impossible to answer. An enormous
number of the so-called Maoris have some white blood in
them. Many are really half-castes ; most have a white
strain somewhere. It is quite impossible to tell with
certainty which are full-bloods. The half-castes, as
workers, are neither better nor worse than those
apparently full-blooded.
* * * «
“ Walfre” : Half a mile of 90ft. street,
Jined with teeming shops and pubs. In
the thoroughfare a mob of between 4000 and 6000
persons mix and pass, jostle, bump, and swear
The trams go full steam through the crush. Three
bands are blowing all they know at various
points. A cheap jack and a merry-go-round cry
in unison for clients. The newsboy, a small army
of him, rushes everywhere, howling his wares.
The Salvation Army bangs drums and intones
deafening hymns near a swing-door from which
a pub vomits its drunks. Over all the roar of
machinery, the grinding of mills, the distant
rattle of railway trucks —and there you have
Argent-street, Broken Hill, on a fine Saturday
night.
* * * *
1 ‘ Brad ” : Be holding a snake spellbound
by means of a hat (B. 8/8/’O7). Have often prac-
tised this dodge with success. The scaly party
will never attack a stationary object such as a hat
or handkerchief, but will gaze at it for hours at a
stretch, consequently he spends most of his time
looking at tree-trunks and fences. Place a
moving object near him, though, and then things
will happen. Was once biking along the Sydney
road near Kilmore (Vic.), when my jigger shied
violently at a “tiger” taking a sun-bath on the
road. Not wishing to soil my new boxer, I
propped the bike up in front of the reptile, and
set the front wheel spinning hard. On returning
with a waddy I saw a curious sight. The wheel
was still revolving ;so was the snake. He had
evidently made a dab at the wheel, and becoming
tangled in the spokes, had a free merry-go-round
ride. When he was liberated he was in a state of
extreme giddiness bordering on collapse, and
began travelling round and round in a circle on
the ground. A few seconds later a giddy, wiser,
squashed serpent passed in his checks.
FATHER O’SHEA’S QUID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bould Father Mick O’Shea
For charity,
For kindness and for gay
Hilarity
Was famed the country through j
And gold to me
Were all the stories true
He told to me.
At church the plate came round
(His story ran)
While music’s solemn sound
In glory ran.
He in his waistcoat fob
Was fingering
The sovereign and the bob
There lingering.
Out of the church he stepped,
For money felt—
The qualm that through him swept
Quite funny felt.
That plate ! oh, where could luck
Have hidden it?
In error he had stuck
The quid in it 1
He turned to seek—but no !
“ Och ! shame to it
That Oi shud wish to show
My claim to it!
Faith, betther kiss the rod ;
’Tis well wid it;
Oi gave the pound to God—
To h—l wid it! ”
VIC.
L. A. M.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Sydolt: You send along a lengthy criticism of a
performance of ‘ Our Boys ” and don’t even say where
the show happened. It might be at Timbuctoo as far as
the evidence goes J. O’B.: Pretty fair, but too much
behind the occasion... .O.J.D. : The slow, heavy style
spoils it G.R.8.: They have good touches, but are
rather crude, as a whole T. Wilshire “The Other
Fellow ” nearly scored. The rest had no chance... .Nils
N. : You haven’t command enough of English R. de
C. : Not bad, for a first try Shingles :So far as we
know the quarrel was with the Surveyor-General, and
was held at Sydney, where his Ex. sat on his throne and
issued his ukase in a large sort of way....F. Murphy:
It is his son’s portrait. We have been getting
that question sent to us regularly for 25 years.
The very mention of “ Brothers and sisters I
have none,’’ etc., makes us angry n0w....
Miss H.: Is that stamp joke your own invention, or did
somebody tell it to you? Pat O’L. : First verse good.
Second and third verses not much account, and full of
wild variations in metre Paddyinelon : The article you
speak of was not based on anybody’s contribution. It
was written in the office, and incited by the receipt of a
copy of the printed report of the Amalgamated Society
of Carpenters and Joiners. Don’t know who sent the
report. Were you the person ? Louis L. : Jokes which
are based on the Norfolk Howard are to be avoided A
.Sufferer : (1) You send no name or address. (2) Your
complaint hardly holds water. The duties are on, but,
until they are confirmed by Parliament, a manufacturer
■can’t venture to lay in machinery and start on a big
scale. While Parliament “wrangles, there is an inter-
mediate period of high prices, when imports are coming
in on much the old scale, and the duty is being added to
the price J.D.B. : Yes; there is promise in it....
J. Gouder : “Allen Raine,” who wrote “ A Welsh Singer,”
was a woman when last we heard of her, and probably
she is still one. And (alas !) her name is Mrs. Beynon
Puddicombe... .C.H. : “Barney” hangs on the border
line with a tendency to sag down on the side where the
waste paper basket is li.S.R. : Funny, but too mal-
odorous. .. .Tantanoola : Not skilfully narrated R.S. :
Didn’t impress us much Thomas M. : Too purely local
in point of interest W.O’D. : Quite useless to us
Rory B. : Well intended, but the subject is too wide for
you Syd C. : Too trifling T.B. : Neither of them is
any good Ralph: They haven’t humor enough to
carry off the mendacity T.V.T.: Not badly done, but
the faithful moke theme is too well-worn.. ..V.C. : You
have feeling, but little skill Slieve D. : Possesses no
general interest Katamaran : Too long and too hard to
read E.A.L. : Too sickening forprint Murkah : Not
far short of the mark Bert M. : Ditto to y0u....
Lovely Riley : Old American anecdote ; originated with
Twain or Billings or Artemus Ward or Bill Nye, or some-
body Will’s Admirer: No relation at all
Comet: The “ debris carried landward by the ocean ”is
the return of a mere fraction of what the sea carries
away. Consider the quantity of things you see rolling
down and the quantity you see rolling up, and you’ll
probably understand the difference between the land that
washes into the deep sea and the land that washes out of
it. The outward tide and the flow of rivers carry an
immense quantity of the earth out downhill;
the inward tide brings a little back uphill
G.W.G.M. :Of no use to us R. Kennedy: Impossible
to say what the new tariff will “ average ” till we see
what the year’s imports under it are, and what is the
total duty collected. And the average will alter every
year. If you take 25 articles, on 22 of which the
duty is 100 per cent., while two are five per
cent, and one is free, it is quite possible for the average
in practice to work out after a very few years at 6 per
cent, on the whole 1 t (or even at 4 per cent.), because
the country leaves off importing the 100 per cent, articles
and makes them locally. The Canadian customs duties
averaged 16 percent, last year; United States 24J per
cent. Germany has so nearly left off importing dutiable
articles that the average was only about 9 per cent, last
year. Japanese figures are uncertain just now, for things
are in a state of flux. Besides Japan doesn’t depend so
very much on its tariff. The State seems to have some kind
of an interest in almost every big enterprise, and it doesn’t
need to rely on duties to make itself use its own g00d5....
R.H. (Tas.j: We couldn’t dig any meaning out of it
Bendemeer: Neatly versified, but rather feeble of senti-
ment ...Geo. H. : “Mars” has too many weak spots
Thermo : C. to F. ;x9 4- 5 -f- 32. F- to C. - 32 x 5- 9.
Walter H. : Any verse about the wattle-bloom would
have to be 24-carat. Yours isn’t lc J. Thomas:
Mildly meritorious Drunken Dick: Good idea, not
artistically enough worked out... .Morgan : Funny, but
weak in spots L’Abeille : Reads real, but isn’t very-
well t01d... .Bandicoot : Hardly point enough in the
fact that the poet hadn’t a second pair of breeks
Maine : Verse-form good, but sentiment feeble and con-
ventional... .J. Kennedy: We’ll wait till the infallible
drink cure has had a longer trial before we boom it....
John H. C. : Many thanks for letter Oglamite : Par
about murderous nigger weeks too late. We had that
Asiatic by telegraph.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H. Clay: No use sending pictures with Methuselah’s
left-off jokes on them. “Two in the Shade” is a most
ancient Joe Millerism... .C.D. : Picture of boy saying the
buns would be stale declined... .H.R. (Westralia): Pic-
tures too shadowy and sketchy and blotty and impres-
sionistic, and so 0n....H. Grady: Nothing hopeful in
batch Mrs. P. : Sorry to say none of them quite struck
I the mark.. . .Argent: Your style of art isn’t nearly good
1 enough Bags: A very tame little picture.
“Hamer”: Melbourne Zoological Gar-
dens Director Le Souef has started a bit of a con-
troversy by stating that the power of snakes to
fascinate their prey is a myth, and only exists in
story books. A few people have risen excitedly
to say that they h ive seen snakes in the fascina-
tion act. What they probably did see was some
creature paralysed with terror at the sight of the
serpent. I have been suddenly spellbound by
meeting a creditor at a street corner; and once I
was absolutely paralysed by suddenly meeting an
armed lunatic. But I wasn’t fascinated; I wasn’t
even charmed.
‘ ‘ Lantana ” : The black brother under
stress of beer loses all his respectful little ways.
Thus did squatter Belson’s nigger stockman forget
himself recently, in view of a crowded Apple Flat
grandstand, after the fourth race and nine consecu-
tive pints: “Miss’r Belson !” (No answer.)
“Esqr. Belson!” (No notice.) “Paddy Bel-
son!” (Dead silence.) “Ole Belson!” (Same
result.) “Belson, yo’ blankety blank blank;
yo’ goin’ shout liket white pfeller t’day ?”


"Melb S'te.
i$ “io *b€ SOM
fder*) °f
Atonr^^
limits 0\ jbt'r -
™ e <fc#W to s«««ssf ul
S ° ° (*§«)
8.4 i We«l> noV deao'{ ner>^ —^f e /e
- Igo +b
f>Ke})Ve * fl^ c « 'f° K y dU •
Once trjore^Vic
st*te
Ytonipi Si/ff'Aflfcs
1
%
T\W
fKntl
Om't
"The I '
Wasted dov/* To TV/S now,
' One of 1{;«
1?e A^aWs
interesf IS *f*fe outcry f'o^n
(a^)
'Sssk-'\\ fafrT *—, >
So * -fine Thing n *!»'?
1e foir m !
NOTICE
i A Li.
I pA,,p oH i>Eco~Q
CooD FRiDA-/ |K
The. ylas
# is
*2o»ne on cvcvywbei'e. -
Wc i]7tAsr ctecfyifa * ( &e»»t).
Kid Electroplate yo« nie^n]
'• H*Jlo ! you" down Ag*in •
" yu%, iH show wgcK (—W of \r<L you
fo*” ?
THE MELBOURNE END OF THE TELESCOPE.


(I) He went to the Bank of N.S.W.,
where his credit balance of £BO,OOO
was. But the bank was gone, and the
cash was gone, and the staff had dis-
appeared, and the accounts had been
used to light a camp-fire with.
(2) He went to sea his lawyer about
his affairs, but ;:o one hed heard of the
lawyer for months. It was rumored
that the Japanese had hanged him on
suspicion.
(3) He looked up the Eternal Trustee
Co. which had charge of his deeds and
mortgages, but it had been struck by
almost the first shell, and its very name
was forgotten.
(4) “ Anyhow, ’* he said, “the pro-
perty can’t be gone. I’ll go to the
litles Office.” But the Titles Office
had taken fire on a day of barricades,
and there were no titles left.
(5) And the old warehouse
was about as undistinguish-
able as the ruins of Babylon.
(6j Then the great capitalist,
who believed in importing iron
because it was cheaper, joined
the line outside the Government
soup kitchen.
(7) And his daughter, the one-time
great heiress, who was to inherit all
the millions made by importing iron,
*"*'es In 'washing to this day.
o r>'i <e» rx* Lj r-j O y —i,
AFTER THE WAR.
Australia didn’t build up its own iron industry because it seemed cheaper to import iron. And when the war came the command of
the sea was lost, and it couldn’t get imported iron. So at last, after Sydney had been twice bombarded and partly burned in the course of
street fights, peace was made on any terms that could be secured. And the great rich importer came back from his place of refuge behind the
Darling to resume business at the old stand.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST. t SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
'■k
Children frequently exhibit
a resolute reluctance to clean
their teeth, but the invention
of Oclol has made a great
change in the attitude of
children towards this essential
part of hygienic cleanliness.
The taste of Odol is so
agreeable, and the effect so
refreshing, that the little folk
will hail with delight the
production of the Odol flask,
that they may morning and
evening enjoy the benefits of
its wonderfully invigorating
effects.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Walter James, of Westralia, good Fede-
ralist and Democrat, has for some inscrutable
reason consented to become a Knight Bachelor.
This is a melancholy end to a distinguished poli-
tical career.
The estate of Henry Cutlibert, of Victoria,
M.L.C. and solicitor, has been proved for Pro-
bate purposes at £118,993. All gathered in Vic-
toria generally (Ballarat particularly) in 54 years
active pursuit of Costs. In the race between
Costs and Cuthbert the latter overtook his com-
' petitor every time.
Ten years or so ago, when a certain young
politician with a Curly Bellew aspect first loomed
on the horizon, an admiring circle of his sisters
and cousins and aunts told people that he had
“the countenance of a Messiah.” Now they
reckon he has the cheek of the devil.
Prime Minister Deakin’s idea of “taking
a complete rest ”is characteristic. Isolating him-
self in Queensland for the purpose, he struck
Bundaberg, and straightway began “ inquiring
into the labor conditions of the district.” Later,
he continued similar inquiries in Gladstone and
Mackay. That’s Deakin’s rest.
An old Sydney identity, faintly remin-
iscent of the Inky Way, died one day last week at
her daughter’s residence, Balmain, in her 92nd
year. The lady in question, Mrs. Charlotte
Gogerly, once lived in a little cottage in Pitt-
street, where the General Post Office now stands.
That was in the year 1850, when Mr. Gogerly was
described as “a general dealer.” He was also
proprietor of a newspaper called The Omnibus.
What the ’Bus died of is uncertain, but it missed
itself in some way.
A STICKLER FOR PROPRIETY.
The Mayor of Footscray bitterly lamented the absence
of robes for use on official occasions. When he was first
elected he was asked for his photograph for publication,
and out of the 16 Mayors in the group, he alone was
without robes. At the Richmond Mayoral ball he was
excluded from the official set because they didn’t regard
him as being suitably attired. (“Oh, oh !”) Last week
the Mayors and presidents of metropolitan municipalities
presented the Lord Mayor of Melbourne with a frame of
photographs, and because he was the only Mayor in
ordinary attire his photograph was placed in the further-
most corner. He considered these things humiliating to
Footscray. (Cheers.)
“ B-B-But — but — l'm the Mayor of Footscray .”
“ Not ef you wuz the King of Hinglan’ ! Why,
you ’ aren't even a programme! ”
Eureka Stockade men are apparently as
numerous as the Balaklava heroes of the same
year. The latest Eureka man to join Peter Lalor
in the Big Camp is Mr. R. Liddle, of Cometville,
near Delegate (N.S.W.), at the age of 78. In his
young days he was a miner, and he was said to
have been a prominent figure at Ballarat during
the Eureka excitement. Apropos , there is in
North Sydney a Ballarat man of 1854, who was
in camp at the time, hut not in the Stockade. His
tent showed ten bullet holes after the shooting
was finished. This veteran still leads the strenuous
life, and is free from the tired feeling.
A duel of a warily polite character
has been ended by the return of the
heavy T. Bent to Victoria. J. M.
Davies (in the Legislative Council)
had been made acting-Premier, because
neither Swinburne nor Peacock was
willing to see the other man take the
job. Parliament met, and Swinburne
and Peacock were made joint and equal
leaders of the Assembly. Each of
them brought in big Bills, and on
occasions of pitched battle it was
arranged whose turn it was to speak
on behalf of the Government. Bub
there are alarms and ambushes and
sudden skirmishes when it is necessary
for the “ Leader ” to jump up and say
something. In these jumps for position
Peacock scored heavily, for Swinburne
generally keeps his long legs tied to-
gether in fifteen knots, which take a long
to time disentangle. Legs are often a
nuisance to a politician. Arthur Bal-
four, in England, couldn’t sit behind his
party because he had no room for his
props except on a front bench. Swin-
burne, if Bent hadn’t come home soon,
would have been forced back into a
second place just, because of his ser-
pentine and twisty limbs. Now he can
curl them into a double helix without
fear.
The converted actress, converted
pugilist, converted sculler and converted
burglar have struck the public with
satisfactory financial results from time
to time, and Rudyard Kipling’s inco-
lierent blast against beer indicates the coming of
the converted author. Now what bids are there
for the converted editor?
Carruthers has obtained a new name—
that of “Corkscrew Joe.” The christening took
place at a political meeting at Newtown on
Saturday night.
Cold-tea candidate Bruntnell, who is op-
posing Democratic Dacey for Alexandria (N.S.W.),
was born in an hotel in Wales. It is enough to
make anyone abolish pubs altogether. If there
had been no pubs Bruntnell might not have been
born.
Bruntnell, the ex-Salvationist, has fled
from his old tempestuous electorate of Surry
Hills, where Crick would have chewed him up,
and is trying to snatch Dacey’s seat at Alexandria.
Dacey is a quiet man, who artfully disguises the
fact that he owns about the brightest intellect in
the Labor crowd, or in the Assembly. He is a
good democrat, a good Protectionist, a fairly good
Federalist, and a solid anti-borrower and believer
in honest finance. If he had fewer scruples, more
ambition, less honesty, and a newer hat, Dacey
might have been Premier of N.S.W. before this.
Honesty, loyalty to his incapable chief, and his
hat got in the way. (The Bulletin admits,
at the same time, that its own hat wears a rather
neglected look at present. It was just going to
buy a new one when Joseph shook the wire, and
that diverted its attention.) Dacey could probably
lie just as brilliantly as the present incumbent of
the job, if he wanted to, but he seems to neglect
that line of business. Also, he doesn’t shuffle,
and he never wept over the woes of the Ma State
in his life.
Writes The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
Constable Nelson, on whose grave Carruthers has just-
pasted his election advt., was shot dead at Collector
(N.S.W.) in January, 1865, by bushranger John Dunn.
Nelson was the only policeman in the little town, and
when the bushranger stuck up the solitary place, he
took his solitary gun from the rack, put on his uniform
coat, and sallied forth. Dunn shot him down without
warning. The pathetic part of the matter was that the
constable’s little son was, under threats, holding the bush-
rangers’horses. Premier Cirruthers, while at Collector
recently, was surprised to find that the widow was
unprovided for and in bad circumstances. He promised
to secure her a pension and to erect a monument over her
husband’s neglected grave. It was for Nelson’s murder
that Dunn eventually climbed on to the tall place with
the insecure floor, which floor gave away under him a®
usual.
Premier Bent continues to express bitter-
ness in Victoria because on the journey through
the Red Sea nobody could point out to him “ the
exact spot where Moses and the Children of
Israel” passed over. He appealed to all the
parsons on board, and they could not tell him.
“Even Governor Talbot did not know,” says
Tommy for the tenth time, “ and he lived at
Cairo for some years.” Apparently there is-
some surprise in Bent’s mind that Talbot should
have missed witnessing this remarkable historical
event. If Tom owned the Red Sea he would
organise a dredging expedition to hunt for rusty
chariot wheels, and when he found the place he-
would hang up a sign “Moses’s Crossing.”
Parliamentary candidate Vincent, of Glen
Innes (N.S.W.), belongs to the strongest news-
paper family in Northern N.S.W. The journal-
istic line runs far back in other lands, but that is-
a different anecdote. Grandad Vincent, after
establishing the Archimedean lever in working
order in Maoriland, passed over to Australia and
laid the foundation-stone of the Clarence and-
Richmond Examiner. That was nearly 50 years-
ago. To-day, there are papers all over the North
run or controlled by the Vincents, among them
being the Glen Innes Examiner, Guyra Argus,
Bundarra Advocate, Uralla Times, and
Manilla Express. Vincent is a Progressive ;he
set out to help See, and after him Waddell, but
his heroes vanished.
The story of a man once remembered
hereabouts: —
Languishing in the Tombs Prison, New York, is one,
who created no small stir hereabouts in his day. Wood-
berry is his right name ; but the sound of it never really
pleased him. He considered it vulgar. It reminded him
of Dogberry ; the which is but a short step after all
from Hogberry—a name as intrinsically coarse as
Jones. Wherefore the present occupant of the Tombs
christened himself Richard Eveleigh de Moleyns (inspired,
doubtless, by the fact that he had been valet for years to
ade Moleyns, brother of the Hopetoun dame); reduced
the word “haw” to such utter docility that it came at his
lightest word and fed out of the open hand ; and
married without delay a well-known local Society
maiden. He then proceeded with his bride to
London, and there induced a rush of blood to the
head of an estimable nobleman named Ventry (father of
the real de Moleyns), by tricking the family lawyer out of
some thousands of pounds. At this stage he turned the
cold eye of dislike on his Society help-meet and deserted
her, confiscating all her jewels before he went. He has
since married two other ladies, both of whom are still
alive, shattered much of the Decalogue in other
directions, raised himself to the peerage under the style
of Lord de Moleyns (he loves this family, and the name
appeals to him irresistibly), and rendered himself liable
all told to about 183 years’ penal servitude. The moral
of all which appears to be that local society girls
should avoid marrying valets—however accurate their
“ haw” —who ennoble themselves and favor trigamy.
The way to know a good thing is to try it.
Any doctor will tell you that Angier’s Emulsion
is the best remedy on the market for coughs and
lung troubles. It not only soothes and heals the
lungs, but it promotes appetite, aids digestion,
and builds up strength. In three sizes, of all
chemists.*
THE SPREAD OF THE TARIFF CURSE.
FIRST MOSQUITO: “My oath, this bloke tastes
good!"
SECOND DITTO: "Not too bad; but blime yer
only ought ter ’are tasted him before the tariff."
At Milson’s Point, North Sydney, there is
a short street with two names and one house. For
a long time the short street had no name ; but
one day a broad old gentleman, who likes to-
interest himself in State matters and thought he
had found one all to himself, advised a man who
has a narrow strip of empty land in
the short street that he should give it a
name. The christening upset the small
dignity of the local Council, and led to
correspondence and debate and ill-
feeling ; and finally a Napoleonic aider-
man rose in a large sort of way and
suggested that the Council should also
name the street. And now the broad
old gentleman who started the small
trouble takes his friends round to the
short, empty street, and tells them the
history of the two names, and is proud
of himself as a citizen who made two
names grow where none grew before.
When the nominee system was
replaced by Responsible Government
in Westralia, a life pension of £5OO a
year was granted to each of the Minis-
ters then in office. Admirers of Big-
john Forrest point out that he has never
collected any of the money, but the
reason is not far to seek. Ever since
the pension was granted Bigjohn has
held positions of much higher value.
For more than ten years he drew
£l2OO per annum as Premier of his
own State, and since then he has been
drawing with fair regularity £2OOO a
year as a member of the Australian
'Government in addition to £4OO as a
member of the House of Reps. Big-
jolin is fond of money, though he
has no children to leave it to. B’rer
Dave is in charge of Bigjohn’s financial
affairs in Perth since Alick Forrest’s
death, but he is a poor substitute. A
palatial pile, know'n as Forrest Cham-
bers, looks slightingly on its neighbors
in St. George’s Terrace —the Collins-
istreet of the West—but its sumptuous
suites are mostly empty, and a huge
brass plate permanently notifies that
offices are to-let.
They breed modest men in Chewton
'(Vic.). A retiring mayor of the dwindling mining
borough said that he had done his best, but added
affably: “You can’t expect more than a grunt
from a pig.”
An address from the kids in Vic. Roman
'Catholic schools was presented to plump Arch-
bishop Carr on the occasion of his jubilee, and
these were some of the fearsome polysyllables
the nippers were represented as having composed
all on their small, freshly-spanked own :
We recognise and reverence in your Grace a living
memorial of that erudition and culture, that courtesy
and gentleness, that magnanimity and wisdom, charac-
teristic of the champions of Catholic truth in every age.
Now, what spectacled infant of eight seized on
the big dictionary and the encyclopaedia, and
composed that ?
Broughton, of the bewildering mass of
initials, is contesting King Division (Sydney) as
nominee of theCarrutliers party. Broughton is one
of Bung’s dearest friends. But the chief differ-
ence in the present contest between the State
FrightspZas Pro-borrowing Carruthers and the Pro-
State Frights McGowen is that the
former is understood to be rabidly opposed to
the Liquor Imprecation, while the latter, con-
trariwise, is not—or, at any rate, not quite so
much so. Wherefore. Broughton, being a Drink man
in an alleged anti-Drink party, is an Anomaly.
He is a number of other things, including a pro-
perty agent, but mostly, for the purposes of the
present contest, he is an Anomaly.
“S.S. ” : From some few angry remarks
Bent has let fall since his return, I gather that
his outcry against General Botha was the result
of jealousy. General Botha was filling the public
eye in England, at the time when Bent was bidding
for attention and appreciation. Thomas got
neither. It was a case of two lions roaring along
the shore, and the African lion roared Tommy
completely down. Now, T.B. has been a devout
loyalist all his life, and it pained him to find that
England was wholly unaware of this, while its
information respecting the “ ex-rebel ” was right
up to date. Even King Edward had to receive
points about Bent in a painfully audible aside
from an officer the moment preceding the pre-
sentation of Vic.’s fat Premier. All this sticks
in Tom’s roomy gizzard.
On the bad authority of “ The Mole ” :
The Onslow, from Camden (N.S.W.), who is assailing
Jessep’s stronghold, is really not a bad cove. He is not
responsible for the grovelling attitude of his tenants.
The latter seem to like that way of going through life.
The sight of the tenants makes Onslow tired. If they
weren’t reproductive works, so to speak, he’d try to
abolish them. Often, in any case, he is sorely tempted to
hit them over the head with his rack rent-roll. When
they make him very mad, he puts up the rents, I believe.
He endeavors to see as little of the tenants as possible.
He has built himself a big, grey house in a secluded part
of his estate, to which he can go from the railway-station
without having to pass through the locality contaminated
by the tenants. The house faces a thickly-wooded river-
side. By day the Col. gazes wearily upon the tall, upright
Australian gum trees ; by night, he broods about his
tenants and wishes they had no forelocks, or were all
bald. And now he has thrown aside his tiredness, and
left the tenants for a time, and gone forth to fight for
his State, and fighting, die—at the hands of Tom Jessep,
banana merchant.
BANGING THE DRUM.
An indignation meeting will be held to protest against
the tariff and the raising of representatives’ salaries.—
Tory press all over Australia.
“ Come on, ladies and gents; come and hear us
make another big noise! ”
Clive Teece, son of Teece of the A.M.P.,
is contesting Belmore (N.S.W.) against the Owe’-
Sullivan, as Government nominee. Clive’s name
is Richard Clive, and he is called Clive to dis-
tinguish him from his pa, who is called Richard.
He is a thin, sharp-faced young man, something
like a sparrow, and self-confidence is not the
thing he is short of. He is a University graduate,
and a barrister. All the same, he has as much
chance of upsetting the Owe’Sullivan in Belmore as
a beetle has of shifting a barn.
NEVER TELL A LIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J. D. Rockefeller advises all young men to speak the
truth. —Tide Melb. Hkrai.d.
Ye vigorous young bookies,
Ye thimbleriggers fly,
Be ever suave and pliant
When pattering to your client,
But never tell a lie.
Ye curates grave and solemn,
Ye lawyers slick and spry,
Oh speak your bishop sweetly,
Oh take your briefs discreetly,
But never tell a lie.
Ob grocers ope your sugar
With sand-bags standing by.
To profit you must surely
Take care to mix demurely,
But never tell a lie.
Oh milkman small and early
Keep wide your weather eye,
No grey hound should be fleeter
To buy a water-meter,
But never tell a lie.
vic.
H. TATE.


%
n
.---A
*v
'' ' V.
mo
m
to
C 5
When a gentleman arsKs me for th’ best tobaccer, I know
means * VICE-REGAL Smoking' Mixture’!”


\NGs
S-
ft
❖
o*
«3&P
s'*
<9
❖
't
o
THE WHISKY OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTE.
BUCHANAN S WHISKY
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCE PS SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 3, 1907.
My Dear Artni,—
A violet-laden city is Sydney these days—a
violet city shot with the gold of the daffodil.
(What’s that in Tennyson about “the planet of
love sinks and dies on a bed of daffodil sky ’’ ?)
Two huge violet farms this side of National Park
supply most of the blooms. Children do the pick-
ing before going to school. They are said to
hate the flower, yet one wouldn’t say “ slaves of
the violet’’in the same tone as “slaves of the
cow.” And through the violet perfume come
loud, wild voices, stating that a Federal capital
or something has been mislaid ; and hot candi-
dates get in front of the daffodils and blot out the
view, and you can’t sit down quietly on or beside
a narcissus without being asked for your vote.
Miss Clara Manning, one of Sydney’s smartest
and handsomest young women, is in mourning
owing to the death of Captain Edward Manning,
a Sydneyite who early left this country to go
soldiering with the Gloucester Regiment in Eng-
land and elsewhere. Captain Manning was elder
son of the Judge by the latter’s first marriage, his
mother being a Tasmanian Wise, and a relative
in consequence of N.S. W.’s own B.R. W.
Pretty Miss Ruby Madden, who has been stay-
ing with the Darleys this week or so past, is
“good form” in concrete shape, from her un-
obtrusively well-shod little feet to the utter-
most summit of her head-covering, whatever the
same may chance to be. Amongst all the
marriageable damosels who hied themselves to
the Indian Durbar, she alone, ’tis said on good
authority, moved the heart of the iron- (not to say
wooden) faced Kitchener of Khartoum.
Mr. George Innes, a standing Sydney bachelor
dish, is back again from foreign parts. In his
absence he has developed a new form of-coiffure.
and his raven locks now uproar themselves
musician-like above his intellectual brow.
Miss Dina Cooper, late leading damsel in
“ The Fatal Wedding” co., is going out with the
same status in Mr. Allan Hamilton’s new co.
Printers in Tasmania and other places ahead of
the tour will want strengthening food between
now and the time when they come to wrestle with
dark Dina’s new front name. It is, in fact, her
old ovyn name resumed, and it is Khadijah. Miss
Khadijah Cooper will she be on the bills—if the
printer survives. The epithet was dug out of the
Koran, where it might have been left to rest in
peace. I wouldn't take the risk of disturbing a
thing like that if I found it sleeping in a book.
Miss Marion Grey, Julius Knight’s leading
woman, returns to her own land by the Ormuz, in
a week or so. At her own request, the manage-
ment releases her from her engagement. In the
Commonwealth and M.L. she made bunches of
friemds, and the refined, appealing quality of her
acting brought her friendly audiences. So her
liner won t foam out to sea without regret on the
parts of the leaver and the left.
A friend, writing from London, tells me that at
theopening of the Australasian Women’s Work Ex.
in London, the Duke of Argyle made a humorous
little speech. A sparklet from it: “ I don’t see
any emus here, but everything is emunently
satisfactory.” And he married into the Royal
Family ! And nobody killed him ! And he
hasn’t even been shot out of the peerage 1
Concerning the same occasion, Mr. Henniker
Heaton mentions that one of the most compre-
hensive and modestly-delivered little speeches he
ever heard was that made by Mrs. Coghlan. She
stood before Royalty and the Dukes and belted
earls, and said her official say, looking the while
as pretty as her speech.
The new boss of the Pyramus, Captain Mitchell,
caine out by the Mongolia, and his fellow-sea-
farers, the long-haired ones, say he is “a perfect
Set” and threw other verbal bouquets at him—in
is absence. The new man-o’-war is related to the
Dangars.
Miss Ella Casper’s concert will befall on Septem-
ber 5, at the Centenary Hall, and, if you have not
already heard the amber-voiced young contralto,
you will do well to take seats—two at least. If
you have heard her, take four seats and hear her
again, remembering that you will be listening to
a voice that will later breathe o’er England to
England’s joy and Australia's advertisement.
(Desiring immigration as we do, -the value of
advt. by a Voice is not to be sneezed, or even
coughed, at.)
Mrs:' Ethel Turner Curlewis’ labor of collecting
the works of N. S. W. women writers for the literary
section of the Women’s Work Ex. is tapering to
an end. She has about three hundred books and
booklets. The number of books of verse will
astonish you, and there are in Mrs. Curlewis’
collection novelists of whom even the hooky
majority of us never heard. Books on cookery—
a dozen or so —prove that some women are study-
ing the State’s digestion with an intelligent eye
and a brilliant frying-pan. The exhibit of
literary creative work will not be wholly repre-
sentative of the women writers of this State.
Many storyists have never collected their brain-
stuff from papers and magas. and republished it
in book-form, and they can’t very well send it
along to fair Ethel pasted into MS. books and
with the stickphast still damp.
Your own “ Akenehi,” for instance, ran a serial
through the Argus ; another lurched through the
Sydney Mad.. ,\'<l some three hundred short
yarns, mostly *«Jer different aliases, hopped
through various Vveeklies or magas., here or
abroad. Like the children in “ The Graves of a
Household,” my literary bantlings are severed
far and wide by mount and stream and sea. They
haven’t been booketed. Perhaps the public
wishes that a lot of other writers hadn’t taken
time by the fetlock and booketed their bantlings.
Talking of bookmaking—in the literary sense—
“ The Narrow Margin ” (from Angus and Robert-
son), a novel by “Annie Thompson,” shines as a
good deed in a naughty world of volumes. John
Bull does send us a fearsome amount of erotic
Business Education.—A tree is known by its
fruit, a business school by its successes in public exami-
nations and the demand of business men for its gradu-
ates. In both these respects Stott and Hoare’s Business
College stands at the head. A single instance will ex-
emplify the first claim : At all Government Examina-
tions for Shorthand Writers and Typists, held during the
past five years, students have won first place. As to the
second, not only does every student as soon as competent
secure an appointment, but the demand for graduates
greatly exceeds the supply. It is a mistake in these
times to put a boy to business immediately he has passed
through his primary or high-school course ; years of
poorly-paid drudgery will be him, and his pros-
Eects of advancement will be greatly enhanced by giving
im a sound modern business education at this well-
known institution. Prospectus post free. 28 i Moore
Street, Sydney. * 1
trash written by women. But a golden
mean, a sweet moderation, reigns throughout
this story. Thoughtfulness and intuition are the
bedrock of the writer’s art, and her simple
and.always select choice of phrase invests “the
Narrow Margin ” with an artistic finish that will
be appreciated. The story opens in London in
the waiting-room of a distinguished consultant
physician, but soon moves to Sydney. Vignettes
of life on board the mail steamer are cutely in-
sighted. Sketches of N.S.W. scenery, city and
sea, the devolution of a rapt, self-righteous being
who intends to raise her husband (the orange-
grower) to her own Emersonian and Matthew
Arnoldian level, the orange orchard itself, and
the lives and tragedies of some other four or five
men and women, are handled skilfully by a
fastidious craftswoman.
Annie Thompson was the writer’s unmarried
name, under which she also published her first
novel, “A Moral Dilemma,” some 10 years ago,
before she (a Scotswoman)came to Sydney. Now,
as the wife of an ex-captain of a liner, she lives
an Elizabeth -in - her-German - Garden kind of
existence in a picturesque bushy district near
Sydney, with her man of wrath and some jolly
little children.
Miss Winifred James, the author of that
bright, smartly-written and ungrammatical book,
“Bachelor Betty,” used to be treasurer in a Mel-
bourne tea-room. She was then a pretty, blue-
eyed, fair-haired, lively girl. I notice that
London Punch has given the book an approv-
ing notice several inches long, solely because
Cockaigne’s loyalty and egoism have been tickled
by a few lines in the narrative. It is a record of
an Australian girl’s life in London while she is
struggling for literary recognition. The tickling
touches refer to the King and Ellen Terry—two
British institutions. When Bachelor Betty sees
the King for the first time the tears come to her
eyes, and she wants to run to him, kiss his bands,
and say, “ Please let me do something for you.”
She also fell in love with Ellen Terry at sight.
If it were not for that pint of hogwash about the
monarch, “Bachelor Betty ” would have missed a
most valuable advt. I’m afraid succeeding Aus-
tralian authors will play up to the national
English weakness, and burst into sobs at sight of
the Prince of Wales’s baby, or be found on their
knees on the pavement in front of the Tower, in
the hope of being PuNCH-ed.
A bright little lady, who has just arrived here-
abouts, and deposited her pack at the Australia,
is Miss Fan Dango. She is one of a band of
sisters who are distinguished by weird stage
names, and a notable talent for leaping with
infinite grace about any flat space with boards
upon it. Lydia Flopp, who belies her name by
absolutely never flopping (just as nowadays the
local squatter never really squats, but either flies
round in Sydney with his newly-acquired pile, or
makes for London and gets a frantic move on him
there), is one of the said sisters ; Adelaide Astor
is another ; and Letty Lind yet another. The
head and front of this family is the evergreen
Letty, who taught the female section of the
present London Smart Set to skirt dance, while
it (viz., the S.S.) was yet in pinnies, pigtails, and
a state of comparative innocence.
We are getting a touch of the hurry that stamps
the land of the Stars and Stripes. A Mosman
man wants a stenographer to work during the
twenty minutes’ trip from his suburb to Circular
Quay. Says that the time is a dead waste at pre-
sent, and that he could get through a lot of cor-
respondence only his girl sten. is too shy to work
in public on the boat’s deck.
Miss Esrne Sly, one of the prettiest buds that
bloomed two springs or so ago, is engaged to Mr.
Harold White, of Armidale, one of a squatting
tribe. Bride-elect is a daughter of Dr. Sly, K.C.,
of Strath field.
A nerve storm of morality is sweeping over a
certain theatrical manager. To do him justice
his morals are not at all cut on the bias —he
always walks uprightly before the Lord (and
Pitt-street). But now he insists that mem-
bers of companies at his theatre shall always walk
the chalk line that can bear Divine inspection,
and he has shooed off several chorus girls who too
openly encouraged the giddy, gilded married man.
The Society of Artists closed its fine show on
Saturday after having sold about £3OO worth of
art. Few paintings priced at over £lO were pur-
chased. Hilder’s beautiful little water-colors had
many buyers. Nary a picture did the Gallery
Trustees buy. There was Sid Long’s “ Pastoral,”
for instance, an inspiration in greys and greens,
thesummits of two trees blending lovingly against
a pinky skv, sheep and flowery grasses. A Mel-
bourne visitor looked at it, and remarked, “Yet
they paid £OOOO in Melbourne the other month
for a Corot the same size. But Corot has the
advantage of Long. He is dead.”
A man acquaintance of mine who has been in
the State but a year tells me that he used to lunch
regularly at a restaurant where one of his fellow-
feeders ate roast beef and plum pudding day after
day. He never varied his order. The stranger
made an inquiry, and was told that the
conservative luncher was a painter. “An
animal painter for certain,” thought the ob-
server, “ perhaps of blood stock.” Last week
he went to the Royal Art Society’s show and
wallowed (with his eyes) in the lush, luxuriant
gospel of the Bush according to Lister. In the
painter he recognised his fellow luncher, the lover
of English fare. But can it be true that Mr.
Lister Lister eats roast beef and plum pudding
305 days in the year, and oftener in leap year?
If so, I wonder he has the face ever to put cattle
on - his canvases. He shows sufficient artistic
self-restraint not to paint plum puddings. Though
now that one comes to think of it, a p.p. on fire
with the uncanny blue flame of burning brandy
wouldn’t make a bad picture—of the pot-boiler
brand.
There is one trait the local Biljim, from the
ultimate back-blocks of the interior, shares with
the British society dame, or, at any rate, some
of her —viz., gullibility to the nth degree.
Of all the recent yarns of cold country ladies
handing over their hundreds of thousands of un-
acknowledged pounds to stock jobbers, solicitors,
husbands, and other natural suspects, none sur-
passes that which tells in the current British papers
of the truly awful foolishness of Miss Blount,
“ member of a well-known Dublin family.” The
typical wide-eyed wayback behind whose fungus
growth of hair lurks that profound blithering
credulity which is so necessary to the suc-
cess of Zion City and Deform movements,
appears, in sooth, a mere circumstance of
idiocy as compared with Miss Blount. Meeting
at a West Kensington Hotel (London) one Mrs.
Leslie, who by universal consent of the English
Sapers “is exceedingly well-connected,” Miss
llount hearkened to the tale of the latter,
deftly pitched, and believed that she was very
rich. Mrs. Leslie, was “kennel-maid” —weird
and unusual profession—at the house of a Mrs.
Torkington. Also she had (she said) £lO,OOO a
year, the kennel-maid job being merely indulged
in for sport and “to drown her grief.” To Miss
Blount, at that lady’s club, did Mrs. Leslie
read a letter purporting to come from J.
P. Morgan, the billionaire Yank, imploring
her (Mrs. L.) “to enter upon an invest-
ment ” where for every £lOOO she put up she
would get £25,000 and 12 per cent.” In feverish
haste the Dublin lady proceeded to her bank,
drew out £lOOO, and handed it to the kennel-
maid, getting a post-dated cheque for £25,000 in
exchange. A month later Miss Blount handed
Pierpont Morgan’s friend £2OOO, getting in return
a cheque for £200,000; and a little later still a
further £2soo—the other lady taking this in
rather a bored and protesting fashion, and ex-
plaining that she really did not want it, as she
had plenty of money, that her income next year
would be £3,000,000, and that she had already
£2,000,000. And now there is a kennel-maid’s
job going begging, owing to the arrest of Mrs.
Leslie; and Morgan coldly denies all knowledge
of her; and the cheques, except as household
ornaments, proveto be negligible assets; and in a
well-known Dublin family, and also in an exceed-
ingly well-connected English one, there is wailing
and violent gnashing of teeth.
There’s a story on the wing that the new
hygienic amusement in the London Smart Set is
throwing the boomerang. .An innocent abroad
says in a San Frisky paper that “ it is a recreation
just as well suited to ladies as tennis or archery.”
Holy frost! Why, there are aborigines who
couldn’t throw the boomerang after trying for a
whole lifetime. Curiously enough, the best
boomerang-throwers in N.S.W. are two or three
mounted troopers out in the west. The smart
wreck who takes up the science on hygienic
principles may succeed so far as to give herself a
black eye. I never heard of a lubra throwing the
boomerang. Most likely her aborigine brother
would club her if he four. 1 her practising. Any-
how, for the stranger in the land it takes years
and years and years of practice, and long before
that time the Smart Setter’s fancy will have
lightly turned to thoughts of fluff—some other
kind of fluff. With the Smart Set all is fluff.
Mr. Steffani McDonald, a son (still in his teens)
of a well-known Sydney accountant, has been
engaged by Meynell and Gunn for one of their
companies, and is now-on in “A Warning to
Women.” The youngster’s mother was Miss
Kitty Slattery, the singer (a rival of Melba) who
merged her glorious soprano in early matrimony.
The new stage recruit has studied steadily in song
and drama with stage ends always in view.
When Henniker Heaton, junior, was here a few
years ago with his smart wife, a man said of him :
“ He looks as if his sisters would be pretty.” The
sisters are here now with Mr. and Mrs. Henniker
Heaton, senior, and they are very pretty, with
big, soft, dark-brown eyes and baby complexions.
For 22 years Canterbury (the old conservative
Archbishopric whose prelate draws £15,000 a
year) has kept H.H. as its M.P., and he was
only opposed once. At present the city is making
him drink his own health, and telling him that
he is the only It on the kerb. Two of the H.H.
boys are in the navy. Mrs. H.H., a sister of Mr.
Chris Bennett, the newspaper proprietor, has
kept considerable looks and a wealth of wavy,
white hair.
Those three children of Clara Butt are a valu-
able advertising asset. You may photograph one
pretty infant sitting in a boot, or swathed in a
fold of mamma’s train, or snap all three engaged in
a conspiracy to do something with a bottle of
paste. When the pictures are postcarded they’ll
advertise mamma’s topmost and lowest notes better
than the jewelled order given her by the Ahkoond
of Swat.
Mrs. Ewan Frazer’s "At Home” for Mrs.
Eileen O’Moore (Bessie Doyle) was the most
diamond-dusted meeting of this winter. The
guest of the evening, who is confessedly so fine a
violiniste that she doesn’t need any adjectives of
admiration, played several items. Mrs. Norman
Alston warbled, and Miss Frost accompanied.
Mrs. Frazer and the fair violiniste were fellow-
students in foreign parts.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Willis, of Innisfallen,
Middle Harbor, have lent their ripping house
and grounds to the Child Study Association for a
picnic in aid of the funds. The event befalls on
September 28. A steamer has been chartered,
and the frolic ought to be a great joyous pastoral.
Write for tickets to Mrs. Izett, of Botany-street,
Waver ley ; or Mrs. Rosenbloom, “ Chatsworth,”
Potts Point.
Excellencette Rawson, who is working hard at
helping her father to earn his vice-regal wages,
gave a garden party at “Cranbrook,” yesterday,
in honor of an earnest-eyed, strenuous woman-
worker, named Spencer, who is the Main Stake,
or the Principal Peach, or some such, of the
Y.W.C.A. A large crowd of earnest-eyed
women and delegates from other branches at-
tended, and Miss Rawson’s magpie, in his chronic
evening dress of black and white, inspected
each guest separately, and said something to her
that sounded like “ Buck up.” Everyone talked
about the Woman’s Work Exhibition, and Car-
dinal Moran’s exhibits —a robe of Marie Antoinette
lace (it once belonged to that monarch, but she
wasn’t beheaded with it on, so there are no blood-
stains), and a prayer book that was the property
of Mary of Scots. These items lie like forty tons
of wire-netting on Captain Wilson’s chest, because
the Cardinal must have them insured for £lOOO or
so. Miss Rose Scott says she dare not sleep at
night because her cottage is crammed with valu-
able lace and miniatures, and such-like, that
people will persist in sending direct to her. And
her cat does not bark, so it is no protection.
There are 3400 exhibits, and about 10,000,000
worries connected with them.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
This week has been chiefly made up of National
Council; the Queensland branch or coterie has been in-
dulging in its annual blither. On Thursday about 100 of
it tripped down the river in the State yacht Lucinda,
lent by the Chief Secretary to Mrs. Joey Bell, the buxom
president. Mrs. Henry Dobson and pretty Mrs. Benni-on,
of Tasmania, travelled up for the occasion, and professed
the requisite polite amazement at the phenomenal growth
of the 18-months-old offshoot. Next morning the annual
meeting dragged its weary length from 10 to 1, with
a spare attendance, in the School of Arts Hall, and
in the evening our deputy Queen came along,
and lent her countenance to the proceedings,'
and filled the members with joy by announcing her
tention of accepting the ex-officio presidentship. Also,
she let fly' some words of wisdom upon the heights to
which the N.O. might attain if it could manage to incul-
cate a little unselfishness among its members. Mrs.
Dobson, who is the most pleasingly contented dame that
I know, told a lot of little tales illustrative of the women
who foregathered at National Councils from time to
time. There was a horrid cat, for instance, who expressed
herself thus : “In matrimony, two are one—and that
one is the husband.” The beast 1
The balance-sheet of our Lady Musgrave Lodge—a
place where the nurse, governess, or domestic can obtain
board and bed at a very nominal figure—showed that the
public subscriptions amounted to the magnificent sum of
£3O 10s. 6d. out of a total income—chiefly boarding fees—
of £530. Either the committee needs more energy, or
Brisbane is being overburdened with charity. Her Ex.,
who presided at the annual meet, suggested an offertory
from each church ; but the churches need all the offertory
they can get to keep the steeple out of pawn.
The next wedding in Opposition Philp’s family will
eventuate on the 21st inst., when Charlie, the second
hope, weds pretty Miss Gibb, daughter of the mining
expert Gibb.
I hear that the golden-haired Kitty Morehead will wed
her manly little bank manager in November. The
future home of Mr. and Mrs. Colin Munro is to be on the
Condamine.
Yours Affectionately,
AXRNRHL.
A sort of prophecy (from the Cornwall
Chronicle, Launceston, June, 1839): “ It is by
no means improbable that Port Phillip, at some
future day, will rise to be the Queen of the Aus-
tralian colonies, and that Van Diemen’s Land
will dwindle into a mere place of pleasurable resort
for the wealthy inhabitants of New Holland.”
The Age is disgusted at the tricks of
Justice Isaacs’ successor for Indi—John Silly
Brown. Well, Brown stood as a “Moderate”
Protectionist and Syme knew it; yet though
Syme’s influence would have carried the day, he
would not give it to Laborite Turnbull, a pledged
Protectionist. So why is Syme kicking ? At
least, why is Syme kicking anybody but Syme?
Those who make attendance on division
bells proof absolute of a member’s fitness for Par-
liamentary life, should note the fact that walking-
stick John Nobbs has put up a record in that way
in N.S.W. Parliament. He was present on each
and every division during the last two sessions,
and it is questionable if he gave an intelligent
vote even once.
For quite a while Lindon Biddulph hasn’t
held forth about the impossibility of selecting any
other place save Lyndhurst for the Australian
capital. The prospective unbuilt city of Bid-
dulph’s Backyard seems to have died quite
suddenly, without making any coherent observa-
tions in its last moments, and the reserved State
lands thereabouts are being made ready for
selection.
Dear Bulletin.—One sees at times foreign
tobacco advertised as not connected with any
trust or combine ; but I look in vain for a similar
announcement regarding the home-made article.
If there yet survives an Australian manufacturer
on his own, there are a good many folks this (Vic-
torian) side of the Murray, who would like to hear
of him and his brands, and where his stuff may be
had. We’re getting full up of the Nicotine
Octopus and its capers, and nationalisation of the
industry is just about what we want now.—Janor.
Apparently even aldermen and shire coun-
cillors are liable to grow into a sturdy race when
they live under the shadow of the great moun-
tains. The council of Port Fairj', on the quiet
Vic. western plains, circularised the other councils
re a scheme for joint and unanimous begging from
Treasurer Bent. And the council of Sale, on the
edge of Gippsland’s eternal hills, said that it wasn’t
a mendicant, and that it wouldn’t send around the
battered, discreditable hat for tinpot donations,
and it threw the scheme into its famous canal.
Out of a surplus of £812,000, Premier
Bent had already allotted nearly £515,000 to help
to redeem Victoria from the clutches of Cohen in
London ; and in his new Surplus Distribution
Bill another £99,140 is devoted to the same de-
serving cause. In four years Bent has now paid
Cohen £1,411,000 of his principal—namely £150,000
in 1903-4, £147,000 in 1904-5, £500,000 in 1905-6,
and £614,000 in 1906-7. The saving in interest is
£55,000 a year. The beefy Thomas is unscientific
in his methods, but evidently he won’t trust his
successors with the handling of a sinking fund.
Meantime, in spite of his fondness for scattering
cash about, he shows more disposition to get rid
of Cohen than any Treasurer Victoria has had for
a long time.
When the Vie. starch-workers’ appeal was
heard before Justice Hood it was sworn that there
was no arrangement among manufacturers, and a
set of books was shown to the Judge, said books
purporting to prove that wages could not be in-
creased without destroying the trade. Even those
books were misleading, for they gave no notion of
average profits over a series of years. But on the
strength of what they showed, the Judge declared
himself unable to allow more than 365. a week to
the adult male worker. Now evidence in the
bakers’ appeal case shows that, just after the
award, the starch makers came together and put up
their price £4 10s. a ton—from £33 to £37 10s.
Meantime the men are paid on the old £33 basis.
If the sweated workers could get their appeal
before Justice Hood again, the employers might
hear some nasty things about themselves, and it
might prove less “impossible” to allot the
workers a living wage.
Why shouldn’t beautiful women be always
beautiful? She has the desire—that is certain, and just
as certain is it that she has the means. You’re not so
sure of that? Well, then,you haven’t used Valaze. Yes, yes,
Valaze only makes the Complexion beautiful—but what
more does Beauty require ? A soft, clear skin, smooth to
the touch, and fresh to look upon—and wherefore sigh,
0 Ladies? Nature gave you this in youth and early girl-
hood—Valaze preserves it long into the years. Therefore,
Vive Valaze !—use Valaze, and your complexion will be
like unto the lily, fair, bright, and beautiful. Those
nasty, creeping wrinkles, those insinuating crowsfeet
that gather at the eye corners—they fly before Valaze.
Just get a jar yourself and try—you’ll know then how it
is so many elderly women of your acquaintance seem to
simply defy Time. Valaze—that’s all. Valaze is sold by
chemists everywhere at 3s. 6d. and 6s. jar, or posted 6d.
extra, from Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 168 Pitt Street, Sydney.*


5s
COPItO rflOM ACTUAL PHOtOTfWS
A Perfect Figure
What Is more hideous and ugly than an other-
wise pretty woman who is nearly twice her
normal size? No waist-line and ugly distorted
bulges where her gracefully rounded hips
should be. Nothingl Get rid of your fat
safety, rapidly, and permanently.
“CATftllßi:” reduces weight by four pounds
riilUUnC ? w ?ek. It is perfectly harm-
. , . l es9 ln >ts action, and could not
injure an infant’s health. It is wonderful in its effects There
is no return to the old condition after the fat is removed
Send 2d. stamp for free sangale and full particulars or call if
THE WATWORTH rn convenient. All communioMSona*nd treatment sent in nlain
ilttTiTT WOR ™ CO., covera. Write or call to-day. Houre 0 a.m. to 6 p.m?DalTy"
1 OaßtlereagH Street, Sydney. ENTRANCE *lBO FROM MARKET STREET—TAKE THE LIFT.
IMPORTANCE
AWcll Drgjed L&dy Mvjt
Hovfc a Good Figure,
Onlv
* «
m
o
o
COR
s
ET ASK
r FOR THEM
• AND a
SEE v
THAT YOU
L GET
RTHEM.i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 2, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Clara Butt—beaming, radiant, and gigantic—is
an all-pervading presence in Melbourne just now.
She drives about constantly in an open carriage,
which sags beneath her vast comeliness, and she
strikes the centre note in the picture every time.
All the little world flocked in and out of the Town
Hall on Tuesday afternoon for the Gaudy
Mayoress’s reception, whereat the only Clara
towered above her hostess on the mayoral dais in
the scarlet carpeted “upper chamber.” The
Mayoress wore white and blue, and Mrs. Rum-
ford positively glowed in pinky tones of red
with a languishing red plume framing her
face and her wildernesses of black hair. The
Rumfords are threatened with a rush of popu-
larity, It is their business to make friends, and the
business seems to be a pleasure— at any rate it isn’t
a palpable worry to them. As husband Rumford
says, amazedly, “Everyone is being so good to
my wife—and they have not yet heard her sing.”
As though that mattered ! They have heard her
name, and the name fetches the idolatry. By the
way the contralto’s speaking voice is as soft and
round and sonorous and mellow as an organ, and
one would like to ask her to close her eyes and
say ‘Mesopotamia’’ slowly, ten times in five
minutes. Anything she said would sound sweet,
even if she spoke Welsh.
The columnal Clara Butt’s repertoire of pretty
speeches is eloquently endorsed on official occa-
sions by her husband. In private, the
lowering One is laconic, and her lord
does the talking. Between them, they say
Uh ! Australia’s a great place—so hos-
pitable, so very appreciative and kind. Really,
we can t help being glad we made up our
minds to come out, though it makes quite a gap in
°- London Til e only pity is that the
children aren’t old enough to profit by this journey
end the delights of it. The voyage out was
awful, so hot half the way, and very rough during
the remainder. ... We met Miss Stone before
l y n, ce woman—everyone liked her.
fpnfn r ? mar^ ous how popular Australians
are in London. 1 hose who go to England to make
careers usually have most desirable characteristics.
Beside their professional gifts, they have a certain
breeziness, insouciance— call it what you like—
which wms them private popularity very easily.
And it often wins them public liking into the
' ‘ • ® St i l Argo is progressing capi-
Sri 1 Ty V v C ui lS fin , e / and she is q uite artistic,
one 11 csta-bhsh herself securely before long.
And Amy Castles—she’s been doing very well in
concert work. In some operas she should be quite
ideal if she can act at all. But if she pursues
only her present work she’ll do very well.”
- The women’s choir that Mrs. Prof. Peterson
is trammg for the Women’s Exhibition
bad a glorified practice on Wednesday
night with the Clara Butt-Rumfords and co
as an informal audience. Our own T. Bent also
bstened (and criticised), and the little Gaud
Jh ayor i^o edon buzzed about ’ The white-clad
choir—l3oo strong—filled the hall and the bal-
conies. The orchestra was white clad, and
also womanly, and Conductress Peterson waved
her baton from the platform. The visitors, the
fnrm ne ru so) ’ were relegated to the plat-
rm, Clara Butt queening it in the centre, with
the grey-haired, imposing presidentess, Mrs.
Edward Miller, alongside. Rotund T. Bent
waving his arm like a flail, and incidentally and
occasional banging the dignified presidentess on
the head, announced that 1 -j had just come from
Ki «iu oUntl T 7 her i e - yhe comea from (pointing
blankly at the laughing Clara Butt), and many of
his statements caused that lady to indulge in
emphatic and argumentative asides to the Premier.
A final choir shout of “God Save the King”
roused the patriotic feelings of the Big
Cady, and her glorious voice soared above the
comlunecf 130°, in spite of a bodyguard of managers
wno glared from the background. 6
It is a funny thing to hear a crowd of women
give three cheers and a tiger! It isn’t really a
,°V y a u lfc ™ n ‘ T J? e 1300 women choristers
who welcom d Clara Butt gave vent to their
ecstatic feelings after a sonorous speech from the
■ u,va ’ , Chuck—chuck—chuck— charrika !” It
sounded like barn-door chookies.
“ Tryphena ” from London
At last Rose Musgrove is hilled for a London engage-
nrient, with Otho Stewart’s comedy co at the CVim-t-
-hoh2trofoh2trof Th ? h r atre I s o^hebea V te C n o tra a c k , t an e d?s°the
home of aesthetic performers, or strident shows or
quixotic dramas that can’t get a chance elsewhere
sumrise 1168 !^ 1 the® c‘T*’’ Theatre ou S et a brilliant
surprise. In the cast is a star caught between
seasons, and snapped up per leave of a manager for one
of the transient shows at the quaint little playhouse. If
Rose makes a hit during her engagement one of the
bigger managers may rake her in. If she doesn’t well
there are liners starting for Australia every Friday ’
Dolly Castles has been booked by the Edwardes man-
agement for three years, and the dimpled one is in har-
ness already to play May De Sousa’s part in “The Girls
of Gottenherg.” So the luck of the Castles lasteth like
the green bay tree.
A chic young footlighter crossed my ken last week.
She was something fresh off the ice, and prattled in-
quinnglyof Horsetralia. No, she hadn’t been, but was
booked for an early trip, being cast for the r6le of Brew-
sters girl m the comedy that deals with that young
man s millions. Miss Beatrice Irwin—the girl in question
—is a kissable star, with a knack of trailing her chiffons
m the most approved Mayfair manner and of piling
French millinery atop her gold-brown thatch with any
amount of Piccadilly cuteness. y
“ Mrs. Langtry ” stares coldly upon the old acquaint-
ance who addresses her in this familiar style. At the
name she hitches up a frozen eyebrow and corrects that
speaker: Why that name ? Lady De Bathe, please ! ”
Then the corrected one gets right off the earth. Most of
the recent mysterious disappearances from London have
been caused by people getting off the earth in this
fashion. Its not a beauteous Lily these days—nor a
happy-eyed one. Only at the race meetings does the
bronze-haired star grow animate, and then only in brief
spasms when the race is at the finish. More than man
does the langmsher love a nag these days. She has an
eye on Australia for a trip,
A paragraph in last week’s “Melbourne
Chatter appears to have suggested to some
be ’ dea the late Miss Livingstone, of
the Bland Holt Co., had not been receiving
medical attention until her case was practically
hopeless. This supposition is an injustice to her
nearest friends, who are naturally anxious it should
be known that a doctor had been called to JVliss
Livingstone before her state became critical.
The other boisterous Wednesday a house-
wedding quiet and wattle-blossomy united
txeorge “ Ontario ” Grey’s quaint little daughter
to her Reggie, son and heir of the “Norman-
hurst” Youngs, of Elsternwick. They have
wandered off to N.S. W., the land of the (mostly)
idyllic climate what month Melbourne rages and
blusters windfully. The marriage party was
altogether a family gathering—with an odd near-
and-dear friend to help look at the presents. Of
the lot that the bride received from Popper, the
best were some fine paintings. George Grey’s
collection of paintings and bronzes is perhaps the
nnest in Melbourne, and in roaming through his
house one is interested at every nook and turn.
Miss Florrie Bullivant’s postponed wedding is
booked for September 3, at St. John’s, Toorak.
1 he happy man is Captain S. A. Ridgeon, R.N. R.,
and the wedding bells have promised to peal to
the sweet end this time. Some months ago the
Captain s boat had reached Fremantle, and the
bride-to-be had her ton of clothing all ready for
the momentous day and the flitting. Then the
Admiralty person, whose arm is long, and who
raiseth up and casteth down, and giveth and
taketh away, and who shoveth men and ships
here and there on the face of the waters as if he
were God—the marine authority before whom
captains are but caterpillars and admirals merely
ants—ordered the war-boat and Sam, its com-
mander, back to England. So the disappointed
mariner swore hard into the Indian Ocean, and
waited for the next opportunity. The Bullivants
are the very gilded Winnnera Plains family. An
elder sister was married last year with much fan-
.fare and frill. Now a very youthful sister is
thinking of following sister Florrie’s example
break P ° Pper ant * mumf ner have got used to the
Mrs. Staughton has won another step in the re-
organised “ Alexandra Home,” which is a train-
ing school for domestic ’elps. The curved Premier
promises a. “ pound-to-pound ” subsidy. Every
preference is to be given to Australian girls who
care to enter their names as trainees ; but mean-
while the grey and worried Staughton missus has
announced that the Talbottle dame has engaged
Job young English women in the land where the
h doesn’t grow, and they are already on their
way out to Victoria, addressed care of the
So the “ Alexandra Home ” looks
very like a State-aided Immigration scheme in
disguise.
An amateur company perpetrated “The
lyranny of Tears” “for one night onlv” on
Iriday last, all in the cause of charity.' The
yueen Victoria Hospital was the objective, and
the proceeds promised to be solid. It was a
packed house, with stalls booked into the pit, and
a dress-circle widened to the dim background.
1 he Society girl in quantity decked herself in the
fascinating rig of the red-cross Nightingale, and
vended the deadly sweet for sixpence or “as
much as you please,” and sold programmes that
looked like dinner cards. On the stage the two
pretty Pinschof chickens indulged in a rather
irritating monotone, but they held the envious
conglomerate feminine eye with a succession
of marvellous frocks. The Niobes weep
through a whole day, and right on into
™, e They dress afresh for each weep,
lbe 1 mschof maidens revel in froekiness every
day but they let themselves (and Popper Von’s
money) go in a wild burst for this particular
occasion. And their splendor was distinctly out
of harmony with the characters they were sup-
posed to represent.
It is evidently a desirable thing to be attached to
Melbourne Hospital, judging by the dog-fight for
re-election of medicos, last week. The Athenamm
Hall was turned into a polling-booth, and the
long portico was turned into a seething bedlam.
I lie scene was a cross between a rush for an ex-
cursion steamer and a particularly wild time on
the hill at Flemington when a welsher is trying
to disarrange with his creditors. Touts yelled
like maniacs, and canvassers chased about like
kittens after their own tails; hats were askew,
and arms and umbrellas beat the air. Any
passers-by, who didn't want to vote and were not
spoiling for a fight, had to skirt a crowd half-way
across Colli ns-street. And the result of this free
shindy to a finish was a re-election of the same
men as before.
Miss Fanny Dan go’s arrival, on Monday, was
overshadowed by the advent of the big Butt,
Nevertheless the little lady deserved a little dish
of butter all to herself. She possesses a bunch of
blazing tresses that even her worst enemy must
admit to be real red-gold, and not just ginger. Also
she has a complexion— not a creation of rose-
bloom and creme orientale; but a pearly mask
tinted by her own good health. Otherwise, she
beautiful, even in her pictures.
I he Fan-Dango “ did ” Melbourne for the day,
under the experienced cieeronageof Geo. Long-
JLnnes, who completed a peripatetic sensation by
his astounding suit of pea-green, with Tvrolean
head-gear to harmonise.
Walter Baker was still another bird who
homed by the Mongolia. All his high hopes and
workmanlike intentions were blasted by con-
tinued ill-health and a Fog-town specialist’s
dictum. The hero of a thousand unjust stage
suspicions was asked by that expensive luxury, if
there were a quiet place he could stay at in Aus-
tralia, and when he said there was still one un-
inhabited spot left he was bidden to return with-
out delay, and live in the sleepy hollow until he
is quite well again. Now he’s a good deal better,
except for an aristocratic attack of gout, and a
set of nerves like a torn door-bell.
The Victorian artists, soberly and tentatively,
capered through a night of revelry on Saturday,
when they held their hal masque in the Society’s
Galleries. As usual, the wild Bohemians bohemed
so long as they were shrouded in dominoes and
masks; but that was only until 9.30 p.m. After
that early hour, in most instances they relapsed
into a mode of behavior and a frame of mind
suitable to a mayoral function. Really, we
i , a proper appreciation of the fun of making
tools of ourselves! However, a fat lady with
a nmtronly figure broke out into red satin
reechos, and every girl who could expose a
slender symmetrical excuse, showed her ankles.
(Unee the sex puts up its back hair, it always
rushes an opportunity to prove to the whole wide
world that its schoolgirl sister hasn’t a monopoly
o pretty pegs !) One plump young creature
reversed the order of revelation, and exhibited
her waist muscles. She never missed a dance.
Unfortunately there was a dearth of secret nooks
where the Victorian artist might-yield to artistic
enthusiasm, and make the night merrier for the
■Bohemienne, When a painter and a peri did
adjourn to some shaded spot, inevitably they suf-
fered a score of interruptions and the society of
six other sentimental souls.
Mrs. Jansen shed her usual gloom for a while,
and sang some “ Carmen ” music in a “ Carmen ”
trock, with her old-time vim. Later, she danced
a gay cacnuca with a scarecrow. Art School
director Halj made an unexpected appearance,
which galvanised some daubers into a momentary
assumption of superlative dignity. William
Moore, the historian of Victorian Art, played
f a staff. Poet Esson capered as a deadbeat, and,
to lend realism, carried his bedding, in the shape
of a load of rejected MSS.
~ Marshall-Hall Conservatoire set was
music-mad ” in weird white garments, punc-
tuated with disorganised staves, musical terms,
and legends culled from popular songs. One
demoiselle wore a skirt labelled 11 prestissimo,”
and blazoned across her corsage was an in-
vitation to “Come and drink wine with me
r,?T n fche old 111,11 and Bush.” Miss
Zicliy-Woinarski, Dr. Cliuckie Dane, pianist
Elvius, and Emily Dyason lent their gaiety
to this group. Gallery students, as Pierrots,
formed another ensemble. One of the quaintest
and most charming items was the dull, grey moth
with flaming eyes, which disguised clever Dora
Sommers. Will Dyson, as a dilapidated dandy,
made abstruse jokes with an Oxford accent, and
was mistaken by a Conservative widow for Kelly
Motorcar. Another wag was “Little Willie
with the Wicked Heart,” who discoursed
upon uman ’earts with all the eloquence,
and somewhat the intonation, of a deceived
washerwoman. Campbell Jones of the Argus
languidly danced with nearly every pretty lady
"1 the rooms. Dr. Hilly Davis and Mr. Keith
McLean disguised their ordinary selves in a flood
of artistic jargon. Portraitist Tom Carter had
his lengthy form tangled up in a fathom depth of
figured muslin, crowned with a miraculous hat.
He said he was “ The Australian Girl.” A South
Sea Islander danced a quadrille with a flaxen
Juliet, and a dashing Beaucaire fanned a fainting
swagman. Mrs. bred MacCubbin chaperoned a
°i Punter-girls (from some distance) as
Mme. after she had relinquished the
laundry and commenced to wear silk frocks. And
two charmers came as bonbons, with their dainty
legs representing the tag one pulls in order to get
a prize.
.Artist John Ford Paterson, whom his con-
freres adjudge the doyen of Australian brufehmen,
opened an exhibition of his works on September
10. The locale is the inevitable- Guild Hall.
Some important new works are numbered amongst
the 70 or 80 pictures which will he shown.
The divorce scandal among the Importants has
grown to the size of an epidemic lately in Mel-
bourne. The list of the most recent fatalities with
the names of the victims is being posted up in bul-
letin form outside swagger supper cafes. The
very latest sensation is the calling out of a popular
young medico, whose appearance always suggests
the hero in a penny novelette, to figure as co.-re
in a big-type divorce case, just on the
boards. The flare of white heat that burnt up
the domestic peace of the handsome duo
some months ago seemed to have died out with
nothing more startling than a mutual re-arrange-
ment of living. Combustion resumed, however,
and Melbourne is warming its hands at the blaze!
First nights were scattered thickly as thistle-
down on Saturday, hut there were packed houses
everywhere. “ Robin Hood ” and the Princess’s
gave “standing room” to the limit allowed by
the eye of the law. Girls by the car-load rolled
up to welcome dear Julius, and attendant johnnies
came along to hold their own against his tender-
green clad legs (be careful of that hyphen).
From “Rosna” (Adelaide)
The Women’s Work Exhibition has closed with a bang,
and our razzle is over, and Cinderella has gone home
again to wash up, and to put a shine upon the linoleum
in the lobby of her fathers. The Northcotes tarried for
a day or two to see the show, and were duly curtseyed at
by all the peerage (both real and plated). They sat on
the platform one evening among the committee folk, and
smiled amiably upon many thousand South Australian
hats. And the hats, transfixed by the grace with which
her General Excellency wielded a dignified lorgnette,
went home firmly determined to put an umbrella handle
on their glasses also. Some of them, in their haste, tore
the handle out of the umbrella before they slept that
night. A programme of terpsichorean items had been
arranged for the benefit of the visitors. Captain
Leschen brought forth several hundred of his white-
frocked, pig-tailed damsels from the private schools
to dance minuets and other stately measures, and to
march through intricate and serpentine patterns what
time they warbled “ The Song of Australia.” That is our
national song, though you other States are too jealous to
admit it. Other items were provided by the pupils of
Professor Adams. They were mostly new and original
round dances of a weird and bowful nature. A kind of
barn-dance provided for the habitual scarcity of the
male item by requiring that every man should dance
with two girls at once.
The managing committee of the Ex., Messrs. Kvffin
Thomas, Burford, Taylor and Reid, gave a farewell eiiter-
tamment on Tuesday afternoon (27th). Mrs. Robert
Kythn Thomas in soft brown silk, Mrs. Burford and Mrs.
Reid in black and white, each with her attendant swain
received the guests. The vice-regal party had already
sent its cocked hat back to Melbourne, and waspreparing
to follow, but her Ex. appeared in a pretty prune-colored
garment and toque to match, and Miss Clowes in a joyous
frock of blue-green cloth. There were several aides about
m much uniform.
Adelaide had a jewel in the matter of musical treats,
last week, when Mrs. AhdaLoman, a Dutch soprano, sane*
to it. But she came here without any preliminary puff, and
both her concerts were shockingly patronised. Person-
ally, Mrs. Alula is a charming woman with a fondness for
Empire gowns of delicate shades of pink and blue • musi-
cally she is Dolores, with more passion and less’of the
studied restraint that makes one sometimes want to
shake that adorable singer. Every item was encored bv
the smattering of people present, and when the nightin-
gaie came on at last and said, “I will zing a little Dootch
zong the whole place rose at her and said the state-
ment was good and had its complete moral support.
The G. A. Wallmanns gave one of their joyous dances
at Elchurch,” Norwood, last week. Tim house is ofd
and charming and ramblesome, with all sorts of nooks
and crannies for sitting-out purposes; also the garden
was specially constructed for moonlight wanderings.
There are a nice daughter and several athletic University
sons of a danceable age, and all are equally famous for
their good hostship. It is a relief in these days to go to
a dance where the host and hostess don’t annex all the
partners and leave their guests as a mural decoration.
It was a hilarious aflair, and much of the local youth and
beauty put on its best fan and slippers,, and danced into
the next day. '
“Tryphena” describes a Windsor junket and
other matters: —
Six thousand sprucely-groomed guests of Royalty sat
or grouped themselves about the lawns of Windsor Castle,
waiting for Majesty and the rain. The early birds of
great plumage had perched on the early chairs with
malicious triumph, but when the thick clumps of perpen-
dicular gathering wedged them in and cut off all chance
of exit, the Chaired grew anxious. For the rain, that in
London raineth every day, threatened, and eyes
scouted feverishly between the Castle terrace
and the beetling black clouds. The grand parade
tarried, and sporting dudes, perching on one patent sole,
then on t’other, gambled on the chances of rain to win,
and procession for a place.
For an hour the suspense and the speculation went on.
Then the procession backers won. The party flashed
into sight on the stone terrace. The Siamese Royalty,
looking like the Mongolian tea merchant of the posters,
braved it beside the prim, sad-eyed, dressy, and youthful
Queen. Yes, even in the strong, cold’ light of day
Edward’s consort looks young—a decade or two less in
years than the Cliveden dowager. Her figure has not
reached middle-age. The immobile face confesses to but
40 years. The large, slow eyes acknowledge no more.
The face is thin, but unlined. Not a crease ruffles the
evenly-balanced complexion. The utter sadness ages it
not at all. It is a countenance that, without openly
directing an appeal to your sympathies, stirs the gazer.
This day, as most other days, the toilette was mauve,
fitting close, and cut in precise fashion. A toque, also
small and clinging close to the dark chestnut coiffure ,
added to the narrow panel-like effect of the first dame in
the kingdom.
The King is just as broad and loosely knit as his con-
sort is slim. Ilut what a merry monarch I What an
eye! It rolled round the genuflecting thousands
right merrily. His deportment is dignified, lout
in the roguish rolling eye no kingly frigidity or aloof-
ness lurks. It’s not an eye to threaten and command as
much as an eye to twinkle and conquer. The unmis-
takable humor of the bua-oioant shines through and
illuminates the Teutonic whiskered countenance. He’s a
good fellow. The'bus-driver says so. And he knows all
about it.
The marvel of the Royal Contingent was the air of
jollity displayed by the Princesses and the Exalted gener-
ally. Processing along with a sandwich of brown cour-
tiers from Siam, they nodded from side to side, and with
lightning speed caught familiar glances, and flashed at
intervals smiles that said, “ Uulloa I there you are I ”
Some of the smiles even seemed to say, “ What O,” or
something equally off-hand. I’ve never seen a vice-regal
in any part of the Commonwealth scatter anything like
the cordiality and cheerfulness dispensed by this string
of royalties.
In such a muster as that of Windsor the Australian is
sprinkled ever so sparsely. Though I strained my vision
for two crowded hours I could detect none but a stray
Agent-General mooning round somewhat miserably
with his blither mate. Perhaps the cheeriest of the few
Australians in the great frilly pack was the little hand-
box Commonwealth Secretary, Captain Collins. If he
wasn’t quite at home among the vast flock of London’s
Creamiest, he chortled airily and pretended to be merry.
His dame wore ever while in Melbourne a rather lazy,
indifferent air, and it just suited this party occasion. It
passes for Vere de Vere unconcern, thousrh probably it’s
a matter of indigestion or the apathy of drab health. One
never knows.
Miss L.vne was under the wing of the apathetic Dame.
Ooin Bill, of the Commonwealth, has tremendous faith in
the bandbox Secretary. Looming above her frill neigh-
bors in the lawn flock was the colossal contralto, Clara
Butt, in gorgeous trappings, with a hat the size of an
improvement lease balanced on her melodious head. In
her ears were giant pearls—one as sooty as the Siamese
King. Kennedy Rumford’s handsome profile grazed the
Butt shoulder.
As a representative social muster in the dizzy height of
the Big Smoke season, it disappointed by its lack of
lovelv faces and splendid figures. The wealth and fashion
of England can’t boast of beauty. There’s a sweetness
of face often, a clearness of skin, but Sweet and Twenty
in Merrie England has no divine loveliness. Yon see no
radiance of light in the youthful face—no brilliancy of
color in the countenances of the most persistent social
butterflies. And there’s a sloppiness of dress, a negligent
hang' of the clothes, that spoils the picturesqueness of the
fairest.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantssd.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO..
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
p is
GrO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
R.esch.'s Limited, Agents.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy cures the
worst colds. Try it. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d. #
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
arid 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Carda, Porto, Portugal
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS,^
■y
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DEMER BROTHERS, s ” 8 ' 0 iS n ”“‘
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Jack-tar Evans, who Premiers Tas-
mania’s green isle, spent a week in Mel-
bourne lately pouring his tale of woe into
the ears of the Australian Ministry and
Thomas Bent. Evans figures it out that
Victoria benefits to the extent of £20,000
or so every year at the expense of Tas-
mania. Over on Evans’ atoll it is not
“the thing” among the Best People to buy
stuff on the island. It must be bought in
Melbourne. Captain Evans says he recently
waved his sea-leg at a ball where three ladies
wore dresses costing £7O or £BO apiece—all
bought in Melbourne. The duty paid on
these would, he reckoned, be about £5O, and
it went to Victoria, though Tassy ought to
have got it. A lot of raw material is made
Up in Victoria for the island because the
islanders are too haughty to wear things made
in their own country. Premier Evans opines
that the whole of the duties on these Vic-
torian goods should rightly be credited to the
island. However, he is prepared to accept a
fixed £170,000 a year and call things level.
With this, the Tattersall tax, and other
little sources of income. Jack reckons he
can just about make ends meet. Without
this arrangement he sees nothing for it but
Borrowing and ultimate Bust.
W. E. Vincent is running for the
Gough (N.S.W.) electorate on two large main
principles—the abolition of State Parliaments
(i.e. the unification of Australia), and the
abolition of borrowing. A man who can
appreciate ideas of that size is something
extra in the way of men, and deserves success.
“It is clear that we can never be contented
as long as the capital is anywhere but Sydney.”—
Secessionist letter contributed by an importer to
Sydney Telegraph.
George Black, sturdy political battler as
he is, hasn’t much chance against little Carruthers
in St. George. The electors consist largely of ill-
paid commercial clerks, who wouldn’t vote Labor
even to save their bell toppers from being burnt at
the stake. St. George is a stronghold of
Methodism, and Joey is its prophet. He has
sent a letter to every elector on the roll; he
has joined a Protestant lodge, and, as an off-set,
be has treated a leading R.O. to a country trip in
the Ministerial carriage. Nearly every little tin-
pot alderman in the district is canvassing the
electors, and the parsons crowd Joseph’s plat-
forms when he speaks. Black’s opposition is a
good thing, but in a hidebound community like
St. George his outlook isn’t promising.
Mr. Percy Crampton, Singleton, N.S.W.,
says :—“ Not so long ago I was seized with a very
heavy cold. Having heard of the wonderful
qualities of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy I de-
cided to give it a trial, and am glad I did, for
after taking two bottles I was completely cured.
I have much pleasure in testifying to the curative
qualities of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and
can say from experience that it does all that the
makers claim it will do.”*
Napoleon I. (Bonaparte the Prophet) look-
ing down the vista of the future at the Australian
importer: “I do not like shopkeepers. They are
so used to selling things that it comes natural to
them to sell their country.”
The N.S.W. police, after 26 years of wait-
ing, have been promised a rise of Cd. a day. The
promise came almost on the same day that Car-
ruthers shook the wire-netting. If Joe’s lawless
act had started a disturbance, or row, or small
civil war, he would have had to depend on the
police to support him, and, in such a case, six-
pence might be a valuable incentive. Besides, an
election is at hand.
A Bathurst pub-keeper, by name Hogarth,
who appears to mix, combine, and confuse inex-
tricably and hopelessly the varied lurks of Im-
perialist, Secessionist, beer-jerker, anddisapprover
of Rome, called a monster secesh meeting at his inn
last week in connection with the tariff. Out of a
net total of 10,000 summoned, four turned up.
What happened when the four (and Hogarth) got
fairly together and going never transpired, but it
is almost sure that a massive petition was signed
by all present.
On August 29, the S.M. Herald had one
of its periodical articles about Canada, and the
great rush of immigrants thitherward, and the
small rush this way. And, as usual, it waded to
the conclusion of its screed without one word
about (1) the Canadian system of High Protection
which makes work for these people in the big
Canadian manufacturing industries (the Herald
is against this); (2) the Canadian system of small
farms each owned by the cultivator (the Hearld
wouldn’t have the big landlord disturbed on any
account); or (3) the Canadian banking system
(any attempt to acclimatise that in Australia the
Herald denounces as spoliation). But it hinted
darkly and gloomily at the Six Hatters as the
cause of the smallness of the Australian influx.
Of course the fact remains that between 1892 and
1900 Australia and Tasmania lost 1022 people by
excess of departures over arrivals, and the Six
Mad Hatters didn’t happen till 1902, and immi-
gration began to look up immediately after the
Hatters. But who expects the Herald to mention
things like that ?
“ Cocky ” Carruthers, who is throwing out
his chest and posing as the friend and saviour of
the farmer, is careful not to mention what is
happening to the cow-raisers and butter-growers.
Had Carruthers joined with Victoria, or given
the Federal Government anything but snarls, a
Federal mail-steamer line would be an assured
fact. As things are, he snarled, and the Federal
service fell through for want of support, and now
the cow-raisers find butter freights raised enor-
mously by a shipping combine. One little lot of
butter-exporters in N. S. Wales has agreed to the
combine’s terms at a loss of £40,000 a year; and
if the rest come in—as they will probably be
forced to do—it will cost N. S. Wales and Vic-
torian cow-men altogether £250,000 a year. Car-
ruthers’ doesn’t mention that among the blessings
he has brought the farmers.
ANOTHER GRIEVANCE JOKE.
Since the fees charged for conversations over the Mel-
bourne to Sydney trunk telephone line were reduced
there has been a gratifying increase of business at the
Melbourne end. Calls from Sydney, however, still re-
main inexplicably few'.... That makes a total for the
five days of 110 calls from Melbourne, and only 71 from
Sydney.— P.M.G.’s Report.
Joke Carruthers finds Melbourne getting the
best of it again.
This is the tail end of a circular which
has drifted to this office (it was forwarded by the
receiver—a country bookseller): —
Trusting that you will use every means in your power
to have the proposed duty on magazines removed from
the tariff, and, in addition to communicating with your
member, forward us your protest by return without fail
for transmission to the Minister for Customs. Yours
faithfully (signed) Gordon and Gotch.
Thus does the big importer set to work to create a
spontaneous and overwhelming outburst of public
sfentiment throughout the country, even as the
orator sits up in the small hours composing his
impromptu.
The best remedy for warding off and
curing bronchitis is Angier’s Emulsion. Why ?
Because it not only soothes the throat and lungs,
and allays inflammation, but also promotes
appetite, aids digestion, and acts as a tonic to the
entire system. It is the most palatable of all
emulsions. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
EFFECT OF PROTECTION.
FRIEND : “ Tell me. How did you injure your poor foot? ”
FAT (gloomily): “Kicking against the tariff.”
Curious the dead hush that prevails
throughout N.S.W. electoral campaign in regard
to (1) Sosh and (2) Rome. In the last Federal
contest hardly any Reidite candidate uprose
without uttering a number of acrid remarks in
which Cardinals, Scarlet Women, Home Rule,
the Walls of Derry, and the Flames of Smithfield
were involved, and inextricably entangled with
Watson, the burst marriage tie, Sosh and Anarchy.
This was Reid’s idea of how to play the game.
Carruthers, on the other hand, shows sufficient
sense of humor (remembering the Socialistic pro-
posals on his own party platform) to say very
little about Sosh, and he also discourages assault
upon the person who is “steeped in the super-
stitions of Rome.” Which seems to suggest that
he is ahead of Greid as a political tactician, even
if the latter does beat him now and then in his
State Frights.
The S.M. Herald litters the pages that
the bulk of the people read with big headings
like “Our new burdens,” and “Another trade
prejudiced,” and “The process of strangulation.”
But, stowed away among the dreary commercial
notes, and without any headings big or little, it
prints things like this :
There, was a rumor in the market yesterday that a
manufacturing firm contemplated the early establish-
ment, in Sydney, of a match factory, in which
both vestas and wooden matches would be made
and boxed. Independently of this, it was stated
that another firm, which has already a large business
connection with Australia, might consider the expe-
diency of manufacturing in Sydney if the duty is re-
tained.
The news that, “if the duty is retained,” Sydney
will have another industry, doesn’t even get a'
paragraph to itself—it just gets mixed up with
remarks to the effect that jute was lifeless and
most lines were quiet.
“One who was there” writes about the
Sydney Woman’s Anti-Tariff meeting :
One was either “ madame ” or “dear” at the Anti-
Tariff meeting convened by a well-known society-pusher
one day this week. There were,two kinds of greeting for
the women who came: “Sign your name, madame, on.
any of those lists, please madame ”; or “ Sign your name
dear, on this sheet: we are reserving this for the people
one knows, and thank you so much, dear, for coming.”
“ What is the meeting about, and what am I signing ?”
asked one woman, bolder but not better informed than
the rest. “This meeting is anti-,tariff, madame, not
political, just anti-tariff, madame. Sig'n your name, ;
please! ”
At this stage, a man entered, to he told at once that
men were not allowed at this meeting, only reporters.'
“ If you are a reporter, then I am Mrs. X, representing
the citizens of Sydney, and kindly step up to the front .
row,” and the lady returned quickly to see that no more
women got in without signing one or other of the sheets.
“ My daughter was so sorry she couldn’t come to-day,
dear Mrs. X,” said a newcomer, “ very sorry indeed, par-
ticularly as there’s a duty of 3d. on hair nets, and her
hair is so fine that she simply must wear hairnets.”
“ Oh, never mind, dear, you sign for her on this paper,
dear. You’ll find on it all the people one knows. It was
so sweet of you to come.” Then Mrs. X left for the plat-
form, from which she surveyed the audience through her
lorgnettes. Then the speeches began, and I left.
“ N.L.” writes :
What a lovely front the talkers of secesh display ! Even
at their own estimate, no more than 60 persons attended
the recent Albury meeting (apparently 57 went to laugh),
and yet the two or three spouters of the tiny gathering
solemnly sought to have themselves reported as re- ,
presenting the opinion of a whole vast State. The same
with secesh’s recent burlesque entertainment in Perth,
where even the most imaginative secessionist could not
discover more than 100 in the audience. Is the sensible
citizen expected to take seriously these meetingettes of
globe-fronted twaddlers, and youths who have assembled
to chuckle at their silly antics? If so, let us have full ,
reports of the speeches and expectorations of the Turnip
Lane Push and the Slushville two-up school.
A microbe horn of a chill and cold
In a man’s lung did reside,
And fast multiplying, grew so bold
It triumphantly defied >
Each deadly drug and renied\- sure,
Till one day it was plied
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
When it collapsed and died.
Sydney Evening News struck a mare’s
nest, last week, and found the mare in it, busy
sitting on the egg. When the question was
raised whether State goods should come in free of
duty when they were not goods for the State’s
use, but were articles for sale to the public, the
News declared irrelevantly, but wildly, that
Lyne was even then advertising in the Gazette
offering to sell stationery to the public from the
Federal Government Printing Office. And when
Lyne proved that the advt. was addressed to
Government Departments only, and that nothing
was being sold to the public, the News didn’t
apologise for its yarn,
J. E. WEST, Anti-Borrowing Candidate for
King Division, Sydney.
This statement from the S. M. Herald
(though rather old) is worth reprinting, see-
ing that the Mother Gummidge politician with
his cry about the “ wrongs of N.S.W.’’ is begin-
ning to weep on various platforms with a view to
securing his return to the State Legislature:—
Although the Commonwealth might easily have in-
curred debt, it has not done so. Instead, it has insisted
upon paying for many works out of revenue which under
the State system were invariably charged to loan account.
These , are not characteristics of extravagance. On the
other hand, what do we find among the States? In our
own, with which we are chiefly concerned, there has,
during the last few years, been an overflowing Treasury,
as the combined result of the Federal tariff and good
seasons,, and there has been heavy expenditure in conse-
quence of there being an abundance of money to spend.
One of the benefits to have accrued from Federation was
to have been a marked saving in the cost of administering
the State Governments. That this saving has not been
realised must be charged against the State, not against
the Commonwealth. Less than any State need New
South Wales fear unfair treatment from the Common-
wealth.
THE QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How shall wa build us a Nation ? How shall we make us
a State
Mighty and free from the sea to the sea, fearless of Time
and of Fate ;
Filled with a prosperous people, skilful and tireless and
strong;
Hating all sham and oppression—doing and taking no
wrong ?
How shall we build us a Nation, thoughtful for peace and
for war,
Able and bold to protect and to hold all that is worth
living for—
Comfort, security, justice, freedom and fortunate days—
How shall we build us a Nation sworn to high aims and
great ways ?
Shall we belike to the coneys, feeble and living in fear,
Falling a prey in the midst of our play to a foe even now
drawing near?
What shall become of the children, bred of our pride and
our blood,
When the fair land of their fathers is swamped by an
Asian flood ?
How shall we build us a Nation ? Is it by waving a flag ?
By‘‘records ” for speed, or a footballer’s deed of which
all the barrackers brag ?
How shall we kindle the spirit—the Nation’s untamable
soul—
By riding a wheel in the limelight, or kicking a ball
through a goal ?
flow shall we build us a Nation—a People resourceful and
brave —
Men who will bleed if their country should need ; who
have no fear of the grave ?
Women to mother good children—leaders of action and
thought—
Showing the future to fight for and the wonderful things
to be wrought ?
How shall we build us a Nation ? How shall we make us
a State,
Mighty and free from the sea to the sea, fearless of Time
and of Fate ;
Filled with a prosperous people, skilful and tireless and
strong,
Hating all wrong and oppression—doing and taking no
wrong i-
N.S.W.
O.C. CABOT.


Ronisch Pianos
uilillii
SOLE AGENTS
These Highly Artistic Pianos
have been, proving' their
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To such g'ood purpose have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace with
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being' a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case*
work is very chaste.
As to their durability, we
cannot speak too highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full g'uarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
BUCKLEY 8c NUNN,
LIMITED.
FASHIONS
OF THE
DAY.
$
Summer,
1907.
mi
m
m
v?
\ v‘v - ■ *1
SI
j l AL AOTE ! Fashions of the Period. — A walk through our Showrooms should
ie ot much interest to ladies who derive pleasure from seeing a combination of good taste
and originality in Dress Creations and other goods of perfect manufacture, all marked at
prices that will effect an important economy to those who purchase, and in every instance
will bear favorable comparison in value with the tariff of other leading firms. We buy
direct from the world’s best centres of manufactures on the most favored terms, which
enables us to sell goods of the best makes, for which we are genuinely noted, at strietlv
moderate prices.—BUCKLEY & NUNN, Limited, Victoria House, Melbourne.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE. Posted free on Application.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Those
wiry beards
that resist the
razor’s edge quickly
yield to the softening
influence of the pure
antiseptic lather pro-
duced by
Williams’
Shaving Stick
feels fine on the face
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers,
all over the world, or mailed to any address
on receipt of price in stamps. Williams’
Shaving Sticks,Is.; Williams’ LuxuryTab-
lets, Is.; Willi ams’American Shaving Tab
lets, 6d. (Trial size) of Williams’ ,s
ing Stick, 2d
TheJ. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Eussell St., London, W. C •
Paris,4 Kue Chauveaux Lagarde • ’
161 Clarence St., Sydney, New ’
South Wales. Head
office and facto-
ries, Glaston-
bury, Conn.,
U. S.A.
m
TWO YEARS* GUARANTEE.
We give a Two Years’ Guarantee with every Plum
ttazor we sell, and not only that, but will keep it in
good going order for two years, free of charge.
We have THAT much confidence in the Plum.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/“
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Oup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrutob St Co. on each Bottle.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agrents—Messia. E. M. POTHERGILL & CO., 1Q Mqjjatt Fremantle.
Brbwert and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sydney metropolitan Rugby first-grade compe-
tition came to an end last Saturday with the match
between Glebe and University at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Some 20,000 yelling spectators whooped up the proceed-
ings. Glebe won by 13 points to nil, and, although the
red team was expected to win, few dreamed of such a
margin of points, for when Glebe and Uni. met the first
time in the competition the Oollegians downed the
butchers by exactly the same score. In Saturday’s
struggle there was no comparison between the teams.
University team was clumsy, slow, and unskilful in
comparison with that of the Glebe. The might of
Glebe lay in its pack, which played a very thorough
game. It grassed every man collared so as to put him
right out of that rush, anyhow. It kept the ball on the
ground, and fell on it when the Collegians began to force
it through, and thereby gave the Glebe pack a chance to
assert its superiority in the scrums. When it got the
leather into University territory, however, the Glebe
pack opened up and gave its backs a show. And the
Glebe backs were also superior to those of University,
their line kicking being reg'ular and certain, while the
blue-and-gold men punted straight into the arms of the
red fellows. The old style of dashing play that
usually characterises the University was painfully con-
spicuous by its absence. The backs occasionally got on some
great passing charges, but they were too occasional. By
the end of the first half the Glebe pack had the opposi-
tion just about worn out, and the score was five to nil.
In the second half the University backs livened up some-
what, and narrowly escaped securing a couple of tries,
while the Glebe scored eight more points, and narrowly
missed at leajst six others. The result of the match is
that Glebe, for the second consecutive year, takes the
elegant Premiership pennant, the gold badge, and the
“ victory caps,” and the other outward and visible in-
signia.
* * ti *
It was the sudden upheaval of the so-called
Rugby League that made Glebe first-grade premiers of
Sydney this year. But for the destruction of the Eastern
Suburbs team by that untoward event, Messenger’s late
club would have won the position easily. When E.S.
met Glebe on Saturday, August 24, despite the fact that
the stricken club was libeially sprinkled over with new
men to take the place of the veterans who had gone over
to the League, Glebe could only "'in by three to nil. Had
Messenger and the rest been playing with their old club,
it would have gone through the butchers like fire through
stubble, and on the form shown by University on Satur-
day last the Eastern Suburbs would have beaten the
Oollegians bv about 20 to nil. The League irrupted at a
critical moment.
In the meantime, the air is full of rumors as to
the future of the League. Common report hath it that
already the players are “full” of Trumper, Kelly, Gil-
tinan and Co., and are anxious for those gentry to take
their cash out of the concern, and leave the League to
fight out its destiny without either their capital or their
advice. The published news was that some of the pro-
moters had been made “ life members,” but as the League
is still void and without form or constitution, it is hard
to understand how that has been done.
* » * *
The Gardiner Cup sudden-death competition
proceeds on its destructive way in Sydney Soccer football
circles, but the deaths have not been so sudden as was ori-
ginally hoped for. Owing to the wild-cat fightsome of the
clubs put up for their lives, draws have been unexpectedly
frequent. On Saturday' the victorious Balmain club con-
tinued its triumphal progress, squelching Ultimo’s
chances by four goals to one. Up at Broadmeadow (New-
castle) the Woonona Club, which comes from the Bulli
district, met the Broadmeadow team, and, after a hard-
struggled game, neither was any further advanced ; the
result being a scoreless draw. The names of the dead are
Rozelle, Ultimo, Balgownie, and Weston ; while the clubs
which have still to fight, and, all but one, perish, are Bal-
main, Pyrmont, Glebe, Woonona, Oorrimal, Broadmeadow
and Petersham. And the greatest of these is Pyrmont.
♦ * * *
The Austral League footballers of Sydney have
now completed the general scramble and arrived at the
semi-final stage. The result is that Y.M.C. A., Balmain,
North Shore, and Paddington are dead. The positions
of those remaining in are as follows : Sydney heads the
list with 48 competition points ; Newtown is second
with 42; East Sydney third with 86; and Redfern
fourth with 32. On Saturday Sydney and East
Sydney will struggle together, ana Newtown and
Redfern will do their best to slay each others’
chances, and the winners of these two matches
will play off the following Saturday. As there will be no
Rugby events worth watching on those dates, followers
Of the one-time English game should roll up and see for
themselves what sort of a pastime Australian football is.
The four clubs remaining in the contest are good ex-
ponents of the game, and it is a game which, when well
played, is much more scientific than Rugby, approxi-
mating to human chess.
* * • •
Saturday was an off day as far as Vic. League
football was concerned, the four clubs to contest the semi-
finals being already fixed. Carlton downed Melbourne by
62 points to 36 ; South polished off Essendon by 99 to 43 ;
Geelong kicked 12 goals four behinds to Coliingwood’s
nine goals 17 behinds ; and ’Roy 6.9 to St. Kilda’s 3.14,
though, as there was no inducement for either ’Wood or
Saints to win, there is a probability that their wry kick-
ing was rather premeditated than accidental. Melbourne,
Geelong, ’Roy, and Essendon now retire from business
till next May, and the acquirement on the part of their
players of new boots, hot sea baths, and other medical
comforts is “ off ’’ till that date. As to whether all these
clubs will be in the League then, or whether there will
be any League, Heaven only knows. The Association
urgently desires to supplant the superior body and get
where, the boodle lies, but three at least of the Ass.
clubs would “sling” that animal to-morrow and rush a
League place if they got a show. Also University, of
the Metropolitan Association—a strong team playing
genuine football —is keenly anxious to enter;
while last year’s League premiers, Carlton, is in such
a peculiar position that a violent disruption may
occur at any moment. What is wanted is a scheme of
district football arranged by the League and Association
combined, any junior premier club having a right to
enter the minor body next season, and the two highest
Association clubs stepping up to the League annually in
the places of the two lowest Leaguers. There is no profit
in a man helping his club—either in work or money—if
he knows, no matter how strong or fair a game the club
plavs, it can never get to the top of the tree.
rJ * * * *
Chief Association interest centred in the
Essendon (A) v. Ports discussion, owing to sanguinary
promises having been made by the latter as to what
would happen to their opponents when the return match
eventuated. But Port’s ground being banned, that club
had to hire Richmond’s, and though many Port barrackers
transpired, they weren’t so frequent or so fierce as when
in their own back yard. Also the presence of nearly a
score of foot and a few mounted police had a soothing
effect. That they were needed was evident. When
a Port player was temporarily laid out, the hard-
faced battlers in red-and-blue rosettes incontinently
swarmed over the fence to investigate matters, but they
were just as speedily hustled back again by the grey-
coated Johns. Essendon won a fairly-willing argument
by 61 points to 41, which disaster destroyed Port’s semi-
final chances. Down at Footscray the locals completely
outplayed the once-invincible Richmond, showing
superior form in nearly every respect, and winning by 8.6
to 3.3. As ’Scray has only the negligible Preston to
meet, it is now practically in the semi-finals, with Rich-
mond and Williamstown ; the fourth club in the quar-
tette will not be known till next Saturday, when West
and Essendon meet—the winner being the pea. Bruns-
wick, though out of the finals, plays up to its recent
form, and put up the precipitous record of 153 points to
11 against Prahran, and the latter isn’t the worst of the
Ass. teams. If Brunswick can keep its team together
till next season, and starts practice early, it should get a
good grip on the Association premiership.
* * *
J. Hanley, captain of the Canadian lacrosse
toughs who recently displayed their ruffianism in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, made a few remarks ere leaving for
England, the most striking of which was to the effect
that, “ though we have been accused of being more
vigorous in our play than the lacrosseurs of Australia, we
have not played the game more vigorously than we do
at home, and in our opinion we have not played it more
vigorously than teams against which we have competed.”
So in Canada it is, apparently, all in the game
to slash an opponent with the crosse, and to trip
a rival as he runs, to bash and knock down umpires
who interfere, and generally to turn the game into
a free fight till the police separate the sides. In that
case we don’t want any more Canadians, or their
methods, here. In this country there is a desire that
sport should be athletic exercise, not ruffianism. But
The Bulletin rather suspects that Mr. Hanley was trying
to whitewash his team at the expense of his country.
Still we are glad to know that his bullies carry away with
them the greatest admiration for the sportmanship of
Australians. Some of them had it fairly hammered into
them with Australian fists when they took to laying Aus-
tralian faces open with their crosses.
* * * *
TheN.S.W. Cyclists’Union on Saturday last rah
off the race to decide who was individual amateur road
champion of the State. The course was the stretch of
road between Homebush and Flemington, where the dust
lies deep, and the road metal lurks in re#fs under the
drifting earth. Out of a total entry of 17 no less than 15
faced the starter ; but long before the 40 miles were half
completed those hidden reefs had cut the tyres unmerci-
fully, and brought about many retirements. Last year’s
champion, H. Coleman, having touched the unclean thing
in the shape of the now defunct Association, the title
was an empty one, with none to defend it. The end of
the first 10 miles saw Ray of Balmain leading, and close
behind raged Betts of Enfield, Goodhew of Marrickville,
and Shepherd of Balmain. The field was hopelessly out of
it, for these four were riding strongly and had got a
break on the mob. They were not overtaken, and in the
final tussle among themselves Shepherd came in last,
Betts of Enfield third, Goodhew second, and F. R. Ray
first. This race is promoted by the Dunlop Rubber Co.
and run under the auspices of the Union, the controlling
amateur body. The Union provided official pacemakers,
and when the race was over an official reported Ray for
having accepted outside pace, and the trophy was hung
up till the Union should decide whether he should be
disqualified. When The Bulletin went to press the
question had not been adjudicated upon.
The Mclntosh, of N.S.W. League of Wheelmen,
proposes to discount his many services to humanity by
promoting a hill-climbing contest up an awful hill out at
National Park (Audley, N.S.W.) at the end of the present
month. There are two ghastly precipices out there, one
of which is death and the other Sheol to any tool who tries
to ride a bike from bottom to top. Just at present
Mclntosh is somewhat undecided over which he will hold
his contest, and writer wouldn’t be surprised if he decided
on both of them. Occasionally, when Mac is feeling fresh*
he hoists himself aboard the jigger and rides up, just to
“ get up a sweat." But then Mac has legs like those at
the butt end of the horse, and a heart like a working
bullock's. Intending competitors will be pleased to learn
that there is an ambulance station at the bottom of the
hill, and the Woronora cemetery is within easy driving
distance of the Park. They will have to fetch their own
undertakers.
* * * *
The Pioneer Motor Cycle Club tried its hand at
hill climbing on Saturday afternoon on the Baden-Baden
hill at Coogee, where the gradient runs up from one in
12 to one in five. The last pinch broke the hearts of
quite a number of the machines, and they just stopped
dead, while some of them showed a disposition to run
back. A. J. Powell, secretary of the club, had a willing
mount, which soared up the 500yds. in 24sec. An Air -
tralian-built machine, although it failed to win the
prize, made an excellent showing. The next heat wnl
take place over the same pinch next Saturday.
* * » *
S. F. Edge, the English motorist who drove a
six cylinder 60-h.p. car 1681 miles in 24 hours, is, as most
people know, a Sydney native. But it is not so generally
known that he is somewhere about half owner of the
famous Napier Motor Works, which were originally
planned and created by him, Napier, his partner, merely
putting some capital into the business. When he pro-
posed to make that effort to maintain one mile per minute
for 24 hours he was solemnly warned that it was suicide.
People affirmed that the bearings would not stand it, and
that if they did the tyres would certainly melt with the
friction engendered by the maintenance of the terrific
speed. The bearings stood all right, but the outer covers
of the tyres did eventually begin to melt. Immediately
the fact was detected the car would stop and fresh
wheels, with tyres already attached, would be put on.
So expert were the wheel changers that the replacing
operation occupied only 30sec. All the same this fast
travelling is a fearfully dangerous business, and sooner or
later there are going to be some bad smashes. Edge’s
next attempt will be to drive a Dunlop-shod Napier car
100 miles per hour for 24 consecutive hours, and, frankly,
Tine Bum.ktin would much sooner that Edge undertook
to do it than the man who pays the salaries in this office.
• * * *
Two Westralian sports are having a willing go
over the prize money of a small handicap run at the May
meeting of the Helena Vale Turf Club. Two nags,
Beggarman and Montgolfier, ran a dead heat. In the
run off M. won. B.’s owner lodged a protest, on the
ground that the jockey on M. had landed B. a welt on the
nose during the race. Protest was upheld, and race
awarded to B. Owner of M. appealed to the YV.A.T.C. on
a technical point. Result: Appeal upheld, and race
re-awarded to M. Proprietor of B. appealed to the law in
the person of Justice Burnside. He alleged that a mem-
ber of the W.A.T.C. committee had backed the other
horse, and further, that this committee man was a lawyer,
who conducted the case on behalf of M.’s owner, and at
the same time sat in judgment on the case. Justice
Burnside upset the turf club’s decision, and lie ordered
the stake to be paid to the owner ot B. Further appeals
to higher courts are now promised, and the costs will
mop up the added money of a Melbourne Cup.
# * * *
Looked at from both sides of the Murray the
bringing forward of the date of the A.J.C. Meeting-
from about September 15, as of yore, to October 5 as in
the present year—is an arrangement that should suit
every horseracing person whose intentions are not strictly
dishonorable. This year, as it happens, the last day
of the big fixture at Kandwick is the first day of the
Cup Meeting at Caulfield, consequently no Victorian
horses will be sent over for the principal A.J.C. events—
handicaps or w.f.a. races—unless their chances seem
worth the sacrifice of any engagement they may have for
the Guineas Day of the V.A.T.C. When one remembers
how it was formerly a common practice for Victorian
horses to be sent to Randwick for an airing with a view
to lengthening their market price for subsequent genuine
goes at Caulfield and Flemington, and when it is also
considered that the fittest of the N.S.W. horses
at Randwick Spring are no longer in serious
danger of staling off before Melb. Derby and
Cup come due, the curtailment or condensation
of the racing-fever season seems to be a valuable depar-
ture from the old long-drawn-out order of things. Under
the amended conditions, a brilliant performer at Rand-
wick has the best of chances to improve his record at
Caulfield (on the second Saturday) and Flemington. The
new time-table was inaugurated last year, with the
result that Poseidon did what would have been prac-
tically impossible to any three-year-old in the years when
the gap between the A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies was three
weeks longer. The winner of the one Derby in Sept,
had, in several instances, captured the Vic. Derby in
Nov., but the colt was always a trifle stale by that time,
and he never could show his very best “ form ” in the
Cup, three days later. Now that the big Spring meet-
ings in Sydney and Melbourne are brought so close to-
gether that two of them can even bump one another, a
horse must be nearly wound up for the Metropolitan in
order to be quite wound up for the Melb. Cup, and the
public are likely to get better sport than they did when
the “ form ” at Randwick was a less reliable guide to the
punter at Flemington. The complaint that the new con-
ditions as to dates are “ unsatisfactory ” has been raised
by a few horse reporters on behalf of bookmakers in
general, but there is no attempt to explain the alleged
causes for dissatisfaction.
• * • *
Some results at Canterbury Park race meeting
(Saturday), which attracted probably a record attend-
ance for the course, provided lines as to the prospects of
three or four Epsom and Metrop. candidates. Maori
Girl, Lady Trenchant and Sivori won. Maori Girl’s Park
Stakes’ success lacked special merit, but Lady Trenchant
cleared right away from her field near the end of Canter-
bury Handicap (1 j mile). Among others behind was the
heavily backed hot favorite Mimer (a previous strong tip
for Epsom), who finished out of a place. Lady Trenchant
only needs to keep as at present to make a bold bid for
one or other of the coming season’s big plums. Sivori,
yet short of thorough condition, gathered the Three-
Year-Old Handicap in a way that caused shrewd on-
lookers to mark him as worth watching.
* * * *
Jockey R. Derrett, who won on Takaroa at
recent Canterbury (M.L.) J.C. meeting, has been riding
in races for nearly 40 years.
• * * •
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
A few more odious comparisons between the
E rices offered by the bookmakers and the dividends paid
y the totalisator, at Kalgoorlie, on Saturday last, accord-
ing to S. M. Ukrald :
Tote Bookmakers
Race. Winner. Dividend. Prices.
Hurdles.. .. Napoleon £584 Os. for £1 £2O to 1 agst.
Spring Stakes .. Prophecy 1 14s. for 1 6to 2 on.
Flying Handicap Pin 6 18s. for 1 4to 1 agst.
Hannan’s H’cap Condor 17 2s. for 1 11 to 1 agst.
Lady’s Bracelet The King 3 16s. for 1 2to 1 agst.
Goldfields Stakes Maltese 8 3s. for 1 7to 1 agst.
* » * *
The bowling struggle for the Max field Shield
was a great and gorgeous affair of 16 teams and 384
players. The contest was conducted under home-and-
home conditions—three rinks playing on the greens of
their opponents. The feature of the competition
was the huge margin of points scored by the winners.
Warringah and Ashfield were the general favorites,
as the team that beat its opponents by the
highest margin took the trophy, and these rinks
were expected to inflict the father of a hiding on
Burwood and Strathfield respectively. And they' cer-
tainly did rub it in, Ashfield winning by no less than 50
points, while Warringah’s margin was 47. But they were
not the highest; Randwick mopped up the sleepy men
from Parramatta with 60 to spare, while Petersham
extinguished Victoria Park with a margin of 66, and took
the shield.
At the next meeting of the Bowling Association
an effort will be made to reduce the length of the
struggle for the Pennant by Introducing the
“ sudden death ” system, under which each club
drops out of the competition on the occasion of
its first defeat. The proposed reform will make the
contest more exciting, and give the clubs more
time for the social game. Another matter which will
be dealt with is the establishment of a real Australasian
championship. At present, there are two A.C. compe-
titions—one run by the M.G.O. and the other by the
Waverley Club (Sydney)—and every year there are two
men strolling round Australia, each legally qualified
for the title of Champion of the Continent and
Isles adjacent. Which is just plain tommy-rot. The
proposal is that the two State Associations should com-
bine and run the championships in Sydney and Mel-
bourne alternately, and make the honor something
worth owning.
* m * •
Re that Belgian win of the Grand Challenge
Eights at Henley (England) in July. A Pali, Mall
Gazktte scribe expressed astonishment because the
foreigners lunched and smoked just before the race, and
was told, “ We never train in your fashion, but eat,
drink and smoke, as the fancy takes us." The Footscray
(Vic.) “mud punters” of 25 years ago would leave their
heavy toil, smoke until a minute before the race, lay their
“clays ” on the side of the seat, and beat the best amateur
or other crew rash enough to take them on ; and people
marvelled at the fact. The Belgian oarsmen don't train
at all as Englishmen understand training, and row in a
totally different way, yet they were too good for England’s
champions.
• • * •
Even a glutton for stoush could not have
demanded a more vigorously-contested battle than that
between Charlie Griffin and Hugh Meaghan, at the
Athletic Pavilion, Melbourne. The boys are both capable
of fighting in the feathery division, but went something
over on this occasion. Griffin was “ the pocket Squires ”
when Bill’s name was reverenced in the land, and he
is a tough, worrying, • walloping fighter. Meaghan is a
lad who has recently emerged from the novice division,
and he has done much execution amongst reputations in
his brief career. He is clever, has a genius for keeping
out of the way of serious trouble, and has a punch that a
12-stoner might be proud of. His smothering tactics left
Griffin nowhere to hit him save on the back of the neck,
and Charles landed there early, hard and often, but
meanwhile Meaghan was swinging in much heavy con-
cussion. He had the Maorilander down twice in the
second round, and it looked hereabouts as if Griffin were
booked for the sudden jolt. But Charlie held up and
battled gamely for the whole of the 20 rounds, although
he was dead beat in the last, and went to the floor
several times. Meaghan was given the verdict, and he
certainly earned it. The winner meets Frank Thorn
for tne feather championship at an early date, and should
hustle the blocky Westralian hard for the belt and the
boodle.
* * * •
Vol. 24 of J. J. Miller’s Australian Racing
Chronicle can now be obtained from the publisher, Post
Office Place, Melbourne. It covers the six months from
Feb. Ist to July 31st of this year, and gives in detail the
performances of some 5000 horses, the naming of which
reveals the usual want of ingenuity and fault of repetition.
Even among the Z’s, who are a small family, one finds
that Zillah, Zoe, Ziska and Zola are duplicated.
Lawn tennis begins to show some signs of
vitality, the Association having started to introduce the
game into the schools. As a matter of sober fact, lawn
tennis is one of the most healthy games that boy or girl
can take part in. It is devoid of danger, it exercises
every muscle in the body, it trains the eye, and it calls
for the exercise of good judgment in the shortest pos-
sible time. Also it has the great advantage of being play-
able by boys or girls, or by both together. With swim-
ming and lawn tennis both in full blast in the schools,
the future Australian girl should grow up very healthy
and exceedingly beautiful.
* » * *
“Old ’XJn”: Re “Nulla’s” par. (B. 22/8/’O7),
anent rarity of the drop-kick goal these times. Close to
30 years ago W. Kerr (father of the present Sydney
jeweller of that name) and Harry Hook (then running the
Freemasons’ Hotel, York-street, and a solid supporter of
■ the powerful Waratah Rugby club of the time) com-
bined in offering a 25-guinea cup to the man who scored
the greatest number of drop-kick goals during the season.
Mick Howard (who was with the first N.S.W. team in
Maoriland) got the prize—he kicked one goal!
* * * *
Most of the sailing clubs will open their
season on Port Jackson during the current month, and
the air is full of the hum of preparation. Already the
white wingers are to be seen out, making preliminary
and practice runs, and the coming season promises to be
one of exciting contests.
THE SCRUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a frenzied roar comes crashing
On the tense, expectant hush,
As the backs go forward dashing
In the brilliant passing rush ;
But, between, no noise you’re hearing.
For the barrackers are dumb,
And you never find them cheering
For the fellows in the scrum.
While the back has the exciting
Work as on the ball he jumps,
It is we who do the fighting,
And it’s we who get the bumps,
With no resting and no shrinking—
■ When you view the fact, it’s rum
Tiiat the crowd is never thinking
Of the fellows in the scrum.
Oft we heard the rousing chorus—
But ’twas not for us, we knew—
Of the crowd in frenzy o’er us
As the back came bounding through.
Touching down across the dead-line,
His the trumpet and the drum ;
But they’ve got no gaudy headline
For the fellows in the scrum.
When all is done and said, it
Is the same in war and life ;
While the backs get all the credit,
It’s the forwards face the strife ;
It is we who scruff and smother,
It is we who last succumb,
While the praises greet another
Than the fellow in the scrum.
We’ve to sweat and fume and wrestle,
Till at last we heel it out,
When the chap who’s done much less ’ll
Make a dash as thousands shout.
For his plate the fatted chicken,
And for us the meagre crumb.
Though we graft and push and sicken
In the vortex of the scrum.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACOREGOR.
HEADACHES.
One of the chief causes of headaches is the
circulation of poisons in the blood. Poisons are
constantly being formed in the body in the di-
gestion and absorption of food, but they produce
no ill effects unless formed in excess. In indiges-
tion the formation of these poisons takes place at
an enormous rate ; they pass through the system
in the circulating blood, and produce high blood
pressure and a sense of general ill-health, irrita-
bility of temper, and headache, which only the
sufferer can realise the extent of. To overcome
headaches it is absolutely necessary to get at the
cause. Drugs which act on the heart and reduce
the pulsations only have a temporary effect. If
you suffer from indigestion, biliousness, constipa-
tion, any disorder of the liver and kidneys, or
from any weakness peculiar to your sex, there is
no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
Mrs. Johnson, of 397 Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont,
Sydney, states:—“l wish to add my testimony
to the valuable properties of your pills. I have
always found them a most efficacious remedy for
headache and dizziness, and a most valuable
medicine for married women. lam convinced it
your pills were more universally adopted as a
family medicine there would be far less suffering.
I always recommend them, and use no other
medicine in my family.”*


Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
By Arrangement with J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7,
EDWIN GEACH’S BEAUTIFUL PRODUCTION,
HUMAN HEARTS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES.
H EATR E
Direction ..
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7,
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
GRAND REVIVAL of
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
H E «t MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Two Nights of TOM MOORE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7,
ANDREW MACK in
THE WAY TO KHNMARE
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices as usual.
J® ALA CE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF
MISS LANCASHIRE, LTD.
NOW IN ITS FIFTH WEEK.
MISS FLORENCE BAINES
IN NEW MUSICAL ITEMS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Popular Prices
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Indescribable Success of PRICE and REVOST The
Greatest Comedy Acrobats of the Day. ’
Magnificent Success of the FOUR JUGGLING GERALDOS
. ERNRSTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
and DENT, Celebrated English Comedians.
Most Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AGNES HAZEL
HILL, Australian Baritone.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Vocalist and Comedian.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
O P q E , R u house, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MOLASSOS TROUPE, Continental Eccentric Dancers.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
LITTLE LILLIE GBIM.SHAW »
LES HALLINAN /
Juvenile Song- and Dance
Artists.
EDWARD CRANSTON and Company in Comedy Sketch
entitled “A MODEL WIFE.” ’
TECHOW’S PERFORMING CATS.
Plan at Allan’s. JJ2T PRICES-3s, 2s 6d. 2s. Is.
LI ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 5, FRIDAY. SEPT. 6,
Last Two Performances of THE SPRING CUICEEN.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 7,
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
First Appearance of MISS FANNY DANGO.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
■y °W N HAL L , MELBOURNE.
■ Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
INAUGURATION OP THE AUSTRALASIAN TOUR of
CLARA BUTT
.... and
KENNERLEY RUMFORD,
TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 10,
And on the 12th, 14th, 17th and 19th (Matinee).
Prices—2ls., 10s. 6d., and ss.
|L|EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
M Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THE GREAT SHOW WEEK ATTRACTION.
BLAND HOLT in the Popular Australian Drama,
HIDING TO WIN.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
Great Success of
JULIUS KNIGHT
SUPPORTED BY A NOTABLE 00.
... IN ...
ROBIN HOOD.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies, and The Grand.
I\|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ * Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
ENTHUSIASTIC CROWDS NIGHTLY GREET
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including- the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
In the play of all plays,
TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
ONE SHILLING EVERY EVENING
(Thursday, September 5, excepted).
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5,
ON THE ICE at 8 o’clok.
BAL MASQUE BAL MASQUE
In FANCY COSTUME and EVENING DRESS.
ADMISSION, 2s. RESERVED SEATS Is. EXTRA.
FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 6.
HOCKEY MATCH, SPORTS ON THE ICE.
ADMISSION, Is. RESERVED SEATS, Is. EXTRA.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
*“ Direction J. & N. TAIT.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 5, FRIDAY, SEPT. 6,
SATURDAY, SEPT. 7,
AFTERNOONS and EVENINGS.
THE ROYAL
BESSES 0’ TH’ BARN
BAND.
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
General Admission—ONE SHILLING.
Special Reserve—TWO SHILLINGS.
Tickets on Sale at Allan’s, Central Florists, and all
Robert Hurst’s Boot Warehouses.
F. S. Stetson, Manager.
j\[OW TOURING SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
THE MUSICAL
“ALL BLACK S
ORCHESTRA, SINGERS, and DANCERS, and their
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES (With Realistic Effects).
THESE PICTURES ARE STAMPED WITH
THE SEAL OF EXCELLENCE.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/a and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, VV. E. Gladstone
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says The prince of living
A s trologers. ”
Money Returned If HOROSCOPE Inoorreot.
K. HERSCHELL Co/ London),
" Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
...GENUINE...
EDISON Phonograph
AN
Ideal Entertainer,
It takes up little room—cannot
get out of tune, and affords a greater
variety of entertainment at less cost
than any other musical instrument.
It requires no skill to operate,
and is instantly ready to sing any
kind of vocal music or reproduce any
instrument or combination of instru-
ments.
Of course, the best results are ob-
tained with the genuine EDISON
GOLD - MOULDED RECORDS—re-
duced to
1/6 Each.
Ask us to send you the latest printed
matter.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA
— LIMITED,
Dept. B, 340 Kent' Street, Sydney.
b
Medicator. size
3i inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH Is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure I If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia. Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet tree, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete
treatment, post free anywhere. '
Address: Star Korelty Co., 3:9-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
KUGELMANN’S
Si
©
W r.
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid-"
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
% ‘ # IL~
Wnff
IK
\
Wi/iwrai/injWJm/uiiuMiifHiiiiiuiiiiijmiimruiniii/iHuniiiii/iiii/ijijiinuinniiinnniTmiiiiiiiiinmrmTnnnnn
A set of Four of these Beautiful Original
Post Cards by the Australian artist,
J SOMMERS, may be had for
a Two-penny stamp from the
Dunlop Rubber Co., Manufac
turers of Cycle, Motor and Vehicle Tyres,
Engineering, Mining and Marine Goods,'
Sporting Requisites, Garden Hose, Rubber
Heels, Waterproof Clothing, Hot Water
Bags, and every description of Rubber Goods.
1 hese Beautiful Coloured Cards are amongst
the finest seen in Australasia, and will form
a welcome addition to any collection.
Early application necessary to ensure
obtaining a set-
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St Melbourne 255 Clarence St.
Sydney. 117 Grenfell St, Adelaide. 268 270
Adelaide St . Brisbane. 81 King St Perth
Worcester St , Christchurch, N Z.
This is what has come of the N.S.W. sham
oloser settlement scheme. It is the experience of
a Clarence River man :
I have given 40 per cent, more for this farm than its
real value, but necessity knows no law. I had to obtain
a home, and if I did as many are doing—travelled about
the country to attend Government land lotteries—l
should in two years have spent between 1:400 and £'.500 in
expenses, be all the time without an income, and possibly
get nothing for my money. By making a loss in pur-
chase money, I know what my loss is, but with the
Government gamble I should not know.
That is the simple truth about the matter. The
Government lottery is, as a rule, for the sale of
unimproved land, unfenced, uncultivated, and
without a house on it. The man who sells an im-
proved farm very likely sells an area of exhausted
land that has been growing maize and potatoes
for 40 or 50 years, and has been finally laid down
in grass for cows ; still, there’s a good substantial
dwelling that was built when sugar was king
on the Clarence, and when farming profits were
high. And the transaction can be closed at once,
whereas a man may grow old chasing the
Government land lottery. The old Clarence
River people are selling out at boom prices, and
moving on to Queensland, where land is still
cheap, thanks to a Democratic Government.
Ihe trouble is all due to the fact that blocks con-
taining scores of thousands of acres of arable land
are held as freehold grazing estates, and other
similar blocks are held on long leases also for
grazing, or are let to cultivating tenants
iniquitous shares system. And the
N.S.W. Government, knowing all this, will not
impose the progressive land-tax, the only remedy.
•T. Dixon and Co. wish to emphasise to the
public that a preparation selling as O'G Chilli Punch, is
not their famous O.T. Punch.
Latest moan from Sydney Telegraph :
It has been a frequent demand since the first Federal
session that the Commonwealth Parliament should have
control of industrial legislation The Victorians
have wanted it so that, by establishing uniformity with
the industrial conditions of their own State, they mav
widen the area of their trade, and compel the manu-
facturers of other States to compete on the same con-
ditions which they have to observe.
In effect, the Victorian manufacturers want to pay
fair wages under decent conditions and to make
the other States (which compete with them) do
the same. It’s pretty cheeky even for the Tele-
graph to make a grievance out of that.
Messrs. Stott and Hoare, whose Business
College is at 28 Moore Street, Sydney, have issued a well-
printed and profusely illustrated brochure setting forth
the advantages in the way of commercial and technical
education, which can be acquired at the College.
Even the S. M. Herald, which ought to
be able to pay for brains, doesn’t seem to have a
man on its staff who takes the trouble to read the
Australian Constitution before he shouts in the
leader column. This is from the Herald’s leader
of 2G/8/’O7 :
It is one thing to propose old-age pensions, to talk of
State-owned steamships, of the nationalisation of this or
that form of industry, but it is quite another to find the
wherewithal to carry these to an issue. And as the
Braddon clause stands in the way the Braddon clause
must go. Automatically under the Constitution it expires
in 1910.
Automatically the Braddon clause doesn’t expire
in 1910, or in 2763, or at any other date. The
Parliament has power to annul it at the beginning
of 1911, but unless it is formally annulled it goes
on for ever. A small matter, but it shows the
exact value of the Herald as an authority on
Federal affairs.
Donald Campbell, M.P., delivered himself
of the following highly-commendable sentiment in
the S.A. Assembly last week: “Everything
possible should be done to do everything possible
to get whatever is possible for the good of the
workers.” Archibald. M.L. A., a few days previ-
ously remarked : “ The thing is unpreventable
and unavoidable, and therefore can only be
stopped with great difficulty.” Also Coneybeer
complained, that the Council had “ mucilated ”
the Franchise Bill, and was not “amendable to
reason of any kind.”
A cry from the press gallery :
Probably the depth of bathos and ignorance was
reached in Vic. Legislative Council last week, when that
ancient gibberer, Melville, opposed a resolution for com-
pulsory resumption, on the ground that “ in the fair
homes of Old England they didn’t do this.” The “ com-
pulsion ”in the case was merely formal; the trustees of
the estate were ready to sell, but were held back by the
dead hand of a will. Melville apparently didn’t know
that “ the fair homes of old England" had already de-
cided on a measure for compulsory resumption by a
Commission endowed with power by Parliament; that they
had consented to similar procedure in Ireland ; and that
but for the House of Lords there would have been a stiff
land-rating bill in Scotland. Writer is inclined to prefer
even the House of Lords to Vic. Legislative Council. In
Britain some of the peers who are ignorant of public
affairs stop away. In Victoria the most ignorant of the
Legislative Councillors attend oftenest, and gibber most
regularly. If Melville belonged to a hereditary House,
his relatives might make him shut his mouth for the sake
of the family reputation. As it is, there is no check
upon his uninformed garrulity.
Premier Kidston, of Queensland, didn’t
have quite enough pluck to rip off that stupid old
cloak, the Address-in-Reply, under which so much
costly time is wasted at the start of every Parlia-
mentary session ; but he trod heavily on some of
its frills. Until the nonsense is disposed of,
according to the old idea, no real business must be
tackled; and Philp was shocked when Kidston
announced that he was going right on with the
Bill to amend the Elections Act—that bit of
infamy under cover of which so much fraud was
embroidered around the last ballot.


FOR
THe Art of Giving is not only to select an article tl\at pleases,
Bnt something that always remains a source of satisfaction and delight
Buying by Mail.
Our Mail Order Department will serve
you promptly and satisfactorily. Orders
large or small, you will receive the best
merchandise and the best value.
Free Carriage.
Our system of free carriage on all goods
to any part of the Commonwealth means a
big saving to you. All goods carefully
packed to ensure safe delivery.
Illustrated Catalogue
is yours for the asking, write for a copy- We
send it post free to any address. It contains
over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,Silverplate,Leather,Optical Goods.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND,
Pure Silver Plated,
Hand Engraved,
Highly Burnished,
Post £2. Free.
Other styles,
85s, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3.
vcbvc
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver, Richly Engraved.
Post 2 /6. Free.
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL AND TONGS,
Pure Silver Plated,
Blue Glass Lining.
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
TANTALUS FRAME, English Oak Frame,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2. Pree.
Richly Carved Frame, £3/0/0.
Other Styles, 355, £2, £2 10s, £2 15s,
b
A. SAUNDERS.
TIE CLIP, SOLID SILVER,
2s 6d; Engraved 3s Gd.
Oct. Gold, 12s Gd,
Engraved 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR,
Pure Silver-plated
Frame and Spoon,
Rainbow Glass,
Post 5/3. Free.
Other Styles,
2s 3d, 3s 3d, 4s 3d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, 4-Brunch,
Pure Silver Plated, Ruby, Opal,
Clear or Green Tinted Glass,
Post 15/6. Free.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Engraved,
Post 2/6. Free-
other Styles, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE CUP,
Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
Engraved Name,
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles.
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
Clear Glass Dish,
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other Style*,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
8-DAY MARBLE -CLOCK, First-class Movement,
Strikes Hours and Halves, Cathedral Gong,
Visible Escapement, Enamel Dial.
Kept in Free Repair for 3 Years.
Post £4/10/-. Free.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £3 15s, £4,
£4 10s, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Embossed,
Post 3/0. Free.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, Ss (sd.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated,
Cut-glass bottles,
Post 17/6. Frco
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
English Oak,
Porcelain China Lining,
Post 7 /-. Free.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality.
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles,
Post 25/- Free.
Other Styles,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL,
Silver-plated
Floral Decorated China,
Post 12/6. Pree.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 9s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
3-Piece, Pure Silver-plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers,
Post £2/15/-. free.
Other Styles, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK,
Pure Silver-plated Cup,
Patent Stop,
Morocco Covered,
Post 17/6. Free.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Engraved,
Burnished or Satin Finish,
Post 20/-. Free.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING,
Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal,
Richly Embossed and Engraved,
Post 3/6. Free.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d. 6s
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL,
Pure Silver-plated,
Solid Silver Handle,
Post 4/6. Free
Other Styles,
3s 6d, 10s 6d.
ivStfß
HE
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver Plated, Nickel Silver,
Al Quality, Fine Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2 Free.
Other Styles, 30s, £2, £a 10s, £3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ORIBBAGE BOARD AND
CARD DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC BINOCULAR,
Complete with Sling and Case.
Large Field of View, Perfect Definition.
No. 6. £7 No. 8, £B/-/"
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, 40s, 50s
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 853, 815, 817
Cieorge- street,
Opp. New Bail way Station, Sydney-


gM
Australian
□
lANOS
= HIGH PROTECTION.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES.
WHAT CAN BE DONE IN AUSTRALIA.
“No more need to import Pianos than to import singers.”
—Herr Emil Greder, Court Singer to the German Emperor.
America makes all Her own Pianos and imports none.
Canada makes all Her own Pianos and imports none.
France makes all Her own Pianos and imports none.
Germany makes all Her own Pianos and imports none.
In all these countries pianos are sold at moderate prices. The average cost price in Germany of Pianos exnnrtpd t-n Allc , f r •
£2o ri t , Yet *“> *t £6 ° t 0 eaoh! The *•» majorii; of ihem Se3dTllrSia at to
£7O each, and these are invoiced at £l6 and less. We have the catalogues and are prepared to publish the quotations
Australia can make all her own pianos, and make them far better than the pianos bought cheaply abroad and sold dearly in Australia
where “a
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES OF BEALE PIANOS.
, , T he -Beale Australian Pianos costimuch more to make than the cheap German pianos can be imported for: but by making everv
detad of our pianos ourselves (instead of buying from special suppliers, as is the practice of foreign piano-makers), thus 7 avoiding many
piofits, and by selling direct from factory to user, saving you the exporters’ and dealers’ profits, as well as freight and duty, we enable you
to obtain the best pianos in the world at moderate prices. & y> me you
AS TO THE HIGH QUALITY of the BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS, we give some unbiassed testimony below.
j i . during the stay of Mr Musgrove’s Royal Grand Opera Company in Sydney, we received unsolicited visits at our factories at Annan
dale fiom several members of the company. Hereunder are their voluntary opinions of our Australian factory and of our Australian pianos
, 7 Herr EMIL GREDER, of the Royal Opera House of Dresden, Royal Opera House of Leipzig, Stage Director of the Metronnliinn 0™ ir at
York, Court Singer by appointment to the German Emperor, the King of Wurtemburg and the King of Savnnv m P a Gpera House, New
Gland Opera Company, wrote in our Visitors’ Book r—“ Tire ’tonr of inspection th'ougkf hishTgUy tolv wS
my satisfaction, inasmuch as the operations of the concern express in truth and fact what I have myself proved in my own art namelv that
need to import goods that have been palmed off upon her by untruthful advertisements. The reason is that she possesses^!] e raw materials ™d the Ifn ! i mS n ,°
them m such a distinguished degree^as to be able victoriously to surpass such imports. I have not visited, either in Germany or elsewhere n niL'f ? W ° rk
completely independent in all its requirements. The product itself is excellent, and it is obvious to me that it would be hard to surnass it hv nn P ac or > so
it suits the exigencies of the climate. VIVAT, CRESCAT, FLOREAT, AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY ! (May Australian industry livelTfl
f. , Rei " durch diese hochinteressante Pianofortefabrik war mir heute eine ebenso grosse Ueberraschung al= Befriedigung da dieser Befrieh ,° U . rls . •‘ .
der Tat und Wahrheit ausdrueckt, was ich selbst in meinem Fache als richtig befunden habe Australien f- ? etneb das H ni g e m
f aufgebauschte Waare zu importiren, da es die Rohstoffe und die zu liearbeiten
ueberbieten ! Erne Pianofortefabrik von solcher Selbstaendigkeit in alien ihren Bedurfnissen habe ich weder in Deutschland noch sonst wo bcs Jcht l h ! 1
de " Anford "“B <i " d<is Kl ™“ entspricht. SUI VIVAT. CRESCA’f,
Miss SARA ANDERSON, Soprano of Musgrove’s Royal Grand Opera Company, wrote on I cth Tuly “ I wish to exDress to von mv and ,u
7S! might always "* b ~ , “ *** “* "*& » -compLimfn. ajfSK
S*r iz s Ss i »
think it possible that here in Australia a comparatively new country, one would find in such a difficult branch of industry as that of piano manufacture a concern "of
h m r n ZnlP f to my JU S ent ’ yOUI instruments very easily hold their own in competition with EuropLn pianos, if indeed they do not fm surnass
em, for the splendid mechanism, and the warm, soft tone are simply astonishing. In the hope that your factory mav further flourish nnH *<- u +
joy of your fellow-citizens and to the glory of Australia, I subscribe myself, KARL STUDEMUND ’’ 7 7 fl ° Unsh dnd devd ° P ltsdf to the
on bmb 2?" !.!? ITZ Ru , f ,p -’ Badt ° ne ’. -said he had intimate experimental knowledge of piano-manufacture and of their construction, for his immediate relatives
loth sides are owners of piano-factories in Germany. He had never seen a concern so completely organised, and could not have believer! thnt nn v mb™ f
he S te n WherG p llgl ( 7 be> could produce all the detailed parts of the instruments in so many trades as he had actually inspected them at Annandale ? Therefore’
Hem’ Att ° an unders ( and h ° wthe instruments are so absolutely perfect in their several parts, seeing that everything is under control and specially designed to suit ’
He tuned the piano to the pitch that he preferred, being a little lower than that at which we issue them. The tone of the octaves of the human voice he considered
sate sympathetic th “ he had ever before found ’ whicl,> - an expert> he ptoved to be due ,o the **«
imnnrfrrl f ° U - ° f kind 6n ° U^ h to vidt US se P aratel y and en tirely of their own volition, each asking permission to view the works Each had an
emiSS foreign makes.’ rCqUeSted US t 0 SU instrumClltS u P on hire - The y P ut a « d e the imported pianos, which, in three of the instances, were of (he most
friends «tE N 1^ E RSON was particularly; gracious kissed farewell with her hand to the piano when it was removed, and, turning to a number of her
mends, said . 1 hat is a sweet piano, and I only wish I could always have such to sing to ! ” 8 OI ner
, Herr STUDEMUND, when at the Factory, played melodies from several operas to;test the tone qualities, and was so enthusiastic in his satisfyrH™
that he remained at the instrument until, in spite of admonitions, he was late for rehearsal. 4 m ms satlsta ction
“VIVAT, CRESCAT, FLOREAT, AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY!”
NO RISE IN PRICES. OR EASY TERMS ANYWHERE.
DROP US A LINE ! DIRECT FROM FACTORY TO USER! NO MIDDLEMEN !
NINE THOUSAND BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS already sold, and giving Universal Satisfaction.
BEALE and CO., Limited,
AUSTRALIAN PIANO MANUFACTURERS,
HEAD OFFICE AND
FACTORIES
TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, N S W.
PRINCIPAL OFFICES at 474 George Street, Sydney; Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S W ■
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic. ■ 127 Bundle Street
Adelaide, S.A. ; 615 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, Brisbane (our only
\ address in Queensland).
BRANCHES AND TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


Australasian
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
SHE steamer passing the
ocean cave in the picture
is the Yongala, sister ship
to the Grantala, the
floating palaces of the
________ Adelaide S.S. Co., both
fast, up-to-date steamers of 4000 tons register.
Others steamers of the same company are the
Marloo, 3000 tons, Wollowra, a sister ship to
the Marloo, and the Innamincka, also 3000 tons
register. In addition to these fine boats there
are a number of others, which run on intermediate
lines.
The history of the rise and development of the
Five Companies is intensely interesting. The
Adelaide Co. dates back to 1875, when it was formed
in the South Australian capital for the patriotic
purpose of supplying suitable steamers for the
requirements of the trade between Adelaide and
Melbourne. Modestly enough, it was proposed to
secure only two then up-to-date steamers with a
guaranteed speed of 14 knots per hour, but the men
at the head of affairs had keen foresight, as the fol-
lowing extract from the prospectus will prove : “ As
the Australian colonies are developing rapidly, and
South Australia seems likely, on account of her re-
sources and central position, to occupy a leading
place amongst them, it is reasonable to suppose that
this Company (although beginning in a comparatively
small way) may eventually become one of the principal
steamship companies of Australia.’ The steamers
were built in Glasgow, and when they arrived were
named the South Australian and the Victorian. 4 hey
were only little 400-ton yachts, but they marked the
beginning of a new era. The first trip of the South
Australian was made between Port Adelaide and
Melbourne in December, 1876, and the names of the
pioneer captains of what has now grown into a
great fleet were Lockver and McCoy. Next
year the co. added another steamer, the
Mm Aldinga, under the command of Captain
VX McLean, irreverently known along the
coast as “Hell Fire Jack.”
J % The years 1879 and 1880 brought
strenuous opposi-
tion, as, in addi-
tion to the
comp etition
of the P.
and 0.
liners, the
Claude
Hamilton
entered
into a
species of
wild-cat
opposition, and in the rate war which followed freights
and passageswerecuttothebone. The Melbourne Cen-
tennial Exhibition brought relief, and the end of the
struggle was the purchase of the Claude Hamilton by
the co. at a cost of £7500, and its incorporation in the
fleet under the name of the Albany. After that, the
story of the co. is a record of success and expansion,
of capital being increased, of rival lines being bought
up, and of extension of operations till the yellow-
black topped funnel of the Adelaide Line became a
familiar sight over the whole of the long stretch of
ocean that lies between Cairns, in tropical Queens-
land, to the far-away Westralian ports.
In the days when the Victorian and N.S.W.
goldfields were booming, the abandonment of ships
in Port Phillip was a common event. Occasionally a
captain and crew would be seized in mid-ocean with
a frenzied desire to get rich by the simple process of
digging gold out of the Australian earth. Then a
boat would be slung overboard, a spar or two dropped
into a serviceable current, the name of the ship
changed, the helm put up, and a course laid for
Port Phillip. Many people believed that the
secret of the famous Tichbourne case lay in
the transformation of the Bella into the
Osprey. In the early ’Bo’s there was built
on the Clvde a very handsome steamer known as
the Ferret, for the ferry service of the Firth of
Forth, before the big bridge was built. Finished
before the contract time, the owners chartered it to
somebody who wanted it for a pleasure trip to the
Mediterranean. A boat and some lifebuoys bearing
the name were subsequently picked up in the Straits
of Gibraltar, and the Ferret posted as foundered. As
a matter of fact, the skipper and crew had bolted
with the ship, changed the name to the India, and
sailed away to Brazil, where it loaded up with coffee,
which was sold later on at Capetown, In the mean-
time the owners had become suspicious, and advertised
the Ferret as lost, stolen, or strayed. The India next
appeared in King George’s Sound, where a supply of
coal was obtained, and finally appeared in Melbourne.
A Victorian mounted trooper, having read a descrip-
tion of the lost Ferret, strolled down to the waterside,
and caught sight of the newly-arrived India. Ships
were his hobby ; he hurried off and read the descrip-
tion of the lines of the lost Ferret, and became
convinced that it was identical with that same
India. He went on board, and, poking round,
discovered that some name had been filed off the
ship’s bell. The captain and supercargo were arrested,
found guilty of piracy, and sentenced to long terms of
imprisonment. The Vice-Admiralty Court sold the
ship to Mr. W. Winhatn, from whom it was in turn
purchased by the Adelaide Cos., and became a popular
boat.
A curious feature about the services of the Five
Companies is that although the standard of comfort,
the speed of travelling, and the facilities for changing
over have increased, and are still increasing, by some
hundreds per centum, the cost has not risen in pro-
portion. So to-day the holiday-maker can get on
board of any one of these safe, splendidly-appointed
floating palaces, and be carried round the Australian
coast in first-class comfort, at a cost equal to of
stayi ng in some first-class hotel' in a country resort. 1 h e
only difference is that there is no comparison between
the comfort, the table, and all round conveniences
of the steamer and those of the hotel. The man
who goes pleasuring afloat gets five times the value
for his money. For instance, a man can step on
board one of tbe steamers of the Inter-State Steam-
ship lines, the steamer (shown above) at Melbourne
and be conveyed away to Sydney, where he can go
ashore and see the oldest city of the continent, and
then on to Brisbane, where he will have ample time
to see round the place, and away to Cairns, where
the gorgeous tropical vegetation is, and where he will
find himself in what seems like an Asiatic town, with
,an altogether different atmosphere and population,
where he can spend a fortnight or so looking round,
and exploring, and his passage, cost of living while
afloat, and en route from Melbourne to Cairns, and
back to Melbourne only amount to £16 10s. It seems
incomprehensible.
• * * »
It speaks volumes for the management of these
companies that they have built up their services so
well, for there is no coastal marine in the world that
has labored under the same difficulties as ours, lo
begin with, they have had to draw their coal supplies
from practically one port, that of Newcastle, and es-
tablish their de'p6ts along that tremendous coast-brie
of 7,750 miles. Our population is deplorably small for
the area over which it is spread, and in every other
country in the world that has a coastal marine
of its own the local shipping is protected from
the cut-throat competition of over-sea shipping.
The Five Companies pay nearly the hinhrst
wages in the world, they have the world’s record for
• safe travelling and lack of accidents and
wrecks, their loss of life, as far as
passengers are concerned, has been
absolutely nil, and they are exposed
to the competition of any and
every tramp-steamer and
ocean-liner that has thought
fit to chip into the trade
for filling up purposes.
And withal, there is
abundant testi-
mony from travel-
lers of every sort
who have been
round the world
in every direction
that they have
received better
value for their
money on the
ships of the Five
Companies than
anywhere else-


WE BEG TO NOTIFY THAT WE HAVE OPENED A MAGNIFICENT ASSORTMENT OF ALL
THE LATEST NOVELTIES FOR THE ...
and Visitors to Melbourne during the Agricultural Show should
avail themselves of the opportunity of Inspecting our Stocks.
§
tiiliil
m&’M
teiliSl
ms*
mm
>
-
. ■;
m
:
::
im
mm
m
ft
m. |
,
SK
|ggp ; ;
,i# ■ ' - " ■ . ■■" ' ~ v; ■
- ■
- \ .
ISS W
\' ' '
3 . -:
-•
;
she 6 I
/■L*.: , .w.
'
1
HHGfn
1
A#.* • ' .': •
/
mm
Hi
fra
„;<;' <.r.%
*
• :
■- :
.... ■-j
' PIU
.
The Fashionable Bretelle of
Lace and Ribbon to wear
over Blouses.
¥
We have a variety of designs in this
very useful addition to a lady’s
wardrobe, in Silk and Lace, Velvet
and Lace, and also in Washing
Materials
Smart Hat, in Wedgwood Blue or
any color, trimmed with Mar-
guerites, Grass and Ribbon, from
30/-
WE ARE OPENING
EVERY DAY ...
©VELTi:
In TRIMMED and
UNTRIMMED MILLINERY
Elegant Race or Evening Coat, in good Chiffon Taffeta handsomely
trimmed with Applique, Velvet, and Chiffon, price £,O 15s.
We have a large assortment of Race and
Evening Coats, in Black and Colored
Silks and other Materials, in all the latest
designs at various prices.
Ladies desiring to order COSTUHES FOR THE “CUP” CARNIVAL are requested to PLACE THEIR ORDERS AT ONCE,
as | a st season, owing to our Dressmaking Work Rooms being so full, we had to refuse many orders.
180-188 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


Every Part of Body Affected—Was
in Hospital Five Times —Army
Doctors and Nine Different Reme-
dies Did No Good—Speedy Im-
provement and Finally a
PERFECT CURE BY USE
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“I have suffered with chronic eczema
for fourteen years. Every part of my
body was affected. My father has been
in the army and I have been attended
by army doctors who all failed, I have
been in hospital five times, but none
of them did me any good. I have tried
nine different kinds of remedies and
none took any effect on me. At last I
read of the wonderful cures which the
Cuticura Remedies have made and in
May I got a box of Cuticura Ointment
and used it. When I had used half of
the first box I saw that there was a great
improvement in me. After that I get
the Cuticura Soap and Resolvent Pills
which did all the better. Since then I
have used five boxes of Cuticura Oint-
ment and am now completely cured.
Had we known of Cuticura years ago
we would have given pounds for it. I
am writing this letter so that other
sufferers may see it and get cured by the
Cuticura Remedies. O. F. Hedge,
51, Vaughan Road, Coldharbor Lane,
Camblewell Green, Dec. 5 and 11,1906.”
CUTICURA TREATMENT
For Sore Feet and Hands with
Shapeless Nails.
Soak the feet or hands on retiring
in a strong, hot, creamy lather of Cuticura
vcb
Soap. Dry and anoint
freely with Cuticura
Ointment, the great
Skin Cure. Wearduring
the night light band-
ages of old, soft cotton
or linen. For red,
rough hands, dry, itch-
ing palms, with shape-
less nails, this treat-
ment points to a
speedy cure of the most distressing
cases. Cuticura Remedies are guaran-
teed absolutely pure.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humourof Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. 'lowns
&Co„ Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul.
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
This Lady’s Enamel
Kid Dress
Shoe
for
vc
No article of attire lends greater finish to a woman’s
dress than dainty Shoe Leather. The shoe shown
here is one of the smartest American Models, made'
by Hilliard and Tabor, the leading exclusive Shoe:
Manufacturers in America. It has an extra high
Wurtemburg Heel, as Fashion decrees correct. Price,
23/S. Posted in Victoria, 9d. extra; to other States,
Is. dd. extra.
This Man’s Stylish
for
At this price it can be had in either Patent
Lei flier, in Tan or Black, Glace Kid, or in Willow
C.df. State which you prefer in ordering.
Price, 14/6. Posted in Victoria, 1- extra ; to other
States, 1/S.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
000*011
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is
t(pSv.
*
I
Mr
7 &
l V
*» **
Wl
% /.• s J
M/
st:
«E
m
m m
ttldd
i %% W
ks
fid
y* j
M?:
mm®
California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of figs,
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
§J§f^s
N l/i
*■
«
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2/6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
Allcocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
For pains in th« region of the
Kidney*, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcock's Plaster.
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Golds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For Rheumatism or Pains m
Shoulders, hlbowsor elsewhere,
or for Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
ami for Aching Feet, Piaster
should be cut size and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc.
Established 1762,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. - *! TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2135.
Personal Attendance by. Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
On the Trail of the Trust
b
Price 1 3
POST FRc-'.
The Inky Way.
“ Quan ”: Re Brisbane Courier’s habit of printing
daily reports of the state of the oat and pumpkin market
in German (B. 4/7/’O7). I believe most of the language is
German, but sorghum and cow peas—two items which l
noticed lately in company with luzerne-hiidfel and mais—
strike me as being the sort of German that exists only in
the Courier office ; while chick-weizen seems the kind of
Deutscher likely to be used by a man who would refer to
Bullocky Bill as Bullocky Wilhelm.
* * * *
London Daily Mail, that very consistent vilifier of
Australia and all things Australian (in its wild, men-
dacious frenzy against this country the Harmsworth rag
resembles nothing so much as one of the local foreign
import sheets), is having a bad run of luck these times.
Whilst the Conference was on, the paper published a cock-
and-lmll yarn re Premier Bond of Newfoundland and his
alleged ill-treatment by the Bannerman crowd. Bond,
with all the heated incoherence of an elderly stout man
accused falsely of robbing the collection plate and
squandering the proceeds on strange women, butted
in and denied the story utterly. Then Winston
Churchill, in answer to a question in the House of
Commons on the subject, stated blandly that it was all
quite negligible, as “ no one took the Daily' Mail seriously.”
Whereupon the Bond episode dropped. Next the
Soap Trust magnates, led by Lever Bros., uprose sud-
denly and proceeded forcibly to wrest a solid £50,000
(with Costs added), from the Harmsworth dividends, on
account of untrue and libellous statements in the Mail
regarding various firms that purvey the article with
which the Britisher leaves himself unwashed. And then,
just as the paper had so far reformed as to have eschewed
both political and business squibs for some days, one
Charles Barrett, of Colchester, stepped forward and got
further damages (with Costs again) because the amazing
publication had said his house was haunted. The Daily
Mail has Always been noted for the bright arresting
brand of lie it Ananiases, but of late the mendacity
grows injudicious and expensive.
* * * *
“Alba” (from London): The “expert” photographer
and the fake journalist are doing their best for Aus-
tralia. While yarning with a magazine editor, recently,
he showed me an article on the Northern Territory,
describing the author’s terrible journey from Port Roper
to Adelaide. Picture No. 1 revealed the author seated
behind a team of alleged dingoes that resembled a pack
of Klondyke “huskies.” The cart was a wicker-basket
affair on four wheels, loaded with biscuit boxes and soft
drinks. The name of the biscuit firm was as con-
spicuous as the author’s stockwhip. There were
five other pictures showing groups of genuine abori-
gines partaking of the author’s soft drinks and
the aforementioned biscuits. The story of the dingo-
drive made hair-raising copy. The author, after a
live-months’ trip, arrived at Lake Torrens with his last
biscuit and his final and ultimate bottle of lemonade. At
Dead Man’s Gully he was attacked by a force belonging
to the Kincherinka tribe. He used his revolvers freely,
with good effect, and drove off the Kincherinkas, but not
before Charlie and Gip, his two best dingoes, were
speared. Portraits of the speared dogs appeared on page
194. These intrepid fake-journalists are living on fat and
wine in London, yet their fakes are too crude for words.
• * * *
“F.M.”: In Calcutta, during my early' days of jour-
nalism, I carried the early-rising principle to such
lengths of enthusiasm that on occasion I did not go to
bed at all. We used to get the Englishman off the ice
about three in the morning, sd far as I remember. One
dreadfully hot morning, Robb, my fellow-sub, readily
agreed to go along to my diggings for refresh-
ments. (Even in Calcutta the hotels are often
closed by three in the morning.) We could
not get a gari, so we walked. Up at my’ place at
Chowringhi, we found that the whisky had run out, a
catastrophe rare indeed on the alleged Coral Strand
(which same is mud); but Robb and I were valorous men,
not daunted by slight accidents. We found an unopened
quart bottle of green Chartreuse, which we straightway
broke and drank thankfully. (Did I mention that the
morning was dreadfully hot!) Then, as we were already
dressed for dinner, we decided that it would be mere
waste of energy to change. So w r e sallied forth into the
thick of the outside to make a round of calls. We tried
to assist science b.v tying a Bengali policeman to
the leg of an adjutant bird in Park-street; but the
bobby was an ignorant helot, and unwilling ; so that the
standing of the adjutant bird as a weight-lifter remains
undecided even unto this day. (This fowl lives to a great
age, and only the hen lays eggs, invariably retiring to
some remote place for that purpose. The male bid
perches on gate-posts, and maintains an attitude of
philosophic calm. The young are suckled by the
female, but the he-bird provides the worm at his
own risk. In its youth, say up to its hundred and
fourteenth year, the bull adjutant is polygamous,
but restrained ; after that, it lives on its record
in bachelor content, perching assiduously on the gate-
posts of its friends.) But I was telling you about the
morning-calls I paid with Robb. We called first on Harry
Hobbs (in Calcutta the aspirates of his name are always
affectionately slurred), and he gave us whisky to prevent
malaria. I fancy that we left cards at Government
House, but I’m not sure. Anyhow, after a round
of other visits, we arrived aboard the Tanna-
dice for breakfast. By that time the sun had
been long up, and we had been a little disconcerted by
the heat at the Zoo. (We climbed into the Zoo to decide
a bet irrelevant to the digestion of the otter.) My old
friend, Captain Habekost, was anxious about us, and we
assured him that the latest and most infallible cure for
sun-touch was a mixture of one bottle of eau-de-cologne
with one bottle of brandy, iced. He produced these
ingredients, marvelling. Then there was a hiatus of two
days. It’s really a very trying climate.
THE POET’S ADVICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
No longer dream,
But let her go,
With eyes a-gleam,
And face a-glow,
Ye poets true,
And rhymers new,
Who would be printed oft and paid for too.
No longer roll
The frenzied eye,
Because your soul
Is perched on high,
The while your show
Comes late and slow—
And pay for verse is very, very low.
But hear a bard,
Grown early old,
And stern and hard,
And keen and cold,
Who knows the game
And plays that same,
And gathers profit on the road to fame.
Perpend—and write,
In lines so short,
A thought so slight,
A kind of snort;
Chop lines in four,
Or eight or more,
And spread them over folios galore.
But one thing yet
Makes all complete—
Never forget,
Else fear defeat . . .
The printer grim
Is very slim,
Pressdom’s iniquity’s expressed in him.
Break up your gems
As you incline—
So many “ eras ”
In every line ;
But so contrive.
As you’re alive,
That here and there are lines as long as five.
Else they’ll appear
Set side by side,
The double tier
A column wide.
Which makes your fee
But half, you see,
And fathoms but mere yards of melody,
N.S.W.
WAIF.


Arnoti’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.’’
cv
Truths
FOR
THE
Sick.
For those DEATHLY BILIOUS
SPELLS depend on Sulphur Bit-
ters ; it never fails to cure.
DO YOU SUFFER with that
tired and all-gone feeling? If so use
Sulphur Bitters; it will cure you.
| Don’t be without a bot-
| tie. /You will not regret it
TRY
IT.
The
Secret
of a fair face is a beauti-
ful skin. Sulphur Bitters
makes both.
If you do not wish to
suffer from RHEUMATISM, use a
bottle of Sulphur Bitters; it never
fails to cure. ' "
Are you CONSTIPATED? If so,
Sulphur Bitters is just what you need
Poor, weak, and weary mothers
Raise Puny, pindling children.
Sulphur Bitters, will make them
strong, hearty, and healthy.
Cleanse the vitiated blood when
you see its impurities bursting
through the skin in
Bely on Sulphur
Bitters and health
will follow.
PIMPLES,
Blotches
AND SORES.
0
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
bvc
A bundant hair
grows out of
loose,
pliable,
fleshy
scalps.
Baldheads
b
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
nourishes starved scalps. It re-
builds them the same as good
food rebuilds the body.
Nourish the source from which
your hair grows. Build up
your scalp with Tri-coph-erous.
Be sure you get Barry’s.
Renter’s Soap Cures Blackheads
THE BALLET GIRL
cvbcvbvc
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.O. m SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Can Be Cured!
THE CAUSE OF MORE WRECKS THAN ANY OTHER DISEASE.
IT CAN BE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Thousands of men have Varicocele and are ignorant of the harm which mav result. Thev only know that something is
draining the vim and ambition from their bodies and brains, and know of no reason to account for it. This terrible
affliction is the most treacherous, silent and certain in its work of all known ailments. It comes on without apparent cause,
and never ceases in its destructive influence until it robs a man of all his vitality and leaves him a physical and mental wreck.
J \gsgi
n
a
7a
Sf4§
3SS
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
for the cure of Varicocele and its concurrent or attending weaknesses. Applied exter-
nally or internally drugs usually prove either ineffectual or injurious. There are many
ways of treating it, but none is so sure of success as properly-applied Electricity. We
have devoted twenty years to the study of Electricity for the cure of this and kindred
ailments, and have cured 5000 cases of Varicocele. We have cured cases of thirty years
standing, where the patients had exhausted all other known treatments without relief
and who came to ns in a state of complete debility. DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT and electric suspensory—our method—has cured after the
knife, injection, ligation and every other known means had failed. We have cured
physicians, lawyers, ministers, merchants and laborers. We use a method of our
own ; one which is the result of vast experience during the past twenty years. We have
an electric body battery which can be worn comfortably while the patient sleeps at
night, and which gives a powerful yet soothing current that is always under control.
It pours its vitalizing energy into the body for six to eight hours every night in a
manner which dissolves the congestion, assists the circulation, gives contraction to
relaxed cords and restores strength. If you are tired of useless drugging and have spent
your time and money without benefits, write to-day. We have made over 50,000
people strong and vigorous, and they never tire of praising our wonderful remedv.
it is a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality, Stomach,
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago, and when used with our
newl v-patented electro-plastic truss, is a certain cure for Rupture. . . . It is easy to use ; no sting
burn or shock £ put it on when you go to bed, and you get up in the morning feeling like a two-year-old
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have special attachments for men.
They are within the reach of all; priee and up. Beware of eheap imitations.
bvc
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write us, and our
specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All
communications ars treated with strict confidence. For private
address, address: M. E. B. Co.
THE McLAUGHLM CO.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH H CORCORAN
The McLUUCHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Gastlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
9
b
vcb
vcb
n
M
It aets like a charm in
DIARRH(EA.
«og: —ST
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Seiatica, Lumbago. &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy. °
Sold by Chemists all over the World , in bottles, Is. \\d. ; 20z., 2s. 9 d. ; 40z., 4s. M. each.
CAUTION.
Elephant,” on
Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark,
the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“The
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-;
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and so encourage
business in your own district? If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
'' W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.


Tyre/-
THE
E
the
X
AT the Fitzroy Bicycle
Club’s Annual 25-mile
Road Race held at Keilor
on Aug. 17, D. Cotter, the
winner, rode a machine
fitted with ‘ FLITE ’ Tyres.
Mr. A. Whitbourne, 336
Flinders-st., Melbourne,
writes :—“ . . . The
‘DADDY’ Tyre is giving
me every satisfaction . . .
good as new ... so far
have done 2,500 miles on
it . . . equal to any I have
ever used
Ask your Dealer for
“FLITE ” or “ DADDY.”
Barnet Gi^ss^c?
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 144 Clarence I
Street, Sydney, and 10 McHenry Street, I
Adelaide.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, and Brisbane.
HYPNOTISM
m
can learn to exert a magic
influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age," M pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London. W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality*
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHiS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Nenry Skinner,
Olareiidon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101 iS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Bankets and
Private Bali 3
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TjiINEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEEVS-
" LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
Dear Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF— 10s. A DAY. Telephone 174.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
I Series* IV., V.,, VI. Packet of Twelve,
If,; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to address.
Mother Seigels
INDIGESTION is the root cause of
nearly all hu,man ailments. It
robs you of the power to digest
your food, saps the very source of life
itself. Slowly your strength ebbs away,
you are tortured with pain, and life
becomes a misery.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is a purely
vegetable compound having a specific
action on the stomach, liver and kid-
neys. It promotes healthy action of
the stomach and intestines, expels im-
purities from the system, enriches the
blood, and thus imparts health and
tone to every part of the body.
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
Read This Testimony
Mrs. CAROLINE M. WHITE,
of MACQUARIE ST.,GLEBE,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., in a
letter dated Jan. 9, 1907, says:
“ I strongly recommend
Mother Seigel’s Syrup to
all suffering from indi-
gestion and biliousness,
as I ha veproved it to be
an unrivalled remedy for
those dreadful maladies.”
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, CONSTIPATION, HEADACHE, PALPITATION and DIZZINESS
d
a
CD
FOR YOUR
The chance of
making 1 extra profit
is a great tempta-
tion to the trades-
man. He makes
more profit on an
article called “just
as good” than he
does on the real
thing generally
because the ma-
terials or ingre-
dients are inferior,
or the essential part
of them lacking al-
together.
Don’t lead the
tradesman into
temptation by
accepting the imi-
PROTECTION.
tation brand of
“ 0.T.”
When ordering
“0.T.,” look for
“0.T.” and the
Red Chilli trade
mark on the bottle.
It is there for
your protection
from unreliable
and worthless
substitutes. You
know what yon
want. Do not let
the dealer choose
for you.
And remember
there is no other
beverage “just as
good’ as “0.T.”
The Celebrated DOLLOND
MADE BY H.M. THE KING’B
OPTICIANS.
vc
Prismatic Binoculars.
A Fine Example of the
British Optical Industry.
YOU cannot buy anything better than
the DOLLOND BINOCULARS, no
matter what price you pay.
Continental Glasses are not to be com-
pared with them in any respect. .
There is nothing to get out of order—they
are easy to clean, and possess all the
latest improvements.
Price - £7 and £B.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FREE.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., 5^225
Aarents for Dollonds, Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘Philo : Recently encountered a big, sad-
eyed individual, with an unhealthy-looking- scar across
his nose, a ponderous arm resting in a faded sling, and
an appealing look in his face. He breathed an in-
coherent story of misery. What really happened to him
isn’t clear, but I gathered that a ton of coal had fallen
on him, and crushed him, or he had fallen on
the ton of coal and crushed it, or something.
Anyhow he took his arm out of the sling and exhibited
some faded bandages ; then opened a shirt which had
seen better days, and revealed the fact that he was
wrapped in bandages which couldn’t have seen much
worse days. After that he assumed a very dying appear-
ance, and spoke some more incoherent language, from
which I sorted out the fact that a doctor had ordered
him to go to the hospital, or the Board of Health, or
the tip, or somewhere, but some special circum-
stances prevented him doing so until the follow-
ing day, and he wished to get sufficient money
to feed and bed and keep him alive until the morn-
ing. Now, one would expect that so affecting a tale
would be worth a couple of bob at least, but it so hap-
pened that I had encountered this same individual with
the same story and (apparently) the same bandages some
two and a-half years ago, when his story had gone right
to my pocket and brought out a useful half-dollar. I told
him so, and he looked sadder than ever, and said it was
a hard world. Then I told him that if he couldn’t change
his yarn occasionally, he might at least get in a new and
less familiar-looking lot of wrappings.
• * * *
In some recent bankruptcy proceedings a
sweated N.S.W. council clerk stated that, in order to
eke out the municipal pittance, he invested £5 in a green-
grocery business, and lost the money. The greengrocery
business of a country town is a marvellous thing. If it
is a small town, probably half the shops proclaim them-
selves as owned by a “ greengrocer and fruiterer,” and in
most of them the main stock is some soft drinks, many
empty bottles, a faded curtain, and a few common sorts
of lollies. Heaven only knows what may be the idea of
the people who own these shops, but they probably im-
agine in a vague fashion that to open a shop, even if it is
an empty shop, is a step in the direction of doing busi-
ness. Anyhow, the shop is opened, and the faded cre-
tonne is hanged by the neck in the window till it is quite
dead, and the sign “Mrs. Smith and Co.” is executed
outside, and a few vegetables and things are shot into
the premises, and presently the proprietor’s hopes are
buried.
* * * *
The Fruit Retailers’ Association in Melbourne
is com i laining that the growers pack their cases with
intent to deceive, concealing the small or diseased fruit
with a top layer of good stuff. Or, rather, it is stated
that certain middlemen make a living by getting bad
fruit, and faking up attractive cases for the market.
There is no pathos to speak of in the wail of the retailer
who does as he is done by. The housewife who goes
shopping complains that the apples on top of the heap in
the window are very different from those given to her
inside the shop. The fruit trade is a “ topping ” business
for the vendor in all its stages. The consumer only is left
lamenting, after the grower, the mixer, and the retailer
have handled the goods. After all the proof of the dis-
eased apple is in the eating.
* * • •
W.A. Government’s attempt to boost along
the local sponge industry looks hopeful. Some Cottesloe
sponges, after a four months’ test in the lithographic
branch of the Government Printing Department, proved
equal to the best Turkish product for that particular
work. A further test is to be made by the Victorian
Government Printer, and a trial lot has been sent to
London. As something like 1000 miles of the Westralian
coast-line is said to be extensively sponge-producing, the
subject is well worth diving into.
* * * *
A fortune awaits the depredator who will
invent a new and notably sensational title for the soft-
goods “ Stock Sale.” “ Sydneyites are very keen buyers,”
said a seller-off to me, the other day. Then he tipped
with his finger a roll of fire-scorched sheeting marked,
“Stock of the great Liverpool Emporium burnt down
four months ago.” “ D’ye see that ?’’ he said, bitterly.
“ Well, it didn’t draw worth tuppence. The scheme was
too thin." “But that sheeting has been in the fire,” I
said. “ Did it myself,” he answered moodily. “ Only
about a pound’s worth gone. Once it was a good advt.;
now it’s worn through. Time was when soaking a half-
dozen blankets overnight and announcing a great salvage
sale from the wreck of the Orneroo next morning would
crowd the place for a week. But that day’s gone. What
we want is something fresh to rouse the jaded bargain-
hunter.” Women were struggling to get at some ribbons
at another counter, and on the fact being pointed out to
the worthy trader, he explained matters. “That’s not
what I mean,” he said. “ Those are real bargains. We’re
simply getting rid of them. We bought them in a bank-
rupt sale at half of cost price, and are giving them away.
It’s the big lines I want a sensation for." A lady
approached. “ Yes, ma’am,"he smiled, “premises com-
ing down next month. Must dispose of everything—
absolutely must.” But he spoke unconvincingly, and
not as one expecting for a moment that he would be
believed
“DIGGING HOLES.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Have you met the floater
Of a mining syndicate ?
That enthusiastic doter
On the golden pennyweight;
With his smelted indications,
And his plan of excavations,
And persistent declarations
That you ought to speculate.
All the money and debentures
That you haven’t got to spare,
He extracts from you for ventures
Where you pay so much a share
Just to perforate the Planet,
And to shiver schist and granite
Into particles, and pan it
Into heaps and —leave it there.
Though there’s tons of trap-rock sticking
Up in crops above the ground,
He prefers the joy of picking
It from strata firmly bound ;
Whilst the anxious-faced procession
That’s financing the ingression
Gets imbued with the impression
That some gold is to be found.
Though there’s millions of investors
To demolish, he pretends
To be generous, and pesters
His acquaintances and friends,
And he’s clever at contriving
How to nab them when they’re thriving
After diligently striving
For the money that he spends.
He has always got a schedule
Of shareholders who have paid,
And his own name at the head you’ll
Notice vividly displayed,
Buying up more shares than any,
• Though he only paid a penny
In the pound, just lately, when he
Went insolvent in the trade.
That the calls will not be very
Detrimental, he declares,
And will come back tenfold (query')
When you want to sell your shares ;
So you buy up shares and hold them,
Till the market has extolled them ;
Then find out you should have sold them—
When it’s too late. (Awful swears.)
If you will have gold, acquire it
Lumping bags of coal or grain ;
Or embezzle it, or hire it;
But to dig for it is vain ;
For by mining you are letting
All the gold that you’ve been getting
Through your life with downright sweating
Get into the earth again.
VIC.
ALFRED E. BERDGES.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION IN FORMA
PAUPERIS. No. 116 of 1907.
TO JEAN MILLARD wife of Edward Charles Millard
formerly of Brisbane in the State of Queensland and now
believed to be either in the State of New South Wales or
in the Colony of New Zealand AND TO
ALEXANDER HANLON formerly of Brisbane in the
State of Queensland carter and now believed to be either
in the State of New South Wales or in the Colony of New
Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that on the tenth day of August, 1907,
a petition was filed and a writ of summons was issued in
the action of Edward Charles Millard versus Jean
Millard and Alexander Hanlon AND THAT the
said petition prayed and the said writ of sum-
mons claims a dissolution of the plaintiff’s marriage
with the defendant Jean Millard. AND TAKE NOTICE
that by an Order dated the twelfth day of August 1907
it was ordered that service effected on you the said Jean
Millard by leaving an office copy of the petition herein
and of the said writ of summons with your sister Isabella
Hutchison wife of Joseph Hutchison of Yeerongpilly near
Brisbane in the State of Queensland ganger and by send-
ing notice of the proceedings in the said action by post
registered letter to your sister Mary Forrest wife of
Jame 9 Forrest of Cowrie Junction in the State of Queens-
land contractor AND THAT service effected upon you
the said Alexander Hanlon by leaving an office copy
of the petition herein and of the said writ of
summons with your cousin Willian Gonagle of Ann-street
Brisbane aforesaid carter AND THAT service affected
upon you the said Jean Millard and upon you the said
Alexander Hanlon by the publication of this notice twice
in The Bulletin newspaper published at Sydney in the
State of New South Wales and twice in The Auckland
Weekly News newspaper published at Auckland in the
colony of New Zealand should be deemed good service of
the said petition herein and of the writ of summons
upon you the said Jean Millard and upon you
the said Alexander Hanlon AND TAKE NOTICE that
in default of you and each of you causing
an appearance to be entered for you and each of you in
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane aforesaid
within two months after the last of such advertisements
the plaintiff may by leave of the Court or a Judge pro-
ceed in the said action and Judgment may be given in
your absence AND TAKE NOTICE that you and each
of you are required within twenty-one days after the
time limited for your appearance to file in the said Court
your defence to the plaintiff’s petition in this action which
is so served upon you.
Dated this twenty-third day of August, 1907.
(L.s.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
Registrar.
JOSEPH ARTHUR SNOW, Solicitor for Plaintiff, Cen-
tral-ohambers, Queen-street, Brisbane.
A Are you fond of music Would you like to-be able to
play the piano or organ ?" There is a new method-byivhicli
all the difficulties of ordinary music are swerft ypWyV It is
quite easy to learn without a teacher. Ypu7&gftiby play-
ing and playing the
air and the accompaniment practised musician
It is wonderful.»but
Herr
Edua
Scharf
the d
CtO£ of
laying
Conser
system
'D
yen
good
thor-
and
dearnt in a
muVic the
full insj
popula;
words,
only 5/3
pany, 299 1
of these
Among hundred
Street, Fitzroy,
bout
laming
/ections,
s and
romahce, costs
. A. Com-
, Melbourne, have sold over 1200
is not a dissatisfied buyer,
fiers, Mr. N. A. Saunders-; of Moor
> that he mastered the book with-
out a teacher and has no difficulty in reading the music at
sight! Miss Evans, of Keynetou, S.A., wrote in less than
a wfeek that she could play several of the tunes without
difficulty Mr. A. Fountain, of Wanganui, N.Z., testifies
that within one week he could play any tune in the book.
These were all without any knowledge of music, so that you
need have no doubt of your ability to learn the new method.
Failure is practically impossible. Send a postal note for
5/3 to the Union M. & A. Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Mel-
bourne, and they will post the book to you without delay?
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is :
Packet of Ten, lOd.
THE CMAINCE OF A
LIFETIME
FOR
OIL ENGINE
Buyers
b
vcb
WE
PREPAY
FREIGHT.
FREE
EXPERT.
30 DAYS*
FREE
TRIAL.
LOW
PRICES.
RIDICULOUSLY
EASY TERMS,
and NO
INTEREST.
GREAT
VARIETY TO
CHOOSE FROM
25.000
•* I.H.C’s.**
SOLD
IN TWO
YEARS.
SPECIAL
OFFER
APPLIES TO
FIRST
HUNDRED
ORDERS
ONLY.
Is contained In the below offer, which Is the most remarkable one ever put
before the Public in connection with ANY machines of this class.
Send us your name and address: state the kind of engine you want l.e.
Stationary or Portable, giving the brake Morse Power required.
We will then give you full details of an offer which will embrace the followlno
most unusual conditions u
We will ship an "1.H.C.” Gasolene Engine of any of the sizes and types
mentioned below. FREIGHT FREE to your nearest Railway Station In Australia
Northern Territory, North Queensland, and Western Australia excepted
We will send AT OUR EXPENSE an expert to install the engine, and teach
you or your employees how to run It, you however furnishing the small Quantity
of necessary material for the Installation, and rendering assistance In
installing.
We will then give you A FREE TRIAL OF THE ENGINE FOR 30 DAYS
FROM DATE OF SHIPMENT, and If It falls under reasonable conditions to
DO REALLY FIRST CLASS WORK, you may at once deliver It to the Railway,
In good order, consigned to us at the city from which It was shipped to you—
THE RETURN FREIGHT TO BE PAID BY US.
If the Engine does REALLY FIRST CLASS WORK, we give you at the
expiration of the free trial the following EXTENDED TERMS ON THE
REGULAR SPOT CASH PRICES PUBLISHED BY US IN FEB., 1907
(thousands of copies of which have been circulated throughout Australia,
and which are slightly LOWER than the prices of other first class engines)
One-eighth of the price In spot cash, and 7 of your promissory notes, each
for a like amount, due respectively 2, 4. 8. 12, 16, 20 and 24 months after
shipment, making in all 8 equal payments extending over two years, with
NO INTEREST ON THE PROMISSORY NOTES.
We supply Vertical Stationary, Horizontal Stationary, and Horizontal Portable
"1.H.C.” Engines in the following sizes 2,3, 4. 6,8, 10. 12, 13 and 20 Brake
Horse Power; special engines and equipments for pumping and wood-sawing.
We have in the past two years sold all over the world 25,000 of these
engines—a phenomenal record—never approached by any competitor, and
proving beyond dispute the remarkable efficiency of the “ 1.H.C.” A few sa’mple
engines have been sold in Australia during the past 12 months, every one of
which we are prepared to PROVE has DELIGHTED its owner.
Our purpose in making this offer Is to introduce these engines Into Australia
by getting 100 testimonials from satisfied users to assist us in making future
sales.
This offer therefore will positively be withdrawn as soon as we have received
the first 100 orders. You will thus require to write us NOW if you wish to
avail yourself of this CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
I®” IMPORTANT.—Address your letter to Department B of our Branch
House in the State in which you live.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
(Incorporated);
Roma St-, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 54S Bourke St
Melbourne ; Bank St., Adelaide: and 75 York St., Launceston.’
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
For Advances Department (known as Credit Foncier).
Twelfth Issue of Debentures for £lOO,OOO, at 3i per cent.
To mature 31st October, 1918.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Parliament of Victoria, Nos. UBl, 173%, 1778, and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR. TENDERS.
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, until noon on
Tuesday, 24th September, 1907.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or £5OO, as may be desired.
Interest at 3J per cent, per annum will be payable half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being- due on 30th April, 1908, at the Commissioners’ Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
Any Tender below £9Blos. pet £lOO will not be entertained.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash, or by a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of Savings
Banks, amounting to 5 per cent, of the face value of the Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be accepted in
full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on 31st March, 1908, or may be paid at an earlier date. Interest at 3J per
cent, per annum will be allowed on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 5 per cent, and over from date of receipt to
31st October, 1907, and will be pavableup to that date on the, issue of the debentures.
Commission will be allowed only to Brokers who are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate of ten
shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for accepted Tenders.
Thiedue payment of these debentures, and of all interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by and
the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 0 f Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed b'v the
Government of Victoria.
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected, and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or any of their Savings Banks.
, Commissioners are prepared to purchase from successful tenderers any parcels of Savings Bank 31 per cent,
debentures due 30th April, 1908, at par face value for sums equal to the amount of their accepted tenders!
3_lst August, 1907. By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Y our Future
Is
Known !
rage— r-» r -
YOUR FORTUNE FREE. Be Guided by the Stars.
TO introduce my unerring ASTROLOGICAL SYSTEM throughout Australia I will, for a limited time,
send you FREE, an Astrological Horoscope of your life, if you will send your name and
address, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and //- for postage, etc. I want to tell every reader
of The Bulletin what the future has in store for them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and
years to brighten their lives ; what sorrows, disappointments and reverses are hidden in the future, most of
which can be avoided if you only know how to go about it.
One Shilling, Stamps or Postal Note, and a Horoscope or Reading of your
Life, together with my interesting book “ Your Destiny Foretold,” will be sent to you in a plain envelope.
When you receive this reading you will discover how absolutely correct, as well as wonderfully helpful it is,
and you will be glad to write me when you wish to know what to do about the future, for success in love,
marriage, speculation or business. You will, lam sure, be pleased to go out of your way to advise your
friends to consult me, and in that way repay me for the cost of the Free Horoscope I send you.
DON'T DELAY. Consult Me To-Day.
Thousands Ash This Day Blessing The Hour They First Wrote Mb.
z Prof. Henri De Astro,
366 BourKe Street. Melbourne.
Address
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE
Only known
Cures,
FULTON
COMPOUNDS
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Makes you look manly
§«?£©!*€
After
m
YOUR LITTLE MOUSTACHE-
Will grow to exactly the proportions you
want it to by the judicious use 0f...
CAPILLARINE.
Try a jar to-day. Thousands are using it.
POST
FREE
10/0
TO ANY ADDRESS
IN THE WORLD.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
Our Latest Model .
thcREGENT
COLUMBIA
DISC
GRAPH-
O-PHONE
Price
£6 10s.
Tliis Model is fitted with
all the Latest Improve-
ments, and has a TONE
QUALITY equal to the
highest-price machine.
The Best Value
DISC MACHINE
ON THE MARKET.
Send for Full Particulars.
Columbia Phonograph Co* Gen'L,
255 “B” Clarence St., Sydney.
Largest Talking Machine Manu-
facturers in the World.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
w
Mi
Uh
BMP!
Perfect
Construction*
PURE and
SWEET
TONE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. £l6 to £57 4s
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, &c.
national Qank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement'Extending to-30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial IQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLI IMS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of Borth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. . - £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of neu Z ealanil -
- BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.'
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,213,565 12 6
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,192,713 2 6
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,656,278 15 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Coiibn, Esq Chairman.
Hon H E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors-Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esa.. J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, AJ.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
•HE
TRUSTEES.
AND
EXECUTORS
AfiENCY COMPANY LIMITED
AGEING/coillne-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. . ■ •• •• £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Krnek and First Mortgages) .. .. £Zo > 00 , u , u u
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman :R. Murray
Smith Esq. C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.,
Hon j M Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. M. l r JA ’ MES hoRROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
IVOT UY ’AN-OS,” by Edward Dyson.
' “ Best book o; Australian humor, ‘*s. bet.
Shipping.
N. 33. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA add JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 24th SEPT.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. V, 22nd OCTOBER.
MANILA .. 19th NOVEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnasre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the A yents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £407,551 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 09.000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE
vcbvcb
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to sail about 2nd OCTOBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC and SUEVIC
to follow.
•"wimw"'
FARES Capetown or Durban *l6 15 0 to ££ i q
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 30 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N UN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MORAVIAN .. I A. Simpson .. I Noon. Sept. 13
♦MARATHON . jN. Allan .. .. I Noon, Oct. 11
SALAMIS .. .. jR. MoKilliam .. I Noon. Nov. 2
» Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 45.. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l l()s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dal yet y and. Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f Houpay
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
cvb
CRUISES.
' AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking', Public Companies, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent. .
Bank of neui S° uth lil a,es -
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ...
2,000,000 0 o
1.500,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 55,00,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.G.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Auditors :
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking 1 business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUbbLLL f KLJN L/JtL)
General Manager
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL “ £300,000.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks . ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager,
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B*C*,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States*
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA*
Write for Particulars.^
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. mm-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
vc
bvc
bvcbvc
bvc
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
tst.sj.'w.
|ont depieteO.il. Go., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Public Notices.
DON’T BE HARD UP.
This can be easily avoided by writing AT ONCE to
the mining investment and agency company,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolutely in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested by us in the very best stocks.
= ADVICE FREE.
W, Uruck Fqx, General Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY, V
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravenstliorpe Goldfields. J
•S.S. Gran tala. Saturday,
September 14, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Chi rns.
S.S. Yongala, September 7.
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 14,
Jiest anxl Cheapest It ante to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2 10s,
including' table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
F or
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,
and LONDON.
The Fine Steamer,
" RENT,”
9500 Tons A. G. McGIBIiON, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
on 12th SEPTEMBER.
Has excellent accommodation for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins, on the upper deck situated amidships.
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewai dess carried.
PARES— Saloon.
DURBAN .. £2O
CAPETOWN £22 10s.
LONDON .. £l5
Plus
10%
Third Class.
£lO £ll £l2
£lO 10s. £ll 11s. £l2 12s.
£l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F.H.S. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND. Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
PROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For 1
MELBOURNE 1
GEELON g I
ADELAIDE >,
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) >
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 7.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 14.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 21:.
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, October 26.
BRISBANE 't
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
BOMBALA, 2 p.ra., SATURDAY,
September 7.
ALLINGA. 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
September 10.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 14.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
mm
Uj.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
in vour office
PERFECT?
BUT IS IT
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George St., Sydney
Sole Australian' Agent Wabash Systems.
fiisi
mig
MiHinu!
if Miniiii
i bwWjMW!
PAGE FENCE variety o f styles
—trom the attractive lawn fence shown,
coated with special white enamel, to
the heavier and special fence we have
sold so extensively to cattlemen,
ranchmen, etc. Page Fences, built 19
vears ago, are still giving good service.
Wouldn’t this sort of a fence be, a
rood one to have the agency for
Write to-day for special offer.
CHAS. 003SCN, FRANKS & Co., Sydney


N.S.W. Branch Office :
No. 5, First Floor. Greer's Chambers.
522 George Street. Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENL
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
A CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS!
FREE for writfng,
WE ARE GIVING AWAY FREE SAMPLES
OF THE WORLD-RENOWNED
EUCRASY. A BOON TO
WIVES, MOTHERS, AND SISTERS.
CURE FOR SONS, BROTHERS,
HUSBANDS.
EUCRASY DRINK CURE.
This Cure for Drunkenness has shed a radiance into
thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does its
work so silently and surely that, while the devoted wife,
sister or daughter looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed
without his knowledge. A lady who, a few months ago,
cured her husband with EUCRASY, he who had been a
hard drinker for years, now writes us that she has also
cured a near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women to save the drunkard.
FREE. It' You Mention This Paper.
WE ARE GIVING IT AWAY.
Sjnd for Booklet and Sample. Enclose 6d. in stamps for
postage. This is a Genuine Offer.
CALL OR ADDRESS—
THE. EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establish p or L!fe Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
MAB UdOUIIY TO 9!J Security or Freehold or Leasehold
reehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and A i c ultu/ rop °:* ies ’ ®r on
A Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury^ms
' ahan States New Zealand 49V~ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF^NTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repavinsr
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fin"
>lll rotors— -The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker Deputv-Chairman ■ Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. ; rX A Cape Sq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I.A FF A FSS *
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Australia’s Exquisite Production.
"BOOMERANG''
PURE GRAPE BRANOY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895.
THE LANCET says:
"It is a sound, honest Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE."
b
It is supplied
under Royal Warrant
to
His Majesty the King
Kill
m
\
cvbvcbvc
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’i
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
bvc
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize th„ xnost
| powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value contro. over others? Do you value the
I means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you'must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
i home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREAT!. E, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
I covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
f FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely i’lustrateo, containing and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
I and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
| you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
b
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONSULT
HERR RASSMUSSEN
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
ADVICE FREE.
Send lor Free Circular.
25 YEARS’ PRACTICE
IN AUSTRALIA.
Awarded Several Gold Medals and
Thousands of Testimonials.
SPEC/AL TREATMENT: Diseases of the Nerves, Skin and Blood,
Piles, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Liver and Kidneys.
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DON’T READ THIS
Purchasers to the amount of 10/6 receive two
beautiful EMBROIDERED HANDKERCHIEFS ns a
present. Engraving and Embroidering FREE
of Charge at our Establishment. Note Address :
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 SYDNEY ARCADE, KING STREET ENTRANCE.
PATENTS
Gollison & Go.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
wMm
m
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY C OWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BiLT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr- Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
SM PILLS H
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, tfcc. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (4B pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as' easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN <& HANBLiRYS Ltd., LONDON, * Bridge Sts., Sydney
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takifig them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective,
j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid,/ on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and iil
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist
Geelong, Victoria.


Silver-Mounted HAT PIHS-Choioe Collection
JUST now we have> what is
FINEST COLLECTION of SMARi
SILVER-MOUNTED HATPINS Ever Shown
in Sydney. We illustrate a few of them here,
and would advise Early Selection.
$
SEND us your Order by mail, and we will pack
them in a Special Hatpin Box, and post
free of charge. We have every design shown
here, and many others equally pretty, but for
all that we would advise Early Ordering.
/
■
■ OJ „ * /e U 3667-3- H3664-//6. (49556.-3/-. H8066.-2/-. H3668.-S/-. H30.-3/-. G9564.-//6. H 3669.-3- G9558.-3/-. H3600.-//6
G 9562. —2/-. G95C6. —2/-. H-33 -2/-. G9063.-f/6. H3667.-3/-.
G 7907.
Silver-Plated Chatelaine
NOTE BOOK, 2/-.
Wm
G 9565. 3/-.
F 9889.
Best E.P.
CAKE FORKS,
2/- Each.
H 1464.
Solid Silver and Pearl
GLOVE HOOK, 2/6.
HI37S.
THE EMPIRE TOILET SET, in Case, Finest Bristles
and Solid Sterling- Silver, £lO.
A 1629.
Magnificent Dark Amethyst and Finest Quality Pearl-
set 15-ct. Gold BRACELET, £l2llOl-.
vcb
FREEMASON’S
PENDANT,
Opens up and Closes
exactly as shown.
In 9-ct. Gold throughout,
£.4/151-.
In 9-ct. Gold, with
Silver Ground,
JS3/15/-
In 15-ct., with Silver
Ground,
*5/ro/-.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
vcbvcbc
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste btop.
q M _ rt -* Postage to any Address
r IIC6 db I ■ in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s ott;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
vcb
R
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. * With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
DO YOU WANT TO HEAR
the conversation of your
friends—music —singing ?
Are you “hard of hear-
ing” and denied those
revive, because relief is at hand,
pleasures?
If you are not totally deaf—nor born deaf—your hopes may
THE ELECTRICONS GAVE ME July 17th, 1907.
PERFECT HEARING. 29 Buckhurst Street, S. Melbourne.
t i> VERNON 00. Dear Sirs,—l am thankful to say that the Electricons which I obtained from you
snmp't’inie aeo have restored my hearing. I was as deaf as a post for years, and your Electricons cured me.
Will you please send your Book to a few of my friends whom I know are deaf, and Ishall always be pleased t
recommend your Electricons to anyone who is hard of hearing.—Yours truly, M. JOYNER.
_ u _ v will HELP YOU. The Electricons are entirely different from any other Appliances. They
™ He not hurt will not collapse in the ear, and are so sensitive that they catch the faintest sounds.
EASILY APPLIED. , , ... WRITE TO-DAY FOR BOOKLET.
THE L,.
R. VERNON CO.
60-04 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
vc
bvc
b
vcb
WELSBACH
Acetylene
Incandescent
Burners
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - Sd. ~
Extra Chimneys - - 2\d. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBAGH LIGHT GOY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
FREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, vrort .
I NO MONEY REQUIRED WHjYTEVER— Simply
send us a post card with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the
jewellery. When sold send us the. money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents.
Rd'aa for selling 12 articles of
I' 11 CC jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our ‘‘ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect' timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
p.aa for selling
rree only 6 ar-
ticles. We
will send
a Solid
Gold Pin
or Ring,
or lady’s
Solid
Gold Pen-
dant and
Necklet or
vc
We receive hundreds
of testimonials /
daily.
We send your pre-
sent by return post
We have no furth-
er claim on you
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
if you wish.
tir Free
for selling
only 3 articles
we will send
you your choice of
any articles picked from
our Catalogue of novelties
which we send with the jewel'lery
bvcb
Ui
e
C-O The party selling the »
r ree sb* articles in the shortest time is
entitled to 2 Sovereigns beside:! his, or her other present.
Send Us Your Xante and Address.
present for your trouble.
British Jewellery Cc.»
907 George=st., Sydney,
New South Wales
Oili-
Only
Address


C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prise Medalsu
Works i Birmingham, tn
land,
vc
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
0
■*!
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
• • •
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption'to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS’ SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE OOUGH, AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of Influenza and Bronchitis, and for
ten years was suffering with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had'niedical attendance, and tried various
medicines recommended, but without success until, on my daughter’s recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, with the result that it completely cured me, and I am perfectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL, 116 Shields Street, Fleming on, Melbourne.
DRY HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hacking cough on my chest that used
to trouble me terribly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Ilronchitis. I tried different sorts of medicine,
which took no effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure in informing you, relieved me at
once. It has completely cured my cough. I am sure anyone can depend on vour medicine for a thorough and
immediate cure.—I remain, yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS, Modewarre, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—My daughter, 12 years of age, had a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one
bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since she finished it. I am glad to say the effect has been
wonderful.—Yours, etc., J. BATSON, Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
• Mr - Hearn ?\ Dear Sir,—It is with pleasure I can say that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
With your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma
since. I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL, Smeaton, Victoria.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send me by return post one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which
please find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced
to have a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose, and improved immediately. I like to always
have some on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to
make use of what I have written. This is not the first time it has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK, “ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE.
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—I have been very ill with Influenza and Bronchitis. A friend of mine nersuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. I am 73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this statement
by publishing it for the benefit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,”
THOMAS R. TREZISE, Reedy Creek, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form, it Completely cured me, and now in the winter months, if lat all
contract a cold on the chest, it gives me instant relief. I have also proved its efficacy with members of my family,
whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the Chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir, you are
deserving of the best thanks of the community for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable medicine. —I
remain, gratefully yours, W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA,
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having been a sufferer from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in quickly
curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medicine for
chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received.—l am,
Dear Sir, yours faithfully,
D. BEATTY, Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Last winter, my youngest son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest,
had a dry, distressing, hacking cough, which troubled the poor little fellow very badly at night-time. I tried many
so-called panaceas without any appreciable effect. But, after using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
I am pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely
disappeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending your magical medicine to my friends. Believe me to
be, yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES, “Lilliesea,” Union Street, Windsor, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVI HIS BED. A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with nightsweats, pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several
occasions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard
of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my
bed, but I commenced taking it at once and gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots of medicine you
sent have effected a complete cure, for which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR, Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
SUFFOCATING DRY COUGH FOR TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescriptions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the fifth
dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, sir, yours most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT, Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ SUFFERER
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.—l remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY, Bethanga, Victoria.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS ! The great success of HEABNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No - 5 f First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
bvc
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ J.G.” from the Victorian wilderness :
Re Impudent Shire Councillors (B. 25/7/’O7). The Bet
Bet and other shires, when they ask the Government to
eradicate their stinkwort at the cost of the general public,
are not making a new move. They did the same thing
years ago when the rabbits began to be a menace to
landowners—mostly squatters. Then the Shire Councils
whined that they couldn’t keep down the rabbit pest.
So the Government had to come along and appoint a
dozen or two rabbit inspectors. Of course the city toilers
had to find their share, or more than their share, of
the inspectors’ wages, though the work was
solely for the benefit of the country land-owners.
The city taxpayers have to pay the largest proportion of
the Government subsidies given to shires, and the special
Government grants to the same, in addition to the
salaries of the host of Government inspectors, whose
work is solely in the country. Then if it is mentioned
that every adult resident in the shires should have one
vote for the councils, and one vote only, the shire coun-
cillors nearly go mad at the bare idea. The shire coun-
cillors are continually worrying their local members of
Parliament to go and cadge Government money for
council work that will make some big landowner’s land
more valuable, and if the member is not a good cadger, or
if he says he thinks the council has had its fair share of
the public’s money, the councils work tooth and nail to
empty him out at next election and put in a better
cadger. It is all cadge.
Every place has a redeeming feature. The
inhabitants of Hades, for instance, never have to
worry as to how long their job is going to last.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
mmmmm
imti
mi
m
mmmmm
uumiiuwwi
m
Best Selected SilKworm Gut.
Hand Polished*
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d.; Padron No. 2,14 in., 9d. ; Padron No. 1,16 in., Is 3d ; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d ;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
No. 328— Sparrow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
b
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. llow to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Sii.ent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
vcb
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
[an His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. fpp“ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 19 &A Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
Oaiine
HAVE YOU TRIED THIS
FACE CREAM YET?
Do so now. It will remove all dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, from
the pores, and keep your skin soft and clear.
It is the one thing that will enable your com-
plexion to withstand the dry heat of the
Australian climate.
Whatever the weather, Oatine will not go
bad. It contains no animal fat or dangerous
mineral salts, being made from pure fresh
oats. It does not grow hair. Men use it
after shaving.
Get a jar of Oatine now. It costs 1/9 ,
or a larger size, holding four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &e.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND 7 of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
COAGULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cpmen ts for broken and other articles.
‘LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
sfdsf
PRIZES value £,1500.
m THE SB
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £,500. JSK ?g
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
The “Son of a Gun ” Squirt Pistol.
vcb
Will stop the most
vicious dog- (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful
durable, re!able, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
vcbvcb
cv
bvc
bvcvcb
vcbvcb
cvbvcbvcbvc
The hook and Laugh Glass
See the Passing- Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on j
passing pedestriars,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All crow
fat from laughter. It
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price //-, post free anywhere.
Tiie Laughing Camera.
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong' polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, i/«. L)o not miss this chance of obtaining'one
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST B.
H. L. Hutchinson,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
Head Depot—
-710 George Street, Sydney.
Postal Address : Box 3, Post Office, Naymarket
No. 1 Branch : 25 & 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
2* Britisb=flusfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLE3URY.
David graham * go.
MERCHANT TAILORS, MERCERS,
and SHIRTMAKERS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our New Spring Suitings
are arriving by FORTNIGHTLY
SHIPMENTS during the Season;
While Novelties in TROUSERINGS, VEST-
INGS, NECK WEAR, etc., reach us by
Parcels Post EVERY MAIL.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W. for
AERTEX CELLULAR
Underwear and Shirts.
List & Samples DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Post Free. 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.


“ COUGH, COUGH !”
Night and day, until the strength is
entirely exhausted, and that dreadful
word “Consumption” begins to be
whispered amongst friends. That’s a
common story, familiar to the people of
all paits of Australia. There’s another
story, which ought to be as widely
known as the story of the disease—and
that is the story of the cures effected by
the use of DR. SHELDON'S NEW
DISCOVERY for COUGHS, COLDS,
and CONSUMPTION. Bronchitis!
obstinate, deep-seated coughs, bleeding
of the lungs, and other forms of disease
which affect respiratory organs, are per-
manently cured by the use of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs,
Colds and Consumption. Small dose!
Pleasant to take. Every bottle
guaranteed. 1/6 & 3/- per bottle.
PROOF.
I have been suffering from a severe cold
this winter, and could not get any relief until
w » s recommended to try a bottle of Dr.
oheldon s New Discovery, which I did, and
am quite recovered now.
Miss B. Tideswelt,
156 Regent-street, Rcdfern, JV.S. W.
1 have much pleasure is saying we use Dr.
toheldon s New Discovery. My brother used
to suffer terribly with colds. He tried all
kinds of remedies, but they seemed to do him
no good until a friend advised him to try
Dr. She*don s New Discovery. Since then
we all use it, and are never without it in the
house.
Miss Zoe Pitcher,
Royal Hotel, Portland, Vic.
bvcbvcbvcbcv
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O IA the Bunch
“* u post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY : also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [2
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
♦
*
*
%
«*<// Hq
$0
#
\>
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS”
OLD
SCOTCH
Whisky.
‘SiaxoH ONiavaa nv
.
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHli, EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company’s Guarantee,
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are_ not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
’ n his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopsecia (loss of
f a -I n !? n8 could be d . evised t 0 brln g nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), without
process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on, when
{ fj™ B VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remarked that the Cap would
Tuitii and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Board.
ro „ re . fe rT» to fchu invention, says that the principle upon whioh the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap will be sent , post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LOVED a modern maid impulsively,
Who oft avowed that mystic memory
Would link us sadly to the blighted past
Should Fate our bosoms sever by-and-bye.
How long, she sobbed, would Recollection’s tie
Bind us to days of yore ? It did when I
Was sued for breach of promise at the last.
A gift I gave her fervently, and bade
Her cherish preciously, though love should fade,
Was cherished very preciously, and named
By her solicitor “Exhibit A ”;
And other tender tributes in array
Were classified successively to “ J ”;
As evidence for compensation claimed.
My letters, which, she tenderly averred,
Would treasured be, and every burning word
Enshrined in Recollection —must have been.
I never dreamt that blissful words could reach
So high a price—at half-a-guinea each
They figured out, and every thrilling speech
Cost thirty shillings at the final scene.
She must have kept a clerical account
Of burning kisses, and the nett amount
Of fond embraces posted up to date,
And instituted systematically,
A memorandum of delivery,
That statements would eventually be
Concise, and creditably accurate.
She vowed the scenic and sequestered spot
Where oft we met would be forgotten not!
It wasn't I—she1 —she remembered every blade
Of grass, and so did her solicitor,
And all the jurors, and full half a score
Of others. Damme ! they remembered more
Than I did of the meadows where we strayed.
Some trees in the locality I knew
Existed, but precise to one or two
Was not. They were, and said the moonbeams
fell
L pon the plaintiff’s bosom trustfully,
When first I kissed her ’neath a wattle tree
By Parker’s pigsty; incidents by me
Forgotten, but extremely probable.
Oblivious utterly to Time and Tide,
I knew we wandered somewhere side by side,
But whither couldn’t accurately swear.
’Twas dreamy dusk or darker—that I knew,
Just when the crystal, saturating dew
Suffused the grass, and permeated thro’
My pants, and burrs prowled thro’ our clothes
and hair.
To nothing I could positively swear,
Save thrilling circumstances here and there.
I did remember when I had to climb
The dairy, when, exasperated quite,
Her old man dropped across us with a light;
It seemed a fenced-in, crowded sort of night,
And he wore bluestone bluchers at the time.
She used to call me “ Willy,” but the tones
Ut court-house criers roaring “William Jones”
My throbbing breast pathetically pained ;
And she whom I called “Tilly ” in our sport,
iV? T aW i j 61 ’ ca her anything so short:
Matilda Muggins,” sternly said the Court-
Mow irretrievably our love had waned !
To my serene and songful soul there seems
"o amity in damages and dreams,
-No sacred sequence born of Love remiss,
And nothing sentimental to recall
In writs and wigs, and witnesses that pall,
And I detest blamed barristers that maul
Une s lacerated love and blighted bliss.
What poetry is there in “proven facts”?
What unthralled Joy in “Judicature Acts”?
! Absolutely none ! And not a gleam
Ut ideality to interest
In desks and docks and counsels who protest,
And bald-faced judges who must be addressed
Politely whilst they dissipate your dream.
Ah lithesome Love ! thy thoughts are all of gold—
ihe sweet ones that in County Courts are told '
And so to love s young dream, farewell ! But if
We ever meet and mingle after this,
i 11 order no more amatory bliss
Ihan I can pay for readily—per kiss,
tor my opinion is thy tariff’s stiff.
VIO.
ALFRED E. BRIDGES.
Concerning the Sergeant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
MORNING, Mr. Roberts.”
“ Morning, Sergeant.”
Strictly speaking he was not Sergeant,
but he liked the courtesy title, and it saves time
and trouble to address a man as Sergeant instead
of Senior-constable. Besides, it was polite, for
being the chief (and only) administrative officer
in the district, he could, if so disposed, make
things warm for a struggling solicitor, as I was
then. lam still a solicitor, by the way, but I
have ceased to struggle. It makes no appreciable
difference to your income, and, besides, struggling’
makes you hot. s B
I was pleased to see the Sergeant, who was also
m his own person, C.P.S. and holder of a host of
other offices, whereof to properly discharge the
functions would have taxed the legal knowledge
* ef D. Justlce and the administrative
capacity of Bismarck. I calculated that my
visitor s errand was to obtain a little free advice
on the construction of.the Crown Lands Acts, or on
the exact meaning of the word “ place,” or some-
thing equally simple. However, it didn’t matter
much (nothing does, when you look at it in the
proper light), and I welcomed him as somebody
to talk to. He was my first caller that morning
and I was tired of gazing gloomily at the ther-
mometer and the flies. So he disclosed his
% anc [ \ g av ,e him my opinion, and we
smoked and chatted amicably.
“They appointed me Actin’ Warden this
niormn mimn y’ know,” he said, gloomily, “so
that s another blasted Act I got to read, I s’pose.
, m H novvs > y« u know too, how much good it
weekafter W ° n * rerneniber two hues of it a
I liked being bracketed with God, and nodded
sympathetically.
“Damn it all, I hardly know what offices I hold,
let alone my duties. What the ”
He broke off hastily, and assumed his official
expression, as an ancient dame hobbled in and
greeted us quaveringly. She wanted the Sergeant,
and her business was to apply for an old-age pen-
Sl °?- I happened to have an application-form,
and filled in her replies to the various questions,
but when it came to swearing to their truth,
the old lady jibbed. And no argument of ours
could persuade her. “It’s all true, mister,” she
asseverated, “as near as I knows, but I ain’t
going to swear nothing. Swearing’s a fearful
solemn thing, and I ain’t going to have it on my
soul.”
“Good Lord ! an’ she’ll lose £26 a year by it,”
wondered the Sergeant in an undertone. “Extra-
ordinary, ain’t it ? ”
My professional instincts were aroused at the
thought of so much money being lost for a mere
conscientious scruple, and I did what I could to
convince her that the sanctity of an oath must
nowadays bow to convenience. But it was to no
purpose, and I only succeeded in damaging my
character in her eyes.
“I always thought you was a nice young feller,”
she said (I Lowed), “an’ no guile in yer, but I’m
sorry for you in your latter end It’s a fine thing
to be a lawyer ” (my smile was Byronic in it’s in-
tensity). “You don’t have no work to do” (I
nodded appreciatively), “an’ you sit there an’
pile up wealth ” (I didn’t attempt to express my
feelings). “ But don’t you never think when you
take oaths, an’ scrabble, an’ scratch, an’ make con-
tracks with the devil, that you will burn in tor-
ment hereafter ? ”
I looked up at the unceiled iron roof, and then
at the glass, hovering round 112°, and for a
moment wondered drearily if Hell was much
worse. Then my thoughts went swiftly back to
the moonlit, waterside balcony where I spent my
last evening in Sydney before making my little
bid for fortune. And my visions ! I had to crush
the hope out of my voice so as to make my good-
bye sufficiently pathetic, while Her face shim-
mered whitely beside me, and the “Blue Danube”
throbbed and crashed in the room behind; She’s
married now, to a man who made his pile out of
hides, etc.—mostly etc.—and I think she is having
her Hell too. Well—we are all on the knees of
the gods. So I meekly assured my well-wisher
that my future was ever present in my thoughts,
and she departed, having decided to abandon her
application.
The Sergeant hung up his tunic, wiped his brow,
and proceeded to settle down for the morning.
He regaled me—-a new chum—with many won-
drous tales of life in the Bush, gleaned (he
said) from his twenty years’ experience in the
Force ; but I was an old Bulletin reader,
and possessed a good memory, so I knew
better. However, I didn’t gainsay him, but
smoked and listened while he related and sub-
stantiated with weird oaths the tale of the
prisoner, who told him “if he didn’t mend his
blarsted lock-up so the adjective sheep couldn’t
get in, he wouldn’t stop” ; and of the horse-thief
who dyed the black mare chestnut, thereby
deceiving the whole district, bar the Sergeant
himself; and about the horse who could buck
himself out of the saddle in spite of martingale
and crupper and extra girth ; and about the crow,
and the gohanna and the dingo. He even ventured
on the snake; and under this provocation I
retaliated with some fish stories, of which many
years’ harbor experience had furnished me with a
goodly store, and aroused his respect by describ-
ing a “flying gannet” and some other curiosities.
“ Most amazing what you get out of the water
at times,” he said. “ That reminds me. When I
was a kid I useter live on the Hawkesbury, an’
there was a cove up that way—imported, he was
—who useter have a camp on a little beach round
Broken Bay, an’ knock out a sorter livin’ seliin’
fish at Pittwater and Hawkesbury. About the
biggest liar I ever struck” (I looked at him
sharply, but his was the innocent gaze of a child),
“ but an amusin’ cove when you got him going.
Keg’lar tough to look at, but when he was screwed,
which was about half the time, he useter talk real
toffy. Always had a couple of notes on him, an’
we useter call him ‘ the Hon.’ He didn’t take too
much trouble with his fishing— useter set a long
line across one of the bays with about a hundred
hooks on it, an’ he baited it at night, an’ in'the
mornin’ he’d go along with a boat an’ get it pretty
near full o’ fish. Well, one day he came in with
his fish, an’ there was a letter waitin’ for him with
an English stamp. He read it and went black in
the face, and then he took everyone in sight over
to the pub an’ filled them up proper. ‘My last
shout,’ he says, ‘ an’ to-night’ll be my last night’s
fishin , an then this damn place sees me no more,
’cos I’m goin’ down ter Sydney to-morrow, and
then for England, home and beauty,’ lie says.
“ Well, late on next day, his boat came driftin’
down on the tide, and says one of the boys, ‘We
might’s well have “the Horn’s” boat if he has
come into, a fortune.’ So we rowed out an’
got it, an’ in it was his hat an’ some other
gear. We knew that he couldn’t leave his
camp ’cept by water, so thought we’d best give
him a chance of gettin’ to Sydney. We rowed
up the Bay to his camp, but he weren’t there.
Then we concluded he’d rowed across to the
Sydney side of the Bay, an’ let his boat go there.
We was pretty mad at havin’ our trouble for
nothing, but it struck someone we might’s well
have the fish, in case there were any. We found
the set line all right, an’ pulled slowly along it,
pullin’ up the hooks as we came to them, an’
there was a good few fish on them. At last we
came to where the line pulled heavy, an’ there
was ‘the Hon.’ with the hook clean through
his hand. Dead as Moses, o’ course, and the
sharks had been at him too. Sort o’ thing might
happen quite easy,” said the Sergeant, pensivelv.
“You’re in your boat, crawling along the line,
baitin’ hooks as you come to them. A fish or
something jags the line, and the hooks is into you
before you know it. An’ if you’re anyway tight,
why, over you go, an’ there’s a dead loss to the
insurance people.”
“Ever find out who he was?” I queried.
“ Found the letter in his shirt all soppy an’
washed out,” replied the Sergeant. “ Hard luck,
wasn’t it ? An’ there was nothin’ else to tell us
who he was.”
He proceeded to moralise, when, fortunately,
he was interrupted by the entrance of a black
girl, a fine upstanding wench, who asked sullenly
for the Sergeant. “Another o’ my duties,” he
sighed importantly. “Aborigines’ Protection
Board this time. What’s the matter, Sue ?”
“ Kid dead,” replied Sue, briefly.
“All right. I’ll come round. Your child I
s’pose ? Who’s the father ? ”
“You was, Sergeant, you know plurry well
you was!”
She departed, and the representative of the
Aborigines’ Protection Board avoided my eye as
he said hastily, “ I charged you five bob too much
on that summons o’ Leary’s on Monday. Might’s
well take it now.”
So I took it, and suggested an adjournment
across the street, and the Sergeant agreed.
H.J.W.


DAILY MISHAPS
Make Zam-Buk Balm a Daily Need.
bvcb
Scarcely a day
passes without some
member of the family
getting hurt. Maybe
the breadwinner’s
work makes him
peculiarly liable to
cuts or lacerations; the boisterous
youngsters are always running in to
mother with bumps and bruises ; and
housework abounds with painful
knocks, burns, scalds and sprains for
the fair sex.
vcbvc
Promptly dressing
an injury with Zam-
Buk Balm means
speedy relief from
smarting pain.
That’s why the
children like it.
But it means much
more—that your hurt will heal up
quickly and perfectly, without fester-
ing, without gathering, and without
harboring disease germs. That’s why
the “grown-ups” like it.
The secret of Zam-Buk’s clean and
painless healing lies in the fact that
it imitates Nature’s own “healing
by first intention.”
It is composed of
pure vegetable saps
and juices, which
soothe the pain
and allay inflam-
mation by effective
antiseptic action.
///
Pin your faith to Zam-Buk, the
natural healing balm, and keep a
pot always handy for the accidents
that will happen.
“I can testify to the curative properties of your Zam-Buk Healing
Balm,” says Mr. J. Turnbull, of 23 Shemel Street, Waterloo, Sydney.
“I am a carpenter by occupation, and am constantly knocking my
hands about. Cement and lime get into the cuts and sores, causing
them to fester, and, if neglected, would necessitate my leaving off work, s
thus losing both time and money. Prompt application of Zam-Buk, how-
ever, gives instant relief. My children have also found Zam-Buk
ry „
T>‘
invaluable for burns, cuts and bruises. I can confidently recommend Zam-Buk as the best
family ointment on the market, which no home should be without.”
At this season Zam-Buk Balm is invaluable for boils, pimples, blackheads, rashes, ulcers, and all
Spring eruptions. As a household balm for cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, children’s sores, scalp troubles,
piles eczema, stiffness, chafings, and all injured and diseased conditions of the skin, Zam-Buk is
unequalled. Price 1/6 per pot, or 3/6 for large family size (containing nearly four times 1/6), from all
chemists and stores.
Ws.
■
r.
’tm
y//,
V/,
""////
m
v////****.
s
o
o
T
H
E
S.
H
E
A
L
S.
bvcb
John Wesley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fact that the self-advertising Jud-
kinses, the Woodfulls and the Worralls, and
other shrieking “Dissenters” have com-
bined to make life in Australia as uncomfortable
as possible, suggests a study of the founder of
their peculiar form of churchianity—one John
Wesley, epilept and killjoy. I have read so much of
him, and have seen so many portraits of him, and
I was so crammed with him in the unhappy days
of childhood that I can see him as plainly as if he
were in the flesh —that’s if he ever was in flesh.
He had a kind, weak, earnest, foolish, fanatical,
indecisive mouth. His great neck-growth of hair
was feminine. He had the worst of fates; his
nature contradicted his conformation. He was
the grandson of that Samuel Wesley who pub-
lished a volume of poems called “Maggots, or
poems on several subjects never before handled.”
The frontispiece plate represented the author
writing at a table, his head crowned with laurels
and with a maggot biting his forehead. Such a
pretty wit had already in it the germ of
Wesleyism.
Mrs. Samuel Wesley wrote “The History
of the Old Testament in verse, with 128 illustra-
tions.” Although we are on the road to John
Wesley it is worth taking a bye-track for a
minute to say that one of Samuel Wesley’s
warmest friends was John Owen, then Vice-
Ch£fficeller of Oxford, a gentleman who annoyed
one Fisher, an adventurer of the time, so much
that Eisher wrote him thus ■
Thou fiery fighter and green-headed trumpeter ! Thou
hedgehog and grinning dog! Thou tinker! Thou
lizard ! Thou bell of no inetal, but the tone of a kettle !
Thou wheelbarrow! Thou whirligig! Oh, thou fire-
brand ! Thou adder and scorpion 1 Thou louse ! Thou
dog! Thou mooncalf! Thou ragged tatterdemalion !
Thou Judas ! Thou livest on philosophy and logic, which
are of the devil.
Wesley’s father was so shaken by superstition
that he related from the pulpit his adventures
with a ghost, with which he had become so fami-
liar that he named It “Geoffrey.” He told
his congregation how the evil spirit haunted his
house, and later on he told them j “ The ghost
pushed me three times very roughly against the
furniture.” From the father John Wesley re-
ceived all these tales, and his mother filled him
from birth with stilted bosh about his soul. When
he was in his seventeenth year his mother said :
“ I heartily wish you would now enter on a strict
examination of yourself that you may know
whether you have a reasonable amount of sal-
vation.” His other relatives told him to “pray
heartily without ceasing.”
Life in Wesley’s home seems to have been one
long whirl of excitement.
Wesley grew to something like manhood in this
imitation of life, and began that career which has
made more people miserable than any other
known force—excepting love or alcohol. He
travelled a good deal for those times, and, after
sizing up the opinions of the theologians of
England and the Continent, he issued the follow-
ing astounding manifesto :
1. Justification is the forgiveness of sins.
2. The moment a prayer flies to God he is justified.
3. Then he has peace, but not always joy.
4. He may not know that he is justified until long after
he has been justified.
(This looks wrong, but it is what the manifesto says.)
5. Hut others may know he is justified by his power
over sin ; by his seriousness ; his love of the brethren ;
and his hunger and thirst after righteousness.
To-day, the louder of the sect have all the
seriousness ; the hunger and thirst after righteous-
ness has changed into a hunger and thirst after
self-ad ver tisement.
Wesley was the pet of the Moravians, who
founded a sort of club known as the “Economy
of Girls.” If the idea was not to allow any girl to
go to waste, the Moravians deserve a praise which
would almost forgive their awful humorlessness.
As instance one of their hymns, evidently written
by the father of all Purtells:—
How bright appeareth the wounds’ star,
In Heaven’s firmament from far,
And round the happy places :
Of the true wounds’ church here below,
In at each window they shine so,
Directly on our faces.
Dear race of grace, sing thou hymns on,
Four holes crimson :
And side pierced
Bridal this of all the blessed 1
Another hymn of theirs will serve to show the
distorted sexualism that they thought was reli-
gious expression. It was called “The Believers’
Marriage, ” and was very rorty:— ■
Ye virgins so chaste,
Ye widows indeed.
From bondage released
Rich husbands that need ;
Hear how I was wedded
And miscarried then ;
Was afterwards widowed,
And married again.
My first husband. Sin,
Though of a fair face,
Was ugly within,
Deceitful and base.
Alarmed at my state,
But lost what to do,
A divorce to get,
To Moses I flew.
“ My case when I knew it,”
He said, with a curse (!! 1),
“ The law could not do it,
It must have its course.”
Then “Sin,” or, as the poem calls him, “ the old
man,” was crucified, and the new Adam wooed
and won the widow.
Then married we were,
Without more delay,
Friend Moses was there,
And gave me away.
Which shows that Moses was no gentleman.
It was during his stay with the Moravians that
Wesley developed his power over crowds; the
power which was to make the “Dissenters” such a
strong enemy of the Established Church. Wesley
was an epilept —there seems little doubt of that.
He talked to an impressionable girl of 16 years
about her sins, and of death, and hell, and damna-
tion, until in her hysteria she publicly told this
story of her “ conversion ”
Christ appeared to me ! I saw the fountain opened in
his side and I drank. The love of God was shed abroad
in my heart, and a flame kindled there with pains so
violent, yet so ravishing, that my body was almost torn
asunder. I loved! The Spirit coursed strong in my
heart. I sweated. I trembled. I fainted. I wept. I
sang 1 . I joined my voice with those that excel in
strength. My soul was got up into the Holy Mount. I
had no thought of coming again into the body. I who
had called for the rocks to fall on me, and the mountains
to cover me, now called nothing else but “ Come, Lord,
come quickly ! ” Oh, I thought my head was a fountain
—I was dissolved into love. My beloved is mine, and I
am His. He has all charms. He has ravished my heart.
He is my Comforter. My Friend. My all. He is now in
the garden feeding among the lilies. . Oh, lam sick of
love. He is altogether lovely—the chiefest among ten
thousand.
Wesley himself occasionally saw things in this
way ; and he relates :
Sixty of our brethren were present at our love feast.
At about three in the morning, as we were continuing
instant in prayer, the power of God came mightily upon
us, insomuch that many cried out for exceeding joy, and
many fell to the ground.
And at all his field meetings the same thing
happened :
Many sank to earth ; they dropped on every side as if
thunder-struck.
Wesley was proud of the awful effect of, his
ravings of “ birth in sin ” and “justification on
the half starved and the ignorant. He took as
fitting tributes to his power the spectacle of a
woman dashing her head against a wall, and cry-
ing out that she was damned. A.nd every such
case had a score of imitators, until it became the
fashion for women to rave and for men to foam at
the mouth. His “ ministrations ” produced such
lunatics as Waxfield, the beast who publicly
prayed that “his mother’s womb had been his
grave,” because on one occasion he had “ com-
mitted a deadly sin ; ” the which, probably, was as
deadly as a scone and butter.
One day while Wesley was preaching, word
came from his wife in the country that one of
their children had died and that the other then
lay at the point of death ; and Wesley showed no.
human concern for his wife in her sorrow he
merely interpolated in his sermon this statement:
“ My soul breathes its life in God as my body
breathes its life in the common air.”
A good honest Pagan, on hearing that sickening
news, would have hurried to the woman in trouble,
or broken a blood-vessel, or something ; but Wes-
ley wasn’t human.
As a prophet Wesley was clever enough to be
advance agent to even Dowie, who knew a great
deal less than Clement Wragge.
Says Wesley: “ Prayed by our sister, Mrs.
Wright—a gracious, tender trembling soul ; a
bruised reed that the Lord will not break.”
And before Wesley’s ministrations were cold,
the Lord took sister Wright and broke her, not
according to promise. Yet at her funeral the un-
abashed prophet addressed the gathering, and
made more windy prophecies as to the lady s plan
of campaign after death.
His hand knew not shape, nor form, nor pro-
portion. He stood on the stone that covered his
father’s bones and preached from that text, which
many people I know believe was written by
Wilson Barrett’s hired dramatist for the “ Sign
of the Cross” : “ The Kingdom of Heaven is not
meat and drink, but righteousness and peace.”
And he preached until dozens of hysterical people
dropped among the graves, beating the tombs
and crying to the earth to open and cover them.
His horse was lame, and he himself was sick,
and he says that he cured both lameness and fever
by prayer.
The prevalence of the hysterical scenes he
caused made the mobs give wav to a cruel fear.
During his meetings men were murdered in the
gutters and women were outraged in the streets.
The only good thing he did was to shake the
power of the Established Church; but in his
“Dissenters” he provided a Church more fanati-
cal ; and—alas for this beautiful world that man
spends his days in uglifying!—more unlovely.
He added a horror to the language. Any
Wesleyan of that time who felt a bit seedy didn’t
say “I am not well to ; day,” but “Satan has
sifted me as wheat,” or “I am in the nether gut
of hell.” One case is related of a man who
suffered from a common intestinal trouble, and
who said “Satan hath followed me day and night
and hath thrown me into a flux. I carry the
body of Judas fastened to my neck.”
Each worm felt his importance to the solar
system. During a small storm the convert’s
favorite phrase was “ The earth is accursed for
MY sake.”
Wesley’s wife wanted love and companionship,
and he gave her sermons of Methodism. She
asked for the bread of life, and he substituted for
it vague glimpses of an alleged New Jerusalem ;
and as she could not imagine the possibility of
such a man as he was she thought that there was
another woman in the case, and fretted out her
life in vague unending jealousies. The unknown
laborer, in whose heart and home there is human
affection, makes somebody happy sometimes ;
this Wesley made nobody happy, not even him-
self—all he did was to fill the world with nasal
misery.
The pleasure of swaying grown-up men and
women palled on him, and he preached his in-
timidations to children; so that boys and girls
of ten and twelve went into fits, crying out that
their sins had damned them to all eternity. Many
never recovered from these seizures, but, as
Wesley put it, “ they were with Christ.”
There were backsliders, of course. One George
Bell passed from being an ignorant enthusiast to
becoming an ignorant infidel; then, still craving
public excitement, he sensibly turned to politics ;
educated himself, advocated Republicanism for
England, and died a great Radical reformer.
The immediate cause of Wesley’s death was
typical of Wesley’s life. He was in an advanced
state of consumption, but believed he could cure it
by prayer, and a plaister of brimstone and white of
an egg, spread on brown paper and applied to the
pleural region. After that he wrote his own
epitaph ; and then, like all immortal things, he
died.
We have to judge a man, not by his motives,
but by his works and the result of them. This
meek, kindly, cruel, despotic, weak, effeminate in
the likeness of a man, sowed his “justification”
and all the rest of his sincere cant, and produced
the Wesleyans we know to-day, the ugly people
with the ugly ideas of life.
He was a bad man, in that he committed the
crimes of never seeing the beauty of the earth; of
never realising the ideal identity of a man ;of
never feeling the pride of life. The world was
beginning to emerge from the cobwebs of old
superstitions, and he replaced them with new
superstitions, worse than the old, because more
ugly.
His life was useless. His methods brought him
close in results with fanatics who murdered preg-
nant women, that the child in the womb might
“ save its soul alive ” (whatever that might mean);
his fearsome discourses to children were as cruel
as the Christianity of Blanky Mary, who burned
heretic babes with fire, or the Christianity of the
Protestants who paid similar attentions to Papist
infants. His influence on the world has been
worse than the influence of many other less kindly
and less sincere gigs and charlatans of the earth.
In comparison with Wesley, the man who
invented the button-hook was a demi-god of use-
fulness.
MARTIN LVTHER.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
vcbcb
used it. Previous to that I
was iii very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
Mrs. E. Harrison,
G-awler, S. A.
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
just as good." See that you get “AYER’S."
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A~Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
cbvc
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
of onr U pJnrL n^ e >? n f addl „ ess a i lfl will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
have sdd the Arl lg, ; ar s POStCard3 t 0 sell for u * at «• Per packet. When you
a e sola the caids, return'ua our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble anv ui-esent
you may Choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. Bv Sriuin"4he sa"l
want td dtwfslnets a Ladies ’ or Gent ’ s Silver Watch and Chai " Remeilher, we
We take d al| b th« BiaJ ,6 v y °" a ? a,n ’ a,ld t 0 do this we nu,st ff ivp you full satisfaction.
taKO an the Risk. You can return f-ha ontvio if c./o>i ur„ \
V
M
IST* 1h AgSi P 6^oUa tv
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Oncost cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co„b7k., Pitt-st.,
bvcbcb
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
injections.
Cures the • ame
diseases in 4g
hours without
incon-
„ . „ venience.
£ach Capsule bears the name pr-
cbc
Health
—imw—
, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use of
t)6 RICO *Os
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY
used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
_ „ success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating'
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
l® 6d - Pamphlets hree. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St..
Sydney , and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
If You, wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your • ... #
Rabbit tsKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS* PRODUCE
•
HILL, CLARK ®. CO.,
SYDNEY.
w-
NO
money
WANTED
fl)
K J
. .1
>A-
©;
m<??tS*bSooo«s* 5"?o"?r?nrh d w v ' •'* °< •>” <*»™*
■^^ftSSs.'Ss
H^ a 'r„s “H r
w"", , « , ,“ P o 0 * t “ a r H l5 ss^S'Sss’^i.iia’Svs
Our friends are astoundedown jewellery, Or we could not make you this unparalleled offer,
thousands of te, f the prizes we are able to give for so little work, and we have
the Riek l l „„ onmls f . rom £° sts of gratified agents. Remember, we take all
, d you may return the goods if unable to sell them. Write now, don’t delay.
r.
ft
w
THE COMMONWEALTH JEWELLERY CO.
Postal
Address?
b. 622 pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
bv
'Dcrit turn tfie comers cfj/our mould down”
• V.- ' ' 1 .. • •
“you see ufiat [ mean”
m.
• x
i
jr
Jill
m
i
■
i
ft
o
1
■S’M
■
m
■S:
M
i
t
v'
■ v
■
mm
PI LLS
cb
GARDEN SEEDS. £l,OOO.
IJ ~ “ Wanted.
cbvc
to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every horn,, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
L" S^ U /" 0 e i t8 ’ ® i,v ® r Watches and Chains, Cam Iris
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds
All you have to do is to sand us your Name and Address atfd
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds such
Waltfb,™ W,li ' am ’ p oppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower etc Sell the packets at 3d. per packet; send us our
money (6/-) and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list. * ”
We trust you—the risk is ours. Yon mar return the
Seeds if not sold though you will find th e task o?sell*
ing them ridiculously eas.v, for they are splendid value.
.Don t ilelay, send at once eefore our offer is withdrawn
52
•
I I
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
bvc
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving inatruotions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, Which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
lO h 4PD°r B mL hope before reading this book.
on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
st,rf T et N Si5Tlnev STITUTE ’ Vicfcoria Chambers, Elizabeth’
Medicine Sent Free
hovTseV^S
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually, Reined'’
sent Dy mail in plain packages. When CURED we eharg'e
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Adc/ress : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk.” a
collect! on of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s (id. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
SUFFERERSI
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy , in a most simple and easy manner
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists untii you have tried it. Address-:
U Syd?ey ’ Castlerea^
rriHE BULLETIN POST CAKDS.-New
A, Ser ies, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is •
Packet of Pen, lOd. Posted free to any address’
Specia l rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,'
214 George Street, Sydney.
'fa-
men
AIVO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.
Consulting: Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women,and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
Dr. Martin how a copy will be POSTED FREe'V or *3s Thf« !!f<f S ’ ® d, » or if you apply to
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters and 193 medical work contains 692 Pages
Plate. The most Beautiful Four-Oolored
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so Ifc ,^ a ? rue / uld ? ,or al *
FREE
anywhere on receipt oils 6d (stamps). IS'" /Vote Address I-- 8 °" Special ” Allments posted
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
E,m ' cy H °“so, ” 151 Elizabeth-st.
- HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. ’


Jt
TENNIS BOOTS.
White Buckskin, fin. Pure
Rubber Soles, 27/6 Pair.
White Caijvas, §in. Pure
Rubber Soles, 15/- Pair.
White and Brown Can.
vas, Champion Brand,
Black Soles, 4/- Pair.
TENNIS SHOES.
White Canvas, fin. Soles,
10/6, 15/- ami 16/6 Pair.
White Buckskin, fin.
Rubber Soles, 25/- Pair.
Brown (fanvas, fin. Red
Soles, 15/- ami 16/6;
Pure Grey Soles, 18/6 Pr.
bcvb
vcb
Cricketing Boots & Shoes
White Canvas Boots,White
Soles, 7/6 Pair.
White Canvas Shoes,
White Soles (a special
Shoe for Matting: Wic-
kets), 6/- Pair.
White, Brown or Black
Canvas Shoes, Champion
Brand, 3/3 Pair.
Yachting- Boots & Shoes.
White Canvas Boots, with
White Soles, 7/6 Pair.
White Canvas Shoes, with
White Soles, S/-&4./6 Pr.
White Canvas Shoes, with
Black Soles, First
Quality. 5/- Pair.
vc
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
371
Saddler ,
George Street,
SYDNEY.
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
bvc
RODS
For Locating MINE8 f
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Writ* far Booklet, 2 Stamp*.
| Edw. NORTON* 64 Huotee. St&esz. SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Bock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKINC PART — Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
w & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNI
And at 64- PITT ST., SYDNEY.
TENNIS.
AUSTRALASIA v. WORLD.
These Racquets were used by Our Men.
AYRE’S
Wilding
Champion
Handicap
Clarence.
DOHERTY
-grW
Psii3
oo
RACKET.
SLAZENCER’S
Doherty
E.G.M.
Whitehouse
Demon.
ADD Postage BU. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.
I JAMES MARTIN & COMPY.,
Sports Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
b
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
S. SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAM PA 3
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“RAMP A.”
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
//-
- 16
- - 16
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, -Brill
forward the same, free o£ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAUITS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, NervousCough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemitts.
MAMMATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
©OOO3
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
CoHf
Mbs
WOLF
or
AX
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
«... SYDNEY
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS —
J, & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
Low Price. High Efficiency. Every Pom
n
FOR . . .
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
i sp
“.V,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service.
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents: BEVAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melfeo«rne; SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
. .
a
■ ■'
■ ■ ;
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc-
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
'■'r.'LrtC-fr.
0
effects a saving of 25 per cent, in fuel.
Heats the Iron in one-third less time. Thousands in use throughout Australia.
PRICES REDUCED:
No. 1, 355. No. 2,40 s. No. 3,50 s.
All Hardware Houses, or the Solo Licensees :
N. GUTH RIDGE, LTD. ? SYDNEY and Melbourne.
vcb
