

hfghfgh
EXCELLENT IN
EVERY WAY
Vl# IHI D
it=
R. G. WA.TKINS dfc CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOE— b , ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILAB
UOBAJEtT.
fiadley’s Orient |otel.
pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
&
fghfgh
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.,
7 BENT ST.
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents
..FOR..
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
As used throughout Australasia in the leading
WOOLSCOURS, LAUNDRIES, MEAT WORKS, &C., &C.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUES.
s
Take it barck .
I must have -
f Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S
STRONG ROOM
fgh
7laticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates . Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A qjbb, Manager.
Active Ago to and Canvassers Wanted,
u oJ&t.
fghfghfghfg
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ysnira
ItW'
hfghfgh
fgh
I
fg
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
Regd.
%
Trade Mark.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
"V
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOE CATALOGUE.
hfg
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
oundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-Making Machinery.
h
f A Bottle every morning before breakfast. \
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.28.—N0. 14170
[Thursday, April 11, 1907.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
riOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop.
Mclntosh. Industrial Alcohol, 9s, post 6d,
Bulpett, Picnic in Wildest Africa, 15s, posted
Owen, Slate and Tile Tables for Architects, if* post 8d
liarhara Ba.vnton, Human Toil, cloth 3s fid, postage 6d’
' lowan. hast Days of Mary Stuart, 7s Od, postage Bd.
M.and, Feli(tity in Fry nee.
( 'rocket t, LittleTCsson ; a Novel. 2s fid &3s fid, post sd.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Substance of Faith, 2s fid, postage 4d.
Wayner, Story of Lohengrin, 4s, post (3d.
Arclilnu t, Lubricants and Lubrication, 255, postace 9d
Rusttin. I 11 to Tins,Last, new etlition, 8d posted*
Rowe, Practical W’ood-Carvinjr, illiis , 9s, post Sd
Practical business Letters in Esperanto, Is, post 3d
Maxwell, In Malay Forests, illustrated, 7s, posted
Hlackmore, Lorna Donne, new edition. 9d posted
Fiastian, Evolution and Life, 9s, post 9d.
FRESH SUPPLY
JUST OPEN.
TfSE FUTURE IN AMERICA.
71 CASTLERifICH ST.,
SYDNEY.
A Search after Realities, by H. G. WELLS
Ac. ; Cheap Colonial Edition ss, postage Is e*tr£ “ Antici P atious >” “ Mankind i.i
HUDSONS
SOLO
.N TINS, 1/G.
IJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ao
wmst
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
o—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
B— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the' contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. [2.
The RED PAGE
ARNOLD WALL
IN the recently-published Anthology of
New Zealand Verse, probably the most
individual poems were those contri-
buted by Arnold Wall. Each of the
nine poems above his signature evinced a
curious and arresting detachment from
the colonial point of vievt, which was
especially apparent in the poems that
treated of scenes and subjects peculiar to
Maoriland. It was evident that here was a
poet of a singular detachment from his en-
vironment, as if Browning had been unwil-
lingly domiciled in the bush. Here, for
instance, is A Parable of Fiddles, which is
instinct with suggestion, leaving behind it
the piquant impression of an original,
modern, and pregnant—if unimpassioned—
mind
Seeing we are as viols to His hand,
I know not whether we should hope or fear
That He should smite a music out of us,
As out of Lear, or Goriot, or Satan—
A tangled wisp of music as from bells
Wind-swung and angry, or a comet-blaze
Of hell-hot harmonies grown slowly cool.
All round His workshop we hang, dusty, silent;
Will it be wild caprice, or deep design.
Shall move His hand toward this brother or that,
Toward you or me ?
Will He, like fierce old Saul,
Meshed in a toil of cross desires and fears,
Smooth out the ragged discord of His soul
With some sweet elvish moonlight melody,
As of a lost breeze in the elms of Heaven,
Then break His instrument in ape-like fury,
So that we shriek once and are still for ever?
Or will He, toying with a single string.
While we lie yet half-made, draw out crude trills,
Mad turns and sweeps, and soulless tremolos,
A hideous parody of music sweet,
Then dash us to the floor as all unfit
For airs divine and themes of Paradise?
Or shall we meekly pray that we may hang
Mellowing, peaceable, voiceless to the end,
Gathering dust upon the workshop wall ?
Or take this striking picture of Shakespeare
in those last few years of retirement in
Stratford, when the old man, his work done,
recalls that final triumph of his genius, the
“ first night ” of The Tempest
In the Garden, New Place, Stratford.
September, 1615.
All living men and women are as ghosts
To yon old Traveller dreaming in the shade.
He sitteth with his hands upon his paunch ;
His brows sag down upon his large calm eye
That dwells upon the smooth old lawn he, loves.
Silvery pipes the thrush, the sun sinks down ;
It draweth on to curfew.
The old man
Has travelled in a flash the dusty ways,
And is in his dear London. Hark, he hears
The hollow hum of pit and stall expectant;
Hob calls to Jenkins, pit to gallery ;
One whistles, catcalls squeal; the carpenter
Usurps the boards and rolls his rheumy eye ;
And random hammers fall; the new pianks reek.
Ho i ready, boatswain ! where’s shipmaster,
where ?
Sebastian, Alonzo, boatswain, when ?
Hush, bush ! the curtain falls; the house is still.
His last first night. Well, well; all lanes must
end. 1
Give me thy hand, old friend, arid wish me well,
My last first night ! Sit thou, and tell me now
How goes ir with thy Bell and Margery,
And how did’st find thy suit, and how thy feather ?
How speeds it with thy quarrel of the tithe,
bay, hast thou beat ’em, hey ? Good lack, good
lack !
I do remember—hark, the house is stirred.
I warrant ’tis that “ backward and abysm” ;
And all this pretty talk of father and child. ’
Tke thrush is ceased, the lawn grows grey.
Heiglio !
In, in, in, in ! A something sober shade
This vine and fig-tree cast; but it is well.
In, in, in, in ! my posset, and to bed !
Arnold Wall, now Professor of English at
Canterbury College, Christchurch, M.L.,
is English in upbringing. Born in Ceylon
in 1869, he came to England in early youth,
and began to earn a living as a schoolmaster
at £lB a year. Educating himself, he
took degrees at London University, and,
afterwards,- a research degree at Cam-
bridge. In 1899 he came to M.L.
His publications are King Marcha.unt and
IPs Ragamuffin, a blank-verse satire, and
Blank Verse Lyrics, by a Colonial Professor ,
but so careless is the author of his work that
he has seen only one review—and that a
local one—of his books. Yet Blank Verse
Lyrics contains much remarkable work,
colored by the formal temperament that
compels him towards blank verse. Arnold
Wall has written a series of Poems of the
(buffs, which professorialy deal with such
subjects as the “End of the Novel,” “Blank
erse, Ilhythm and Rime,” “Figure of
bpeech, and “i’he Grammarian,” and in
which his schoolnlister mind freakishly plays
with—
The noun inert; the verb that lives;
The willing adjective that gives
Form, color, ornament divine,
Making the naked noun to shine;
The freakish shy infinitive ——!
Mere clever futility—but indicative of the
formality of his mind. Yet, through this
sterile fantasy comes sometimes a pulse of
real imagination, and swiftly he roughs out
for us such images as these
While far away, from many football fields,
Oyer the gleam and fragrance of new furrows,
Rises and falls the surge of many voices,
Of hoarse young voices yelling lustily,
(As all unsteadily rise and fall the cries
When hoar Atlantic cuffs the Cornish cliffs,)
Fatly the ploughman gazes at the mist
And shining furrows, and big looming elms,
And infinite grey morrow of his life.
* * * n
Why should 1 be more loth to fade
Out of the picture God has planned
Than the slant raindrop is afraid
Of the long plunge from cloud to land ?
Wall’s method suggests a plodding mind,
intellectual rather than emotional, the mind
of a logician struggling ill at ease in the
liquid rhythm of poetry. It is in his gro-
tesquery that perhaps he is most at home.
Thus he treats Max Nordau’s mystics
A rank of apes with ashen faces,
Snaily eyes and sagging jaws,
Probing unimagined places
With their meditative paws.
Finding pearls and rubies finding,—
Hungrily they peruse their spoils.
Wondering, trembling, subtly winding
fingers in their toils.
Bluely glints the sun on frozen
Tarns and filmy mountain-holes,
So the chilly light they’ve chosen
On the windows of their souls.
In this, as in much of his work, Wall roughly
paints a picture, and leaves the spectator
provoked and questioning. He aims at
strength, the forceful word, the strenuous
phrase. Yet, as in this impression of
Handel’s “Largo,” he can be lyrical ;
Thk Player.
Firelight laps and laps her round,
Nymph of a hidden fount of sound ;
All her soul is up, and lies
In her lips and hands and eyes.
Wheedled by those fingers white,
The senseless fiddle brings to light
All the thoughts of all the days
He has dozed within his baize.
The silly fiddle throbs within,
With the touch of her soft chin, «
With her cunning hand's embrace,
With her all-transfigured face...,
The Music.
Flight of an angel from a windy world,
Flight of a spirit poised on perfect vans—
A march most stately, calm and rhythmical,
Calm as the breasts’of green downs heaving slow.
He soars in world-wide circles, towering hied],
Leaving dull earth a plain, a field, a gem,
Into a realm of swan-like essences
That throb in age-long beats in time with him,
Attaining to a zenith of pure tire,
Wherein he wheels and swoops in rhythmic curves
Awhile ; then slow descends in world-wide rings
Towards dull earth— a point, a gem, a field,
A vast mosaic. When he stoops at last
To us he loathes us, soars again awhile,
Returns reluctant, soars, returns, re-soars,
Then sinks in mournful cadence down to rest.
From Arnold Wall, with his unblurred and
almost unliterary outlook, we may expect
some new pictures of the' new land he has
made his own. He is far from the first rank
of poets, but he brings an individual flavor
that makes him difficult to classify, certainly
among the bards of the South. He has, at
the least, something to say.
AS IT WAS IN THE BRGINNING
Australians—and other people who have
gathered their Australian notions from the ordi-
nary text-books, historical primers, and popular
histories—are strangely misinformed as to the
actual beginnings of our Australian life.
While Canada boasts clean blood, and the
United States hold on to the tradition of the
1 ugrim 1 athers, we are accustomed to turn from
what pass for the facts of our beginning, with a
shudder and a sigh. We have been taught to
regard them as exceptional in the world ; as new
strange, and particularly infamous. Lord Beau-
champ’s memorable telegram was regarded as
one of those things which should not be mentioned
m polite (Australian) society.
Those birth stains of ours ! If amongst all the
nations of the world we alone knew defilement of
that sort, surely it was not necessary to trumpet
the thing out thus in our tingling, and the world’s
listening, ears. Possibly, however, that very in-
tellectual young peer was better informed in the
matter than ourselves, and knew that our begin-
nings were very similar to those of all other terri-
tories colonised by European Powers. The
United States were in their beginning, and
through ToJ years of their early development, as
much besmirched with convietism as either New
Holland or Van ■* Pieman's Land. From Nova
Scotia to Kio Janeiro, the New World was re-
garded m the beginning of its new civilisation as
providentially provided for the reception and
of the felony of the old nations. In
14.17 Spain sent convicts to the Indies, In 1540
Jacques Cartier and De la Roche took consign-
foncets from France to the Canada*. In
1038 rort Christiana, Delaware, U.S., was built
by Swedish convicts. In the eighteenth century,
many 1 ortuguese convicts were transported to
Brazil Ihe newly acquired remote territory be-
came the wastepot of every nation. And each new
State had to endure, to outlive, to overwear the
convict curse even as Australia has done
Our early settlement was indeed a continuation
of an order which had been in existence for 300
years. Two historians have set these matters out
clearly and convincingly. The first was John
Dunmore Lang ; the last G. B. Barton—by far the
more laborious, able (in this respect) and
accurate. Unfortunately, neither has nowadays
any large circle of readers. Lang’s own personality
overshadows, almost obscures, his book. “ Quorum
pars mwjnu fui he writes on his title page.
Barton’s volume was official, and is rarely seen
outside public libraries. He was entrusted with
certain official documents of New South Wales,
and possibly, to some extent, misconstrued the
accompanying instructions. The governing
powers of the time wanted, what they got through
his successors, a well-arranged compilation of
those documents. His one volume, covering the
period between the first explorations and the
Governorship of Phillip Gidley King, will
remain for all time a great Australian classic ;
the best piece of scholarly literary work this
continent has so far produced. No man who
has lived here, no, man who lives to-day, was or
is competent to take one word from it or add one
word to it. He ransacked all the buried treasures
of the old Australian Library, he pored over
dusty-fusty documents in the archives of the
Government Departments. He read all that had
been written in all languages of the early ex-
plorers. He mastered his subject, indeed, as no
other man has done, and spoke the full word, and
the final word, of all that period.
It is not probable that, had he visited the
United States, the authorities would have found
much delight in honoring him for the cold truths
about their beginnings, which do not accord very
well with the hymn of the Pilgrim Fathers.
He saw the States in their early days as Lord
Bacon and Defoe knew them face to face ; as
Mary Johnston has since recreated them —as a
series, that is, of man-devouring communities,
consuming the scum of England together with the
stolen African.blacks. There was no great multi-
tude of free men, nor many Pilgrim Fathers or
mothers in the America of the 17th and 18th
centuries. And there were, as is proved by de-
ductions from indisputable recorded facts, not
less than 120,000 convicted persons sent thither
from the, prisons and the hulks of Great Britain.
And this number takes no count of the political
prisoners who, after Dunbar, Sedgemoor, and
Oullodden, were transported in legions. The total
number deported to Australia between 1788 and
1841 was 83,000. How, then, can the assertion be
justified that we alone bear a birth-stain?
<2*
Every British colony may fittingly make con-
fession : “ Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and
in sin did mv mother conceive me.” As compared
with those of the United States, indeed, our birth
Stains do not appearso dark and indelibleas to merit
either the contempt or the contemptuous com-
miseration of the world. We admit the convict
element, as must they. We claim to have outlived
it ; while they deny its existence, and yet most
bitterly feel its effects. For, in the Tammany
tiger, in “Corney's Lambs,” in the desperate
lawlessness of gamblers and saloon runners,
in the mob lynchings, common now as when
California was controlled by vigilance committees
and Texas bleeding sorely, may we not trace still
the continuous germinal power’ of the savage out-
lawry, the brutal criminal instinct, exiled so freely
by the Motherland in the days when colonies
were to her but human rubbish depots, or locali-
ties where criminals and slaves could be worked
to profit—worked by corporations, companies, in-
dividuals licensed to exterminate the trueownersof
the new lands, to steal negroes in Africa, and to
work criminals and outlaws sent from “holne,”
all under the one lash, and in the shadow of the
one gallows, or, as Mary .Johnstbn tells us, of the
still more ghastly wheel. And the tramps, the
pest of all outlying country in the States, who
compare with our swagmen as do pariah mongrels
with working sheep dogs, what are they but lineal
descendants of the “ vagroni and masterless men ”
who, in Tudor and Stuart times, were dealt with
at the cart-tail for a first offence, and “sent to
the plantations ” for a second ?
It is curious to note how exactly repetitive are
some conditions of our early life of those recorded
of the United States in their convict days.
Readers of Dr. Lang, of Dr. West, the historian
of Van Diemen’s Land, and of the Rev. Sydney
Smith, the master Jianeur of his time, will
remember the ghastly pictures and the dis-
heartening forecasts of the historians ; with the
quaint, grim reflections of that other who saw
humor in everything.
Those Right Rev. and stalwart doctors and
Fathers of the Churches and people did not find
more to condemn in either Vandemonia or New
Holland than did Lord Bacoh (Verulam) in the
Americas of his days. “It is a shameful and
unblessed thing,” says that great and godly man,
“to take the scum of the land, wicked and con-
demned mfen, to be the people with whom to plant
new States.” Further: “Most of jthe colonists
are no better than criminals. Indeed, the colony
had got so evil a name in England that no
respectable people would go out.”" Arid finally ;
“America has been made the very common sewer
and dungvard to Britain.” Strong statements
these, surely, and from one who was accustomed
to weigh his words.
Still more startling is the resemblance between
the Australian conditions thundered out by
either doctor, or satirised surgeonly by the cul-
tured English divine, and others described by one
Daniel De Foe. We all know a little of our
“emancipist” troubles, and of shaking the hand at
“Government House, Botany Bay,” which “once
was encountered in one’s pocket in Pall Mall.”
Now, listen to the women who had been there,
speaking of the late seventeenth-century condi-
tions in the Americas: “Many a Newgate bird
becomes a greit man, and we have several jus-
tices of the peace, officers of trained bands, and
magistrates of the towns we live in, that have
been burned in the hand.”
Canada, against whom no birth-stains have
been openly charged, crops up very curiously in
the records. We find there the Recorder of
London and Lord Sidney in earnest conversation
over crowded prisons and hulks; and his Lordship
remarks that the season is over for sending
them to Quebec, but two ships shall Tic ready in
March next (1784) to carry convicts to the United
btates. The United States were emancipated
then ; but continued to receive British convicts,
in the South, down to 1785.
There is no explaining away such facts as these.
Bancroft condenses the whole matter in one
terse sentence—“ The history of our colonies
(he includes the United States) is the his-
tory of the crimes of Europe.” Our Aus-
tralia, even as the rest, is not better nor
worse; not in any desirable essentials differ-
ing from the others. Just in our turn we
also became the wastepot of Mother England, and
over us also did she cast out her disreputable and
felonious shoe. But Two Things we did miss in
our beginnings, one of which is now as leprosy in
t;he blood and shadow of doom over all the future
of the United States. It is these black enslaved
race, the “ blind Samson,” who as the gentle but
far-seeing poet foretold, may,
“ In some grim revel raise his hand
And shake the pillars of this Commonweal.”
The other is a something which would assuredly
have brought that black horror in its train, and
been in itself seed of unnatural, antique, slavish
idolatries and truckling conditions, germinal of
worse things than any convictism. Our infant
state had three godfathers. First was Sir Joseph
.Banks; second, Sir George Young; and third,
one whose name is rarely mentioned, Jean Maria
Matra. Of -Banks enough has been said ; and Sir
George Young was not much more than a go-
between ; but this man Matra, of unknown origin,
did certainly contrive to get the ear of the
Ministry of the time, and propose to them a most
seductive plan. Matra would have Australia settled
by “loyalists from America,” the few men so sorely
misguided or bedevilled as to desire to set their
nation back as a worm into the chrysalis again,
when she was out in the sunshine of liberty, a
glorious butterfly amongst the free powers of the
world—men who preferred the yoke of Castle-
reagh and his master to the leadership of
Washington. They were ta be liberally endowed
with our lands; they might be provided with
workpeople, convicts or otherwise, and women
could be imported from the islands to aid in the
work of colonisation.
That, truly, would have been a royal and a
loyal beginning for us. These good gentlemen
would have brought along their slaves, black and
white, male and female, their brutal overseers,
with their whips. They would have wedded,
here on this soil, the black devil of slavery with
the white devil of convictism, the savagedoin of
the fciouth Seas with the brutality of the Old
Bailey, the rapacity of the slave-owner with the
unwholesome fawning servility of the unreasoning
loyalist—and brought forth, what?
J*
Let us be for ever thankful that we missed that
doom, that Britain made us simply her wastepot,
even as the United States, the Canadas, and all
the Indies in earlier years. And then let us look
back—we cannot do it too often or too earnestly—
to those mighty men of the beginnings, whose
statues should to-day occupy the most notable
sites in our chief cities. To Robert Campbell,
holding the germ of all the commerce of Aus-
tralia in his little ship, the “ Lady Barlow,” and
fighting to the death with the Honorable East
India Company for the right of that com-
merce to be born ; to John Macarthur, nursing
his little flock through all the storm and
stress of hard, complex, frequently disastrous
circumstances, and foreseeing and preordaining
the dominance of Australian wool in all the
markets of the world ; to Wentworth, most pro-
phetic poet in his youth, and statesman in his
maturity. Those men and some few others did,
in perils and under difficulties fairly comparable
to those endured by the Jews in building their
second temple, lay solid and deep the foundations
of this our Commonwealth.
Still, there are those amongst us, and not the
fools of their time, who hold that true Australian
nationalism can come to us only as that same
great soul-fact has come to all others, in all times.
That we, too, shall only be born to true life
through shock and clash of arms on sea and
shore, and such valiant winning and strenuous
holding of our own as shall fulfil us for ever with
an independent and indomitable national spirit—
,a soul of Australia, a mighty archangel in all this
southern world. We march towards those begin-
nings as we have marched past, and wholly up-
ward, from those which were. And let all who
hold fast to belief in their inevitableness to the
mighty crisis and supreme hope they involve see
that the march is with weapons sharpened and
loins girded.
MELB.
FRANK MYERS.
THE AUSTRALIAN OF THE FUTURE.
In what way, and towards what final racial
type, is the Australian developing ? What ten-
dencies are at the present time apparent that will
indicate the probable evolution of the Australian?
What influences of environment, what racial
accessions from the outside, will mould the type
of the people of this Commonwealth ? What
sort of a bloke will the Australian of 2000 A.D.,
or 200,000 A.D., be? Or will he be at all ?
These are a few of the questions—the list is
not exhaustive —that might be dealt with by com-
petition for a prize of £2 25., hereby offered for
an essay upon “ The Australian of the Future.”
Essays must not exceed one thousand words in
length (which does not mean that they should be
necessarily a thousand words long), and must be
received in this office by May Bth. Envelopes
should be marked “Essay.”
v -■■■ ■. ■■■■— ♦ ——
“ A glad people in a prosperous land ! ” That is
the'cheery and much-needed doctrine that Grant
Her vey promises blithely to preach in his forthcom-
ing publication, Australians Yet! and Other Verses.
Hervev is one of the best known of Bulletin con-
tributors ; and he, of all Australian poets, should
be able best to preach the doctrine of a cheerful
and self-reliant Australian nationalism.


20 Years’ Guaranteed
BARRING DIRT
or ACCIDENT...
We guarantee all our Watches to be accurate Timekeepers. Lassetter’s are Famous for their
Watches. During the last Twenty Years Thousands of these Watches have been sold and
given Perfect Satisfaction. Expert Watchmakers employed on the premises.
*N.
One of the most perfect timekeepers ever
sold in Rolled Gold Oases.
The “R.G.C.”—
Hunting, Plain
Case, 50s.
Fenchurch Lever
Engine Turned
Hunting, 50s.
OUR SPECIALTY
IN WATCHES—
“ CYRUS.”
Gent.’s Oxidised
Demi-Tlunter Case.
A beautifully finished
Watch.
Strong and best move-
ment. 15 jewels.
Price, 50s.
■
■
The “CYRUS. 1
“The Height ol
Neatness.”
Oxidised Demi-
Hunting “CYRUS.”
A marvel of Accuracy
Fully jewelled move-
ment.
High Quality Watch,
in a well-finished Oxi-
dised Case, 60s.
All Watches are Quoted Postage Free.
% * /
S'
©
hfg
The “ PARAGON.”
Gunmetal Watches.
The modern Flat Case which takes up very little
room in the pocket.
12s 6d and 15s.
A Fully Jewelled Movement, 255.
Other Oxidised Cases, 9s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
The renowned “ CAPTAIN CUTTLE.”
Full Hunting Case, price 20s 6d.
Best value Watch at the money in Sydney.
Same Watch with Demi-llunting Case, pr'ce 22s 6d.
Another Snap—“ The Baron."
Silver Hunting Case, Fully Jewelled Movement, price 42s 6d.
The “ IDEAL.”
Special Imrr.rtation of Ladies’ Gun-
metal Watches. The whole of the
value in the movement.
As Illustration, 12s 6d.
Others, more fully Jewelled,
15s, 17s 6d ai d 19s 6d.
/
SXDNCX-
N=3
\
For value in Gold Watches we are supreme.
Fully 25 per cept. below the ordinary retail jewellers.
Gent.’s Gold Hunting Watches, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s to £l2 10s.
Gent.’s Gold Open Face, £3lss, £4 ss, £5 to £lO 10s.
Lassetter’s Specialty—the Famous
Improved “WANDERER.”
16s 6d.
The “ VICTORIA.”
Sterling Silver, Open Face, Jewelled
Lever Movement, Compensation
Balance, &c., 30s 6d.
Ladies’ Silver Open Face
Watches.
25s 6d.
Fully Jewelled Lever, 35s 6d.
Ladies’ Silver Hunting Casee,
30s 6d.
Fully Jewelled, 42s 6d.
Lassetter's Watches
for Everybody.
LITTLE “SNAP.”
Have you seen our Gent.’s Watch
at 95.?
It is marvellous how we do it !
Solid Nickel Case, Lever Movement.
We should be pleased to show you the
sheaf of letters wherein our Clients, who
have bought Watches, express their
satisfaction, both with the goods and
the way Lassetter’s hare dealt with
them.
Will you call in and have a talk about
Watches with us ?
Should any accident occur,
Lassetter’s beg: you will re-
turn Watch direct to them
■for repair.
Ladies’ Gold Watches.
In Hunting Cases.
From £4 10s to £6 10s.
Demi-Hunting Cases,
£5, £6 10s, £7 7s.
We excel for Values
in Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Gold Watches.
Lassetter’s “ WANDERER.
The Watch which has built up our
wonderful reputation.
With Oxidised Case. Absolutely
reliable, 20s.
LASSETTER’S, The Universal Providers,
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS
WANTE
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, <fcc.
Consign to :
WINCHOOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
t° weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
iLxeeptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
f
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
mart. with in d iS ß i be * au i , ? ul countr y scenes; it describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
sni chesnmnltrmSn toe v ateBt improvements; It shows you the difference between high-class work
aim cheap consti uctioo. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THS" PRFF ART RflfW you will receive the moßt liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
how weave' nluT 1 PUUA ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
packed and deli 7° e ’ dlrcct J rom °“ r Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years.
Hie hivheS n Vf® 1 d f , ree V y° l l r neareßt port, for your inspection and approval; how wc can sell
are ve,?v*i 81 ,? la<le 7'te-'’^f ect from the factory at less than manulacturers’ prices; liow we
S* 1 * 0 ; i” 1 *,;,?,? 0 ,‘ he ? y S‘ e Day? and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur.
sit on wmeh win he g ;^?T, y ° U f Can m!d e lar f 3 easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
tion, which will be sent yqn, free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties
h
Will stop the most
vicious dog- (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
It creates great amusement for
,• , , . , both young and old, it is strongly
*ir m hed n , lckel > “nd is one of the most useful,
iWo le, rel 1 able, and economical novelties ever produced,
lrice 2/0, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
Tl * e “JoHer” Trick Match Box
The box
ca n be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
amaze-
ment o f
fgh
your friends, upon re-opening- the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions. 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 30 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Box. Post free
anywhere for 1/-. Write for. Price List B.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
Box 3, P.O. HAYIVIARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Joker Cigar Case.
A great joke on Cadgers. On removing the lid,
four cigars, which appear to be quite genuine, are
shown. Invite jour friend to have a cigar, which
offer he readily accepts, and immediately he
attempts to help himself a slight pressure of the
button causes the cigars to spring out and the
figure-head to appear in their place, giving your
friend a great surprise. Creates lots of amuse-
ment. Strongly and neatly made. Price, packed
securely and posted free to any part of the world,
on receipt of 1/2.
The Squirt
Camera.
One of the most
amusing- jokes to be found
in our varied stock. Only
clean water required for
working, and it can be used
as often as the operator
chooses, free of cost. Ask
one of your friends would
he like his photo, taken,
fgh
and, when he accepts, request him to put on his best smile and
look straight at the camera. Then withdraw the slide at back
of camera, and when your victim is quite still press the ball
inside the caanera, and your friend gets the greatest shock
he ever had in his life. Strongly made of wood, with strong
self-filling rubber ball for holding the water. Price Sc/,
post free anywhere. Wholesale and Retail. ’
»
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
DINNEFORDS
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
fg
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formula; printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £IQ in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. AVe take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
aajj
£lOO
a WeeH
Given
Away
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMFBTIXIO»r.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
" A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free ©d. from “J'ho
Bulletin” Office.
R
EMEMBER what a shock you got when you first realised that you had
developed a “bald spot ”? Barber had no trouble inducing you to have
your hair singed when you next visited him 1 (The hair is not a tube>
therefore you wasted time and money there.) The shampoos you had
left the cause untouched, and the oils and greasy preparations you used
only helped to smother the life from the delicate hair bulbs, and
actually fed the bacteria that was causing the trouble.
“ That Bald Spot ” still goes on growing larger and larger. Beginning to feel
like resigning yourself to the inevitable ? Don’t be discouraged. Take a good
long look at that scalp of yours. Any “down” there? Yes? YOUR BALD-
NESS IS CURABLE. lam prepared to give you a written guarantee that
“ Capilla ” will give you back
your hair.
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
will force that “ down ” into strong, healthy
hair, or refund you the cost of the prepara-
tion. It’s a straightforward proposition
from a man who honestly believes in the
merits of his remedy, and who wants those
who act on his advice to be nothing out of
pocket. It’s a fair offer. Are you going to
avail yourself of it? STOP ! DON’T leave it
till to-morrow. Go to your chemist or store
and buy a bottle of “ Capilla ” TO-DAY, or write me NOW! You’ll save hair
and money by acting NOW.
CAPILLA Hair Tonic.is sold everywhere at Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle, full course of 6 bottles
posted direct (undercover) for 17s. 6d. ; (Inter-State, 19s. 2d.), from the inventor, W. OLIVER
RICHARDS, 131 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W.
Will Anprape BOOKS.
h
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. LOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Uuidk by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
bard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is Od
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride op the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gii-sy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Centuiy edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l>y Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St.. Melbourne
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT/
The effeot of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, KNQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Its
POILILi.
For
For
For
For
For
For
TORPID LiVER,
CONSTIPATION,
INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
THE COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Li-rer Disorders
ininre the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER
phis and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS, Liver
Complaints never have and nev
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that gei.iuin*
Carter's LUtle Liver Pills Must bear Signature ci
fgh


It’s an easy job for tbe barber to
part tbe hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
yiger’s
%.air Vigor,
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. <
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George St., Sydney.
I cannot praise
SCOTTS
to© highly”
S
The
Evidence
from
116 Bowman Street,
Pyrmont, N.S.W.
August 1 1906.
“ My two sons—George, aged
five, and Thomas, aged three—
suffered severely with chest and
throat trouble, and it was no
uncommon thing for me to be
up night after night attending
to them. At last I gave Scott’s
Emulsion and shall always be
glad I did so, for from the first
I noticed an improvement, and
now the change is simply mar-
vellous, for they are both the
picture of health. I cannot
praise Scott’s too highly.”
(Mrs.) M. Fletcher
o (S^>
The Reason WHY
they are Healthy
The splendid Norwegian cod
liver oil in Scott’s, helped by
the valuable hypophosphites of
lime and soda, quickly soothed
and healed the little chaps’ raw
tissues. That done,
Scott’s set to work
to build up solid,
sound flesh all over
the body—and suc-
ceeded, as Scott’s
always does.
TRADE MARK
But make sure it is
really Scott’s you
get—you can do so
by seeing “the fishman with
the fish” on every package.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
FROM ALL CHEMISTS & DEALERS
IN MEDICINES
IRISH
©5
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
fg
1,1 k
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION”
“ There is only one Cure —
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Bcnificeni
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving' daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used every where and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this ' WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
hfg
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
Ac.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
h
His Majesty tub
Kino and
Royali Family.
IP YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
tis Replacing: All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
, JOHN MOIR AND SON, LirilTED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
? It is also pleasant and refreshing for (
> bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
> against infectious diseases. <
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. <
(Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng. j
Plasmon
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteid, which is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed with
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nocturne.
Where the willows whisper to the night by Avon
river,
While the breeze croons softly by, still fragrant
of the sea,
Sweetly shows the vvater as the faint star-flickers
quiver;
But my soul is hungry for the days that yet may
be,
And the willows whisper to me vainly by the
river,
And I find no comfort in the breezes from the
sea.
All the air’s ecstatic with the murmurings of
lovers.
All the night is vocal of their kisses and their
sighs.
Pan lurks in the shadows, and the beating heart
discovers
Infinite allurement in each moment as it flies.
But my soul is harassed by the nearness of the
lovers,
And their kisses taunt me, and I’m wounded by
their sighs.
Ah, the night hangs heavy on my heart by Avon
river,
And my soul is lonely as forsaken breadths of
sea.
All my nerves are flaccid, and with vain regrets
a-quiver,
And I’m weary waiting for the things that yet
may be.
There is desolation in the night by Avon river,
And the wail comes moaning dull and dreary
from the sea.
"i
All the fates make /havoc of the hopes of loyal
lovers,
All the night is vicious in derision of their sighs.
Somewhere snorting near me there’s a ghoul my
soul discovers,
And the dream of yesterday takes fright and sobs
and flies.
Ah! the gods are deaf now to the prayers of
anguished lovers—
Only mocking laughter greets the worship of their
sighs!
MAOKILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
Sentenced.
lam not lonely. Thro’ the laggard day
Wherein of joy there seems not much to be,
I have a friend who all my faltering way
Treads step for step with me.
He sets about us twain a separate air,
A sunless noon that something has of night;
As one apart I see the earth is fair,
Yet empty of delight.
We are inured to silent hours, we two ;
Yea, though we get us where the gladsome are
To me the sound of all.they say and do
Comes as from very far ;
I reck not much of what has gone before,
I look not eagerly at what is near,
My friend suffices. I have neither store
Of hope, nor any fear.
When, on that day, be it or soon or late,
With many near me or with none to mark,
My life shall reach its term, and I await
My call into the dark
Through the short shrift the careless gods allow.
Who, in my last, forlornest fight for breath,
Can stand beside me undisturbed as thou,
Familiar, patient Death ?
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
For the Women that Love Me.
I have dropped out of the legion
That I loved when my heart was young,
No more in the Temple of Venture
Are the shields of the war-gods hung ;
No more shall I follow the eagles
Where the long slow triumphs wend—
Yet I would that the women who love me
Should keep their belief to the end.
Not for myself I struggle,
I am long since tired of it all;
Battered and baffled and beaten,
Bleeding and flung to the wall;
Not for myself I struggle,
Fight and attack and defend.
But for the women that love me,
That they may believe to the end.
I shall never be guest of glory,
I shall never be friends with fame;
I seek for no victor’s sabre
To carve on the skies my name ;
The only strength I would borrow
Is the strength that their faith may lend,
While I light for the women that love me
That they may believe to the end.
I have no one to blame for failure ;
The battle must go to the strong,
And the weak must fall by the wayside
Where the. road is rugged and long ;
But I’ll follow that stony pathway
However so far it trend,
Just for the women that love me,
That they may believe to the end.
Then, wounded and broken and weary,
At the call of the Battle Lord,
I shall kneel at His golden footstool,
And hand him my useless sword;
And no one shall know but the Master,
And no one shall blame or defend,
And, weeping, the women that love me
Shall have kept their belief to the end.
U.S.A.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


Mis* KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says “I find if more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
. All Who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
W hether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength 1
r endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
' A c *> 1S imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA, occupies the chief place
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
Denerit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food ."—Health.
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
WHAT DOES YOUR ICE COST YOU?
fgh
fg
K€ MACHINE
IS A MONEY-SAVER.
TPHE loss of perishable goods in the sultry Summer
1 Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSwfcK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
Power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result; but this
would be impracticable on account of its expense. It costs
very little with a BRUNSWICK—A-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
Sole Agents,
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 St 9 Market St., Sydney.
CT Visitors To the Old Country
Gloucester Roast ,South Kervs*ir\gtor\ , London, S.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
°ya l
PM
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
1
K £
m
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 9 inches).
Black Tips as illustrated are very fashionable.
3 for ©/-
POST FREE ANYWHERE
SIX SHILLINGS.
Wof thi n ®i pecial °?, tr t 0 advertise our Os: rich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Postal
ISotes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6. Length, IJ yards.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention Tnrc Bulletin’.]
/1/so at Corner of Bourke ant! Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
niiiiiuiiii
Johnßecgs,
S?ECIUMOIItUR
Scotch whisky
m
M
m
/
7/
7*
%
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal
Warrant to
hfg
His Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beefi
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c»j
increases their nutritives value and improves thoir flavour.
Beautiful Home Decorations
rtf
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘'OCR FA VORITE” SOLD EMMEL (Washable) - Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
Ely AMEILS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A bean.itnl china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
:«BAPOLVN’’ BATH TUB HNAMEIi. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish. which will
not come For sale at all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations•
Success Sully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTEN3ORFER EROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN” FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
.* .vjbjfiyßß,!_’fiSR /Jft : •;"
I vßk'
I ■ jsk
: , ..
—-.
w -'
W; . X
wm,
■
i
1
Some Homesteads
Roofed with
RUBEROID.
In tlie country districts of Australia even more so than
in the capitals, BUBEROID is gaining great favor as a
roofing. No other roofing is so easily transported,
so easily laid, and, above all, so suitable to the
Australian climate. A BUBEROID roof may be cheap
in price, but money cannot buy a better.
E. RICH & CO., LTD Sydney & Brisbane.
Some Sydney firms selling Ruberoid —
Holdsworth, Macpherson
Anthony Hordern & Sons
P. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Linns, Ltd.
00.
John Mclntosh & Sons
Grace Bros.
C. G. Hatte, Ltd.
W. Cary & Sons
J. W. Eaton, Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vow 28.—N0. 1417.
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1907.
Pbiob 6d.
BRITAIN’S FREE BREAKFAST TABLE.
Lord Rosebery says that Britain will never tolerate a tax on food; the “free breakfast table ” must be held inviolate.
The British Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners (which makes the table to put the free breakfast on) reports for January this year
that in 495 towns or cities of the United Kingdom trade is “bad” (through so few people being able to afford the price of the table); in 213 it
is “ moderate; ” and it isn’t “ good ” in one single place. Wages for skilled workmen range as low as fivepence and one-eighth of a penny per hour.
Apparently the imported British Freetrade breakfast is eaten on the floor these days.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
** A ustralia for the A ustralians,"
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
JLhe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Ofnce of the Co., 214 George-street North
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum. ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ”* 013 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Thk Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
f you can have Tub Bulletin posted
»eyularly to you every week for a year.
l l i S ’ efjC ~' Business Communications
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Jloiv to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
Llts a 7) e f t f llt ’ themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
} e, i ers , (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
hf!*’ ff.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention .
a !J oo, l thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
T,ZZ S -Z lptlon for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is * person may not be there; the official
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
tuners, lhe right to reproduce or translate any part of
ttie C publis/ S lS number iS hereby expressly reserved by
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns m length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), 1 aragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
d^itiai lrnuniCat ™ ns be re, J ar ded as strictly confi-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
aaarm rs specified and stamps are enclosed But no
mts. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed.. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
tor return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlaole and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
wilt be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
or as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
ajter the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Ihe Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt .—The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lhin.
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
&*TsxzlZeJ!z7L.
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 19U7.
CHINESE LABOR IN THE TRANSVAAL.
R. L. Outhwaite writes :
Those not conversant with the inner history of the intro-
auction of Chinese coolies to work the Rand mines, and
of the results which have followed, must be somewhat at
a loss to understand why the question of Chinese Labor
became of such paramount importance in British politics
as to largely contribute to the annihilation of the Conser-
vative party at the late elections, and why it still remains
in the forefront of party controversy in Britain, whilst
in the Transvaal itself it provoked a fierce conflict at the
elections for the first Parliament.
To a true understanding of the Chinese Labor question
it is necessary to study the economic conditions of the
Transvaal, which lie at the root of the whole matter
The mineral wealth of the Transvaal, which is the
mainstay of the colony, is under a remarkably close
monopoly control, operated by perhaps the most power-
ful group of financiers the “ Old World " possesses. The
Rand mines, from which gold is now being produced at
the rate of £27,000,000 per annum, are controlled by nine
“ houses,” or “ groups,” whose executive is the Johannes-
burg Chamber of Mines. One firm, that of Wkrnher,
Beit, Eckstein and Co. has, however, a dominating influ-
ence over all by virtue of controlling mines from which
approximately, half the output is produced. This firm
controls Cape Colony as De Beers and Co., and Rhodesia
as the British South Africa Co., otherwise known as
‘‘ The Chartered Co.” Its partners are
Alfred Beit (since deceased), L. Phillips, F. Eckstein
C. Rube, L. Breitmeter, L. Wagner, J. C. Werniier.
The other groups and controllers are
The Albu Group : G. Albu, L. Albu.
The Neumann Group : S. Neumann.
The Barnato Group : H. Barnato, S. B. Joel, J. B. Joel.
The Goerz Group: A. Brakhan, H. Strakosch.
Lewis and Marks Group : I. Lewis, S. Marks.
The Consolidated Goldfields Group (largely allied with
Wernher, Beit and Co., representing the interests of the
late Cecil Rhodes).
TheFarrar Anglo-French Group(largely French capital).
The J. B. Robinson Group : J. B. Robinson.
These names indicate two main factors which have
largely determined the issue under consideration. The
wealth of the Transvaal is in the monopoly control of a
few men who have behind them, by virtue of their race
the capital controlled by the Jew financiers of the Old
World. What that means was lately demonstrated when
Wernher, Beit and Co. floated a share-buying “ trust ”
and £100,000,000 was reported to have been tendered.
The names of those to whom shares were allotted shows
the complete domination of cosmopolitan finance over
the gold-mining industry of the Transvaal.
* * * *
It is easy to understand that the monopolists have con-
tinuously kept two aims in view : A Cheap Labor Supply
and Control of the Legislature. The introduction of
Chinese labor is the consummation of a long-sustained
effort on the part of the Rand mine-owners, which has
largely determined the fateful history of the Transvaal
during the last decade. Their views on Labor were no
doubt influenced by the fact that the fortunes with which
they acquired the ownership of the mineral areas of the
Transvaal were made at Kimberley. There they had in-
stituted the “Closed Compound System,” a labor system
restrictive in its essentials and foul in its details. When
the Witwatersrand was acquired by the men who had
thus amassed fortunes at Kimberley, it was but natural
that they should desire to institute a similar labor system
in the Transvaal, but this the Boer Government refused
to permit. That Government’s refusal to actively aid in
procuring the cheapest and most servile form of labor was
a potent grievance in the minds of the alien monopolists
of the Rand. At a later date, J. P. Fitzpatrick, of
Wernher, Beit, Eckstein and Co., wrote a book, “The
Transvaal from Within,” and put into figures an estimate
of the loss thus suffered at the hands of the Government.
He says:—
“ In January, 1891, the average wage for native laborers
was £2 2s. per month. In 1893 it had risen to £2 18s. lOd. ;
in 1895 to £3 3s. 6d. In other South African States, wages
rule from 15s. to 30s. per month, and the failure to facili-
tate the introduction of natives from outside, and to pro-
tect them, is largely responsible for the high figures paid
on the Rand. Unquestionably the ill-will of the Boer
Government is to blame for the consistent neglect of this
growing need of the mines. If decent protection and
facilities were given, the wage could be reduced to £1
15s. per month. The Government has it in its power to
give the mines labor at this price, but, as a matter of
fact, there is no desire to see the lower-grade mines work-
ing. A reduction of a pound a month—that is, to £2 3s.
6d.—would mean an annual saving of £650,000, and the
main reason why nothing has been done to obtain this
reduction is that President Kruger holds that the gold-
fields are already big enough, and that their further ex-
tension would be a calamity."
* * * *
Here we see the Boer Government standing in the way
of the obtaining: by the monopolists of a cheaper laborer.
So the monopolists determined to overthrow the Govern-
ment, and organised for that purpose the marauding expe-
dition from British territory, known as the Jameson Raid,
to the expense of which Mr. Alfred Beit contributed
£200,000. But the expedition failed, and the monopolists
were constrained to attempt to get by persuasion what
they had failed to achieve by force. Consequently, when
the Boer Government, in the year 1897, appointed an
Industrial Commission to inquire into the needs of the
gold-mining industry, the. monopolists formulated their
demands, and appeared before the Commission to urge
them. We now clearly see what was their intent, for
they asked the Government to introduce a system of
“forced Kaffir labor” (that is, of modified slavery) into
the Transvaal, to be enforced by direct compulsion, or by
the imposition of such taxation on the Kaffirs as would
compel them to come to the mines and accept the
reduced wage of 30s. a month. The evidence is available,
but it will suffice to quote the report of the Commission
regarding these demands. The report says
“Your Commission cannot recommend any measure
which would be equivalent to forced labor ; neither can
they recommend the imposition of a higher tax on the
Kaffirs.”
Thus the monopolists were thwarted in their endeavor
to introduce a system tantamount to slavery into the
Transvaal. They therefore threw themselves into the
Johannesburg agitation against the Government, and
zealously promoted the cause of freedom and equal
rights, which resulted in the War for “Justice,” “Free-
dom,” and “Civilisation.” Their aid was a powerful one
The complicity of Mr. Chamberlain in the Raid gave
them control over the Secretary of State for the Colonies
As promoters of the British South Africa Company they
had drawn into their net a large and influential section
of the British aristocracy ; and with their money they
were able to surreptitiously gain control of organs of
public opinion in England.
So the War to overthrow the Boer Government was
engineered, and before the War was over the monopolists
of the Transvaal set to work to ensure that the objects
which they had in view in its promotion should be
achieved. In the year 1901, whilst the fight still rao- e d
they met at Capetown and formed a combine amongst
themselves, known as the Witwatersrand Native Labor
Association, having for its specific object a reduction in
the wage of the Kaffirs, each “ group ” binding itself only
to obtain labor through the Association. The wage fixed
was3os. a month. Then, when the mines weie opened
they requested the High Commissioner, Lord Milner to
further their object on the lines laid down, without
result, before the Boer Commission, and Lord Milner
doubled the Hut Tax, with the express purpose of com-
pelling the natives to seek work at the reduced wage.
It doubtless now appeared to the monopolists that
they were in a fair way to achieve their object. But
when they thought that the natives could be compelled
by a “ lock-out ” to accept a reduced wage, they over-
looked an all-important fact. Had they been dealing
with white men, all would have gone well with their
scheme. Instead, they were dealing with a laborer on
whom the blessings of civilisation have not yet been con-
ferred. Consequently the Kaffirs were not lashed back
by hunger to the mines to work at the reduced wave.
The tribal lands being held in communal ownership, they
remained at their kraals, grew corn, brewed “Kaffir
beer,” and turned the “lock-out” into a holiday, en-
livened by merriment at the suggestion of the recruiters
that they should go to the mines to work at half the old
rate. Meanwhile the machinery at the mines was depre-
ciating, shareholders were getting impatient, and the
monopolists were compelled to raise the wage of the
Kaffirs to the old standard. Thus all their schemes were
brought to nought—the schemes that had cost so much
in blood and treasure, though not to them.
Consequently it became necessary to formulate a new
scheme whereby to obtain a laborer at Is. a day. The
agitation was started forthwith for the introduction of
Chinese coolies, and it was brought to a temporarily suc-
cessful conclusion by the aid of Lord Milner and the
Conservative Government.
• » * *
It will be recognised without much explanation that
the monopolists of the Rand have a difficult position to
maintain. Their control over the people is at present
almost absolute, since they control the source of wealth
on which all depend. But the privilege, by virtue of
which they maintain this control, is a law-made one
which the law can modify or withdraw. Hence the
Rand monopolists have to solve the problem of how to
mine their gold, and at the same time not employ
workers who would be likely, when a legislature came
to be elected, to use their votes to overthrow their con-
trol. That is to say, they are confronted with the pro-
blem of howto do without free white men. They tried to
solve it by the introduction of Chinese. This con-
spiracy of the alien monopolists of the Transvaal against
the white worker, because a potential Democrat, has been
thoroughly exposed. Perhaps the most remarkable in-
stance of its exposure was furnished by the evidence
given by Mr. F. H. P. Creswell, manager of the Village
Main Reef Mine, before the Commission appointed by
Lord Milner, in 1903, to inquire into the supply of native
labor available. Mr. Creswell had solved the difficulty
that had arisen owing to the shortage of native labor so
far as his mine was concerned, by the greater employ-
ment of white workers, and contended -that this system
should be adopted throughout the Rand. Questioned as
to why the mine-owners were unfavorable to the employ-
ment of white men, Mr. Creswell replied that their op-
position was. dictated by political considerations. Asked
to substantiate this assertain, Mr. Creswell read the
following letter which he had received from the Chair-
man of the directorate of his mine, which is controlled by
Wernher, Beit, Eckstein and Co.
“ My dear Creswell, —With reference to your trial of
white labor for surface works on the mine, I have con-
sulted the Consolidated Goldfields people, and one of the
members of the Board of the Village Main Reef has con-
sulted Messrs. Wernher, Beit and Co., and the feeling
seems to be one of fear that, if a large number of white
men are employed on the Rand, the same troubles will
arise as are now prevalent in the Australian colonies, i.e.,
the combination of the laboring classes will become so
strong as to be able to more or less dictate, not only on
questions of wages, but also on political questions, by the
power of their votes when a representative government
is established.
“(Signed) Tarbutt.”
Here then we get an explicit statement of the deter-
mination of the mine-owners of the Rand to safeguard
their privileges by preventing a white working-class
population being established in the Transvaal which
would influence or control legislation. Nor is this an
isolated expression of such a determination. Mr. C. D.
Rudd, a director of the Consolidated Goldfields Co., after
the war presented a memorandum to the shareholders
on the labor question, in which he said :
“Could we replace the Kaffir laborers with 100,000
unskilled whites they would simply hold the govern-
ment of the country in the hollow of their hands,
and, without any disparagement to the British worker, i
prefer to see the more intellectual section of the com-
munity at the helm.”
No wonder a wave of fury swept through England
when it was discovered that the mine-owners of the Rand,
after having provoked a war for the alleged purpose of
getting the franchise for Englishmen, were debarring
them from obtaining- work in the land they had con-
quered for fear they should acquire the franchise.
• * * •
When the mine-owners of the Rand first made definite
proposals for the introduction of Chinese, a howl of
execration arose, and the hostility of the people was so
pronounced that it seemed at the time that bloodshed
would result if the attempt were made. The mine-
owners then set to work to frame proposals to meet the
main objections. They proposed that the Chinese should
be confined to the area of the mine property ; that no
Chinaman should be allowed to do skilled work, under
pain of a heavy penalty to be inflicted on the owner;
that a Chinaman should not be permitted to trade or
own land ; and that many other restrictions should be
enforced. By this means a certain amount of support
was gained for the proposal, and in due course Lord
Milner passed a Chinese Labor Importation Ordinance
through his nominated Legislature. The main features
of the Ordinance are:—
“Chinese are to be imported under an indenture of
three years, renewable at its termination for another
three years. They are only to be employed on the
Witwatersrand area and at unskilled labor. No China-
man is to be allowed to trade or own land. The Chinese
are to be confined to the mine area, and are only per-
mitted to leave it when granted a permit to do so. Any
Chinaman leaving the mine is to be subject to fine and
imprisonment. Any person giving a deserter from the
mines shelter is subject to fine and imprisonment.”
In fact, the Chinaman is a human chattel, and imme-
diately he escapes from his servitude he becomes—in the
words of Sir Richard Solomon, the Attorney-General of
the Transvaal—“an outlaw."
Under this ordinance the importation of Chinese
coolies began. From the very outset trouble arose. The
coolies, in many cases, had no conception of the work
which they had to perform, and had to be literally
flogged down the mines and to their work. A system of
Chinese police was established to keep the coolies in
subjection in the compounds. Flogging became a matter
of common occurrence and an established practice.
Instruments of Asiatic torture were introduced. Men
>vere placed in the “ cangue ” (a heavy block of wood
looked round the neck) and in the stocks, and other
vile brutalities were perpetrated. The doings within
the compounds’ walls were at first well-concealed, but
terrible revelations appeared in the London Morning
Leader, and the Government was compelled by the
publio outcry to make investigations. It was then learnt
that not only was flogging an established practice in the
compounds, but that Lord Milner, the High Commis-
sioner, had himself confirmed the action of the Super-
intendent of Foreign Labor, in giving permission to the
employers to flog their coolies for “ minor offences," a
fact which Lord Milner acknowledged in the House of
Lords.
* • » •
Meanwhile a terrible condition of affairs had arisen in
the districts adjoining the mines employing Chinese.
Outrage after outrage was perpetrated by the Chinese,
murder followed upon murder, until a reign of terror
was established. This culminated in a deputation to
Lord Sklborne, the High Commissioner, headed by
General Botha, who introduced Boer delegates from every
part of the Transvaal. All had the same story to tell, of
a countryside living in a state of terror because of
Chinese marauders, of families coming together at night
and barricading a farmhouse, and returning at daylight
to their isolated homes. A demand was made that safety
must be provided, or the Chinese repatriated, and a
threat was made that if effective steps were not taken at
once a deputation would be despatched to England.
Relief was promised. Constabulary drives were organised
on the lines of the “ Kitchener drives,” and the country
was swept with mounted men. .Expenses on a hand-
some scale were guaranteed by the Government for every
Chinese deserter delivered. Arms were supplied to men
within the danger zone. These tactics resulted in the
capture of hundreds of “deserters.” But still the out-
rages and murders continued, and in consequence the
Government proceeded to amend the ordinance. Access
to the courts of justice in the matter of minor offences
was withdrawn. Cells were established in every com-
pound, and courts, under the jurisdiction of inspectors of
the foreign labor department, were established at the
compounds. The liberty of the coolies was further cur-
tailed by a more restrictive permit system—that is, con-
ditions of servitude were still further enforced. A
general conception of the state of affairs existing can be
gained from an oflacial statement made in the Transvaal
Legislature, which showed that for the year ending June
last, out of an average of 45,000 Chinese' employed, there
had been 13,000 convictions, whilst there were at that
time 1000 Chinese in prison. In fact, the mining area of
the Rand on which the Chinese are employed has all the
appearance of a penal settlement. A cordon of police
guards it night and day, and 50,000 coolies are regarded
as potential criminals. Of other horrors well-known to
exist one cannot write, but they are sufficiently indi-
cated by the fact that the British Government ordered an
inquiry under Mr. Bucknill, and that the report was too
horrible for publication.
* * * *
Meanwhile the effect of the system upon the com-
munity has been disastrous. The gold output has gone
up, but just as rapidly has a condition of almost univer-
sal bankruptcy been evolved in the Transvaal. Slowlv
but surely, as the Chinese become skilled, they are ren-
dering the la or of white men, or rather their superin-
tendence, unnecessary. The best commentary is the fact
that the Government has been compelled to appoint an
“ Indigency Commission ” to inquire into the cause and
remedy of the prevailing poverty. The Trades Unions
have just announced that an average of 20 per cent, of
the skilled workers are out of employment. The returns
just issued for the year 1906 sufficiently indicate how
“wealth accumulates and men decay." The output
from the mines of the Transvaal for November was at the
rate of £30,000,000 per annum, showing an increase over
the rate for the preceding January of upwards of
£5,000,000. Dividends for the year totalled over
£6,ooo,ooo—an increase over the year 1905 0f.£1,000,000.
Nine thousand more colored laborers were employed in
November than in January—and one thousand fewer
whites.
And now the final act in the drama has been reached
The British Government has granted a democratic coni
stitution to the Transvaal, and in the Constitution has
inserted one clause forbidding servile labor, and another
which terminates the Transvaal Labor Ordinance a year
after the first sitting of Parliament. The issue has thus
been made Free Chinese, Repatriation or Secession.
And British votes will give the control of the Transvaal
back to the Boers —the irony of it all.
AGAIN THE INJURED MA STATE
PARTY.
The two or three small handfuls of infuriated
personages, who constitute the Federal Grievance
party or Injured Ma State party in Sydney, have
been going strongly in the dailies during the last
two or three weeks. This periodical outbreak of
the Grievance party is a curious business, and the
faction itself is quaintly suggestive of some of
the black mud springs that boil in Maoriland.
The mud spring has periods of quiescence just
like the Sydney Parochial party, and during these
periods it is simply a large black expanse of
something peaceful and hot. Then, for some un-
accountable reason, it remembers its wrongs, just
as the Sydney Federal Misery party does, and
large masses of boiling mud rise uneasily out of
their bed, and turn over heavily like murky toads,
and subside again with large, fat, indignant
sounds like “Gobble”—which is curiously remi-
niscent of thesoundthattheDowntroddenMa State
faction makes when it suddenly awakes and writes
to the S.M. Herald re the alleged failure to fix
the site of the Australian capital.
" * * *
A very earnest and very much excited but woe-
fully incoherent party is the Ma Grievance crowd
that bellows every now and then in the Sydney
papers. Its trouble is about the site of the Federal
capital, and the subsidiary alleged wrongs which
attach thereto. The Constitution, which embodies
the bargain submitted to and accepted by the
people of Australia, sets forth that that capital
shall be in N.S.W., not less than 100 miles from
Sydney (there is no limit as to how much further
it may be from Sydney), and that it shall include
an area of at least 100 square miles (it may be
any amount more). The Monaro site—which
the Australian Parliament selected on the recom-
mendation of an officer specially appointed bv
the State Government of N.S.W. to report on
sites fully answers the requirements of the
Constitution But the Bruised Ma State party
pleads that there is another document behind-or
in front of-the Constitution. This is an alleged
scrap of paper bearing an alleged memo, by the
State Premiers who were in office some years ago
and who had no special authority in the matter
more than anybody else, and who have mostly
passed away politically or otherwise (Kingston
and Reid are out of State politics and are only
private Federal members; Turner is out of all
politics; Braddon and Dickson are dead • and
only Forrest remains in harness). This memo
which was never submitted to the people or
accepted by them, is said to have expressed the
private opinion of the six men who are mostly
retired or eclipsed or dead, that the capital should
be as close as possible to the 100-miles line
from Sydney ; though at least one of the signa-
tories (Turner), when he heard that the
document held been found in a pigeon-hole
somewhere, dechired that he had wholly
forgotten the existence of any such paper
The Outraged Ma State party professes
the belief that this newly-discovered scrap
of paper, with two dead men’s signatures on
it, should overrule the Constitution which the
people accepted, and on the basis of this memo,
the N.S.W. Government for a long time declined
to agree to the establishment of a Federal capital
on the selected site on Monaro. And because of
it the little Ma Woe party in Sydney fills the
air with cries about the alleged wrong, injury,
outrage, and robbery with violence done to, and
about the alleged horrible conspiracy organised
against, the Ma State, and talks secession, com-
bustion, civil war, and general upheaval.
• • * *
And the Robbed Ma State party professes to
firmly believe that if it were theother fellow, instead
of being the same fellow, and if the same fellow pro-
duced a similar forgotten and dubious scrap of
paper bearing the same kind of memo., and
showed that paper to it when it was the other
fellow, then, in its capacity as the other fellow, it
would recognise the justice of the situation at
once. Assuming that Johnson or Neild or
M'Millan employed agents to draft a plain busi-
ness contract, and the plain contract thus produced
was accepted and signed by the persons concerned,
and years afterwards the other party to the
bargain professed to find a bit of paper in his
desk setting forth that the agents, on their own
responsibility, had expressed their own private
opinion that the contract ought to mean some-
thing quite different from what it said it meant,
and the new reading of the contract was greatly
to the advantage of the party who professed to
find the bit of paper—in such a case Johnson and
McMillan and Neild are quite sure they would
have accepted the new reading of the bargain
without any hesitation at all. It seems they always
do their own business that way, and, speaking as
the people who profess to have found the new and
unaccepted version of the Constitution, they are
quite shocked because the other party declares
that he will adhere to the contract he signed, and
that this sudden finding of the Incriminating
Document may be good enough melodrama, but
it isn’t business.
* * # •
But the strangest part of the trouble lies in the
fact that the Ma Grievance party, when it comes
down to details, takes no real notice of its own
scrap of paper. That unauthorised and long-lost
document purports to set forth that six State
politicians, two of whom are dead, were willing
that the Australian capital should be on, or quite
close to, the 100-miles limit from Sydney, though
they didn’t say so in the clause they put into the
Constitution. That limitation is held to rule out
Dalgety because it is 296 miles from Sydney by
the usual route, yet it didn’t prevent Joey
Carruthers offering Tumut (306 miles from
Sydney) or Yass (190 miles). Nor did it prevent
Carruthers cordially inviting Federal members-
last year to inspect a proposed site called
Muckhole, or some such name (located about 180
miles from Sydney); and the N.S.W. Government
has just been drawing the attention of acting-
Prime Minister Forrest to Canberra (226 miles-
from Sydney); and the loudest parochial bar-
racker of them all is one Biddulph, or Peddle,
or Swizzle, or some such name, who holds that it
will be an outrage if the Australian capital m
fixed anywhere save in his own backyard at
Lyndhurst, which is 191 miles from Sydney by
the regular route. Apparently, even Joe Car-
ruthers, who says he found the irrelevant docu-
ment, and his friends who, on the strength of it,
demanded a Federal capital 100 miles from
Sydney, don’t really care so very much how far
the city is from Sydney so long as they can insult
and humiliate the Australian Parliament by
making it submit to N.S.W. in the matter of the
selection of the site. True, the Biddulph person,
who holds that Australia should be broken up by
secession unless the capital is fixed in his
own backyard at Lyndhurst, and his friends, point
out that their badly-watered pet site is only about
120 miles from Sydney in a straight line, and
therefore is strictly eligible according to the
agreement which isn’t in the Constitution, but
only on the bit of paper with the dead men’s sig-
natures on it, that Carruthers says he found.
Yet the distance to the better watered and vastly
more desirable Federal site at Dalgety, if it is also
measured as the crow flies, when that bird flies
straight, is only about 180 miles, which, after all,
isn’t much of a difference. But the Battered
Ma State party always measures the distance to
Lyndhurst in a bee-line, which makes it about
120 miles, and that to Dalgety by the circuitous
railway and road route, whereby the site beside the
ever-flowing Snowy River appears as 296 miles
distant. And when the Damaged Ma State party
puts its case that way the discrepancy looks
quite considerable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bailway to Bombala.
Last week Premier Carruthers, 9f N.S.W.,
promised Bombala a railway—promised it defi-
nitely, and declared that the work would start
almost immediately. Bombala is on Monaro, in
the southern part of N.S.W., and close up against
the proposed Federal capital site at Dalgety, if it
isn’t actually a part of the site. When J oseph
Carruthers commences to extend the Cooma
railway to Bombala it will take a lot of cussed-
ness, and a good deal of hard climbing over a ridge
4000 ft. high, to avoid taking the Federal capital
site on the way, and thus putting that site
into direct communication with Sydney. In any
case, and with all possible cussedness, the new
line can’t dodge the Federal capital by much.
This proceeding on the p/art of Carruthers throws
a curious sidelight on t%e actions of the parochial
crowd—including CafAbuthebs— which has been
so furiously denouncing the selected Monaro-
capital. One of i(/ a reasons for alleging the-


absolute unsuitability of Dalgetv was that the
plaoe had no railway, that it would cost
a dreadful heap of money to extend the
existing Goulburn-Cooma railway so far, and that
the blessed railway wouldn’t pay if it were
extended. Now, by some strange conglomeration
of circumstances, it seems that the locality is
going to have a railway in any case, and that the
enterprise will pay sufficiently well to be, in
Carruthers’ opinion, worth undertaking. The
place that isn’t, according to the Carruthers
push, worth a railway, when regarded as a Federal
city, turns out to be quite worth one if viewed as
a State village. The country which is too barren
(if it is transferred to the Commonwealth) to
support a line, is really a Garden of Eden, a
fertile spot which for a long time has had just
claims, sinfully overlooked, for railway connec-
tion with Sydney (that is to say, it is a Garden of
Eden and has these just claims while it remains
State property). The railway which would be an
utterly unjustifiable extravagance if it led to
a large, busy and swiftly-growing Australian
capital strikes Carruthers as a very fair invest-
ment of public money, provided it only leads to a
State hamlet. All these things are hard to under-
stand—or at least they would be if any one mis-
took State Premier Carruthers for a logical
being, whose allegation of to-day might be ex-
pected to be anything like his statement of to-
morrow, or to connect in any way with his yarn
of next week, or to have visible relationship
with his complaint of yesterday or his yap of a
fortnight back.
♦
Exit Oliver.
“Somebody like Mr. Johnson”—in fact, John-
son himself —has arrived and taken charge of
the N.S.W. railways ; and presumably the S.M.
Herald is satisfied. The campaign of lies,
slanders and misrepresentations which it carried
on against Oliver, with no other apparent reason
than that he is an Australian, has succeeded. An
able and independent Australian officer has been
displaced to make room for an English officer, who
will need to be a very good man indeed to prove
either so ableorso independent. But if the Herald,
which seems to have shed all the Australianism of
its founder, old John Fairfax, is satisfied,
Joseph Carruthers isn’t. He wanted a dummy
Chief Commissioner, a man who would always
know Joseph, and have Joseph always at his
elbow as interpreter of his dreams. Looking at
Johnson, and drawing conclusions from the way
Johnson speaks, it seems pretty certain that he
does not intend to be Joseph’s body-servant, and
that Carruthers has but exchanged one master-
ful man for another. The Bulletin hopes that it
will prove so. The dismissal of Oliver because
of his honesty and independence was a bitter
injustice, and it would be a sort of poetic revenge
if his successor proved incapable. But the State
cannot afford poetry at the price. It is not in the
interests of N.S. Wales, Oliver having been
sacrificed, that the railways should also be
sacrificed. So Chief Commissioner Johnson will
have the honest co-operation of all good servants
of the public in his new task. He takes the
helm under exceptionally favorable circumstances.
The long lean years of drought are, for the
present, finished. Oliver battled through
those. The desire of the Government to
destroy theindependence of the Commission, and to
bend it to such uses as the Lands Department was
put to, has been frustrated. Oliver fought that
tight; he lost his own official life in the battle, but
he won. Johnson comes with full control of a
great system which is now earning splendid
profits and reflecting in every department the
good work of his predecessor. Unlike Oliver,
he is not compelled to allow wrangling sub-
ordinates on the bridge; the new Act which
Carruthers wouldn’t pass to make Oliver’s
position tenable, but which he gladly passed so
that Johnson might have every chance to make
a good showing, declares that Johnson is
captain with undisputed authority. Unlike
Oliver, he need have very little trouble
with the Premier, for Carruthers, if treated
firmly at the outset, will not dare to interfere;
he cannot sack two Chief Commissioners by Act
of Parliament within a year. With anything like
the ability and courage of Oliver, Johnson should
do well. And Oliver, having waited to see his suc-
cessor installed, and to help him in every possible
way in taking over his office, leaves Australia
shortly. It would not be a matter of wonder if he
never returned. Through a long and strenuous life
he has given the best he had to his country,
first as a firm and honest Lands administrator
(possibly the natural objection of this N.S. Wales
Government to a firm and honest Lands adminis-
trator is at the bottom of its venomous hostility
to Oliver), next as a conspicuously capable rail-
way manager. He was first Eddy’s colleague.
When, worried by the “audacity of elected per-
sons,” Eddy threw up his post, Oliver was
chosen in his place. Eddy thought better of it,
and Oliver at once yielded back to him the
first position. The action was characteristic of
the man’s official career; with him the country’s
interests were always of first importance. After
Eddy’s death, Oliver was, for the second time,
appointed Chief Commissioner. The task of
dragging the railways through the long-protracted
drought fell to him, as did that of re-organising
the tramway system, which he raised from the-
worst to one of the best in the world. The squalid
story of his dismissal need not be told again.
Oliver, thinking of the country and not of the
“ politics ” of the matter, refused to agree to buy
coal off a syndicate at far more than the market
price to the general public; he refused also-
to pay to a private firm far more for making
engines than the cost in the State workshops.
ITia two colleagues on the Commission disagreed
with him, and were able, with the help of
Carruthers, to carry the day. Oliver did not
conceal his disgust, and Carruthers had sufficient-
influence with Parliament to have him dismissed
“for quarrelling.” The Bulletin says farewell
to Oliver with deep regret. He was among all
Australian public servants conspicuous for
honesty and fearlessness. There is some satis-
faction in knowing that, to all appearances,
Carruthers has not succeeded in getting a pliant
tool in his place.
♦
Wren.
Jack When’s act of submission to the Vic.
Gaming Law (when he found his fortress about to
be quarantined) was the signal for a preconcerted
attempt to establish the respectability of his
managing schemers, and reassert his own impu-
dent pretensions to the gratitude of Labor.
Touching the “surrender” of Wren’s strong-
holds, Melb. Argus published an interview with
“Mr. Patrick Boardman” (ye gods!), which
brought Paddy’s name into notice as that of a
right-thinking diplomatist who had come all the-
way from the N.S. W. Blue Mountains to further
the interests of Lawanorder. The local community
of “guns,” on reading the statement of their old.
friend Paddy, whistled with amazement and said
“Lorblimev!” But the unenlightened million
of citizens accepted him on the published evidence
as an estimable mediator between “ his friend,
Mr. Wren,” and “the religious gentlemen who
were assisting Superintendent Sainsbury in his
efforts to suppress gambling.” Boardman being
gracefully posed on a pedestal, it was time to
bring his colleague, Barney Reynolds, under
favorable notice. Both the Argus and Age
published “ a letter to Mr. John Wren from
Mr. Barney Reynolds” on the subject of Bill
Squires among tfie Maoris, which will doubtless
be followed by many letters from the same valu-
able historian. And last week the Vigilance
Committee of the Melbourne Building Trades
Employees was duly reported as having made a
presentation to Mr. WRENinaßourke-street pub.
The committee-men presented him with their
photographs, mounted and framed, in recognition
of his cash services—totalling £B30 —to the lament-
able strike in the building trade, _ whereby a
number of workers were induced to think of him as
the Labor Party’s best friend and patron. This
latest glorification of Wren enabled the hero to
speak of the workers as “the class from which he
sprang,” whereas they are the class from which he
sank ; and it gave him another opportunity to
strike the old sectarian note in reference to “ the
parsons.” Wren, it must be remembered, has
spoken of himself as a sincere Roman Catholic
Christian, and in that character he told his little
audience last week that “he had been watching
the actions of the parsons, and he thought it abso-
lutely essential that the Labor leaders of the
country should fight those men.” (Applause.)
The spectacle of Wren, with theR.C. ticket stuck
inside his hat band, calling upon the Labor party
to “fight the parsons” should finally decide the
party to cut its connection with the mischievous
impostor.
The Free Breakfast Table—or the Free Break-
fast on the Floor when there isn’t any Table.
Lord Rosebery, Britain’s bloatedly-rich amateur
statesman, “the ploughmanof the lonely furrow,”
has announced that there are two things which
the British people will never tolerate—a tax on
food and a separate Parliament for Ireland. It is
a quaint circumstance that this dilettante person,
loafing affluently in the gilded aloofness of the
House of Eldest Sons, should speak so confidently
as to what the masses will or will not tolerate—
these masses that he only knows of in the pages
of a review or in the leaves of a dissertation on
political economy. The British people have seen
their local food supply and their local food-
producing industry taxed almost out of existence
by Freetraders and by landlords like Rosebery.
The burdens which were taken off the foreign
article at the Customs were, of necessity, heaped
■on something else. They were' piled partly on
the land, which produces food, till at last rent and
taxes drove it out of cultivation; and partly on the
people direct, till the British citizen, in order that
foreign goods may not be levied upon at the
Customs, totters under such a mass of direct
imposts as is unheard of outside the dear old Ma
Land. In theory, he has a free breakfast table,
but with the rate-collector at his door imme-
diately before breakfast, and during breakfast,
and immediately after breakfast, he has hardly
any time to sit down to the table, and he finds
mighty little on it when he does sit down. In
fact it would seem that in very many cases he
■can hardly afford to buy the table to sit down to, or
the chair to sit down on. The Bulletin has
before it the report (for January, this year) of
the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and
• Joiners —the society which makes the table and
the cheap wooden chair that the poor sit on. It
is a huge society, spreading over England, Scot-
land Ireland and Wales, and with connections in
the United States, Canada, Maoriland, Australia
and South Africa. The report sets forth the
state of trade in a multitude of towns, and leaving
out a few where there was no trade doing by
reason of strikes, and a few which failed to make
returns, these are the results :
Towns Towns Towns
where trade where trade where trade
was was was
“Good.” “Moderate.” “Bad.”
United Kingdom None 213 495
United States 8 44 None
Canada .... 6 15 None
Maoriland .. 4 11 None
Australia .. 6 10 1
South Africa .. None None 13
That report sets forth how a very large section
of tradespeople are getting on in the way of
earning food to put on the free breakfast table
of Britain, or the enslaved breakfast table of
other countries ; and how much profitable work
they can find at making the free and prosperous
breakfast table of enlightened Britain and the
enslaved and downtrodden breakfast table of
lands which still linger in the darkness of Pro-
tection. There are 509 places which report trade
as being bad, and 495 of them are in the Freetrade
United Kingdom; while in the three most highly
protected countries on the list there isn’t one.
There are 24 places which report trade as good,
and not one of these is in Freetrade Britain;
they are all in Protectionist countries. (It is a
pity the returns from the United States, Canada,
etc., are so scanty ; still they cover all the largest
centres of population.) The situation as regards
Britain seems to be about this :
(1) The things on the breakfast table are free in the
sense that they are almost all imported and don’t pay
Customs duty.
(2) The workers can hardly find the money to buy
them ; even if the things on the table are nominally
“ free ” they cost as much as if they weren’t.
(3) There'often isn’t any table.
The United Kingdom return shows places where
the wages of carpenters and joiners are as low as
6§d. per hour, and from that they go up, but
only in very rare cases, to 10£d. That
is the maximum, and the average seems about
7£d. And so humble do the local expectations
appear that some places where the wages are
below fid. an hour are not called “Bad”; they
are only “Moderate.” The United States record
runs from Is. lfd. per hour (in one instance) and
Is. 3£d. (in one instance) to 2s. 6d. per hour (the
figure is still higher in San Francisco, but San
Frisky is hardly a fair criterion these days).
Canadian figures run from to Is. 9fd. per
hour; Maoriland wages are from Is. 3d. to Is. 4d.
Thus the best figure in the United Kingdom
(under Freetrade) is lower than the worst figure
in the Protectionist countries that are included
in the list. It takes a terrible amount of “ gag ”
about a free breakfast table to compensate for
living in a country where an expert tradesman
may have to toil for s|d. per hour, and find work
scarce at that. In his case it ought to be called a
free breakfast floor. Such wages don’t run to
tables. But probably Lord Rosebery, who
speaks so confidently about how the British
worker will never endure this or that, hasn’t
attempted, even once in his life, to bring up a
family on a wage of 5Jd. per hour, and has never
had his breakfast on the floor.
“ The Bulletin ” Takes Bigjohn to a
Waterhole.
Bigjohn Forrest, acting Prime Minister, an-
nounces that he is still against a Federal graduated
land-tax for breaking up big estates ; if, he says,
people want land they must pay for it. As anancient
explorer, Bigjohn knows the value of w'ater if he
doesn’t of land, wherefore The Bulletin takes
him to a waterhole, and asks him to think of old
times again. If, leading a famishing exploring
party, he came to that tank and found that it
was being used to water sheep, wouldn’t he point
to his famished men and say that he wanted some
of the liquid ? If the boss said it was his water
and he wanted it for his sheep, Bigjohn would
reply that men were of more value than sheep,
and, anyhow, there was enough for both, so fie
was going to have some. If the thirstier they got,
the higher the price the boss demanded for a
drink, until presently for someof explorer Forrest’s
men the figure became prohibitive, Bigjohn
might pay the price—might pay the blood-money
but when he got back to civilisation he would, if
The Bulletin knows him, use blistering words
about the inhuman brute of the waterhole ; and,
in the interests of subsequent travellers, he
wouldn’t rest till he had shifted the brute. As
the leader of an exploring party, Bigjohn’s
attitude seems clear enough. But as the
acting-leader of this larger exploring party
of the Commonwealth, Bigjohn sides with the
boss of the waterhole. He agrees with the boss
of the waterhole that it is his waterhole, and that
he has the right to extort from famishing men
their last farthing as the price of a drop of the
liquid. This boss—this boss of the land—goes, in
fact, farther than even the most grasping
boss’ of a waterhole probably ever went;
he not only extorts the last farthing the
famishing person has, but makes him his
slave to work for him for years to come.
And Bigjohn Forrest, who would probably
have felt himself justified in shooting down
a man who made and insisted upon such a pro-
position in his exploring days, nowadays, when
he is another kind of leader, nods his head and
simply says, “Yes, it’s his waterhole, and we
must accept his terms.” To be perfectly fair to
the boss of the indispensable land, the latter
says, “Well, mine is not the only land—go on
further ! ” Then picture Bigjohn, the explorer,
in another situation. He has come with his
famished party upon a waterhole, used for sheep,
with the boss alongside it. The boss says, “ Yes,
you are famishing, but I want this for my sheep.
There’s some sort of a 4 soak ’ further on, and pos-
sibly you can reach it. It isn’t much of a ‘ soak’;
it depends on an uncertain rain, but still, if there
happens to be any water there, and you can
manage to reach it, you won’t find it very
brackish. I would take my sheep there, only it
kills them. Good-day ! ” But that “ Good-day
wouldn’t end the argument with Bigjohn the
Explorer. With Bigjohn the acting-Prime
Minister it is, however, quite sufficient. He
passes on ; and if, while the other’s sheep drink,
his men—the men put into his keeping—drop by
the way, in a weary search for another waterhole,
whose is the responsibility ? Explorer Forrest
knows ; and it will do Australia a lot of good if
he will tell acting-Prime Minister Forrest, who
seems to be a different person altogether.
4
The Northern Planter and His Labor.
The Queensland sugar planter is at last making
some pretence of an effort to organise white labor
to replace the Kanakas that he is losing. So far
he has hugged to his breast the idea that he only
had to create some sort of a labor difficulty and
Australia would relent and allow him his nigger
again. But the very firm front of Australia on
the question, and the actual deportation of the
Kanakas to their islands, at last convince
him that the Commonwealth is determined
to be “white” at any cost. Even if it
were found that a White Australia could not
possibly be a sugar-growing Australia, there is
very little reason to doubt that the continent
would vote white all the same ; its conviction of
the sanity and wholesomeness of racial purity is
too deeply-seated to be shaken by a cash loss.
But, of course, that “if” need not be taken into
account. There is ample proof that sugar cane
can be grown with white labor. What has been
lacking so far has been the desire to find that
white labor. If shearing in Australia had always
been done by Chinamen —as the early-day pas-
toralists wished—and the use of Chinamen was
now forbidden, and white labor had to be substi-
tuted, the change could not be effected without
some organisation and some trouble on the part
of the employers, and the cry that the sheep
must necessarily perish out of the land
would be quite as loud and strenuous as
the present cry about the allegedly in-
evitable perishment of the sugar cane. The
Queensland planters have taken the stand that all
the white labor required must come knocking at
their doors, and have complained bitterly of the
“trouble ” they are being put to, and the “great
difficulties” in their way. But if they cannot
surmount those difficulties, what shadow of a
reason can they advance for their existence as
bosses? It is the boss’s duty to surmount diffi-
culties ; that’s why he is a boss, or it ought to be
why. If he confesses himself no better at organisa-
tion and initiative than the poorest laborer, it is
the cue for someone to put him down to the posi-
tion of a laborer. The employer has only one
valid reason for claiming a lion’s share of the
profits of production, and it is that his superior
mental qualities make him fit to lead and
overcome obstacles which would thwart the mere
worker. This is an occasion when he should seek
to make that reason good. He may be absolutely
sure that there is no shadow of a hope of the re-
versal of the White Australia policy. Taking
that as a first premise, let him arrange his
sugar-planting under the new conditions,
assured of the most loyal assistance from the
Australian Parliament in surmounting any real
troubles that may arise.
The Fly in the Fruit-growers’ Ointment.
The fruit-growers of Victoria are beginning to
reap the reward of their own selfishness and
stupidity. A few years back a few of them started
a co-operative company which, had they waited a
while and given it a fair start by backing it up
generously, would have presently given them the
entire control of the sale and export of fruit.
Instead, they let their own organisation slide, and
ran to the agents directly the latter offered a half-
penny more ; and now they are to a large extent
in the hands of those agents. And the fruit-agent
is step-brother to the butter-agent, and pretty
often the step is towards the devil. On top of
their perennial troubles of dry seasons, poor
prices, codlin moth, borer, aphis, slug, etc., comes
now the alleged Queensland fruit fly. This is a
beast which attacks ripe but sound fruit, in con-
tradistinction to the common flies of sorts which
seize on decayed fruit. The fruit fly gets in early
with its eggs—in peach, apricot, tomato, cucum-
ber, melon, anything—and the fruit which looks
sound is a wriggling circus inside when it is
opened. As a side issue this Queensland fruit fly
is alleged to be really indigenous to N.S.Wales,
but has either flown or been carried North.
Months ago Vic. Entomologist French warned
the Minister of Agriculture and the local fruit-
growers that if the fly got a footing in the Southern
State it meant ruin to them, but the fool
orchardists listened to the patter of interested
parties that the fly “couldn’t live in a cool
climate,” and ignored French. Also the fruit-
agents, who foresaw the possible prohibition of
the Northern banana and orange, took good care
that Minister Swinburne acquired a similar idea.
Now the flv has arrived, and is all over the State;
and the orchardist looks blue. The worst of the
trouble is that there doesn’t seem any remedy.
French, backed strenuously by the Age, wants to
totally prohibit the importation of fruit from a
fly-infected State. That is necessary if preventive
measures within the State are to be effective.
(S. Australia lost no time in prohibiting Victorian
and Queensland fruit.) It would, moreover,
release some two dozen inspectors, now vainly
“ inspecting ” bananas on the wharves, and would
make them available to deal with the worst
difficulty of all—the local fruit-grower himself.
In almost every part of the State are orchards in
which the trees have not been worked or sprayed
for years, regular breeding grounds for pests of
all descriptions. No inspector could pass without
seeing these dangers, yet the owners are allowed
to propagate diseases unchecked. Which all
suggests that Minister Swinburne needs to give
much more time to his Department of Agri-
culture or else hand it over to some less hurried
man.
4
Bent’s Land Trouble.
When Thomas Bent left for London, almost one
of the last things he said was that the Victorian
land question was to be properly settled ; and the
way Thomas the Corpulent settled it was by
increasing the price of State lands, and by giving
an extra loud yell about the splendid work the
Closer Settlement Board is doing. And Thomas
was hardly as far as Adelaide before there was a
loud complaint amongst his own followers, several
of whom have declared that, unless the land
policy of Thomas improves rapidly, the Govern-
ment will lose their support. The demand for land
in Victoria is just as insistent now as it was when
Thomas began to reign. There is a dreary strip
or string or streak or telegraph post of land be-
tween Victoria and South Australia, known as
“ the disputed territory.” Owing to the dispute,
this land has been neglected ; but, a few months
ago, the Bent Government decided to let it in
fair-sized blocks. And, although the land is a
long, midsummer day’s journey from anywhere,
farmers have been falling over each other in their
eagerness to get it, and there are 20 or so
applications for each block. Two or three
days ago, also, a large band of Ararat farmers
set out to take possession of farms in
Queensland ; although south of Ararat, within an
hour’s drive from the town, there are huge
unsettled areas of splendid wheat-growing land.
At Cororooke, a farming suburb of Colac, farms
which sold one or two years ago at £2B and £3O
per acre, are now being eagerly bought at £3B and
£4O, and the demand is still unsatisfied. There is
a practically unlimited inquiry for farms of from
40 to 80 acres of first-class dairying land, but the
Bent Cabinet has not even heard of this matter
yet. Certainly the Closer Settlement Board has
done good work, and the bulk of its settlers are
prospering; but it only touches the fringe of a
vast subject. Bent had some notion of states -
manship when he announced his intention of
resuming 4,000,000 acres of the western plains ;
but the project seems to have fallen through a
The Coming.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He grew out of unmeasured years, from some
primordial slime,
The psychic cell of him emerged to thread its way
through time;
From rhizopod to gastrmad he budded in his prime.
Laurentian rocks have trace of him—his tale is
writ in stone ;
He branched and reached to protist forms, till,
ever stranger grown,
From stage to stage —the lancelot, and then a
thing of bone.
Silurian fish and dipnoid’s fin—the carboniferous
age—
The old amphibia strewed its bones along the
shifting stage—
The permian reptilia wrote their geologic page.
Read ye within the book of rocks his chain of
growth to solve,
And mark the types that lead to types, as ever
types evolve,
And trace him to the mammal’s bone as cycling
years evolve.
He hides within Triassic drifts—the ancient
monotreme.
Jurassic stone has gripped the bone; he peers
from out the seam,
And weird marsupial brutes arise in that stupen-
dous scheme.
The skulls are in the Cretan rock, and in the
Eocene;
The sediments hold records still, that he who
reads may glean
A glimpse of hidden ancestors, the monsters that
have been.
At last, and in the Miocene—the primate ! Him,
the ape ;
His skull grins from the recent stone, with savage
jaws agape ;
The creature with the hand and brain has
shadowed forth his shape !
The cynopithecus, he grasps the branch within
his hand.
The man-ape lumbers from his cave, and howls
along the sand.
The pithecanthropus essays to lift his bulk, and
stand !
And so he comes, not hewn of God, nor yet of
mighty span,
A speechless, cunning, hairy brute, but no ouran-
outan;
He leans upon a ragged club —at last he is a man !
VIC.
C. G. A. GOLLES.


At the crowd round Tyree’s exhibit at the
-Agricultural Show ; —
An old man (evidently a fruitgrower) and a tall son
with a weary expression round his whiskers. A salesman
•explains to old Ribston Pippin the advantage of the
Tyree Spray. “ With this machine, sir, you can spray
your trees at a cost of one shilling per day without work ;
you can paint your house without a painter ; you can
wash your cart, wash your windows, disinfect the rooms,
kill all the weeds, whitewash your fowl houses, dairy,
cowsheds, and other buildings, put out a bush fire, kill
bugs, fleas, cockroaches or spray your cow feed with
molasses. The Tyree Spray will pay for itself in a few
days. “Yes, very good, very good,” remarks Ribston
Pippin, “ as soon as I have worn out my pump I will get
■one.” “ That’s all rot,” says Sonny, “you will wear me
out as well, for I have to bally’- well work the pump,
and I am full up of the job. We’ll take one, boss, if the
old man won’t pay for it, I will, for I’ve just about had
enough of pumpin’.”*
For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living picture
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, Sydney, wholesale jobbers for
Edison’s phonographs and products.*
hole somewhere, or else the Premier has trodden
on it. But unless something definite is forth-
coming—and forthcoming soon—the Bent Govern-
ment may look out for trouble.
«
N. S. W. public servants seem to take their oue
mmi the soured insect Carruthers in regard to
h ederal matters. For the Easter Encampment
which has just ended, the country batteries of
h leld Artillery, with their horses, were entrained
from Albury, Wagga, and Young. The men
were in the train for 29 dreadful hours; the
capacity of the N.S.W. railway officials for hang-
ing up that train, and making it linger on the
line for more than twice the necessary period,
amounted to genius. Then, to rub things in, and
by way of superfluous cussedness or malevolence,
the men were refused permission to give their
suffering horses a spell off the train, though at
one spot they were delayed four hours, and the
cramped animals might well have enjoyed a little
relief from the misery of travelling. Apparently
aaorse becomes a public enemy in the opinion
of the State Frights crowd if it is in the service of
the Australian Government. Further, the train
stopped, as far as possible, where there were no
refreshment rooms, and for a very long spell the
men had no food. Likewise the Tramway Depart-
ment refused permission to employees to go into
camp until after the holiday rush. All round there
kerned to be a desire to be as annoying as possible,
and the only conceivable reason is that the mili-
tary service is now a Federal business.
«
Ihe patriotism” of the man with a “stake in
the country ” shone forth like the glorious morn-
ing star during the recent N.S.W. military
manoeuvres. To carry out the original divisional
and brigade scheme of operations at Liverpool,
the troops would have had to cross several
private estates ” to approach Prospect reservoir,
and protect Sydney water supply. Owners were
to be fully compensated for any damage done to
their blessed grass. All the same, two of the
patriotic” landowners told the District Com-
mandant, point blank, that they’d see him dyna-
mited before they’d allow their country’s soldiers
to trespass on their grass. With great trouble
another scheme was arranged to allow the troops
to get to Prospect, by marching round the sacred
property.” When everything was fixed up on
the . new basis,. and the men were already
putting on their putties to entrain for the
camp, another of the owners—a woman—who
had previously consented, wrote to say that,
after consideration, she didn’t want any
soldiers about her place just then. The Last
Word of the Woman cut the troops off from
Prospect reservoir, and the whole scheme had to
. torn up, and a fresh one—to carry the opera-
tions in a totally different direction—improvised
in a great hurry. It was a neat little example of
what a Hog the landowner can be when lie is in a
good porcine humor, and of how he can hold up the
country s business when he feels that way. And
when the day of trouble comes, this same cantan-
kerous landowner will probably be found skulking
behind his hen roost, and wailing through his
frenzied whiskers: “ Why the deuce don’t those
demned soldiers come and protect me and mv
property ? ” y
As was expected, the Vic. Labor Council, at its
Easter Conference, decided to continue its policy
of isolation ; and, though one branch moved that
arrangements be entered into with the Liberals to
save splitting the democratic vote in various
electorates, the proposal was defeated by 70 votes
to two. After that, the Conference went on to
recommend the State provision of medical and
nursing attendance at childbirth, and the establish-
ment of municipal pawnshops and medical dis-
pensaries in every district, and sundry other
desirable but at present quite unrealisable innova-
tions. Heaven only knows the use of all these
pretty resolutions. If the Laborites would work
with the Liberals they would presently realise the
less radical parts of their programme, and bv that
time what now looks ultra-advanced would be
regarded as quite moderate; but so long as they
reject overtures from all who are not prepared to
go the whole way with them at once they will
remain in a hopeless minority, and won’t get a
chance to carry even their least radical planks.
Ihe one pleasing feature of the Conference
occurred at its close, when, in the election of the
executive committee, every one of the red-hot, all-
or-nothing firebrands was defeated. Also the
delegates decided to appoint a permanent secretary
and organiser at £156 a year—less than the wages
of a bricklayer or a carpenter. The disastrous
lom Mann got double that, but he was imported.
-♦—
The murderous policy which allows the free, or
practically free, admission of foreign imports gets
another shameful advertisement from the history
of the Australian white lead industry. This is
the case of Proprietor A. Parker, of the butchered
Footscray (Vic.) white lead works :
We have not now a manufactory of white lead through-
out Australia. About £35,000 was sunk in white lead
manufacture in Footscray by my partners and mvself,.
and we have been closed up for about 10 months. About
63 tons of white lead are sold in Australia per week, and
it .is nearly all the adulterated imported article. The
price now charged is about £32 per ton, but when we were
competing with the importers they under-cut us, and)
were selling as low as £24. As soon as the Australia™
manufactories closed, the price of the imported article
jumped up to the present rates. Australian white lead is;
an absolutely pure product. The very best of the im-
ported stuff contains only 72 per cent, of lead carbonate,,
while the Australian product gave the full 100 per cent.
T i,’ el 'e is an almost endless supply of ores in Australia,
adapted to the manufacture of white lead if the Aus-
tralian manufacturer were only protected ; and, if the
Government gives adequate Protection, I will willingly
enter the industry again, and put fresh capital into it.
Messrs. Lewis and Wiiitty also have had to close their
lead factory.
It is the old story. The importer cuts down the'
price till he kills the local industry. Then, when
he has the market to himself, he puts it up higher'
than it ever was before. And if that high price
induces another Australian industry to start, he l
cuts the figure till he has killed that also. Then
he makes another rise, and the rise is always,
much more than big enough to cover the previous,
fall.
Two small grumbles have been going round in l .
Sydney. One is about the late or inefficient,
delivery of letters and telegrams. That was.
called “Federal Mismanagement.” The other
was about the awful bungle whereby the new
Cataract dam was not cleared of vegetation before'
the water was turned on, the result being that
impure water, loaded with vegetable decay, which,
may cause a hideous typhoid epidemic, has been
turned into the Sydney supply. That wasn't
called “State Mismanagement’’—only “mis-
management.” The two matters look much the
same, yet there is a difference. When some-
thmg goes wrong with a Federal department,
the parochial press rises to point out that,
if the .affair were under State control it would, of
course, be all right. When something goes much
further wrong with a State department, the same
press doesn t rise worth a cent to point out that
it would be much better under Federal control.
The one item is “Federal Muddle”; the other
isn’t “State Muddle”—it is just “muddle.” And
unless the Federal Government gets control of
such departments as the Railways and the Lands,
which have a whole lot of valuable advertising to
give to the daily papers, it is hard to see how this
state of things can be remedied.
4
At the recent meeting of the Engineering Associ-
ation of New South Wales, Mr. Russell Sinclair,
in his presidental address, referred to the rapid
increase in the use of internal combustion engines
for small power plants, and then referred to
alcohol:
Although alcohol had a lower heat of combustion than
oil, benzine, or petrol, its efficiency when used in a motor
was more than twice as great, and if the first cost could
be regulated to equal that of other agents, its use should
greatly develop. Its advantages were that it was not so
dangerous as oils, as it did not explode by radiated heat,
and could be extinguished by water, while benzine or
petrol could not. Most important of all to Australia, an
unlimited supply of alcohol could be manufactured within
the Commonwealth, while other liquid fuels had to be
imported.
That last is the interesting fact to Australia.
There -is no vegetable substance from which
alcohol cannot be extracted cheaply and easily,
and there is an unlimited amount of vegetable
refuse resulting from all our “primary industries,”
as the CoBDEN-ite pedant loves to call them. The
very sawdust that is being discharged into the
rivers, to the prejudice of navigation, will, with
not.very difficult treatment, produce a very good
industrial alcohol. Diseased fruit, instead of
being foolishly and wastefully carried out to sea,
could be quietly emptied into a distiller’s vat, and
so much more effectually destroyed. There is not
a shadow of'doubt that, if the making and distri-
bution of industrial alcohol were properly en-
couraged and regulated, Australia would very
soon be made independent of all imported mineral
oils for motive power and heat, and perhaps for
light. But till locally-made industrial alcohol is
freed from excise there is nothing to be done.
4.
The disagreeable little Carruthers, Premier and
Boss Insect of N.S.W., still adheres to his resolve
to be gratuitously sour to the Australian Govern-
ment over the Sydney Observatory site. Joseph
won’t sell the place to Australia when the Com-
monwealth takes over the Meteorological Depart-
ment ; rather than let Australia have it, he
proposes to hand it over to the British
Government to run a mint upon, though
the British Government seems to have no
urgent need for a new mint. Then another
trouble arises. If the Federal Meteorological
Department has to start taking a fresh series of
observations at a new altitude all the observa-
tions taken for the last 50 years at the old site
become useless for purposes of comparison. They
might almost as well be burned. This matter being
put before J oseph, he suggests that a branch of
the Federal Meteorological Department should
be a lodger on suffranee at the Mint so as to main-
tain the series of observations. This may be an
awkward and costly arrangement, but it enables
Joe to maintain his old attitude of being small
and mean and nasty and disobliging, the same as
he alwa,ys has been. Joe wouldn’t part with
that attitude on any account.
©
The British Parliament, with characteristic John
BuLL-ishness, has refused to give any countenance
to the metric system of weights and measures.
The silly old bag of tricks by which 30| perches
make one eel, or some such sort of fish ; and one
oz. Troy (Rugby) is equal to three goals and drinks
all round (Association); and money calculations
are enough to drive the most honest to embezzle-
ment, was good enough for John Bull of some
centuries ago ; and it’s therefore good enough for
John Bull to-day. Australia being an appanage
of J ohn Bull, the same bag of tricks is, of course,
good enough also for Australia. Yet the hideous
jumble of figures which constitutes British weights
and measures represents, in effect, a cruel sweat-
ing of young brains. All the metrical weights and
measures, and all the division, multiplication,
addition and subtraction arising therefrom could
be learned by an intelligent child in less than a
week. The British jumble represents at least a
year’s hard study. That year is so much cut out
of every child’s life—a year spent as profitlessly
and as dully as if on the treadmill; and with that
handicap his or her chance in life is by so much
diminished. The Bulletin hopes to see Aus-
tralia divorce itself of the British weights and
measures, even if the Brixton Imperialist hesi-
tates. The “ crimson bond ”is all very well; but
it doesn’t compensate for the crimson bother of
British arithmetic.
—♦
Nearly six months have passed since the steamer
Port Stephens, hopelessly broken down, short of
provisions, and driftinggaily towards the Antarctic
ice, was abandoned by its crew and captain. It
was just by one chance in 1000 that they had the
opportunity to abandon it; a sailing vessel, blown
far out of its track, happened along in a region
where such things don’t happen once a year, and
saved the derelict mariners. They did no harm to
the helpless ship by deserting it. It was bound to
sink, bump, drift or swim exactly the same with
them on board as without them, and it would be
.just as findable one way as the other. As it
happened the Port Stephens never was found, and
the complete failureof the search vessels proves that
the captain was right; if he and his crew had re-
mained on board they would have died miserably
long before this time, and done not a penn’orth of
good to anybody by their death. With the
evidence of these facts, it is up to the Maoriland
Government to get rid of those braying official
mules at Dunedin who severely censured the cap-
tain for not committing suicide and compelling
his crew to do likewise. Those persons at Dunedin
are a danger to navigation, and should be dredged
off the premises.
“ Star ” : Prof. Rentoul raves about the stage Irishman
with his swallow-tail coat, bashed hat, and abominable
stick—a mountebank who never existed save in the
foolish imagination of some Sassenach.” Now Dion
Boucicault is, more than anyone else, responsible for the
stage Irishman, and Dion was Irish born and bred, and
no vile Sassenach.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ Raffles.”
Criterion “ The Village Blaoksmith.”
Palace “ Peter’s Mother.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
Exhibition Ground Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Co.
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal “Revenge.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
“Dr. Wake’s Patient,” revived at Sydney
Palace, stays in the memory as the last little
comedy that Robert Brough prepared for the
Australian stage. He had, curiously enough,
“Dr. Wake’’and “Little Mary” on his hands
at about the same time, and both had to
do with sick people and the ways of curing
them. But the chief interest of “Dr.
Wake’s Patient ” rests with Dr. Wake’s
father—the honest, robustious old farmer, in-
ordinately proud of the doctor son who has
climbed to heights where he is on speaking terms
with the most exclusive microbes. As before,
Herbert Flemming plays the old farmer ; and,
though the character seems over-drawn, it remains
one of the strongest in Flemming’s posses-
sion. Miss Beatrice Day, as Lady Gerania, gets
her arm and heart hurt at the same moment, and
in the same excellent fashion as before, and Dr.
Wake (Carter Pickford) cures them both—a less
starchy Pickford than he used to be. Saturday
next sees the first production of “Peter’s
Mother ” in Australia.
** * *
“Mother Goose” is laying golden eggs
for J.O. W. in Sydney all right, and they are more
solid ones than the bulky fruit which the panto-
mime porter is told to buy a drink with. Eight
times a week Her Majesty’s is crammed, and if
you go a second time you are liable to be hit by a
new local gag which has been dropped in while
you were away. After three months of allusions
in Melbourne to the Footscray Alps and Bent’s
bricks it was hard to get back to the well of pure
and undefiled “Mother Goose,” but the company
managed it. Now, having started off scratch, so
to speak, it proceeds to decorate the pantomime
with the same sort of Sydney frill—which gives
you a fair excuse to look in a third time.
** # #
A much better play than the “Raffles”
revived at Sydney Royal, on Saturday night,
might have been made out of the ingenious stories
of E. W. Hornung. The play as it is takes too
long to get to its business, is too much loaded
with explanations, and, when it gets to work, is
rather clumsy in its artifices. Still, it is fair melo-
drama in a polished setting, with plenty of
vital interest and one or two breathless
situations. Also, the somewhat difficult task of
preserving sympathy for a conscienceless thief,
whose only mitigating circumstances seem to
have been that he was slow bowler for hi»
county and never broke a man’s legs at the
wickets, is fairly well carried out. When Raffles
finally escapes (of course to Australia, where all
the thieves and slow bowlers naturally congregate)
through the device of a “grandfather ” clock, the
audience is pleased enough. Stage setting aiid
management also are admirable, and help a good
deal to eke out a story which is thin enough to
want some eking.
*■* * m
J ulius Knight looks at his best in romantic
costume, with pink be-tighted legs supporting a
well-filled suit of laces and velvets ; he is heard at
his best when, in a tender croon which bespeaks
a heart-deep affection at the same time as it hints
mildly at a throat affection, he is telling the girl
that he loves her, passionately, adoringly, as the
hart which panteth after the waters of the spring,
and so on. Therefore, Raffles is not the best of
his parts. Heplaysit, of course, intelligently, some-
times with a good debonair effect. But there is not
enough billing and cooing to make it a successful
Julius part. In the heroine’s part Miss Marion
Grey makes a first acquaintance with Sydney
audiences. It gives her but a small chance, but
sufficient to indicate an actress of dainty manner.
Her shrinking hesitancy in the love scene is
vastly pretty, and, presuming a girl ingenue, true
to life. For the rest, Miss Elbert Orton is
effectively sinister as the villainess who can’t for-
give a gentlemanly burglar and a recreant lover,
even though he: has made 97 runs, not out, against
The Players ; and Hubert Willis, Harry Plimmer
and Herbert Bentley do very good work.
“The Village. Blacksmith” still stands
at' Sydney' Criterion, and gives the'public an
appreciated mixture of sport and story. A
garnish to the piece is a song by-Ernest Fitts, of
the mighty voice, with anvil accompaniment.
** * *
Bonnie Jessie Maclachlan, with her com-
pany from the Brose Country, farewelled at
bydney Town Hall in Black sequined net, with
cute little “ Aiglon ” wings in her hair. And her
songs as well as,her hair had wings. One item,
“Blue Bonnets,” set her audience, mainly folk
frae misty Aberdeen awa’, stamping to time.
But Jessie has developed an extraordinary way
of jerking her body when letting go of a top note.
It isn’t pretty to see, and the jump almost dis-
tracted attention from the real beauty of her
“ Last Rose of Summer.” Tenor Douglas Young
gave a fine example of cantabile singing in
“Mary of Argyle.” Sydney hopes he will give
a look in whenever he happens to be passing
again.
* * * ifc
Although the Agricultural Show is a thing
of the past, the country visitor is still in Sydney,
and each night finds him at Wirth Bros.’circus,
chewing straws and regarding the lions with a
thoughtful eye. He reckons they would make
fine watch-dogs. One visitor tried to do business
with George Wirth with regard to some elephants,
and offered to take the whole litter of young ones if
they could come to terms. He thought they
were better than traction engines. One of the
new features of the show is the excellent Risley
act by T. Herbert, in which he juggles with a
table, a barrel, and other things with his feet
while he lies on his back in mid-air. The Risley
act is an old, old affair, but it is hard
to believe that it has ever been better done
than it is at Prince Alfred Park. Lloyd, the
rope-performer, is an interesting character.
Wherever he has gone, he says, he has been imi-
tated in a sort of way, but his show is a mono-
poly, shared somewhat by an elder brother. What
gives them the monopoly is the fact that the
business must be started in infancy. Both
the Lloyds began when they were somewhere
about five, under the tuition of a father
who was in the same line of industry. At present
H. P. Lloyd is 32 years of age, although he looks
younger. He hails from Waterford (Ireland),
and has been at his work all his life—says he
will probably stay at it till he breaks his neck.
Quite recently he started turning somersaults on
the rope with his head in a bag. Wirths per-
suaded him to drop it—it was tco dangerous.
** * *
The Tivoli’s chest swells most proudly
now oyer something alleged to be a Japanese
scena, in which, to show how proud she is of her
brave little ally, Miss Benson (the King and
Benson partners are the principals) sings a song
about “My Little Chow-Chow Man.” It will, no
doubt, please the Mikado so much. Like most of
this sort of thing, the “ scena ” lends itself, how-
ever, to fanciful setting, and the veteran Clint’s
work is excellent. For the rest, except that
there’s a new gentleman who sings in Scotch, the
Tivoli programme is the same first-class one that
it was last week.
** * *
The new Bland Holt show at Melbourne
Royal is a fine spectacle, and suffers a good deal
from that painful complaint known as “ Standing
Room Only.” The scene of “Revenge” is laid in
an unnamed country, supposed to stand for Servia
during the stormy last days of Alexander and
Draga. The bloodstained Court of Belgrade is
rich in dramatic possibilities, but dramatist Hill-
Mitchelson has contented himself with dressing
up anew types and situations so attenuated by
long service that their foreign togs and titles seem
to drape stage-fossils rather than men and women.
The result is a hysterical shriek and scurry of
improbabilities, set agoing by the machinations of
a murderous and amorous male (Albert Norman),
who, in collaboration with Harrie Ireland, causes
conspiracy, rebellion, ruin, and last, though not
least, “ R-r-r-re-venge.” As extenuating circum-
stances weighty enough to condone the crime of an
even worse melodrama than the present Bland’Olt
atrocity, mention must be made of the decorative
wardrobe and furnishings. The uniforms of the
King’s guards are sartorial triumphs, while the
palace chairs of dark wood inlaid with the royal
arms in mother-of-pearl deserve notice as samples
of the attention to detail which characterise? the
production.
• • • •
The first scene of the play offers up Styan
as a comic French Count, “willing to wound and
yet afraid to strike.” His fellow-martyrs in farce
are Bland Holt and Charlie Brown, as Boys of the
Bullpup Breed—lieutenant and A.B. respectively.
Mrs. Bland Holt has the rdle of a flirtatious
lady’s-maid, and other petticoat support is pro-
vided by Jennie Pollock, who depicts an English
Miss doing private secretary work for royalty
when she’s not flirting in the Throne room with
Bland Holt. The stormy petrels of the plot are
Prince Orloff (Norman) and Draga Vanessa
(Harrie Ireland). They blow out the eyes of the
lady’s lawful stage husband (Baker) by putting an
explosive in the ink bottle, and then, to a chorus
of mocking “ ha-ha’s,” invite their victim to come
out and make goo-goo eyes at the Man in the
Moon. The sightless hero now vows “R-r-re-
venge ” against his ex-bride. Complications arise
when Queen Corona (Frances Ross) falls in love
in a perfectly pure, proper, womanly, queenly
way with the eyeless Avenger. Her kingly
spouse is still to the fore, and Villain Norman
cherishes for her an unholy affection, so it’s not in
the nature of things that the path of true love
between her and her blind a Unity should be
allowed to run smooth. A forged letter brings
about a catastrophe. Her royal consort breaks
into her bower with a regiment of lancers just as
sightless Baker is interviewing her at midnight
with the purest motives. Something has to be
done to save the lady’s Name. Blessed by a
sudden inspiration, Midshipmite Max Maxwell
shoots himself to save the queenly honor and
exonerate his foster-pa. The chivalrous youth
recovers, and together with his foster-pa is flung
into prison by order of Norman, and regularly
flogged O.H.M.S. The Queen, the Villain, the
Villainess, Bland Holt and most of the comic
relief pass in and out of the prison to visit the
victims, the two leading ladies dressed in scarlet,
and disguised in crimson motor veils. At last
Virtue triumphs. Baker, the blind hero, has his
erring wife’s eyes put out in token of “R-r-re-
venge,” Norman is pinioned by the British Navy,
and Queen F. Ross, whose consort has been killed
by the mob, draws Baker (restored to sight) to
her side and says, “Not at my feet but ne.<t my
heart.”
** * ¥
Now that all, or nearly all, of Musgrove’s
German operatic company has been unpacked
and put into stock, the popular estimate of its
value is about the same as was arrived at by a
calm consideration of the samples first submitted.
Three nights last week “Romeo and Juliet ” was
given in alternation with “Lohengrin,” and the
performance of Gounod’s opera 1 proved to be
good enough. Melbourne had not previously
heard it sung in any form, therefore the French
work didn’t suffer by comparison from being
uttered in distorted English by German
artists whose knowledge of the meaning of
the foreign language was probably on a par
with their pronunciation. They could hardly get
much Shakspearian inspiration from the mutilated
version of the tragedy that Gounod musicked.
The book of the opera reminds one of W. T.
Stead’s penny classics. The Immortal Bard’s
story of love, marriage, slaughter, and suicide is
boiled down to admit of five acts and four long
intervals coming to pass within three hours and a
quarter, or thereabouts. The leading incidents
of the original play are cut short and pulled
together violently in some cases; also an extra
murder is included in the list of crimes, and a
number of angry male Oapulets are brought into
the Garden Scene to look for Romeo, who prudently
lies low the while. These baffled partisans
state their evil purpose in music which was
imitated by the composer of “Madame Ang6t,”
for his droll “ Conspirators’ Chorus.” Another
piece of Gounod that has been made familiar to
Australian ears by a popular plagiarism is the
chorus’s comment on Miss Juliet, when her father
leads her round the ball-room. The chorus guests
sing “She is Charming” in pretty much the same
tune as the court pages in “La Mascotte ” have
adopted for their warble of “ She’s a Darling, O
She’s a Beauty.” But, notwithstanding its occa-
sional suggestions of opera-bouffe, and light-
ness of orchestration, “Romeo and Juliet” has
a certain air of grandeur, and when the German
company at the Princess’s has modified its mal-
treatment of the words (as, with practice, it will),
the effect will be even more pleasing than at
present. Miss Mary Stoller, as Juliet, and Eritz
Rupp, as Mercutio, are the most notable new-
comers in this case. The lady, young and slim,
has a deal to learn in the art of making up her


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitaele. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
"5/
I.)
JIU-JITSU.
96 Queen-street, Woollahra,
Messrs. Pisher & Co., 7/12/'O6.
Dear Sirs, —Vim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials for a teacher of
Jiu-Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and pupils find FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE unrivalled as a tonic to
invigorate the whole human system. To combat the after and weakening effects of
influenza, I have found FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE invaluable to set me up good and
strong. I _ write the above to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any monetary
consideration whatever, and confirm the same on oath.
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest Medicines on earth.
PROF. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu-Jitsu Instructor to the Police
of N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland.
Declared before me on oath—LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
THE MOST FAMOUS TONIC for Nervousness,
Indigestion, Headache, Loss of Memory,
and General Debility.
Fisher’s Phospherine
POST FREE. All Chemists, I/*; Four Times the Quantity, 2/6.
Sole Manufacturers—
ESHER & CO., Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
face to look lovely; but she is a capable actress
and vocalist, with a nice, bright voice. Rupp
presents Mercutio as a frisky low comedian, who
grows serious in his last moments, whereas the
fiery Tybalt (Karl Fijller) is a funny little stout
gentleman to the bitter end, when he contracts his
legs as though he were being tickled to death.
Richard Oeser, the younger Lohengrin of the co.,
makes an acceptable Romeo; the paternal Capulet
is the meritorious baritone mentioned in last
Bulletin ; and Mr. Greder, the one tall German
of the crowd, is an artistic Friar Lawrence in all
respects. The French opera will he staged—and
it is well staged—for the last time to-night
(Thursday). The other bill for this week is
“Tannhauser,” with Miss Sara_ Anderson as the
heroine. She and Miss Heinze (mezzo) ap-
pear to be the leading ladies, and each time
they were associated in “ Lohengrin ” they
raised the performance high above its normal
level. Of the two tenors, from whom nothing
very elevating can be expected, the one
with a protuberant figure (Mr. Studemund) is
permissible only in Wagnerian opera. He has
very little color in his useful voice, and if he
ventures into “ Faust,” the French population of
Melbourne will probably get their consul to apply
for an injunction.
• * * •
“Hansel and G-refcel,” the opera for
matinees, drew a large inquiring audience on
Saturday. It is a flimsy fairy tale set to delightful
music in three short acts —the tale of two full-
grown children whose mother chases them out of
the kitchen, whereupon they wander like babesinto
a wood and have their slumbers blessed by fairies,
which enables them to push a serio-comic witch
into a red-hot oven, instead of being cooked and
eaten themselves. The witch (billed as Miss
Heinze) was the weakest of four acting principals.
Their pleasant singing in German-English was
mostly overmatched by the melodious orchestra-
tion. It wasacrudely creditable performance ofa
dainty novelty, prolonged by tedious waits. One
would speak of “ Hansel and Gretel ” as a poeti-
cally humorous entertainment, which merely suc-
ceeds in missing the ’bus.
** * *
“Parsifal” is still proceeding at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) for the benefit of those
earnest souls who can take its foolishness seriously.
Coming after “Mother Goose,” the plot of
“Parsifal” strikes some people as being very
forced in its supernaturally comic relief. The
redemption of Mother Goose and the recovery
of the missing bird had a higher moral
effect on many miserable sinners than the
giddy tale of how the Eternal Woman must
go to the D—l unless she can meet an absolutely
pure young man, who has never been kissed. In
the matter of eternal womanliness Mother Goose
could give long points to Kundry—but no matter.
What time “Parsifal” continues to hold the
boards at night, Miss Brune will appear as Merely
Mary Ann for Wednesday matinee purposes, and
on these occasions she will polish Parsifal King-
ston’s boots.
** * *
At the Opera House nothing in particular
has happened since last week except Fred Russell
and the small stuffed figure he nurses on his knee.
Dreamland has closed for the season with a
promise of producing a new set of side-shows next
October; also Princes’ Court has gone out of
business for a less definite period.
** * *
George Lauri, well and strong again, has
been ramping through his fat parts in “The
Cingalee” and “ The Country Girl ” at Adelaide
Royal. Margaret Thomas is missed, naturally,
but Alma Barber is coming on rapidly, and
Connie Milne has gained fresh laurels. Bantock
is as strong as ever, and now Reginald Roberts
(also convalescent) and Miss Clara Clifton have
come into the cast for “The Spring Chicken,”
which has a light blue tinge, and a strong Parisian
flavor. Irving Sayles still smiles at the Tivoli;
the Roughriders are nearing the end of their'
second month; and “Living Scotland,” at the
Town Hall has made way for “ Living Ireland,”
with a light green tinge.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Fred Appleton, the esteemed actor, has just begun a
series of recollections in the Melbourne Herald. Apple-
ton is a B.A. of Melbourne University. He studied for
and obtained that degree in the thick of his theatrical
work.
That astute advertiser “ Oruickshank ” Laing has hit
upon a new device to boom Miss Pansy Milo Montague
and her voluminous undraped charms. A photograph
depicting her riding through the streets of (allegedly)
Coventry in the (apparent) altogether, in emulation of
(the mythical) Lady Godiva, has been published, accom-
panied by appropriate interviews with the lady, in The
Sketch and other English illustrated journals. Milo is
represented as explaining that she did not do it for
advertising purposes—and though it was in the depth of
winter, she didn’t feel cold, nor did she see a policeman
or a Peeping Tom. All the same, the picture shows unmis-
takable indications of being a studio photo of Milo and
the charger, affixed to another of the ancient worm-
eaten city, and a dark suspicion is growing that the lady
never fled in the apparently nude on a naked horse and
a cold day through Coventry.
Voliva, Dowie’s lieutenant and overthrower, turned
Melbourne's Hibernian Hall into “Zion,” but lately the
owners have been busy obliterating all traces of the pro-
phets by fumigating'Zion and re-christening it “The
Guildhall.” The building reopened, a few days after the
death of Elijah the Restorer, with a mere worldly con-
cert, in which notone of the artists was sufficiently pious
to call the audience “ Stinkpot 1 ” Altogether it seems as
if Australia must mourn the vituperative Dowie-Voliva
brand of sanctity as one of the dear dead things of yester-
year. Denunciatory Juddism is but a faint attempt to
revive the ancient fire.
‘‘Snell”: It is too bad to say that “ Parsifal ” has no
humor. Note the exquisite play of words in that little
scene where the wounded king asks his attendant knight
to assist him from his couch. “ Help me down,” he says.
“Nay, I mean help me up." Then he adds, woefully,
pressing his sore place : “ Ah, pain has nor ups nor
downs.” I admit nobody laughs. “ Parsifal ”is full of
lines almost as striking as the above, and one could
hardly believe it had been written by a grown man if he
were not a parson. Candidly, and not too cruelly, the
work of Mr. Hillhouse Taylor makes this play a prolonged
tripe supper—the scenes, sensations, and casual undress-
ing, to the very point where the audience gets purple
holding its breath in scandalous expectation, are the
making of the drama from a popular point of view. For
my part, I cannot get even the smallest sensation out of
the temptation of Parsifal, the Sinless One. The
assembled females dance a little ballet, full of floating
drapery, which would scarcely provoke uproar if it were
danced at a Methodist Band of Hope bean feast. Then
Kundry comes on, and she too dances round, and throws
herself at the spotless knight, till that godly warrior gets
ecstatic and grabs her. Then suddenly remembering his
early training and holy aspirations, he breaks away, and
shelters behind his cross. “Parsifal” is a pantomime
set to slow music ; and, oh, what a lovely burlesque could
be built on it if it were possible to convince people it
isn’t really the holy show it pretends to be 1
Adelaide seems to be outshining Bendigo and the bigger
Australian cities as a birthplace of gifted girls. Miss
Maud Priddy, who was exported from Adelaide to com-
plete her pianoforte education in Vienna, is said to be an
artist of great promise. A positively marvellous product
of the S’Australian capital is Wanda Radford, a 10-year-
old child, with a genius for the dramatic stage. Wanda
got her first experience in one of J. C. Williamson’s pantos.,
but she was not “ discovered” until her parents took her
to Berlin, where she gave readings from Shakspeare. Some
of the Berlin cognoscenti raised a fund for the child’s
support and education during the next five years. The
committee has sent her to England with her mother, on
the understanding that she is not to exhibit her precocity
at a music-hall. The first proposal was to keep her at
Berlin and make a Fraulein Radford of her, but the more
liberal-minded judges decided that an infant Shaks-
pearian actress ought to get her ordinary schooling and
early stage training among people whose native tongue
is English. An annual visit to Berlin is provided for in
the contract, and every time she goes to headquarters to
report herself, Wanda is to give lessons in acting to the
Kaiser’s daughter.
“J.E.M.”: I put in a dreary evening at “Parsifal,”
and yawned until my jaws ached ; but one part was
funny. Gaston Mervale, as Klingsor, commands Kundry
to distract holy knight Amfortas’ attention, while he
(Klingsor) grabs the sacred spear. “ Disrobe, Kundry,”
he says. I woke and thought things were livening up.
“ 800 1 ” says Tittell Kundry Brune in a heartrending
tone (don’t know what she means). “ Dis-ah-r-r-r-robe,
Kundry 1 ” And Kundry does nineteen, slow, careful
poses with a green cloak and puts it carefully on the
floor—Klingsor waiting so patiently and politely, poor
man, and Amfortas presumably kicking his mailed heels
on the mat. Then comes a little red over-skirt. Then,
very reluctantly, Kundry takes off her necklace and
stands forth in—keep calm I —a thick, bunchy white
dress from the collar-bones to the elbows and toes 1
It did not even cling, and the merest man
could tell that there were corsets and suspenders and all
sorts of bulky flannelette things underneath. A girl
next to me snorted, and said it might have been low-
necked anyway, after all the talk. The girl with her
said: “ Oh, but you know they say Tittell Brune is
very religious. I suppose she has conscientious scruples
like the telephone girls.” It is to be hoped that
J.O.W. will get a cheerful young pagan for the siren in
the next great piety play—one who will not mind showing
an inch or two of neck. It is disappointing to have one’s
feelings harrowed up, and then to be confronted by
a lady in warm sensible clothes and a bath robe.
“ Buzzard ” : Marie Narelle returns to us as a lovely
warbler of Irish songs. She trills and trolls like Melba
in Italian, French and German. Now we want Johanna
Wattle to come along—the Australian girl who will sing
Australian songs 1 There’s Banjo Paterson’s “ Bush
Songs ” for a nest-egg. Tunes can be found or made.
Johanna Wattle has got to come. Oh, what a shoal of
imitator there will be, but only one real Johanna, the
first and only 1
In Nat Goodwin’s production of “ What Would a Gen-
tleman Do ?” the ex-Australian actress, Nellie Mortyne,
gets credit for being the only member of the co.—bar
Goodwin, of course—who “ rises above mediocrity.”
Her treatment of the strong-minded woman character is
said to be very clever, especially in the humorous scenes
with the boss of the show. But the American verdict on
the play as a whole is no kinder than the Australian ver-
dict was when the Brough-Flemming Co. tried its luck
with the same “ brilliant London success.” The story is
thin, and its sentiment, which passes for “ pretty ” from
an English point of view, appears sickly and snobbish to
un-English audiences.
AMBITION'S LESS THAN NOTHINGNESS;
OR, THE TWO NAPOLEONS.
JUDKINS: Twas you that helped la down me!"
WREN: “ You're a liar. It was you that downed
me!” (Left talking, and worse.)
The chorus of Musgrove’s grand opera co. gets along
very well without the assistance of a chorus-master con-
cealed in a black, upstanding coffin-box between the
orchestra conductor and the stage. The unsightly
coffin, or canoe, arrangement is associated only with
Italian companies nowadays, the average Italian
chorister being a less-educated musical person than his
cousin in any other land of grand opera, except perhaps
Spain. It may be that the prompter is not more neces-
sary in Italy than in Germany, but he originated in Italy,
and has settled down into a popular infliction.
Died, a while before the last London mail left, Archi-
bald Clavering Gunter, chemist, civil engineer, mine
manager, stockbroker, novelist and playwright. The
best lode he ever struck was “ Barnes of New York.”
“U.”: A N.S.W. “silver coin" entrepreneur speaks
with great bitterness of
Booth’s Army, which he re-
gards as a blackleg, and
various other unpleasant
things. TheSalv’armygives
biograph shows and con-
certs in various quarters,
and it has cut the rates for
children as low as a penny.
“ I added, 1 The little tots
half-price’ to my bills,”
says the eminent manager,
“ but people look twice at a
ha’penny in most of the
localities we work, and
they’d rather treat the kids
to a religious rampage for
a penny than pay three-
ha’pence to let them see
the classics. Last week
we revived ‘The Lone
Hut,’ and ‘ The Maniac
Lover,’ but I’m blest if the
Army concert didn’t make
a frost of both of them. I
suppose, after all, we’ll
have to let the youngsters
in for a penny, but those
blank dashes are quite
capable of coming down to
a ha’penny, and how is a
man tostand against that?’
Everybody remarks the extraordinary resemolance
that Kingston, Williamson’s leading man with Miss T.
Brune, bears to the small Australian song-bird, Carrie
Moore. When Thomas, as the simple one and pure, in
his little white shirt and his frizzy hair, mounts the
pulpit in Act 11. of “ Parsifal,” and the fierce, white
limelight streams upon him, every second person in the
auditorium gasps : “ Carrie Moore ! ” Certain little
facial mannerisms and tricks of enunciation heighten the
resemblance to the dear departed demoiselle, and
strengthen the conviction that Kingston is Carrie’s long-
lost brother. Kingston makes great play with his bare
arms before he hides them in shiny armor as Parsifal,
the Knight of the Holy Grail. The pro. has apparently
been to extraordinary pains to develop his arms for the
sake of this public exhibition, and it is plain he has
them on his mind all the time he is airing Parsifal’s un-
seemly innocence. Even when seeing visions in church,
he may be observed sedulously working up his muscles.
Miss Ada Ward held forth at Wesley Church, Mel-
bourne on Easter Sunday. The show consisted of a
recitation of the 15th chapter of St. John, followed by a
fiery discourse on “ The Power of Prayer,” which was
largely autobiographical. Ada spoke freely of what
prayer had done for Ada Ward at a time when she was
the most godless woman, perhaps, that ever lived. It
made her cease to call herself an actress, and brought
her the inspiration to abandon legitimate theatrical
work, notwithstanding that “up to the time of her con-
version she was earning just as much money as before,
and was one of the most successful women, perhaps, that
the stage has ever known.” From which it appears that
prayer has no power to shatter the sweet illusions which
bring solace to every matured mummer, even when the
financial ghost has ceased to walk for him, or her ; nor
any power to prevent an earnest Ada from telling mortal
fibs whilst preaching immortal Terewth.
Tail-end of along and violent letter from “L.M.D.” :
“ This theatre packed from floor to ceiling with pulsating
human life of either sex, is a study for the
philosopher. In this moral time, almost at the height
of a wave that has submerged John Wren and Bung
and other parasitic growths, a wave with Judkins, Fit-
chett, Woodfull, and the Anti-Gambling Society on its
crest, there is presented in a Melbourne theatre a play
that puts before our Australian youths and maidens one
of the worst features of sex attraction. This is the
theme from end to end. It is not veiled ;it is shrieked
at the intelligent hearer. Significant is the reception
of the scene where Kundry pretends to tempt the In-
sufferable Idiot. When she fails, a visible sigh from
the girls showed their sympathy with the distressed
heroine. An audible ‘ Damn fool ’ voices the opinion of
nine-tenths of the men on the unkissed simpleton.
If Kundry were the compound of Nana and Regina that
she was evidently meant to be by her remarks, the result
would astonish the author. Fortunate it is that a doubt-
ful play should be robbed of some of its dubiousness by
want of devil in the leading actress. In the name of
Judkins, Woodfull, Fitehett and co., where are the
censors that will prevent our Australian boys and girls
from being shown, under the guise of instruction and
amusement, such a scene as that in the well-appointed
brothel, where,With chief procuress Nana in charge, and
Klingsor strutting about the premises, a bevy of daughters
of Venus strive to incite desire in the mind of the
thundering Stick-in-the-Mud ?”
“ 0.K.” : The man who doesn’t know a lot about Mel-
bourne’s Town Hall organist has only himself to blame.
He can get it from a booklet entitled, “Particulars of
the Musical Career of Frederic Beard,” which was
thoughtfully prepared by Beard in person, from his own
knowledge of Beard and his exalted opinions of Beard,
and his reprinted press-cuttings re the gentleman in ques-
tion. The frontispiece is a photo of Beard, with the
autograph of Beard beneath it. Altogether, the booklet
gives a great idea of Frederic Beard, whose egotism
is almost pardonable for its frankness, and he
scores a point at the outset by stating “why
he has decided to remain in Australia, consider-
ing the enviable position he had attained at Home.”
One of his reasons is that “he saw there would be in
Australia a wide field for his many-sided talent, especially
as an interpreter of the modern methods of the great
musical minds of the Old World.” In his recognition of
the fact that Australia is worthy of Beard, and will
derive great benefit from his musical services, the new
arrival pays this country the biggest compliment he has
to offer. And if his work isn’t all that he thinks it is, he
nevertheless appears to be making headway with his
organ recitals at Melbourne Town Hall, where he is
nearly as entertaining as his little book of self-advertise
ment.
“Hamer”: I write in defence of the soubrette.
Dorothy McCrae implies (B. 7/2/’O7) that she isn’t quite
what she ought to be ; personal experience has taught
me that she is, as a rule, the most proper, not to say
prudish, person of Poverty Point. It is rather the lady
who, on the stage, wears the white robes of virtue un-
spotted that is the giddy frivoller off. The average
soubrette’s frivolling wouldn’t hurt a Judkins, let alone
the fact that she is often ancient, and married, and fills
in her spare time darning the family’s socks. The stage
is a strange inversion of character. For sombre gloom
out of business hours the average comedian is hard to
beat; the giddy adventuress is mostly a respectable
married woman ; the virtuous heroine the giddiest of
them all; the grand old man an inveterate old beer-
chewer ; the disreputable old second villain a stickler for
everyday virtue ; and the hero—well, we had best not
talk about the hero. The most decent, straightforward
men of my acquaintance in the “profesh” have been
the villains.
“ S.S.”: A parent of mine recollects a pleasing drama-
tic incident that happened at the old Charley Napier
Theatre, Plank-road, Ballarat, away back in the feverish
days following Eureka. An eminent tragedian, whose
name is still reverenced in Australia, was appearing in
“ The Lady of Lyons,” or something of the kind, and a
moment of intense interest had been reached, when an
excited man fought his way past the pit doorkeeper,
pounded down the whole length of the theatre with a
row like the falling of paving-blocks, and stopped gasp-
ing at the orchestra rail. “Hi, mister!” he cried, in
tones that echoed through the house, “ You’re wanted
up at the hotel, quick. Your missus is drunk ; she’s
banging herself in the stable. Come along, for God’s
sake 1 ” There was a dead silence for a few moments,
while the eminent tragedian glared at the messenger.
Then the great artist spoke. “Sir-r-r,” he said, “it is
years since I asserted any authority over my wife. Even
should I again seek to oppose her wishes, it would not be
at a moment like this.” Then the play went on.
There is a queer exponent of the divine art of music in
Adelaide—a little, wizened, grey fragment of a man who,
in the evenings, sits on a camp-stool in the gutter
with a donation-box on his knee, and fiddles. His
music is so faint that it can barely be heard, and
the airs he plays are pre-historic. They sound like
the ghosts of tunes that have been dead for ages,
and are weakly complaining, in skeleton tones, of
neglect and decay. Few of the hurrying pedestrians
notice the old fellow ; his feeble scrapings would
not penetrate to the consciousness of a man who
was making pace towards his best girl, or flying from
his worst female.
There was a small rumpus in the stalls of a Sydney
theatre one night, which might have terminated in man-
slaughter had not the stalwart official remover of dis-
orderly objects come promptly on the scene. The trouble
commenced when a young fellow, who had trained his
glasses upon the elegant proportions of a fairy in pink
tights, was addressed in opprobrious terms by the_ gent
on his left, who said he would lift his lug if he continued
staring at the pink extremities in that way. The man
behind the glasses said he’d see the other strangled
before he’d remove his gaze from the object in ques-
tion, he having paid 3s. for the privilege of deliberate
contemplation. Then the objector attacked, and there
was a scrum. When the official remover arrived the
second man had fastened on the throat of the admirer of
pink calves, and was deliberately choking him. The
assailant was dragged off by superior force, and as they
hauled him out he was understood to explain that the
pink tights were on his wife, and he’d be hanged if he’d
stand it.
“ Peacock ” : Recently, when I made my initial appear-
ance as a digger at the Poseidon rush, I was struck by the
class of songs the miners sang round the camp fire. _ They
ran their evening concerts in great style. The chairman
would stand up on the old log fence, and the swearing,
rowdy mob would instantly become silent. “Old
• ’Possum ’ ’ll favor ther company with one of ’is latest,”
the M.O. would say, and “’Possum," a little, ginger-grey
man, would chant an old-fashioned song of 15 verses,
with fresh miseries in each chapter. The second item
would be a recitation by an Eastern Market expert, and
the pathetic tale he would tell about Jack, the cabman,
driving his false wife and the bold, bad villain over the
quay, so that they per-r-r-ished in the sad sea waves,
caused great emotion. And thus the concert would go
on. “ Would You Care” and “ Take Me Home to Mother ”
were special favorites. Then “ Bob,” the storekeeper and
local tenor, would close the evening by singing “ Poor old
Jeff has gone to rest” in a sympathetic, nasal tone, whilst
the audience so far forgot itself as to join in the chorus.
During the month I was on the field I only heard one
comic song ; and the warbler never got a “ hand ” for it.
“ Comet ” tells a tale of sin :
How about this for a singular position ? I was manager
of the boot department of a Sydney pub for about
three months. The pot-walloper, Kitty, was unlucky,
but wasn’t selfish about it. She shared her bad luck with
all near her, and I was the nearest. She also liked a
beer now and again—generally again, but the missus was
a Juddy teetotaler where we were concerned. We were,
therefore, driven to establishing communication, on the
rabbit system, with the rival pub down the street.
One dismal, wet night I performed the bunny act,
placed the bottle in a box in the shed, whistled softly at
the window, and kept “nit” while Kitty interviewed
the rabbit. Was musing upon the situation when I was
considerably moved by a ghastly form shooting at me
through the misty air, and a voice screeching: “You
devil! Oh, you devil! ” I was scared, and fled round the
corner. From that point of vantage I saw the girl being
carried away to the hospital, and heard voices saying she
was poisoned and would assuredly die on the road.
Silently, on all fours, I fled round to see what was wrong
with the beer. It was still there. I drank it to keep me
up, and wondered what bottle Kitty had got by mistake.
Leaving the police my absence only to track me by, I
disappeared. For three years I wandered the world with
the brand of Cain on my brow and the boots I had stolen
from the hotel on my feet. I had fled with ten pairs of
the lodgers’ boots.
One day I happened into an up-country pub. Kitty
was there pulling the pump. It appeared that she was
away on that eventful night, and her sister—who was
holding the position for the evening—swallowed the
fatal dose.
“ Thank God 1” I cried, “ I am innocent.” Free !
after all these years of guilt; and a tremendous weight
flew from my' mind—and hit Kitty’s sister, who was
coming in at the bar-door. “You!” she screamed. I
sat upon my brain to keep it from dancing.
She informed me that the fatal dose had killed her
tippling propensity only, and had served Kitty likewise,
though indirectly. They had been terrified into reform.
Therefore, I was for three years a self-convicted mur-
derer, legally innocent, morally guilty, and in reality an
out and out Judder from the start—and knew nothing
about it.
On further inquiry, I learned that Kitty’s sister had
taken a long drink of boot varnish, and it had a fly in it.
A FAIRY’S GRATITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Bertie loved an actress fair
Who played a part in pantomime.
His ardent love did he declare
In pulsing prose and ringing rhyme.
But he’d no means of which to speak—
Say six and thirty bob a week.
So Flo on Bertie would not smile,
She sniggered at his shabby suit,
And went on motor cars in style,
With some coarse, money-grubbing brute,
Whose head was bald, who had a wife,
And ate potatoes with a knife 1
Bert pleaded till his tears were spent,
But could not move the callous fay,
So on one dismal day he went
To sink his troubles in the bay.
“ Ah, when she sees me cold and dead
’Twill touch her cruel heart,” he said.
They dragged him from the flood. In sport
They let him drain across a rail.
Begrimed and pale, in open court,
He had to tell his woeful tale.
Then Flo her grateful message sent:
“ Thanks for the grand advertisement 1 ”
VIC.
SNELL.


fleafsiess, Head Doises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but puic Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention from your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statements
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE ”
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.”
Caller write for full FREE particulars. Address-
THE EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SOCIETY
THE HIGHER CRITICISM.
MARIA : Look at er—to think she’s come to
this after being a respectable married woman.’"
ELEANOR : “ What I 'Er married?”
MARIA : “ She was. I’ve seen ’er divorce certificate.”
About a house with some history :
Another of the historic properties in the vicinity of
Sydney is being cut up and put upon the market
Montrose,” on the corner of McLaren and Miller streets
North Sydney, or, “St. Leonards ” as it was called when
the house was built. William Lithgow came to Sydney in
1825 as Auditor-General. For some years he lived in
Cumberland Place, on the Rocks, but in the fifties he went
to “ Montrose” and died there in 1864. For a time the
bachelor Judge Burton lived there. Next tenant was
Robert Napier, the predecessor of T. A. Dibbs, as manager
of the Commercial Bank ; he was drowned in a well in
the grounds. Next Terence Aubrey Murray, one-time
Speaker and afterwards President of the N.S.W. Upper
House, occupied the premises. John Whitton, Engineer-
'"-Ohief for Railways, bought it and died there ; and after
VVhitton came the German Consul, Kempermann, and he
also died there. Since then it has been given over to
ghosts, if there are any.
Snell : I see it reported that the girls
of Bonnie Yale (W.A.) rushed diver Hughes after
his rescue of Varischetti, and kissed him in great
profusion. I hesitate to say he deserved it, not
having seen the girls, and not knowing what
Hughes past life may have been like, but I wish
to put it on record that it is much pleasanter to
kiss one nice girl in private than to be kissed in
public by the whole feminine population. I speak
as one who knows, though I did nothing to
deserve the knowledge. I simply stepped out of
the same railway carriage as a farm-burning hero
who had returned to his native place. A crowd
of enthusiastic maidens rushed the warrior, and
started the kissing bee. They could not all get
at him, and I got the overflow. The experience
made me so mad that I nearly gave three cheers
for Paul Kruger right there.
* * * *
Kapiti Island, the only spot near Well-
ington (M.L.) which the Acclimatisation Society
liasn t been allowed to ruin, is to be ruined all
the same, and a seething crowd of maddened
citizens have trodden to rags the door mat of
George Fowlds, Minister of Public Health, while
waiting to hurl protests at him for threatening to
make Kapiti a, leper island. Maoriland’s three
lepers are to inhabit this small paradise, set
apart by Act of Parliament as a sanctuary for
native fauna and flora, and as being the historic
den of the picturesque cut-throat, Te Rauparaha,
a tattooed gentlemen who chopped an English
buglers hand off for blowing a call in the gory
days not long gone. Kapiti strikes the eye of
F h ® new arnval at once, and the new arrival who
is told that Kapiti, within gunshot of Welling-
ton is the dumping ground for lepers will con-
c|ude that leprosy is commoner than land agents
m the Maoriland capital.
*.* * *
• A , su §g? stive paragraph appeared recently
m the Melbourne Akgus, commencine- thus-
Among reforms being introduced into the
Hunacy Department is one for making provision
for the more thorough training of nurses and
attendants who have to look after the insane.”
Ihe trouble in most lunatic asylums (not neces-
sarily Australian establishments, but wherever
the mentally deficient are gathered together) is
that the authorities try to keep down expenses
by having a short supply of attendants. A
scarcity of attendants means, always, that the
plentiful patient has to be overawed. As this
business of reducing the crazed person to a
properly cowed frame of mind, so that he
will obey the- insufficient attendant, can only
be carried out by the use of brute force,
the unfortunate, m most undermanned asylums,
finds that if he is not obedient he gets a
wet towel twisted round his neck for about two
minutes. By that time he is more or less sense-
ess-and cowed Another favorite device is to
kick the patient below the belt, where there are
no ribs to break. This part doesn’t show any
wounds ; it is merely sensitive, and the disobedient
patient learns after a little judicious treatment in
this fashion that it is better to obey than to be
booted. Knee-bumping, with the attendant’s
hands on the patients shoulders, is found to be
a very effective means of moving a stubborn patient
from one part of the premises to another The
one effective remedy is to have a full and over-
flowing supply of wardsrnen, well paid and well-
supervised who will be able to control the
patients under their care without resorting to
intimidation. There isn’t a wonderful amount of
training- required to see that a madman refrains
trom falling out of a barred window
* • • *
Observe how one generation of incapables
does its best to manufacture another. One instance
is the kind of loafer who keeps a little office at
the top of several dark flights of stairs, and
describes himself as an “agent ” (Beelzebub only
knows what he s agent for). Of course he retains
an office boy to keep up the dignity of the estab-
Kshment and to tell duns that the boss has just
Jett tor broat Island on very urgent business.
Sometimes the boy gets the promise of a
few shillings per week.' More often his re-
muneration for a long period consists of
bein_gr “ taught the business.” But the
business consists mainly in sitting idly
m a dim and stuffy apartment, waiting
for clients who never come. The mourn-
ful farce continues until, in some cases,
the boy s. widowed mother grows tired
of keeping him, and drags him away
« to loo ‘ c for a place which will at least
enable him to regularly earn some-
towards his maintenance. In
other cases the youth moons on for
years in such unrem unerati ve hi 11 ets,
and at last becomes the same kind
of nondescript “ agent ” as his
ex-employers. Then he starts
out to spoil the careers of other
children as his own was spoilt,
and so the glum game continues.
If a man can’t pay an office boy
properly, and give him a chance
to learn something, why shouldn’t he
support his poor little tuppenny dignity on his
unassisted lonesome ?
* * * *
The return thanks ” notice is gettinar
down to bedrock 6
Q.RATEFUL THANKS to those Gentlemen, Youths
* „ B °y s > who raised their hats on Wednes-
day, 20th March, to Dolly, aged 23, on her wav
from Donald-street to her last resting - place, Mei-
-01 * he vm,t 1 "»
A time will yet come when the man who gives ud
his seat to a lady in the tram-car, or picks up her
dropped umbrella, will be thanked next day at
great length in the misery column of the daily rag.
* * * *
The Melbourne policeman who was called
into the premises of Newman, the Bourke-street
jeweller, to listen to the noises made by a
band of burglars eating through the stone wall
from next door, and who, after applying an ex.
pert ear to the building, calmly said it was rats
and departed in peace, has been getting nothing
from press and public. It is easy to be wise
after the event, but even a policeman should
have been able to distinguish between a rat
gnawing a crust and burglars eating a wall.
There is a tale somewhere of an elderly
gentlewoman who remarked, when an elephant
fell down stairs, that the mosquitoes were bad
that night, and possibly she was a progenitor of
the Melbourne peeler. There is only one worse
diagnosis than the above on the Vic. records
and that recounts the ease of a suburban police-
man, on whose beat a burglary had been com-
mitted. He admitted that he had seen someone
climbing in at a second-storey window at one in
the morning, but had taken little notice, thinking
it was the man of the house. “I thought pro-
bably the missus’was angry with him,” said the
constable, “and it isn’t every man is allowed a
latch-key.”
HE WANTED PROOF.
HIS MA : Why did you stare so rudely at the gentleman when he was eating ?”
TOMMY: “7 wanted to see him drink. Pa says he drinks like a fish.”
The sudden entry of Judkins made hardly
a ripple on the blank surface of Adelaide. There
was a procession of tea-drinkers through the
streets, and it aroused some little interest until
the populace discovered that it wasn’t Broncho
George and his rough-riders, but merely a trickle
of local humanity on foot. Jud’s meeting was
almost as silent as the interior of a deserted
mine. Adelaide takes its religion and its
drinks in an unemotional manner, and
Juddy was neither crowned with the
eaves of the gum- tree nor smitten with
the trunk thereof. And the worst thing
that can happen to Juddyism is silence,
emptiness and indifference.
“ Frank T.” about an Excellency
I happened to be at Speneer-street, Melbourne, t’other
day, awaiting the arrival of the Sydney express. Imagine
my surprise when I saw carpet put down across the
platform; and, on asking the reason, was told that
Gerald Strickland, Governor of Tassy, was to arrive, and
lest he should hurt his poor feet this precaution’ was
taken. Of course this was done because the Governor
happened to be travelling free. Any ordinary citizen,
who pays his four quid, has to alight on the good old’
asphalt. However, the train came in at the given time ;
and, the pity of it, the carriage in which the personage’
was seated passed the carpet. Immediately porters,
flunkeys, stationmasters, etc., began waving their arms
and legs for the engine to stop, but the steam hoss still
moved onward. When it paused, the distance between
the royal carriage and the carpet was a. iout 15yds. One
of the flunkeys then rolled up the carpet, and was fleeing
with it to its right place when the Governor alighted on
the asphalt. The action of the flunkey is second only to
Sir Walter Raleigh’s noble deed. But why weren’t the
measurements of the train, and the distance from the
cow-catcher to the Governor, telegraphed from Wodonga,
so that the red tatter could be in the rig in, place ?
* * * *
The ‘‘dress basket” has helped to make
the holiday season a Gehenna for the railway
porter. The contraption, which looks so con-
venient and trifling in a shop window, but can be
made to conceal three wardrobes and half a
trousseau at a squeeze, is as awkward to handle
as a porcupine, for when it is full it is impossible
to get one’s arms around it, and the straps slip,
and, if it is tied with string, the string breaks,
and no label will stick with any paste or gum yet
invented, and every one of them is like all the
rest. When mother reaches the seaside or the
hill resort, she desires the porter or the cabby to
go and get her dress-basket. “ It’s a medium-
sized one,” she remarks, “with straps; and
there’s a luggage-label on the end. You’ll see it
all right.” Doubtless it had a label on once, but
it lost it 70 miles away ; and there are 20 other
dress-baskets, all medium-sized, and all with
straps; and presently 21 women are fiercely
arguing points about the baskets, and each and
every one accuses the tired porter of shameful
neglect of duty— “ which I shall certainly report.”
Then that harassed person goes away and makes
home cheerful. Part of this trouble could be
avoided if the basket-owners would tie addressed
tags to their machines, but they won’t. There
are a lot of things lovely woman ought to do, but
won’t.
“Gordon B.” : While there is so much
gorgeous uniform on view around Sydney, listen
to a tale of the N.S.W. Outback. A little crowd
got together and called themselves the Condobolin
Scouts—that was over three years ago. Presently
they applied for official recognition as a troop of
light horse. They were a patriotic crowd ; so,
undeterred by Ministerial scorn or indifference,
they formed a lone-hand brigade. Many of them
had chased Kruger in Africa. All of them knew
the Chow and Jap as they are in Queensland and out
west in N.S.W., so there was a lot of patriotism in
their action. They had a lieutenant among, them,
and learned from him the rudiments of drill. They
bought their own uniforms, mounted themselves
and grafted till they became a proficient troop,
when, lo ! at the end of three years , the depart-
ment, without a warning snore, in an outburst of
inexplicable generosity sent them 50 discarded
leather belts, which formerly had done duty for
public school cadets ! It is only in Australia that
a Government would be so blindly foolish as to
disregard an offer like that of the Lachlanders,
and it is only Australian politicians who would
make an insulting offer of ancient leather belts
after studiously ignoring the corps’ existence for
over three years.
A SUFFICIENT REASON.
MRS. A.: “7 don’t agree with you. I think the
whole idea of this mixed bathing simply
horrid , and you see nobody nice goes in for it.”
MRS. B.: “Oh, Mrs. St. John Harvey does.”
MRS. A.: “ Ah. well , she’s got small feet.”
“X”: ‘ ‘ John, ” I asked the herbalist practi-
tioner who was pouring Shanghai condemnation on
Australian medical laws, “what kind examinations
you medicine men go through in China ? ” I then
gathered from John that after years of study he
had successfully passed through a most trying
ordeal. “They tooka me in,” was something like
his speech, “and say to me ‘Touch liver.’ I
holda long pin, stick um in and say ‘ That’s him.’
They say, 4 Stick um heart ’; I stick um right
away. I stick um every time.” “But what
about the patient—didn’t he kick when you stuck
him ?” “Oh, you welly stupid,”exclaimed John.
“ In our medicine a brass man full of holes is
covered over with paper. When professor say
‘liver,’student strike pin through and if not go
in hole straight, that one miss. So every time.
My examination —a long, long one—gave not one
miss, and you fellows here in Australia think that
not good enough ! ” John was very angry.
* * * *
A certain effect of bad drinking-water is
bowel trouble— Wolfe’s Schnapps will keep the
bowels in perfect order. Caution. —There is no
genuine Aromatic Schnapps but “Wolfe’s”
Call it by its full name.*
MOTHERS OF MISERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The child had been under the charge of a registered
nurse, who, since her registration, has had the’care of
three children, two of whom have died. .. piteous tra-
gedies.—Argus, 28/3/’O7. 1 tra
. of a nti-Socialistic enthusiasm such as that
hich has just swept over Victoria.— Argus, same issue.
Here, spare a stick or two of type, and drop a bloated
tear
To mark the dismal fact that several babies perished here.
They passed along their little checks ; their little fleet ing
sigh 6
Reached not the large red casual ear of Dives strolling by;
Their hands, held up to find maternal comfort and caress’
Met other hands that strangled them with careful
wantonness—
Strong hands put forth to quench the light of plaintive
pleading eyes,
The crimsoned hands of Private Enterprise.
The chill, grey day crawls damply in, and Willie coughs
and howls ;
Mis drabbled baby-locks invite defilement as he prowls
With grovelling, wasted body through the dust of un-
kempt floors,
Or in the flood of gutter-wash that past his prison
pours.
In devious, deadly ways the hireling mother kills him
slow;
Through bitter woe and pain—not hers!—she sees her
profits grow,
As with his final, choking breath, unwelcome Willie cries
For help, in vain, to Private Enterprise.
He died... and no warm mother’s breast is yearnino-
through the night ;
No sleepless eyes brim hopelessly, to meet the morning
light h
With hungry arms outstretched across the silence of the
void ;
The dirty kid gave up —and now the Argus is annoyed !
The sacred tie, inviolate by Labor’s horrid aims,
Still sanctifies—but one there is whom dawning sunlight
shames ;
Not yet the unrecking State to help her to her duty tries,
But leaves her, banned, to Private Enterprise.
We get our papers, morn and eve—we read them in the
trams
And say, “Quite right !” and go ahead and vote like silly
lambs
For good old Anti-Sosh and all its “ piteous tragedies,”
For all the things that only nurse upon the quiet sees ;
And Anti-Sosh goes laughing by, its proper children clad
In clean and snowy shift, its comely mothers smiling
glad—
While, shuddering through his loathesome life, the kid-
improper dies
Swift at the hands of Private Enterprise.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
THE PAPER TRAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
if Mr. Johnson can g-ive us that help which we may
expect from his credentials in the many pressing l pro-
blems of our railway administration, he will be the most
valuable officer we have.— S.M. Herald.
Mr. Johnson, you can demon-
strate the ownership of brains,
By reverting to the system
Of free morning-paper trains.
That will solve all “ pressing problems,”
’Tis the test of your success ;
It will strengthen your position,
Buttressed by the morning press.
You may be a saint or sinner,
You may wear the brand of Cain,
If you will but frank our parcels
By that early-morning train.
One Commission we have slaughtered,
And the same may do again,
So just bustle, Mr. Johnson,
And hook on that free-press train.
N.S.W.
GORIL.


EDUCATION'rMAIL
V
LEARN BY POST,
i n your spare time,
Money- Earning
Subjects,
Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing, Bookkeeping:, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and
Civil Engineering,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study,” post free
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business Collegre
Moore Street, Sydney.
h
fgh
fgh
MANY A TIME 1
HOW many times have you wished for
a Shirt that you could feel free and
easy in and yet be dressed in good
form ? Many a time.
Here is a Shirt —our well-known Novelty
Shirt with a Soft Collar of the same
material to match.
It is made to be surpassingly comfortable.
No other make of Soft Shirt can equal it.
The designs are very select, and varied
enough to meet all tastes.
The Collar is detachable and the Shirt has
Gauntlet Cuffs.
CEYLON FLANNELS, 8/6.
Postage—(id. State, Bd. Inter-State, extra.
JUST THE RIGHT WEIGHT for the Season.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’
OUTFITTERS . . .
309*311 GEORGE ST.,
mm SYDNEY
London papers were very tender to the
memory of that great advertiser, the late
Whiteley, Universal Provider. But it got into
one or two of them that Emily Turner, one of
two pretty sisters, was enticed away from her
home at the age of 15 by a gentleman who pro-
mised her a gold watch and a month’s holiday at
Brighton. Emily was never employed by
Whiteley, but sister Louie was in his toy depart-
ment at 16. Said her aged mother : “ Mr.
Whiteley became very fond of Louie, and I often
saw him driving her about in his smart victoria.
He afterwards put her on a farm in Surrey, and
allowed her £l5O a year. There her son was born.
He is now in the Navy.” After being “friendly”
with Whiteley and another kind gentleman
named Rayner, Emily returned for a while to her
first lover, then married, and soon after died.
Whose son young “Rayner” really is she alone
knew. The dead man’s funeral was a spectacle,
about a quarter of a million spectators lining the
streets and rushing Kensal Green cemetery. At
the grave it took four clergymen to do all the
praying that the case seemed to call for, and the
Young Women’s Bible Class, conducted on
Whiteley’s business premises, sang a requiem.
One wonders if 16-year-old Louie Turner ever
attended the great Universal Provider’s Bible
Class conducted on the premises.
m * * *
The sectarian question arose at Bendigo
(Vie.) at Easter time, with regrettable conse-
quences. One of the traditions of the Golden
City is its Easter Demonstration in aid of local
charities. There are processions, a sports meet-
ing, a show, and other money-getting attractions,
and the “gate” goes to help the aged and the
sick, to purchase wooden feet for the maimed, to
give a leg up to the orphan, and to bay a poke
bonnet for the widow. Hitherto no one has
mentioned religion at the Bendigo Easter show;
even the Chinese, hauling their gaudy dragon
through the streets, have not obtruded Confucius
on the public notice. But this year the Protes-
tant Alliance got up a Bible show —a lorry with
girls in it reading the Scripture, and a
banner stating that the Book was the
secret of England’s glory. The Irish societies —
looking back, perhaps, on the time when England
ordered the whole Irish race to move into barren
Connaught and starve among its bogs, and made
it a capital offence for any Irishman to be found
in any part of his own country save that sterile
corner—had doubts about the source of England’s
glory. They thought something else might have
helped the Bible—gunpowder and a tough con-
science, for instance. Also they pointed out that
England’s greatness had nothing to do with a
Bendigo charity festival. As a final result there
was a great deal of sectarian row but very little
charity. The Irish societies departed out of the
proceedings in one direction, and the Protestant
Alliance went away in another direction, and only
the ruins of the usual big Easter spectacle re-
mained.
ANSWERED.
“ Begad, Mrs. Smart, where do you keep your
complexion!”
“ Where you lost yours, Major—in a bottle!”
Cold cynicism from “ Fraulein Schmidt
and Mr. Anstruther” :
Three times every day, Rose Marie—that is, before
breakfast, before dinner, and before supper—no husband
loves any wife. She may be beautiful as the stars, as
wise as Pallas-Athene, as cultured as Goethe, as enter-
taining as a circus, as affectionate as you please—he cares
nothing for her. She exists not.
But supposing Pallas-Athene can cook ?
COME TO STAY.
There is one thing we can safely say, and that is, that whatever other people think, the motor-car has
come to stay.— Lieutenant-Governor MADDES before Melbourne Automobile Club.
“ Yes, John, we have often noticed that it has.”
“ Micawber ” : Be girls who are called
Jubilee, and similar names that give away the
year of the victim’s birth. The victim generally
tries hard to repudiate the designation after her
twenty-second birthday, if that anniversary finds
her still unmarried. She becomes Queenie or
Bee, or perhaps Girlie or Dolly ; and, as the years
trail on, the original name of Jubilee is lost in
oblivion. For instance, the girl who poses in
three-quarter dresses on the opposite verandah is
called Babe. She has taken Time bv the kiss-
curl and dropped Jubilee, and the misguided he-
kid who buys her lollies thinks she is only 17 —he
is 18 himself. And the other Jubilee down the
street answers to the name of Dimples.
* * * *
As a result of the fierce competition for
the picnic and excursion business, the
rival Sydney ferry companies have now
acquired by purchase most of the
favorite pleasure resorts and wharfs right
round Port Jackson and up and down
Middle Harbor, Parramatta and Lane
Cove Rivers. And the wharfs and jetties
they have not purchased they have
secured on lease from the Sydney Harbor
Trust. The unfortunate people who own
individual harbor steamers are very
bitter against the Trust in con-
sequence. They now find it almost
hopeless to try to compete against the
rival ferries for the charter business.
The Harbor Trust practically says to
them : “ Here’s your license, but mind
you don’t land passengers anywhere
about the Harbor.” So, as every picnic
wants to go somewhere, charterers are
driven to accept either a Sydney Ferries or
a Balmain co.’sboat. All the unfortunate
private owner can do is to run his crowd
round the harbor and back to Fort Mac-
quarie, at a cost of 10s. wharfage, while
the Sydney Ferries Co. offers the pick of
its leased properties, and the right to fly
in the face of the law and embark at
Circular Quay. Even if the private
owner runs the nose of his vessel up on
to a flat rock, and the passengers do a
hand-spring ashore, it is ten to one they
are trespassing on privately-owned fore-
shores. An argument is put forward that
the strong ferry cos. can give the pic-
nicking public better value for its money
than the private boat owner, but the
danger is that the rival cos. will settle
their differences and raise the prices
sky-high when their monopoly is secure.
* * *
Hooray ! Castlemaine (Vic.) Pro-
gress Association has decided that it
won’t let its district lie any longer under
the suspicion of being mostly deserted
goldfield, empty jam-tin, grass-widow,
gaol, and goats; so it turned on a local
writer to knock up a pamphlet on the
subject. Then this happened, among
other things:—
The sparkling sunlight, the vivid foliage, the
tinting of the exposed distant hills, the
chiaroscuro of the landscape reminds the
traveller of the Riviera.
The Bulletin remembers the exposed
hills, but has an idea that the chiaroscuro
was away looking for a dredging claim
the last time it wandered through J. B. Patterson’s
old diggings. Or else a goat was lying on it.
# • * *
“F.Z.”: Only he who wears it knows where
the shoe pinches. That’s why inveighings against
infant-prevention carry little weight when uttered
by a celibate like Father Vaughan of London, or
a bachelor, like the local Presbyterian parson who
recently wrote to Melbourne Argus, re “ Missing
Scholars,” i. c . children who, had they ever been
born, would now be of school age. More com-
petent to judge of the morality or otherwise of
leaving the regulation of baby-supply absolutely
to Nature, are parents who have reared or are
rearing youngsters in a weatherboard villa in a
suburban bye-street. When needy, frail mothers
of many children maintain, as most of them do,
that family-limitation is a remedy worse than the
disease, and that they personally don’t believe in
dodging woman’s destiny (and never have tried to
dodge it) they are entitled to some respect. Why
don’t the s’trcner - minded spinsters, childless
widows, well-to-do bachelors and self-righteous
celibates, who advocate population at any price,
try to popularise their doctrine by smoothing the
path of the suffering martyrs to the cause ? I
know of a woman who has 19 children, the
youngest an infant arms. Unable to pay for
skilled attendance, this heroine depends on neigh-
borly kindness for assistance in her frequent
illnesses. She deserves well of her country, poor
thing, but nobody seems to know or care except
an enterprising country editor, who periodically
publishes group-pictures of “Mr. and Mrs. L and
their fine family.” A new baby brings another
burst of celebrity for the producers.
The cricket crank is gently prodded in
E. R. Punshon’s “ Mystery of Lady Isobel,” now
being published serially in Melbourne Austral-
asian and other journals :
“Why, don’t you see?” whispered Lord Laing cheer-
fully. “I understand now. He has gone mad, for no
one but a madman could propose chucking up his cricket
when he is just in his prime, and even stands a chance of
getting the All-England captaincy once the public under-
stands the gross favoritism shown those incompetent
Yorkshiremen. By Jove, this is lucky ! ”
“Lucky, father 1” exclaimed Arthur. “ You call it
lucky? ”
“ You don’t suppose it will affect his batting?” asked
Lord Laing, anxiously. “ You see, we shall be able to
have him clapped in a lunatic asylum, and just let him
out whenever a match is on. I consider this most for-
tunate,” said his lordship, beaming. “We’ll ding York-
shire yet, by Jove ! ”
* • * *
The religious comedians who periodically
descend on Australia, by special request of them-
selves, are never so funny as when they try to be
pathetic. Melbourne Age thus reports Yankee
O. M. Alexander: —
On a previous visit, Mr. Alexander related he had
received a letter from a lady who had stated that the
last time she had seen her daughter alive she was singing
the “ Glory Song.” Last week, in Ballarat, he added, a
lady had written him that her son, before leaving the
house in the morning, had been practising the revival
hymn, “ Pray Through,” which he had heard at the song-
service meeting. “On finishing,” the writer added, “he
said, ‘ I like that best of all. I can play and sing it for
father on Sunday.’ He then kissed me, and said, ‘ I can
go now.’ Three hours later he was brought home dead.”
Isn’t it time those pernicious foreign shrieks of
Alexander’s were prohibited ? They seem fatal.
• * * *
“ G.S.” : Her name was Hermione. I got
her from a registry office (“Herself” is away for
eight weeks). Hermione came with a reference
alleged to be from a parson, so I resolved to
watch the lady. Her “ things ” were contained in
a small paper parcel; the rest were following—so
she explained. The breakfast things were neatly
packed in the sink, until after lunch; “saves
soap ” I was told. She let a friend in the back
entrance “for a few broken vittles.” I missed
the axe and hose shortly afterwards; perhaps
they went with the “broken food.” I asked
Brown to dinner. Hermione served about 3d.
worth of evil-smelling fried fish, reminding us of
the Lenten season. She then vanished. At
11 the same evening there came a gentle tap at
the front door. I opened it gently, to admit the
mild fragrance of Carlton Ale and to see Hermione.
“ Well,” I asked her, “what do you want ?” “ I
have come,” she said, “for an advance of 10s., as
I wish to buy a cap and apron.” I closed the
door quietly, and rested my brow on the wall-
paper. Next morning I received an account from
the registry office for the fee.
ULTIMA THULE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A youth set sail on the ocean wide,
No chart or compass his barque to guide ;
He sped on his way, every sail unfurled,
To the glistening rock they call The World.
“ ’Tis hard and hollow and cold,” said he,
As he turned his boat on the heaving sea.
He’trimmed his sails to the zephyrs fresh,
And sailed to the atoll they call The Flesh.
“ ’Tis heavy and humid and hot,” he said ;
“ The cockatrice lurks in the lotus bed.”
He sipped the wine of the Circean revel,
Then set his sail and drove on to The Devil.
vie.
JEACH.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
jVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.B. : There is no difference ; a square mile and
a mile square are both 640 acres. But two square miles
are 1280 acres, and two miles square are 2560 acres.
Likewise 10 square miles are 6400 acres, and 10 miles
square are 64,000 acres....R.B.H. : Incident thrilling,
but requires cleverer and more dramatic treatment....
Cavendish : Versification too stiff and wooden.. ..C.C.T.:
You “ thought it very good indeed.” Well, it’s your
misfortune that we didn’t agree with you Roamer :
A hopelessly inadequate effort... .Art. W.: Obviously
after Lawson —a long way after, t 00... .Jasper : ‘‘lt is
perfectly original.” The spelling certainly is... .B.McT. :
Yes, you have much improved ; but you are still too fond
of stock phrases. Use your own language ; you seem to
have plenty of it....J.C. (W.A.): Send along the
title, and inquiry will be made about it
Wal D. : Would need stronger and brighter treatment....
F.L.8.: Interesting material, but too awkwardly put
together Goril: Metre too rocky.... Haggis : But they
are not “ terribly bad.” In fact, they are rather good
Jeach : Rather commonplace and washy.... W.O’M. : You
haven’t the constructive power to do the subject justice.
F. W.D.: The bad versification blocks it. ...A.F.
(Melb.) : He is wrong in his facts and false in his deduc-
tions. And what value have the teachings of a man who
doesn’t understand that the evolution of an organism, as
a whole, may—as with the appendix—involve the devolu-
tion of a particular organ as its uses disappear ?
“ Montalex ” : To “ F.H.R.”(B. 28/3/’o7)—Your Norwegian
friend’s “ benito ” was the bonito (Thynnus pelamys),
which, like the albacore, is a deep-sea cousin of the well-
known tunny. The bonito is generally about 201 b. in
weight, but ranges up to 501 b. ; and, like all fishes of its
group (the mackerels), is gracefully formed and essen-
tially “ built for speed.” It is reasonably good eating,
though very coarse-fleshed in the larger specimens....
Enja: Not enough in it.. ..Learner: Yes, there’s a
poetic vein in you, though we don’t much care for the
item sent....E.E.: Rather smart, but a bit too warm for
print..... Frank B. : Too vague and incoherent.....
Harrie Browne: A mere drunk without frills, trimmings,
or humor... .Bulum Waal: Not of sufficient import-
ance.. . .Parapluie: One yarn good. T’other very 01d....
Bynnya: That horse and buggy and fence story is old,
and has got less hair on it than Bill Squires... .F.W.F. :
“ Trigger’s Dream ” doesn’t show a gleam of originality.
F.H.R. : You’re a bold man to wish to rush in on to
the subject of lauies’ operations; but The Bulletin
doesn’t share your courage Rowley : Hardly enough of
what Bent mentions as being brought to the bear....
Pea Vee : You say “ perhaps if the Government (Federal)
didn’t cut the tenders so low it would obtain a more
efficient service.” But the Government doesn’t cut the
tenders. It accepts those that are offered, and if it took
a high tender when a low one was available, what kind oi
a row would there be about “ Federal extravagance l
Why doesn’t your State Government repair the W.A.
roads so that the mail coach can get a10ng?....
Can’t decide whether “ Chance ” is worse than “ Binks,”
or whether “ Binks ” is more dreadful than “ Chance”....
Seaweed: “The Deep” is the only one that shows any
promise. It begins well and ends anyhow Nym :
“ Sobs ” is about the most illegible thing you’ve written,
and you are always a hieroglyphic. Perhaps it was
inability to read it that brought about its rejection
Will Fay: Thanks for suggestion, which, however, has
been anticipated... .Warrigal: Do not think subject
worth so much notice. Try a literary paper with more
space....H. H. Ward: Don’t care for parodies
C.K.Y. : Hardly helpful enough.... C.P.W. : Nothing in
it Lawrence B. Jupp :O, be brief ! Seaseaen :If
it’s an allegory, we don’t like allegories ; if it isn’t an
allegory—well, we don’t like it, anyhow.... Will Fay :
Your man who says “ He-e-e-e-e-e-e 1 ” twenty-seven
times in your yarn grew wearisome. If only he had once
said “ Haw l”*we mighthave taken him to our heart.. ..
A.A.J. : All tolerably well-written, but quite undistin-
guished. . .Astrades : Neat, but lifeless and pointless.
Paroo Tom: Too closely jammed together Nix:
Quite cabalistic. What in creation do you mean, for
instance, by “ the head and heart in warlock unre-
signed ” ?... .Plumbob : Rather mixed up in the telling.
.. Rita: Your lack of metre-ear lets you down badly
in places.. ..C.W.S. : Some power, but not enough deft-
ness J.F. (W.A.): You should lay the matter before
the Crown Law authorities. On the evidence, the man is
flagrantly unfit for his position... A. Morris : Seems pros-
perous enough ; anyway, the population has increased 82
per cent, in 10 years. But it is far off The Bulletin’s beat,
and The Bulletin isn’t recommending British Columbia
on land-sellers’ advts. Better apply to the Canadian
Commissioner, London. Then, if you go, take a return
ticket E.J.8.: Population of Queensland went up to
512,604 in 1899, got down to 494,166 in 1900, and
was 528,048 at the end of 1905. It has lately
been increasing rapidly, but those are the last
figures given in the official “ Queensland Statistics.’ . ...
R. Cook: Not much point... .Goril: You haven t the
beginning of an idea how to be a poet Leonardo The
man who rhymes “ laws ” and “ roars,” also “ pour ’ and
“poor,” is dead in a literary sense Comet: “Pro-
phecy” dashed p00r.... “ Edith W.” : “ All I Have in my
Heart ’’just fails. The attempt to rhyme “inn’ with
“in” helps to kill it. Other verses inferior R.J.
Something Undecipherable (Clinton, M.L.): “Thrum”
too long for its merits Carl: “Goddess’ good idea,
but rocky metre... .D. W.: “ Weather-wise” rather too
small and slender Unsuitable : N.Q.T., Sauville, D. R.
Mclntyre, John Maitland.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.H. : Have tried manfully to get the hang of that
stamp picture, and failed.. ..Said : “ Connoisseur ” repre-
sents a lady with a back twice as long as her legs, and
the legs are the same thickness all down. Also, your
letter cost 3d. for deficient postage E.M.: Harvester
Trust picture not of much account G.H. W. : Pictures
of animals are of no use to us, but they show very consider-
able promise. Endeavor to get some art training.
Alex. N.: They are not arc. Not quite sure what
they are W.S.: Terrible ink-sketch of a lizard and a
frog talking about a worm declined J.T.8.: Not quite
the worst we have met, but far below publication level.
Also, the ideas are only medium, and not very violently
that.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEYS
English Machinery, viz.! Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers
Niohoison & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Bteel Rails. Looomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Australian State revenues for March this year
were generally less than for March of last vear because
the hot bun arrived early in 1907, and the Treasurers
threw the overdraft at the cat and rushed off three days
before the end of the month to consume the confec-
tionery while yet it was warm and deadly. Hence these
figures :
State Revenues for March.
„ c , , Mar., 1906. Mar., 1907.
N.S. Wales .. £1,084,259 £1,006,898 Dec. £77,361
Victoria .. 690,836 682,610 Dec. 8,226
Queens and .. 289,415 297.715 Inc. 8,300
Westraha .. 322,911 304,926 Dec. 17,985
Tasmania .. 65,905 62,849 Dec. 3,056
But for the nine months so far gone, the totals are still
satisfactory :
State Revenues for Year so far (9 months).
1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S. Wales .. £9,007,362 £9,715,380 Inc. £708,018
Victoria .. 5,738,793 5,990,739 Inc. 251,946
Queensland .. 2,689,487 2,989,006 Inc. 299 619
S Austraha .. 1,990,028 2,225,201 Inc. 235 173
Westraha .. 2,588,228 2,491,213 Dec. 97 016
Tasmania .. 661,854 688,391 Inc. 26,537
Only three States supply progress reports
regarding expenditure^
State Expenditure for Year So Far (9 months)
NT O , 1905 ’ 6 - 1906-7.
N.S. Wales ..£8,712,523 £10,169,958 Inc. £1,457,435
Queens and .. 2,372,788 2,514,883 Inc. 142,095
Westraha .. 2,549,911 2,502,257 Dec. 47,654
rnCl^ d i n „ the Wm expenditure for the nine months
P7 e ioo2? ,^-? CM° ser Settlement Fund and
«t 718,051 paid to the Public Works Fund; apart from
“ese items, the expenditure shows an increase of
±,539,384, of which £188,845 represents the extra monev
called for by the railways and tramwavs to earn their
NT X o ra i.^ 4o ’? 39 of . revenue . Railways and tramways of
N.B. Wales have, in these nine months, brought in a total
revenue of £4,172,767, and the working expenses have
run to £2,408,741, leaving £1,764,026 towards interest,
hast year the interest on capital was £1,671,807 ; so that,
it the new Chief Commissioner can manage to just pav
expenses till the end of the financial year (June
30), he will still have a surplus of about £92,000. The
Act making the change in railway management was
gazetted on April 4; practically, therefore, the new
imported chief starts from the end of March. And as
there is bound to be a big railway surplus at the end of
the year, let the fact be written down plain at the start:
under Oliver, the man who is presumed to be unfit for
the job, and has been superseded, the railways and tram-
ways in his last nine months gave this result:
Earnings £4,172,767
Outgoings..
Working expenses .. £2,408,741
Proportion of interest .. 1,276,000
3,683,741
Oliver’s surplus (nine months) .. .. £489,026
And to show how things have been improving :
•• •• Deficiency .. £36,698
1905- .. .. Surplus .. 440,940
1906- (9 months) .. Surplus .. 489,026
The N.S.W. Treasury, as shown above, has so
far this year transferred £918,051 to the public works
and closer settlement funds. On the other hand
£1,370,367 derived from lands is included as revenue and
about 65 per cent, of that, or £890,000, represents land
sales, which are not revenue, but are realisations of
assets. The total transfers to the two funds are thus
about equal to the amount of the land sales ; and, pre-
suming that the public works fund has been used
to provide new assets, and not to patch or replace old
ones paid for out of loans, this represents about the
largest slice of honesty of which N.S. Wales has been
guilty for some time. It has actually, for once, put back
into assets the proceeds of other assets which it has sold.
Certainly, the State’s remarkable prosperity has made
this slice of honesty easy ; but a Treasurer as bad as the
daily papers would have one to be (even Carruthers isn’t
as bad as that) would have knocked off the income-tax or
something, and made things even that way.
But while N.S.W. Treasurer Carruthers has
put aside his land-sales money to buy other assets with,
still, in spite of Oliver’s magnificent railway surplus, and
in spite of the £2,246,498 received from the Customs
duties which Carruthers wouldn’t be a party to, he has
drifted into pawn to the further extent of £996,842—at
the rate of, say, a million and a third a year. Carruthers
is launching out into loan works now because everybody
else is launching out; and when the boom fades and
things are dull, Carruthers will launch out because
nobody else is doing it. Whether things are dull or
brisk, the State that gets the borrowing disease is
expected to “launch out.” It gets drunk when every-
body else is sober on the pretext of giving the brewer a
lift; and when everybody else is drunk, it gets drunk
too, so as not to be disagreeable. Whatever happens it
gets drunk. ’
The playful Bent estimated a Victorian surplus
of £7000._ For the year he reckoned to get in £7,554 568 •
for the nine months he has actually got in £5,990 739’
And if to that is added £2,066,123, which was the revenue
for the last three months of last year, the total reaches
£8,055,862. As the revenue for the first nine months of
this year has been £251,946 ahead of that for the corres-
ponding period of last year, the chances are that
"“.® re ® t of th® year will also show an increase.
Without any such increase there looks to be a surplus of
about £501,000 ahead ; but it may be anything- from
£lOO,OOO to £150,000 more than that. And there isn’t
any million and a third of new loans in Victoria’s case to
spoil the record. Victoria has got out of the habit of
getting drunk ; and, apart from the fact that it won’t
have N.S. Wales* awful headache in the morning* it
seems just as happy as the State that continues the’old
financial jag.
* * • *
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., in their annual re-
view of the Australian wool trade, print these three in-
teresting lines concerning the Australian Common-
wealth’s live stock :
Horses. Cattle. Sheep.
1891 .. 1,574,795 11,029,499 106,421,168
1902 .. 1,534,520 7,021,765 54,012,259
1905 .. 1,673,805 8,525,025 74,403,704
The first, in the matter of sheep, at any rate, was the
Australian highwater mark; the second was the lowest
point reached, as the result of drought following upon the
previous over-stocking and eating-out of country. For
1906, when the figures are in, the total of sheep will pro-
bably be found to be close up to 80,000,000. The esti-
mated wool-export for the season is 1,644,000 bales as
against 983,303 bales in 1903 ; and of the 1906-7 total
78* per cent, was sold in Australia. But with
regard to the wool-clip it has to be noted that the
shearing was last season. delayed over a great part of
Australia, and the clip in many cases represented 13
monvhs wool. The wool sold in Australia, Goldsbrough,
Mort and Co. parcel out in this way :
_ .. _ Bales. Proportion.
Continent of Europe .. 783,000 60 3-5 per cent.
Great Britain .. .. 306,000 23 4-5
United States .. .. 98,000 7 3.5 ’
Australia .. .. .. 66,000 5 3-5 ’!
Japan and India.. .. 32,000 2 2-5 ’
Australia’s woollen factories don’t, unfortunately, call
for 66,000 bales ; the bulk of it went to Australian
scourers, who subsequently find a market for it here or
elsewhere.
* * * *
Though practically no Australian ever thinks
of putting the Australian life office on a lower level than
the foreign Office, in the matter of fire insurance thousands
still have the curious idea buzzing vaguely in their heads
that if you want security you must go to a British or
foreign co. Australians of that sort ought to get some
good out of a paper read by the Leeds manager of the
North British at a recent session of the Yorkshire Insur-
ance Institute. An extract:—“ln 1888 the British fire
offices numbered no fewer than 60. Of these some 32 have
ceased to exist, as have several others which have been
formed and have evaporated—or liquidated—in the mean-
time. Thus during a term of 17 years more than half
of the offices transacting business at the outset have
succumbed in one way or another.” He gives a
list of “ the more important of these defunct offices and
their net fire premium incomes 17 years ago,” including
the City of London, £328,000 ; Queen, £602,000 ; United
Re-insurance, £262,000; Lion, £180,000; and Fire Insur-
ance Association, £290,000. The net premium income of
the lot was no less than £4,660,000. “And I fear,” he
added, “there can now be no reasonable doubt that
there will shortly be at least one other office to add to
this melancholy list of the departed.” So the idea that
an office has only to be “ British ” in order to be safe is
proved to be so ridiculous as to be grotesque. The man
on the spot generally has a fair idea whether an office is
rickety or not; if it is thought to be that way, it
generally finds that its best policy is to get further away
from home and push for business there. And, so long as
Australia doesn’t trouble to make inquiries about an
office, but accepts it as good enough so long as it is
foreign, it is an ideal field for exploitation by the rickety
office.
The Leeds manager of the North British,
quoted above, feared that “at least one other office”
would have to be added to the “ melancholy' list of the
departed.” Instead of one, it will probably be three.
Thus a big London office which was supposed to have
come through ’Frisco with losses of about £700,000 or
£BOO,OOO finds that it is responsible for nearly £2,000,000.
When an Australian insures with a British or other
foreign office he doesn’t, as a matter of fact, know who
he is insuring with, as all the foreigners have “ treaties,”
and automatically pass on a large proportion of their
risks to their treaty offices. In the case mentioned the
treaties happened to be with American offices which had
been struck where they felt it most through their own
primary risks, so the London office had to struggle with
the whole bundle itself, and found the job too big.
* » • *
A co. with a capital of £lOO,OOO is on the stocks
to put up and run big woollen mills in N.S. Wales. It is
reckoned that the 15 per cent, duty is enough protection,
though the Parramatta Woollen Mills—which started just
before Federation arrived, in the expectation that an
effective duty would be put on—would probably express
a different opinion, as the result of practical experience.
The new co. appears, however, to have the command of a
market, influential retailers having taken a hand in it,
and they are the people who can do more than anybody
else to break down the stupid prejudice against Australian
goods.
Some years ago, Auckland (M.L.) jobbed away
the rights to build tramways in its streets to the usual
syndicate ; and now, following on some internal ructions,
the citizens are finding out how they were rooked ; also
it doesn’t seem as though the rooking has ended. W.
U. Bingham, who went through Australasia, a few years
years ago, snapping up concessions wherever they could
be found, and apparently took them round in a basket
later on and hawked them, was the go-betw r een ; and he
has furnished letters from various people which showed
what was expected of the concessionaires. From a
solicitor who had acted for the local co.—the co. which
first handled the concession—he got a letter asking him
whilst in London “to see that the promises made
to Mr. Lamb, the Observer, and some others as
to getting shares are put on a proper footing.”
Nobody seems to know who “ Mr. Lamb ” is ; but in a
subsequent letter the solicitor wrote—“ Mr. Lamb
in the first place ought to be satisfied ; manv reasons of
policy in the co.’s interests point to this conclusion, to
say nothing of other reasons,” so “Mr. Lamb,” whoever
he is, seems to be a person of tonnage. After mentioning
others who ought to be “satisfied,” the solicitor re-
marks : “The co. will yet stand in need of services from
these quarters for some time to come.” It is possible
though in the last degree improbable, that Mr. Bingham
invented these letters ; if he did, the solicitor would be
pretty sure to have done something emphatic by this
time. And, anyhow, he didn’t invent the item, “ Parlia-
mentary, preliminary, and organising expenses, £77,932,”
which appeared in the tramway co.’s first balance sheet.
It evidently cost a good deal to “ satisfy ” some people.’
And now Auckland has to pay interest on the cost.
The Auckland Tramway Co. got a 30-years
concession from the city on these terms :
(1) 00. to pay an annual rent of £4OO.
(2) 00. to pay the council 5 per cent, on profits over
£5OOO, and 10per cent, on profits over £lO,OOO.
Now the usual trouble has arisen as to what are profits.
Apparently the co., having so many people to “ satisfy ”
(of its capital of £360,000, no less than £77,932, as men-
tioned just now, went in “expenses”), couldn’t, in the
first place, afford to put in material of the highest class ;
consequently, renewals are already very heavy. It looks
as though the renewals are of first-class quality ; but, in
any case, they are being paid for out of revenue, and the
city council is wondering where it comes in in the
matter of profits. According to present appearances, it
doesn’t come in anywhere worth mentioning. That may
be why “ the co. will stand in need of services from these
quarters for some time to come”—they are to be “Pro
Bono Publico ” and “ Father of 27,” whose job it is to
write to the papers to say how good a service Auckland
has, and how proud the city ought to be of the company.
* * * *
More trouble for the Australian coal-producer !
Borneo has this year sent away its first big cargo of coal—
over 1300 tons, to Hongkong, and the stuff is pronounced
first-class bituminous, and practically smokeless. The
seams, moreover, are stated to be right alongside a
navigable river, and to run to 18ft. in thickness. Every
year, almost, the Australian coal-exporter runs against a
new competitor, or finds one of his markets supplied by
local production. He might atone for that by promoting
Australian industries to consume Australian coal; but
apparently a whole lot of N.S. Wales people would rather
cut their throats than tread on the toes of their fetich
Freetrade.
* • * #
Here is an idea of what the smelting of Aus-
tralian ore is worth to people who are not Australians.
During 1906 85,848 tons of zinc concentrates, valued at
£182,793, were trained from Broken Hill. By average
assays, there was 33,427 tons of zinc in the concentrates.
Zinc last year was worth, as an average, about £27 Is.
per ton ; total for the lot, say, £903,000. All the cos.
got for it, in spite of silver and lead contents, was
£182,793—£182,793 for Australia ; £720,207 for Germany
and Belgium. Thbre are losses in extraction, but silver
and lead contents can be set against that. No wonder,
with a policy that encourages that sort of thing,
Germany flourishes, while Australia in the industrial way
doesn’t.
* * « *
The Bank of Adelaide, which put up its divi-
dend from 7 to 8 per cent, in 1900, will give it a further
lift to 9 per cent, for the year just ended (March 31st).
But the market long since discounted the rise. In fact,
it half expected 9 per cent, before the report was issued
12 months ago, though the shares were too well held to
show the disappointment. The stock generally shows a
high investment return, despite its being well held ; one
reason is that the co. isn’t “ limited,” and investors want
a trifle extra for the risk which that involves.
* * * *
The Freehold Assets Realisation Co., one of
the mournful remnants of the Melbourne boom, is to go
at last. It was established as a sort of undertaker, with
the job of giving the Freehold Investment and Banking
00. as decent burial as the very bad state of that dis-
reputable corpse would permit. According to the calcu-
lations made in The Bulletin (10/l/’O7) the funeral so far
has proceeded this way :
Deposits paid off £872,470
Total paid for deposits .. .. 219,252
Depositors’ loss .. £653,218
That means that the depositors have got a shade over ss.
in the £. But as some of them got it years ago it is
worth more than that now. There remain of old deposits
£484,967, besides £211,237 of “B” scrip, issued against
unpaid interest; but that is only a contingent liability,,
and doesn’t count now. Against the £484,967 of liability
there was this at the last balance: —
Properties (book value) .. .. £399,368
Balances owing by purchasers .. 61,985
Cash and securities 52,579
Total £503,932
These assets are valued at £183,010; and that means
about 78. 7d. in the £ for creditors. The bulk of the
deposits are held in Great Britain; and lately the
creditors, after considering various schemes, resolved on
forming a new co. to take over the old concern. They
will get 4 per cent, debentures for £96,993 (4s. in the £),
and £1 shares for £72,745 (3s. in the £). The balance
goes in exes, etc. The share and debenture issue has
been underwritten, so if creditors don’t like to come in
they can get cash. The new co. will try to be a live con-
cern, and neither a corpse nor an undertakery.
Of course, the Freehold Assets Realisation Co.’s
own capital goes ; and with it the last of the capital of
the Freehold Investment and Banking Co., and that dis-
astrous concern gets pushed a little further back among
the cobwebs. It had a capital of over £300,000, and,
when Matthew Davies beamed upon it at the end of 1891,
it paid a dividend of 8 per cent. In a month or two it
was known to be hopelessly bung. Then, on top of its
other struggles, came the De Alba lift-accident suit,
which must have cost it £5OOO. It was a Davies concern
almost from top to bottom ; but Matthew stood always
in the limelight. Afterwards Bent’s present locum tenens,
J. M. Davies, had to stand some of the racket along with
his ornamental brother ; but men who were in the inside
of things in those days know that J. M. Davies took more
than his fair share of the blame in order to shield some
others who didn’t deserve the sacrifice.
* * * *
Before the end of last week copper got nearly
£2O below its top. Gymnastics of that sort having
started, operators will soon begin asking the minimum
at which various mines can produce. The reply to that
question is rarely satisfactory. Most mines have some
rich or easily accessible ore ; so they can keep going
awhile at a very low price. But, on past figures,
something can be said in a general way. Take Wallaroo
and Moonta. Costs here are very high ; but it is
difficult to get at the real facts of the case owing to pur-
chased ore and matte being included with the accounts.
The copper account shows that 6267 tons were produced
from the mines’ own ores. The gross profit was £160,127,
equal to £25 11s. per ton of the mines’ own output; and
out of that depreciation must come. The average price
realised was £B9 18s., which would mean that the costs
(apart from depreciation) were £64 7s. per ton of the
mines’ own output. In other words, if the 1664 tons of
copper in purchased ore and matte only just paid
expenses, then it cost £64 7s. per ton to produce this
co.’s copper, including the cheaply-produced metal from
cementation. There certainly were some heavy special
charges last year—fire expenditure, £15,453, for in-
stance—but they can be partly set-off by the profits
which were made out of purchased ore and out of sub-
sidiary works. And, anyhow, apart from the fact that
in a big concern there are some “ special ” expenses every
year, these charges would not represent more than £3 or
£4 per ton.
* * * 0
.The output of Moonta and Wallaroo copper
last year, according to the smelting works report,
was 6226 tons, and in 1905 it was 5183 tons. Assume
that the 1906 output will be maintained. Then, as last
year’s average for standard copper was £B7 Bs. 5d., an
average of £9O per ton would add £16,150 to last year’s
profit; and every £1 fall below £B7 Bs. sd. would knock
off £6226 from last year’s profit. Put it this way
Copper Gross
(standard) Gross Profit
per ton. Profit. per share.
£B7 8 5 £160,122 £lO 0
100 0 0 238,510 1 9 9
90 0 0 . 176,250 1 0 11
85 0 0 145,120 18 2
75 0 0 82,860 10 4
65 0 0 20,600 2 7
It was stated above that last year’s costs, apart from
depreciation, were £64 7s. per ton of Moonta and Wallaroo
copper ; but that copper is worth usually about £2 10s.
above standard, which accounts for the fact that, on the.
basis of last year’s figures, a profit of £20,600 would be
shown with standard copper at £65. On the other hand
as prices come down so do wages; with copper at £65
this would probably make a difference of 2s. per share to
the annual profits.
* * ■* «
N.S. Wales mineral output divided up into
decades:—
1857-1866 £16,724,328
1867-1876 18,129,455
1877-1886 22,422,983
1887-1896 46,772,464
1897-1906 .. .. .. 60,762,488
And of the most prolific decade 1906 was easily the most
fruitful year, the value running to £8,169,624. Next to
that comes 1905, with £7,085,893. Previous to this last
decade the nearest approach to these figures was in 1891
when, owing to the great output of silver from Broken
Hill, the State’s mineral yield was worth £6,433,638. But
the recent figures are really even better than they look by
comparison with the 1891 return ; for in that year Broken
Hill smelted practically all its ore in N.S. Wales, whereas
now almost all of it is shipped either to other States or out
of Australia altogether in a crude form, and only the local
value is included in the return—the value of the metals
that is, less freight, reduction charges, &c. Thus for last
year, while the value of the silver, lead and zinc included
in the return is £3,156,863, the actual value accruing to
the Commonwealth from silver-lead mines was £3,989,811,
and, in addition, large sums were spent on foreign smelt-
ing, and paid for out of N.S. Wales silver, lead, and zinc
and this sum is not included.
* * * *
There seems to be something wrong with some
of the Broken Hill figures in the N.S.W. Mines Report
lately published ; though a few mistakes can be forgiven
in view of the serious attempt made to give a compre-
hensive view of the whole position. It is said that in
addition to the ore smelted in Australia, “ 165,151 tons
of concentrates were exported to Great Britain and the
Continent of Europe, the value obtained for same being
£1,876,834.” Then the “ estimated gross metallic con-
tents ” are given :
Silver .. .. 3,111,0130 z.
Lead .. .. 58,683 tons
Zinc .. .. 33,427 tons.
Now, taking last year’s average prices, this approximate
value is arrived at:—
Silver £427,764
Lead 966,100
Zinc 902,520
Total .. .. £2,296,384
If the cos. got £1,876,834, and the gross metal value was
£2,296,384, this would only leave £419,550 to cover
freight, smelting charges, &c., or barely over £2 10s. per
ton ; and, including the zinc concentrates, the true
average would certainly be much more than double that
If full value was paid for the silver and lead alleged to
have been contained in the silver-lead concentrates, and
£7 per ton was paid for the zinc concentrates, the total
value would be only about £1,625,000. Either then a
great deal less was got for the concentrates than the re-
port says, or there was a great deal more metal in the
concentrates. Still, these figures will be used to build
metal statistics on, and on metal statistics the gentle
bull and bear will build their pretty theories. And what
is it all worth ?
' * » *
Bewick, Moreing and Co., managers of the
Zinc Corporation, have announced that all that Queneau
did was no good, but that the Cattermole process is a
great success. Unfortunately no figures are given ; and
it’s figures that are wanted. A Zinc fillip was badly
needed in London, where the u„j ,
that either a big recovery or a be ?^ n 10
and poor Queneau is made to stand someof 1
k \ By
Though his methods were not Uvable On? ’ a s yho *‘
deserve what he is getting Tliis i n , u , eneau doesn c
history of the wJe bufi'n Js A ZnlZ'S 0 “
London who was supposed to' know al? thlt‘ 1 ?? i m
about Barrier suldiides r.’„„ „ a *'“ a t is known
he talked about taifings or other
tion was like shelling p?as. Pronmtlv Z l ?s h concent J a ; i
afraid to make inquiries amon? ?l Pt y th ® crowd >
know, grabbed tailings Junms
gaged Queneau, a smelter, to go outTnd
When he arrived he discovefed that fbe h pea t
■“-V* 7»
assumed had been solved for them. Up to now about
seven processes have been tried, and all have been St
some time or other announced as a great success Now
S^SST to _ p ™“ ”“™ a -
When these zinc processes are announced as
successes, and presently are cast aside as failures, the
public naturally says dwindle !" Wrong There is no
swindle about it. Nearly all of them dfpend for their
success upon the character of the tailings-size of gndn
s?„flF h h Ch t i he or ® has b . een crushed, and lo on. Now the
t bee , n , 'l urned out without any idea of how it
W sH,ff U o 6d ater T ’ , conse q u ently, there is a layer of
fine stuff on top of a layer of coarse stuff, and occa-
sionally even oxidised-ore tailings are come upon. Experi-
menters get samples, take them to the laboratory and
presently get a fine extraction. Eureka—the problem
is solved 1 Then a plant is put up somewhere on the
mines they don’t strike the same lot of tailings again
and, after the reports have talked of “readjustments”
failure m ° nth ° F tW °’ there are whis P ers o( another
, A® present prices, Broken Hill zinc-bearing
tadmgs can, however, be treated at a profit. Probably
the Broken .fill Prop, and the Sulphide Corporation are
making about Bs. or 9s. per ton out of theirs ; the B.H.
Prop, may be making more, beoause it is picking its tail-
ings. To this, another 3s. or so may be added as
machinery, in hand gets ready. But for the Zinc Corpo-
ration, which has to take the tailings as they come and
pay up to 6s, per ton for them, the outlook at present is
blue. Certainly it will get the benefit of all the present
experimenting, for, anyhow, it cannot know less than it
knows now, and may possibly learn a great deal: on the
other hand, zinc is £27 a ton now, and down to two years
ago a normal price was £2O, and it often got under £l5
* * * *
The quarterly count of men employed on the
Broken Hill mines at the end of March showed 9608 on
the pay-roll-a record for the field. This is exclusive of
men at the smelting and coke works off the field In-
cludmg them, the sheet of the B.H. Prop, alone runs to
flS lpl ?< yees \ * n when lead was down to £lO
12s. 6d. , the whole field only employed 4300. It is an
erratic business, for the laborer as well as the shareholder
• * * *
“ Stannifer ” : Bulletin (28/3/ 07), dealing with
the coke industry, rather confers the distinction of
haying started it on the Messrs. Longworth. Without
detracting in any way from the credit due thosegentlemen
it is only fair to those concerned in the growing coke
business to say that, as far back as 1888, it was initiated
by Messrs. Andrew G. Blomfield, of Sydney, and G. S.
Yuiil, now of London, but formerly representative of the
Orient Co. here. They sank several thousands each, and
spent about three years urging on mine company direc-
tors the merits of South Coast coke, but without appreci-
able result till the Bibbs duty was imposed. After that
the way became easier ; but even when the value of their
product had been demonstrated, it only led to competition
with such institutions as the Mt. Lyell Co., which had put
up works of their own, and rendered dividends rather
harder to reach—the usual fate of the pioneer. Still, the
coke industry is one to be proud of, and the Federal Coke
Co. was fortunate in having such plucky sponsors as
ifoo ono Bon ? beld and Yuiil, for there was a time when
£20,000 would not have covered their risk, and the indi-
vidual who wiil take this on his shoulders deserves
encouragement.
* * • •
(N. S. W. ) reports that a new smelting
co.—the Northern Smelting Co.—has got so far forward
as to secure a site at Wickham. But what a smelting co.
needs a good deal more than a site is an assured supply
of ore. The new co. to have copper in view.
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie, is good
enough for another two years’ run, but, as no pay ore
can he found below 550 ft., at which depth the rich shoot
passes into the Oroya, the future beyond that is not
promising. Still, the walls of this pipe of ore are very
difficult to define, and what looks like a wall has over
and over again proved not to be the end of the ore, so
that the mine may last much longer. The co.’s new ven-
ture, the Leviathan, at Southern Cross, has proved a
frost, the last return showing a loss of £390, and for
several months past there has been a debit balance.
* * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, is still being
sampled by 8., M. and Co., but the job is expected to be
completed very shortly. Up to date, the mine has pro-
dueed 10,5630 z. gold and 38,1570 z. silver from 732 tons, a
marvellous return. All this ore was picked from the rich
pipe and sent to the smelters, and all poorer ore was
letfc untouched. The main lode on the property is very
wide, but, so far as known, only carries 3dwt. to4dwt. per
ton, though in places double that average can be got.
The pay shoot, or pipe, has been followed down to 4Uoft.,
and still continues, but is very small at that depth, and
it remains to be seen whether 8., M. and Co. are satisfied
with the mine as a whole. If capital is introduced into
the concern, a needed fillip will be given to the north
end of the Golden Mile, on which very little genuine
work has been done so far.
* * * «
North End, Kalgoorlie, is still under exemption,
but ? ai ? wo . r k resumed shortly, and that
£lO,OOO is forthcoming to give the show another trial.
Including gold won, £28,000 odd has been spent on the
property, but most of it has been wasted on the surface
in an equipment which was not justified. When the
mine was taken over, there was absolutely no ore in
sight, and yet a 15-head mill and cyanide plant were
erected. The shaft was sunk and fresh levels started at
180 ft. and 230 ft., but the ore shoot dips so flat to the
south that long drives in barren country had to be put
in before pay ore was met. It is now proposed to sink a
new shaft to the south, and this must go to at least
300ffc.. before any opening-out can be done. It is very
questionable if £lO,OOO will be sufficient to carry out the
proposed work, especially as the battery and cyanide
plant will be in the wrong place for the new shaft.
* ■* * *
Chairman Harper’s speech, at the half-yearly
meeting of Golden Pole (W.A.) was anything but re-
assuring. A second crosscourse to the north has been
met with, and, as it is much steeper than the one on the
south, the two will junction at about 700ft. f if they
maintain their present angles. These crosscourses cut
off all values, and the ore shoot grows shorter and
shorter as they converge. During the past half-year the
value of the ore treated has been 555., and the costs, ex-
clusive of development, have been 525. As the cost of
development, debited against reserves, comes to 13s. 7d.
a ton, it will be seen that, reckoning on this basis, there
is no profit in sight. It transpired at the meeting that
97,2/5 shares are registered in London against 57,800 in
Kalgoorlie and 44,925 in Adelaide. London has fallen in
badly.
* * * •
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), is gradually
being licked into shape since Jack Macdermott, late
underground manager of the Ivanhoe, took charge.
Most of the gaping stopes have been mullocked up, and
the mine will soon be in proper order. At present the
co. is paying quarterly divs. of Is., equivalent to £65,000
yearly; but it is expected that, before many months
elapse, more will be forthcoming. The February, profit
\vas £6300, and it is expected that this can be consider-
ably improved upon in the near future. Developments
in the mine continue satisfactory, and ore reserves are
increasing.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia South, Leonora (W.A.), is being
equipped with a 10-head mill, capable of treating 1000
to 1500 tons monthly, and it should join the producers in
June. The co. is in 60,000 shares of 10s. each, and has
an uncalled capital of £7500 on 10,000 shares, which were
!i SU u a P reni ium of 10s. Manager Eades estimates
that, he has enough ore developed to easily keep the mill
going, but, as it is not blocked out, he gives no estimate
of quantity. The developments in the mine have been
satisfactory, so far as tested, and work on the adjoining


Strength and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers. for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING ST.,
SYDNEY.
Qwalia shows that good values run into the block. It is
calculated that the lode passes into the Gwalia at a depth
of 800 ft., which must not be forgotten when reckoning
the life of the mine.
ie * * *
Tindall’s Gold Mine, Cue (W.A.), is a recent
London flotation, and should not be confused with the
Coolfardie mine of the same name. The co. is in 450,000
shares of £1 each, and holds 167 acres situated three to
four miles north of the Great Fingall. As usual, the
Great Fingall reef traverses the property for a distance
of 6000 ft. A marvellous reef this Great Fingall, which
can be wherever a company-promoter wants it to be.
The mine is equipped with a 20-head mill, said to be
capable of treating 40,000 tons yearly; but its real
capacity is probably half that. According to the pro-
moters, the lode at 650 ft. is 20ft. wide and worth 80s. a
ton, and, as costs will not exceed 205., the annual profit
will be £120,000. Figures like that should warn off
* * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is now under the
management of W. Duncan, manager Ferguson having
resigned after a long struggle under very adverse condi-
tions. When Ferguson took over the Goodenough, the
Brisbane directors cut his expenses so low that the
transport and re-erection of the plant had to be done
in a shoddv manner, with all sorts of scrap, with the
result that' costs will be abnormally high ; and, to make
matters worse, the new mine is very patchy.
* * * *
Harvey Patterson’s Westralian venture, the
Queen Margaret, on which he is understood to have con-
ferred the blessings of his divining-rod experiments,
has now acquired a great many leases; but the
more leases it gets the more money it seems to lose.
The Queen Margaret group—which includes the Queen
Margaret, and the Princess Margaret, and the Q.M. West,
and the White Horse, and the Melbourne United —
showed last half-year a loss of £B6l ; but the hopeful
manager assures shareholders that there’s a good time
coming yet. Meantime, however, 'unds are so low that
something will have to be done. There are 4,950 shares
in reserve out of the total of 100,000, but they won’t go
far on any possible terms at which they could be issued.
The South Gippsland, which was going to set things right
for the co., made a worse loss than the original mines ;
while the Malcolm venture, the Nine of Hearts, has been
under exemption, and it is doubtful whether it will be
worked again.
• * • * *
Last month’s output of gold in Westralia
(123,7250 z. fine) was the lowest for more than three
years. March outputs have moved like this : —1905,
160,9130 z.; 1906, 155,5740 z. ; 1907,128,7250 z. The Wes-
tralian papers try to get some comfort out of the fact
that, though the yield is falling, dividends are more than
sustained. In other words, though the yield is less, the
foreigner gets more than he did when the yield was
greater; so Westralia’s own share is being cut at from
both ends. It is cold comfort that.
* * » *
By way of comparison : While Westralia’s gold
output for February was 134,1930 z., the Transvaal’s was
425,1560 z.
• * * *
Glenfine South, Pitfield (Vic.), fights on a fitful
career, and it needs no second-sight to tell what is
ahead. Still, the Age comes out with such a statement as
this:—“lt is generally believed that a revival in quartz
mining (at Pitfield) wili shortly be experienced, and per-
manent lodes of payable grade ore proved to several
thousand feet deep.” This remark is connected with the
assertion that 10 miles of country between the Port
Arthur Extended and the Glenfine South have “ been
proved to carry auriferous ore, and experts are inclined
to believe the lodes are identical.” Anyone who knows
anything at all about the district is aware of the faulted
nature of the lodes, and realises the impossibility
of predicting 100 ft. ahead. Glenfine Consols is a
memory of the past, yet it is far nearer to Glenfine
South than Piggoreet; but no one has ventured to
lay it down definitely that the run of stone over which
the Consols fluttered was connected with the Glenfine
South formation. As for depth, there isn’t a deep mine
nearer than the Jubilee, where the shoot has been fol-
lowed down to 1400 ft. The Birthday gold cut out at
1000 ft., and there isn’t a mine at Berringa with prospects
at depth. Glenfine South petered out at 500 ft., and
Glenfine Consols at under 200 ft., while further away still
the Ballarat mines are notoriously poor at depth.
Therefore, for a paper like the Age to talk
hifalutin of this kind is inexcusable, even if the paper
has, or pretends to have, a special weakness for Ballarat
shows. Now there is a talk of cutting up the Glenfine
South into two cos. One is to work the lead, the other
to fossick among the quartz. The alluvial never was
worth a tinker’s curse. After the co. ’s second advent adi v.
was paid, no doubt, but it ought to have stood to the
credit of working account. Since that orphan it has
been calls, calls, calls. Then in the quartz section, the
gold cut out at about 500 ft., and the grubbing on the
parallel line ended just where most people thought it
would—in a market fizzle. Therefore, to put up two cos.
to work an alluvial duffer and a petered-out quartz show
is merely to extend an existing evil. Extra salary will
be provided for the legal manager, and additional fees for
directors, who, by the way, are not at all hard up. Be-
yond that no purpose will be served, so there is no real
reason why. the present Glenfine South should not jog on
in single blessedness.
& * * * *
A mining Rip Van Winkle is Mack’s Creek, up
in the Woods Point district (Vic.). It is generally sup-
posed to have been named after one Mackay, a legal
manager who made the locality his specialty; but it
wasn’t. The original Mack is supposed to have gone to
Scotland. If so, it is almost a pity he did not take the
district with him, for that would have put it where it
would not have tempted Australian speculators. What
the district is living on now is the recollection of the Star
of the West yields. This mine gave a rich little shoot, out
of which a few divs. were paid, but now it looks like
oblivion. However, the man with the puff box is
using it on the district. Here is a slab from
his copy-book headline : “It is characteristic of
this mine (the New Britannia) that at any moment
a valuable seam may unexpectedly be exposed, after
firing a shot.” This “after firing a shot” is a sweet
after-thought. Admitted that all the shoots of gold in
the district have turned up unexpectedly, that very
peculiarity has made the field what it ought to have re-
mained, a small-party district. So when half-a-column
of small type is published of the class of hash quoted, it
may be accepted that, if such pabulum is swallowed,
financial indigestion will be experienced. Hence, the
best thing to do is to leave Mack’s Creek to the legal
managers and to the brokers, all of whom still carry fair
parcels of scrip.
• * * *
The Electro-Hydraulic Sluicing Co., Carngham
(Vic.), has spent £12,000 in installing an electric plant to
handle 1000 acres of surface alluvial by sluicing. The
first yield of 190 oz. is described as “ loose gold.” Beneath
that term lingers a doubt whether this “loose gold”
means loose cash to the co. Promoters’ idea, apparently,
is to have plants scattered about to work likely runs of
alluvial. Gold will be got, but visitors spot manifest
difficulties to be overcome in handling the dirt, and more
than ordinary local curiosity exists over the show, state-
ments of costs above all are needed to convince sceptics
that profits can be earned under the system introduced
by the co.
The tomahawk and scalping knife are wanted
for those who would try to bring Mt. Deddick silver-
lead field (Vic.) to the front. The last try was when the
Dapto reconstruction was on, prior to the present Aus-
tralian Smelting Corporation graft. The need of a held
to back up the works led a Yankee expert to drag in
Deddick as a mining catch-penny. Geologist Dunn has
been the latest caller at the field, and what he tells is of
veins of galena in granite country. He does not seem to
have seen any ore above 2ft. in width, but holds that,
with a “ fair amount of silver and percentage of lead, a
width of Ift. of galena would be payable at present;
prices.” The last three words give the whole show away.
In a district so inaccessible as Deddick, people want a
better inducement than abnormal “ present prices, ana
2ft. of galena in hard country does not give it. inis
warning is necessary, because a lot is sought to be made in
Melbourne out of Dunn’s very little.
• * * *
Within a few miles from Bright (Vic.) there
are now 28 dredges, and two or three more are building ;
of the 28 six are controlled by Tewksbury, who has got
into the habit of making records in the business, lor
instance, he turned over 11,000 odd yards of stun in a
week, while 6000 yards is fair work and 8000 is reckoned
something extra. Tewksbury got into the dredging busi-
ness more or less accidentally. On the strength of what
had been done in Maoriland, he and others put up enough
money to build the pioneer dredge on the Ovens. It
failed, and liquidation was recommended. Tewksbury, a
Gipps and native, who was on the Board, got his fellow-
directors to let him have a " go ” at it himself. He threw
elevator and other gear on the bank, cut expenses,
dropped things that Maoriland conditions called for
but which didn’t seem to be wanted in Gippsland,
and pulled the business through. At present, when
a dredging co. makes any profit at all out of dirt going
3d. to the yard, it can reckon it is doing cheap work.
But there’s a vast area that runs something under 3d.,
and the dredging problem of the future will be to handle
it at a profit. No doubt it will come, and it ought to
come first in some such place as the Ovens, where
dredging conditions are almost ideal.
At a time when there was an outcry that the
dredges were a destroying curse, some of these Bright
people put an attachment to their machines, by which it
is possible to replace the ground more or less in the
state that ground should be. It drops the big stones
in the bottom, and allows of the fine stuff being emptied
out on top. This is a Tewksbury idea, too, though
it seems that in the beginning he adopted the
attachment in order to keep the fine stuff separate, and
wash out the finest gold from it. Eighteen months ago,
to show that the ground thus treated wasn’t
“ destroyed,” fruit trees were planted on a section of it;
and they have done so well that there seems to be a
future for fruit-growing on these dredged flats. The
local land owner, though he grumbles after the manner
of land-owners, is probably more disappointed than the
prospector when the latter passes on. The land for
grazing is rarely worth more than £5 an acre; for
dredging rights £2O is commonly paid. He could never
expect to make a sale like that to anybody save the
dredge person. Also, he gets the land back after-
wards—after it has had £5OO an acre washed out of it —
though certainly the ground he gets back doesn’t bear
much resemblance to what he handed over.
A feature of the dredging around Bright—
which yielded about £120,000 worth of gold last year—is
the working of comparatively high ground. The river
has a fall of about 19ft. in the mile, so a race brought in
three or four miles takes the water well up on to the ter-
races. Maoriland hasn’t tried this sort of work, and
general opinion was unfavorable ; but the pioneer terrace
dredge shut up its critics by paying dividends equal to
25 per cent, of the capital in he first three months.
There are now some thousands of acres of this class of
country taicen up.
• * *
Melbourne Stock Exchange regards its Sydney
brother as some sort of a blackleg at present. At the
recent inter-State meeting of Exchange representatives
it was agreed, among other things, that vendors’ shares
should not be quoted for six months after issue. Mel-
bourne and Adelaide adopted the recommendation,
feeling that the public which has paid cash for its shares
ought not to have the market knocked from under its
feet by people who haven’t paid any cash at all, or by
“ first robbers ” who can afford to sell their shares for less
than contributors have paid. But Sydney is understood
to have seen the other side of the case. New cos. have
been formed to take over old cos. whose shareholders
have paid very dearly for their shares. Vendors in such
cases, it was held, ought not to have their shares locked
up for six months—they are as much entitled to deal in
them as the new contributors, who may have actually paid
less in hard cash. So Sydney quotes vendors’ shares as it
did before the conference passed its elaborate resolu-
tion, and Melbourne and Adelaide say nasty things in
consequence. , * *
The Old Lead dredge at Dunolly (Vic.) is
at present vigorously cursing the presence of the railway
line, which has followed the course of the gutter at that
point as neatly as if it had known where the gutter was.
The dredge has worked a boomerang-shaped bend in the
lead, which is about 10ft. deeper than the rest of the
bedrock, and at each end of the excavation the gutter dives
under the railway that crawls to Inglewood. As there
are indications that it returns beneath the line further
along, the dredge has to toil painfully through a lot of
shallow ground to capture the elusive gutter w here it
emerges, with the possibility of it taking another dive
further on.
* * * *
In these days even the published accounts of a
mining co. have to be looked at twice. The case of Peak
Downs in the old days is recalled: on the strength of
advances against copper in a former boom-time, it paid
giddy dividends, and then, when it found that it had
actually overdrawn, it got demoralised and rushed into
hasty liquidation. Mt. Molloy’s accounts to the end of
December, just issued (they seem to be a very gradual
crowd), show a profit for the six months of £42,798, out
of which £1541 must come for depreciation. But of the
revenue of £72,898, £52,532 is for blister copper not yet
realised, though £35,950 has been drawn against it. No
doubt, as three months have elapsed since the accounts
were supposed to close, and probably all or most of this
metal has been realised, the metal on hand at the end of
the year hasn’t been over-valued; but the situation
shows that mining cos.’ declared profits can’t be taken as
absolute—all depends on the figure at which metal in
hand is valued; and that figure isn’t often mentioned.
* » * *
At the end of its last half-year Mt. Molloy had
£74,254 of liquid assets. This includes £16,582 estimated
value of metal in excess of drafts against same, but does
not include stores, &c., which are only moderately liquid
assets up at Mt. Molloy. Against these assets the co.
then owed £9OB, leaving £73,346 net, or 14s. 6d. per
share. Of this amount £27,500 was got for the reserved
shares lately issued—they were nominally sold for 305.,
but the co. was supposed to pay 2s. 6d. per share commis-
sion, so the co. netted only 275. 6d. It isn’t, however,
any use saying that, as the stock is quoted at 255.,
and as the liquid assets stand at 14s. 6d., therefore the
mine is only valued at 10s. 6d. ; there is an outlay of at
least £45,000 in sight for railway, rolling stock, and
mine plant, so that that much, at least, won’t be liquid
for long. Yet, though this expense has been resolved
upon, no estimate is made of the ore in the mine. Per-
haps it is just as well; the chances are that it would
only mislead. Hardly two men come away from Molloy
with the same opinion about it. The ore bodies are
extremely irregular and uncertain, both as to size and
quality, and the mine doesn’t wear the same ace tw 7 o
days running. All that everybody is agreed upon is
that the ore body in the bottom working (370*.t.) is com-
paratively poor in size and value. The directors admit
that, but in their report (undated) say, of course, that
“ it probably only means further prospecting to have
our larger anticipations
As far as can be seen at present, the “new ore-
bodies ” found at Glassford Creek (Q.), on the strength of
which it was announced that smelting would be resumed,
amount to little ; and they probably would not be smelted
until more development was done, only the financial posi-
tion of the co. is weak, and the directors want to turn every
available pound of copper into prompt cash. At present,
the people who formerly followed Glassfords are swearing
by Mt. Hector, where smelting has been started. If,
however, the reported fortnight’s run from Hector is
correct, it does not come up to expectations; a wire
gives the result as nine tons matte, going 40 per cent,
copper, 7oz. 17dwt. silver, and 3oz. ldwt. gold. This
means 2’B per cent, copper and 4dwt. sgr. gold per ton-
good enough for a big regular body ; but Hector has not
proved that it is that sort. Four per cent, copper had
been talked about. Still, the return is reported as
“ highly satisfactory,” and there are signs that Hectors
are going to be given a market jig.
Mt. Shamrock, near Degilbo (Q.), which had a
meteoric career a few years ago, looks promising at pre-
sent. Last crushing of 200 odd tons gave 365. per ton
from the battery ; and, besides that, the co. makes a
good profit out of the sands bj' cyaniding, extraction
running from 11s. to 15s. per ton. A large stone-breaker
is being installed to expedite crushing, which is very
slow. With bigger operations, the mine promises well,
but it is working against an unnecessary handicap, when,
with a good body of stone, it has to turn but a profit, as
of late, on about 200 tons a month.
South Glannoire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.),
shows an improved yield of amalgam, and, as it came
after a good mine report, things are more cheerful. The
most important recent development is in No. 3 reef,
which shows coarse gold, and the formation of black
slate seems to be widening. Other portions of the mine
are also improving; but these sudden changes from
poverty to prosperity can be looked at from both ends.
The formation now being worked is 200 ft. below the old
gold-bearing Monkland slates ; it varies in thickness from
3ft. to 75ft., and when the black slate comes into contact
with the reef there is often an enrichment. There is a
big element of uncertainty about Gympie mines, but
some of them have been developed mainly out of profits,
and have paid large sums to plucky stickers. Scottish
Gympie paid £82,500 last year ; it doesn’t at the moment
look as if it would repeat that performance, but there
are hundreds of shows more talked about that never
climb that high in a life time.
• * * *
Engineer Frew has gone to Chillagoe (Q.) to super-
intend the construction of the Etheridge railway. Practi-
cally all the material will pass over the Chillagoe section,
and, as the traffic receipts increase, Chillagoe shares will
be boomed. Mungana evidently hopes to profit by Chil-
lagoe’s wave of prosperity, and an effort will probably' be
made to make it more independent of the original co.;
it is the hope of that more than anything else which has
put Munganas into favor recently.
Charters Towers (Q.)—a very sick Towers in
these days—is getting up in years: Miles and Co., who
keep about 30 Towers’ mining cos’, accounts, and consist
mainly of Miles and Millican, had their 25th anniversary
lately. “Joe" Millican, who for a few years past has
been taking politics with his mining, finds that he can’t
stand the mixture, and next session he will be out of the
Queensland Assembly. Another Millican made a change
lately. Frank of that ilk, for years a mining warden in
Queensland, joined the Miles firm.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.), which is supposed to issue
its returns of copper and gold with scientific accuracy,
reckons it recovers 86’3 per cent, of the copper and 101'2
per cent, of the gold from the ore smelted. Thus more
gold is recovered than is nominally contained in the ore.
The discrepancy is accounted for by the gold smelted
out of a small proportion of pyritic fluxing ore used in
the charge. The gold contained in this flux is, roughly,
about 24 per cent, of the total.
» * * *
G. A. Waller, general manager of Mt. Elliott
(Q.), now figures out his ore reserves above 125 ft. at
45,000 tons, worth 16'4 per cent, copper and 2dwt. gold-
say, 6750 tons of recoverable copper, and 45000 z. gold.
Total (taking copper at £65), £466,750. There are
120,000 shares in the co. ; so the gross value is £3
15s. per share. Whether £65 per ton is too little or
too much is a matter of opinion. The average
for last year was £B7 Bs. 6d. ; for 1905, £69 12s. ;
for 1904, £59 os. 7d. Each £lO per ton added to the value
of copper adds 11s. 3d. to the value per share ; thus if
copper is taken at £75 per ton, the metal in the main ore-
body has a gross value of £4 6s. 3d. per share. In
addition there are £lBO,OOO of liquid assets, but that
sum (derived from sale of shares at a premium)
is practically ear-marked for a railway and other
works. Also, there is the kaolinised ore outside the
main body, some of it rich, but always erratic ; and then
there is the mine below 125 ft. As to costs, no estimate
is made. Taking £3O per ton of copper as a basis, that
knocks £1 13s. 6d. per share off the value. The perma-
nency of the mine depends upon getting unaltered
sulphides below 125 ft. ; and these will have to be
prospected for. The main, enriched body is not expected
to go much below 125 ft. ; and, anyway, even at that
depth it is comparatively small. Whether that means
that the unaltered sulphides will be small, too, has yet to
be proved. With a pyritic body much depends upon size;
for, as a rule, pyritic smelting cannot be successfully done
on a small scale.
* • * *
The second report of that little Co-operative
Credit Bank whfch‘ was formed as an auxiliary of the
Victorian Civil Service Co-operative Society has been
issued. Primarily the Idea was that, while the society
didn’t give credit, there should be an office at which the
would-be purchaser might get a loan at cheap interest;
but a loan may also be made for general purposes. The
interest is 2d. per £1 permcnth—one-third of the ordinary
small money-lenders’ rate. Last half-year the co. made
£9 profit, and pays out of that a 6 per cent. div. on
fully paid shares. The capital so far is only £935 ; and
the co. says it could do with more. It is a very small
infant so far, but interesting.
* • * *
Coraki (N.S.W.) owns another of the thriving
North Coast co-operative butter cos. ; besides owning a
factory, it runs its little river steamers for its own and
its co-operators’ benefit. Last half-year (to the end of
January) its profit was £778. Of that £257 was written
off to cover depreciation (nearly all these little butter
cos. are adopting a good, safe policy in this matter of
depreciation), £2OO was put aside to cover possible losses
on the export business, £B7 was paid in dividend (5 per
cent, per annum). That left £234. Including that, and
the insurance and export reserves, and a previous small
balance, the reserves are £849. Last half-year the co.
made 208 tons of butter ; it paid 9'4d. per lb. to suppliers,
and the cost of manufacture was ljd. per lb. The co., at
the end of January, owed £4106 one way and another ; its
book debts, stock, and bank balance represented £3246.
The rest of its liabilities, as well as the capital and
reserves, is represented by plant, &c.
*** • .
In advising the great British public not to take
up debentures of the Kalgoorlie Electric Power and
Lighting Co., one Smoketown journal alleged that the
three directors—Roger Wallace, K. 0., Edward Pope and
G. P. Doolette —had been directors of 14, 31 and 36 cos.
respectively, hardly any of which had done any good for
the people who put their money into them. The number
of a man’s directorates are coming to be counted against
him as sins in London.
• * * *
“ Yigilans ” : The folio - lug properties are held
by caretakers in the Northern .territory : Howley, Brock’s
Creek; Northern Territory Mines of Australia, Yam
Creek; Cosmopolitan, Pine Creek; Mount Diamond,
Zapopan and Eureka. No mines are at present being
really worked in the Territory. The Daly River Govern-
ment smelter has again collapsed, and copper production
is infinitesimal. Gold is a back number; and the only
mineral now being won is tin from Bynoe Harbor, Bur-
rundie and Mount Todd and Horseshoe Creek. Prospect-
ing is not being encouraged, the mining industry is
languishing, and prospects are most gloomy. The
Northern Territory is the one place in Australia which
has had the “benefit” of Asiatic labor; nine-tenths of
the mine employees have for 20 years past been Chinese.
And this is the result 1 •
* * l*. *
H.W.M.: The address is Main-st.,
Maldon. He might supply a; list G.V.M.: Report is
not available, The Bulletin.is told. Will inquire else-
where. •-
* » * *
“M.C.” : Adulterated white lead is one of the
curses the foreigner sends to Australia. Even the London
Chamber of Commerce is saying dignified platitudes
about the rubbish, sold as “ground white lead,” foisted
on this great lead-producing country. Don’t know what
the nominal duty, is on white lead; but a late tariff-
revision list gives Is. per cwt. on zinc white and sul-
phuret of antimony. This is making a farce of protecting
a local trade in dry colors, which, considering the quan-
tity of zinc ore, antimony and lead Australia sends away,
is one of the most obvious trades to protect. The French
Goverurfent doesn't encourage the lead pain t trade because
it is well known to be unhealthy, and is legislating in
favor of antimony and zinc paints. America sends us
prepared paints, which is a bit odd, considering that lead
in the States is about £2B per ton. What is “ prepared
paint" made of? Australia certainly doesn t want an
unhealthy trade if a healthy one can serve the same pur-
pose, as the French Government seems to think it can ;
so the manufacture of zinc white on a large scale may
be worth considering.
* * * *
The far-western N.S.W. promoter is getting
things down pretty fine. The prospectus of the George
Lyell Co. (100 shares of £lO, of which the vendors take
40) offers a mineral prospecting area, for which a lease
application has been lodged, and the co. is asked to pay
the application money. There are no directors and no
secretary ; the public is asked to accept the say-so of the
vendors that “there is a strong lode running through
the property, across which a costeen has been put for
16ft., showing very nice gossan carrying carbonate
stains.” Apparently the trench is reckoned to be worth
two-fifths of the whole concern. Well, perhaps it is.
* * * *
Mr. Ames Hellicar, superintendent of the Bank
of Australasia, has resigned, and there will be universal
regret at the cause of it. Just when he had finished a
spell of hard work in mastering the requirements of his
new office, he had a stroke of paralysis. He watched the
progress of his recovery for four months, and then re-
signed. Mr. Oowper succeeds him ; but he is to have the
help of Mr. C. J. Henderson, lately manager at Melbourne,
as assistant superintendent. The Bank of Australasia
has no directors in the Commonwealth. Sometimes that
makes things more comfortable for the management; on
the other hand, it piles up the responsibility.
* * * •
London Finance Chronicle lately printed
that the Ocean Accident Co. was about to amalgamate
with the North British. The Ocean’s Australian manage-
ment intimates that that isn’t true, and never was.
* * * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scJile. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These tw plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by VV. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Go., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company is
building a complete plant for its claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between, the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 38 feet; alt men
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
6 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H.H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
by steam from an externally fired multitubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoons to carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by 40 feet
wide. To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
plant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Robert McLintock, Engineer, of
Dunedin.* . M
** . .
The Journal of Commerce (Liverpool), in its
issue of 4th September, 1906, wrote, regarding The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited In
these days of severe competition when some of the best-
known offices find the fight for new business so hard as
to justify them in seeking absorption, it is refreshing to
come across an institution which manages each year to
add to its productiveness.”*
* * * •
The Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Co. were so
satisfied with their first Card Concentrator, that they
have just installed six more. Block 10 Broken Hill is
also installing 12.*
• * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * • *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. *
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
» * - •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.* , , »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st. ,74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting 1 strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign ci decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Meplian Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, burning, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Ceo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* » * *
Clarke & Sons (sous of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange*
« * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canui lego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*


HALF-A.GUINEA for Nothing,
We , are 4 °P en , to ffive to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything that can be bought in
®t*°P } n Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NOCOtsT to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
toHARD.NC & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
Brad : Out cycling the other day, I
pulled up under a large tree on the roadside to
have a smoke, and as I was striking a match,
something heavy struck me on the Panama, and
fell to the ground at my feet. It was a 6-foot
black snake. In the circumstances, I deemed it
inadvisable to jump on the reptile with both feet
(as is the custom with some bush-liars), so I walked
away disdainfully, though somewhat hurriedly.
When my hair had ceased bristling I went back
to the tree, but could see no signs of the snake.
I looked up to find out whence it had dropped,
and on a high bough overhead was a jackass with
a broad grin on his face.
Now, was the descent
of that snake an
accident, or was
it J ack’s little
joke ?
OUTSIDE.
Listening to
the clink of
glasses, an’
try in’ to
think of a
friend.
“ Mallarapoonie ” : ’Way out in Western
Queensland there is a spring alleged to possess
remarkable properties. The peculiarity of its
waters is that they are highly mineralised, and of
extraordinary specific gravity. Quite heavy
bodies are imbued with an alarming buoyancy in
this water, which is unscientifically asserted to
have a specific gravity of about 17-01. It is re-
ported that a traveller once struck this spring on
a hot day, and calculated on the luxury of a bath,
lo ascertain the depth, he heaved a stone in,
and was astonished, though not dismayed, that it
floated like a cork. Nothing daunted, he en-
deavored to take a wash, but it was only with
extreme difficulty he succeeded in getting wet.
The aggravating fluid flowed him so high above
Plimsoll mark, that it was only by strenuous
leverage against a lirge boulder that he was
enabled to dint its sm... with his body. Then
he became annoyed, and clab bered out, remark-
ing bitterly that the waterhole was the two ends
and the middle of a “cow.” A lump of old iron
was lying near, and he hurled it spitefully at the
enemy. The round lasted e: act!y 21 seconds
The iron rebounded off th:> top of the v.-ter ■
smote the man on the jaw, and cuted ” him. If
any Bulletin reader wants me to vouch for' the
truth of this report, I won’t. So there!
* * * *
“Jay”: Can’t agree with “ Cict ” when
he states that horses are good water-smellers
Have known them to go without water at least
four days, and yet they were within a quarter of
a mile of a stream. The camp (survey) was
pitched beside the main northern stock route in
the Bulga Mountains, and the horses were turned
out on a grassy ridge about midway between the
camp and the portion we had to measure. The
first morning they were busy feeding, but on our
approach looked up and followed us a short dis-
tance. They repeated the performance in the
evening. The second day they did the same, only
more so. The third day we varied our track
and didnt see the horses. The fourth day we
found them in the old spot with a very dejected
expression spread out over their countenance-;
Noticing their hollow flanks I guessed tig-h- ail-
ment, caught one, and led him down to the spring
(rather less than a quarter-mile), the others follow"-
ing. After filling themselves they looked pretty
much ashamed. Each wanted to blame the other
for not having sense enough to come down the
ridge a bit. One of them gave me an imnloring
look; I could almost hear him asking me*not to
spread the joke around, or send it to The
Bulletin. Other similar instances I could relate
where horses failed to find water when it was
handy; just waited for a mere human to come
along and smell it out for them.
* * * *
“ Gr. Hard ” from down South :
Question (by “ The Moocher,” B. 14/3/’O7) : “ Does any-
one know a bigger bush curse than the man who leaves
gates open ? ” Answer (by me): The idiot who can’t pass
a finger-post without decorating, mutilating, or ampu-
tating the inscription. Legion is his name.
“ Walilia ” : Your “Abo.” men and girls
seem to be off birds at present, and are perjuring
themselves about snakes and the names of bul-
locks. Snakes are not friends of mine, but all
the same I cannot bring myself to retail impos-
siblehappeningsabout them. Bulloeksldon’tknow
anything about, except that their pictures are on
the outside of the tins of good Australian meat
we get here. But I want to know whether any
of the “Abo.” people can trot out a bird to beat
the Death Bird of this country (Papua). My
informants (natives) tell me it is the best and most
certain death-trap here. It is about the same
size as a scrub hen, has a long tail, large,
strong beak, voice like a motor-boat,
and lives on frogs, &c. It makes
its home in the swamps, and
uses the mud to build its
nest in. Both Mr. and Mrs.
D.B. sit on and hatch the
eggs. I hear it is not
very common, and
natural! y is not looked
for very much. I
have not seen it so
far (and don’t want
to), but if any
“Abo.” gentle-
man wants a quick
life into where we
will all go, he can
come and inter-
view the bird
himself. I have
seen some of its
feathers ; they
are a dark brown,
and are very hard
and wiry, not
unlike cassowary
plumes. In case
anyone wants to
make nasty remarks
about my sanity, I
might as - well say I
only drink sodawater,
with lime juice, read The
Bulletin on Sundays, and
believe in Watson. [This is
interesting, but it leaves out the
most important part. How does
the Death Bird kill people—if it does
kill people? If it is no bigger than a
scrub hen it surely doesn’t trample them
to death.]
•fe it le
“Gr. Briggs ” : Who says that men
are not the property of men in Demo-
cratic Australia? There is a man named
Johnny who for years was the private
property of old Tommy Broughton, de-
ceased, squatter, one-time owner of Mut-
tama estate. When the banks took the
said estate from Tommy, Johnny was
counted as a sheep and made over accord-
ingly. Since then the estate has changed
hands, and been cut up considerably for closer
settlement. Johnny remained a valuable asset
to the station until it was cut up, and if it
had been legal Johnny would have been cut
up for closer settlement purposes also. His
history is simple. He was born on that
station, and worked there for years for his
tucker and clothes a week. A good man hap-
pened along just as the manager of the station
was about to auction Johnny, and bore him away
to his place, where he is to be found to this day.
Johnny is physically a fine stamp of a man, and
is just the cheap worker that old Land Monopoly
is always looking for.
* * * ft
“ Cicfc.” : Be “ The Moodier” (B. 14/3/’07)
and his “biggest curse outback.” He nominates
“They that leave gates open,” and I enter the
list with ‘“They that erect gates
on outback roads.” Travelled 11
miles out in the hills t’other day,
during rain, and opened 16 of
“ Moocher’s ” gates, some of which
I perforce left ajar. Each time I
climbed down at a gate I got
wetter, swore more, and my nag’s
restiveness increased. Almost
every gate was placed near the foot
of a hill, and in two cases the
blastiferous contrivance was just
at the approach to an unbridged
creek. Each time the programme
included these acts ; (1) Secure
brake and reins prior to dis-
mounting; (2) chock wheels with
anything bandy, of which there is
mostly nothing ; (3) open gate-
had mostly to carry one end of
the wet thing across the muddy
track ; (4) prop gate open with
some absent substance; (5) remove
wheel chocks anu lead through ;
(6) re-chock wheels; and, should
no sheep or cattle be stampeding
round to the annoyance of the
horses, then (7) splodge back
through the mud and close the
infernal gate. Those gates at the
creeks I took a Ben dish delight in
leaving open, as not even yours
truly, with all his soft-heartedness,
could see his way clear to wade
through the darned creeks to ob-
lige the cocky, who places gates
across to save cost of fencing off
the roads, thereby gaining the use of
a clear two chains width of the usual
three-chain road.
“ Jim ” : Why will The Bulletin artists
persist in sketching us soldiers of the tucker track
without showing the most important item of our
kit? It always jars on my artistic taste to see
swaggies depicted in supposed full marching
order, and the tucker bag not visible. It’s like
picturing a church service without showing the
plate, or a capitalist without a big Little Mary.
And it lowers us socially, for it places us in the
same niche as the George-street nomad, to whom
a tucker-bag would be as much a superfluity as a
conscience would be to a sweater. And it also
brings us within the pale of the law. As Dooley
says, “One man’s theaquilof any other man in
the eye of the law if he’s not careful.” And we
have to be terrible careful if without a nosebag,
as it is the “ lawful visible means of support.”
A scram-bag may seem a very small detail to
successful, well-paid artists, with their three meals
a day of corned beef, cabbage, jam tarts, and
beer; but to us.it is the very embodiment of life,
even if it only contains “dust ” and “ dynamite.”
* * * *
The best rcuiody. for warding off and
curing bronchitis is Angier’s Emulsion. Why ?
Because it not only soothes the throat and lungs,
and allays inflammation, but also promotes appe-
tite, aids digestion, and acts as a tonic to the
entire system. It is the most palatable of all
emulsions. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
R. 11. P, from out Longreach (Queens-
land) way :
“ S.R.” (B. 21/3/’O7) states that James Tyson (deceased)
conserved, and believed in conserving, bush hay. Well,
he didn’t conserve any on two western N.S.W. properties
of his that I am acquainted with, and, in any case, Tyson
died whilst the drought was in its infancy. Had he lived
he might have altered his opinion, if he had the opinion
ascribed to him. Anyhow, he did not extend his bush
hay operations to these N.S.W. properties, where they
were scrub-cutting during the drought, like others around
them. S.R. states I want him to believe that it will
pay the squatter to wait for a drought and then brinjr
fodder thousands of miles by rail and steamer. No - my
opinion is that it does not pay. It is only justifiable to
save stud sheep, or animals of great value.
With regard to the immense stocks of fodder that
passed through Rockhampton—working-horses must be
led, and by all means stack bush hay for this purpose. A
large quantity of the imported fodder no doubt was for
this purpose, and another large quantity for individuals
who hoped the drought would terminate before they
went to any considerable expense. Very few of them
would attempt it again.
“ S.R.” wishes he could get a contract at 10s. per ton.
He can get one right here, and he will be just the required
article. Hay is required for working-horses and stud
stock, and no one round here could be found to take it
on at 10s. per ton. “ Tarboy ” mentions that the experi-
ment which came within his knowledge where the cost
was 10s. per ton was carried out under ideal conditions.
I can quite believe it.
As to the question of delivering fo der in drought-time
at £l per ton, let me tell “S.R.” that carriage last drought
was up to £4 10s. per ton for 54 miles in the district I
lived in, and yet I don’t believe in stacking bush hay for
flock sheep, nor does anyone else whose acquaintance I
can claim after 17 years’ Western experience in various
parts. And, to conclude, working-horses will do
very little work on bush hay, and sheep would
in most instances require molasses with their bush hay,
and the molasses would require to be kept handy also to
avoid drought rates of cairiage. Anotner small item not
to be ignored is that it would require a very large area to
cut even hundreds of tons from, and how many places
are there with ground suitable for mowing machines in
large areas ? There are sticks, stones, washaways, stumps
and crab holes. Any of these mean delay, and often
breakages. Come along “ 5.R.,” and bring your family
round, and become as rich as Tyson at 10s. per ton for
bush hay.
* * » *
“ Awood ” : I called at the Chow laundry
last week for my other shirt. While Ah Cole
was looking for a piece of “stling,” I noticed a
big spider on the wall. I drew the gentleman’s
attention to it. He reached for his slipper, and
started describing circles round the “triantelope.”
After doing about ten laps, he brought the
weapon down whack and squashed the insect. I
was greatly interested, and asked him whaffor.
He told me : “ Shupposiii’you pickem up slipper
and hit ’em firset tarm, him run longem clack.
Loosem allergedder. Shupposin’ you go loun’
’im two, tlee tarm, him no know which way lun ;
easy Icillem.’’ I thought it over, and believe
there’s something in it. I guess the Chow mes-
merised the spider with the revolutions of the
slipper. Next time I meet a lion I’m going to
try the experiment of waving a boot round his
head.
* * He *
The Acts protecting useful native birds,
etc., are impudently flouted in the face of
Authority, and Authority changes the subject
promptlv. The other day a large consignment of
kookaburras was despatched from Gippsland,
unloaded in Flinders-street station, and forwarded
to the consignee, and nobody seemed to think it
was his business to interfere. The Age certainly
remarked that, “considering the prevalence of
insect pests, the removal of so many of these
birds from any district is little short of disas-
trous'’ ; but that was a very mild view to take of
the matter, anyway. If it had been as emphatic
as it can be about other things sometimes, it
might have prodded the Minister charged with
carrying out the Bird Preservation law—the
Kookaburra himself—into doing sornethingsudden
to the persons guilty of the “disaster.”
OUR ADJECTIVE.
TEA-CANVASSER (gushingly) : “ What a lovely
baby I Kin he talk? ”
THE LOVELY ONE'S MOTHER: “ My oath. Say
'Blanky ’ for the gentleman. Tommy.”
“ N.L.” : He “ sliming ” debate. Dunno
much about snakes, but nearly every parson I’ve
met slimed his pray.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Gippslander ” : As “Prooshan” stated
in The Bulletin, awhile back, that he has had
20 years’ experience in the bush, I would like to
know if he could enlighten me on the following
subject. I was coming across a paddock, the
other day, and saw a fox some distance ahead
carrying something in its mouth. I uttered a
loud arrangement of sounds, and he dropped the
property and ran. Going over to the place, I
found a snake, 4ft. 6in. long, just killed, head in-
tact. Now, I have often seen snake carcases around
the fox’s premises, especially when there was a
young family indoors; but I want to know how
the fox kills the snake, whether anyone has ever
seen him doing it, and whether the snake is ever
known to get ahead in the disagreement and kill
the fox.
JOHN’S CHRISTMAS PUDDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Into our camp a Chinese cook
Was brought, and ray vocation took
As “ poisoner,” for there had been a row
About the pea soup and the tea,
And I felt mortified to be
Kicked out and superseded by a Chow.
But Christmas day was drawing nigh,
When pudding was expected by
The gormandising camp, and John was told
To manufacture one that they
Could sib and banquet on ail day,
And tunnel in for weeks when it was cold.
That blithe occasion brought to me
A golden opportunity
To reap the sweet revenge for which I yearned ;
And whilst John at that pudding worked,
Concealed, implacably I lurked
About the fire until his back was turned.
Then tipped some horsehairs and a few
Promiscuous articles into
That Christmas pudding ere the paste was hot,
And mixed it well to get a blend
Of flavors none could comprehend,
And flopped it back into the copious pot.
That pudding huge at dinner-time
Was dished up, and proclaimed sublime
By all the boys, and each received a share.
Then o’er them fell a quietude,
And everybody seemed imbued
With harmless thoughts, remembrances—and hair.
To cavil they were disinclined,
But Tanner, as he disen twined
A quantity of horsehair, long and coarse,
Said he around the world had been,
But until then had never seen
A Christmas pudding breed a gol-darned horse 1
Then Patterson turned pale and cried,
“ What’s this?” and we identified
The colza cork (we only had the one).
And Ferguson, with doubt distraught,
Unravelled with a sudden snort
A hairbrush, with the bristles overdone. •
Jim Simpson in his section met
A pipe-stem, and seemed quite upset;
And Cassidy dbgorged upon his plate
A beetle, which apparently,
Whilst fledged in irideseency,
Was stricken by inevitable Fate.
A placid soul was “ Parson Ned,”
Yet even he rebelled, and said
He always welcomed Christmas and its cheer ;
But not for all its cheer and kind
Rememb’ranees was he inclined
To swallow buttons even once a year.
We all looked mystified and vexed,
And wondered what would turn up next,
When out of Smith’s dissected portion fell
A well-stewed photograph, and he
Ejaculated savagely:
“ Why. d—n it 1 Here’s some furniture as well! ”
Then Jones suggested that the cook
Be interviewed, and brought to look
Upon his ghastly work, and on the spot
Be questioned as to why he tried
To blast our merry Christmastide,
Then be—we yelled unanimously, “ Shot I’’
And then and there the Chow was brought—
A deputy went out and caught
Him by the pigtail, and impelled him forth —
And to our questions he replied,
Considerably mystified,
Whilst bowing to the fury of our wrath.
“Me makee puddee welleeni’,
Wi’ plenty flou’, and plenty spi’,
And plenty plum ” “ Excuse me, Mr. Chij g,”
Said Smith, “ As far as mixtures go,
They’re there, but what we want to know
Is, what the blazes isn’t in the thing?
“ It seems that you’ve been tidying
The place up, and put everything
In one place, and that place appears to be
The duff, and how you came to skip
The kerosene, and didn’t tip
Yourself in, is a blanky mystery ! ”
“ I do ’ate Chows,” said Arkinstall,
“ Not only this hlamed Chow, but all
The Chows that are—l ’ate ’em more an’ more.
I ’ate their lingo, and their skins !
I ’ate their pigtails, and their grins 1
And everything about ’em—bar their gore I ”
“ You sacked old Jerry mighty quick
Because he biled the tea,” said Dick,
“ And cooked the heggs and spuds a trifle hard ;
But bar his fritters, and his stuff
Called soup, old Jerry’s right ernough ;
Besides we knowed ’im, and wus on our guard.”
“ Aye, I endorse them sentiments,”
Growled Jones; “and, since we’ve learnt some
sense,
I advocate we take old Jerry back ! ”
And thereupon among the rest
Determination was expressed
To suffer me, and give the Chow the sack.
VIC.
ALFRED E. BRIDGES.


WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES
The (one. Hand
To be Published on MAY Ist.
SUBSCRIBE NOW, AND jIAKE SURE
OF GETTING IT.
The Editor speaks
“ The artistic contributors to The Lone Hand’s
first number will be :
Allan, J.
Collingridge, Ceo.
Hopkins, L.
Lambert, Oeo.
Lindsay, Norman
Lindsay, Lionel
Macleod, Wm.
Minns, B. E.
Roclway, F.
Ross, Geo.
Souter, P. H.
Spence, Percy
Sass, A.
Vincent, Aif.
Weston, H.
“The literary contributors to The Lone
Hand’s first number will be :
Adams, Arthur
Archibald, J. F.
Bayldon, Arthur
“ Brother Charles
Blin, Louis (Paris)
Broomfield, F. J.
Conor-O’Brien, A.
COLLINGRIDOE, GfiO.
Dyson, E.
Daley, Victor
Esson, Louis
Editor, The
Fletcher, Henry
Fitz Gerald, J. D.
Fisher, Edmund
Hopkins, L.
“ Hauer.”
Jerome, Helen
Jeffries, 0. A.
Lancaster, G. B.
Lawson, Henry
Myers, Frank
“MACGREGOR, MILTON
McOrae, Hugh
Muskett, Alice
Maurice, Furnley
O’Reilly, Dowell
Palotta, Grace
Prior, S. H.
Quinn, Roderic
Ross, Geo.
Yerne, Henri.
“Features? To be honest, we’re not going
very mueh on ‘features.’ There is an American
type of magazine that goes in for ‘ much cry and
little wool.’ Our policy will be to print good
things rather than trumpet up poor things. Every
article, story, verse, paragraph will be a ' feature.’
We want to sell this magazine to the same man
12 times a year, not ‘ have ’ him one month with
a smart feature advertisement, and leave him
sorry he spent his money.
“ The usual number of The Lone Hand —if you
want an idea of its contents—will have something
more than half-a-dozen bright stories by skilled
writers, much fine verse, several special articles,
a section exposing public frauds, and scores of
good pictures.
“Some indication was given last week of a few
of the ‘ plums ’in the first number. Putting those
aside just now—the May Lone Hand will con-
tain a vigorous article, by J. D. Fitz Gerald, on
* Sydney, the Cinderella of Cities,’ with pictures
by Lionel Lindsay, which represent the best
black-and-white work that artist has yet done.
Norman Lindsay also comes to the top-mark of
black-and-white art with his decorations to a fine
poem by Hugh McCrae.
“ ‘Brother Charles,’ that radical and humorous
parson, writes on the experiences of a Bush
shepherd. Women writers are represented by
fine work from G. B. Lancaster, A. Conor-O’Brien,
Helen Jerome, Alice Muskett, and Grace Palotta.
The ‘ sensational ’in story is not neglected. C.
A. Jeffries and Henry Fletcher have yarns of
robust adventurous interest.
“ All this is for the first number ; and next week
you’ll hear more of the good things. To conclude
for the present —there will be 180 pages—over 50
items, and 88 illustrations.
“ Throughout, The Lone Hand will be strictly
original, except in the last pages, when it will bid
farewell to its readers with a few pages of frankly
stolen matter. This is partly to provide students
of good writing with ‘ scrap-book ’ selections,
partly to show various editors how to thieve.
There is some deplorably unskilful literary
robbery in Australia these days.”
PROPRIETORS’ NOTICE.
You can only make absolutely sure of getting
The Lone Hand by subscribing NOW, either
direct to this office or to your nearest newsagent-
The issue will be large, but so, to all appearances,
will be the demand. Make sure of your copy by
subscribing now. Send 12s. for a year’s subscrip-
tion, post free, to the office or to the nearest
news-agent.
214 George Street,
Sydney. Australia.
We
Talk
Rings
Because we
Know all
about them.
Centre Golden Sapphire
and Diamonds, £l2 12s.
All “ Jag-erfontein ”
Diamonds, £2l.
Special Diamonds, £lB.
With 2 Rubies and
Diamonds, £l5.
With 2 Different Colored
Sapphires & Diamonds, £l2 128.
All Diamonds, £2i.
Ruby and Diamonds, £l9.
Sapphire and Diamonds, £l5
Choice Whole Pearls
and Diamonds, £l2 12s.
WE MAKE THEM,
WE DESIGN THEM,
WE SET THEM,
WE MOUNT THEM
in our Hunter Street
Workshops.
hfg
We are large buyers of Unset Gems.
We get the OPAL from the mines in the rough.
We have the PEARLS direct from the Fisheries.
We cut any ROUGH GEH—we transform an opaque mass into a
glorious jewel.
Every stage we study, and this enables us to sell at London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
“ Gip ” : Was reminded of this yam
through the grinning remark of an “habitual”
who was well acquainted with the bush lock-up.
Itseemshispunishmentconsisted chieflyof yarning
to the Missus in the cosy kitchen, and now and
then cutting her a bit of wood. In the old days
things must have been pretty lax in the way-back
police station. A man awaited his trial for shoot-
ing a white cow, the property of a squatter. The
squatter and a trooper had heard the rifle crack,
and, hurrying to the spot, found the man dressing
the cow-carcase. When accused he was vir-
tuously indignant, declaring the cow to be his
own. The squatter pointed to the incriminating
brand, but the offender coldly refused to look at
it. He was allowed to return to his home and ex-
plain to his wife before accompanying the
others to the police station. When the time of
his trial came the prosecuting parties were
so sure of the issue that the matter had begun to
bore them. However, the culprit, with a very
fine show of sincerity, still maintained that the
cow was his own—the brand on the hide would
prove it—and, to the dismay of the squatter and
trooper, it was seen on investigation that the hide
did actually bear the prisoner’s brand. He was
apologetically acquitted. This was how it hap-
pened. Immediately on his arrest, the prisoner’s
wife had caused her own white cow to be killed
and its hide salted, and at high noon, the bush
dinner hour, she had driven up in a spring-cart to
the gaol fence. There she threw the hide over to
her husband, who was strolling about the yard ; he
deftly caught it, and returned the original hide,
which had been salting in the yard—in these days
they didn’t even think of the advisability of not
leaving the prisoner and the hide together; yet he
might have bitten out the brand and swallowed
it—-and, without rousing suspicion of any kind,
the missus left for home.
• « * *
THE DESERTED TOWNSHIP.
TFor Tub Bulletin.]
This township was Bohemian,
But now it’s deadly slow.
It’s got more than respectable,
And I will have to go.
The good old days are finished now ;
The girls and drink and cards,
And Sunday’s little two-up school,
Have gone, with all my pards.
No more the boasted hall vibrates
To eighty couples’ feet,
While music from accordeons
Re-echoes through the street.
A Presbyterian parson rules
The place with iron hand ;
The billiard-room is gone to wreck,
And even quoits are banned.
The racecourse, overgrown with scrub,
’ Just feeds some milking cows.
There are no decent hacks about,
Except some owned by Chows !
Oh, Lord ! it’s time I rolled my swag,
And struck another camp ;
Or else I’ll soon be singing psalms
And carrying a gamp.
MAORILAND. COLIN C. BlERNACKI.
A GOOD BROAD HINT.
THE STATION HAND : “ I suppose you have seen
lively times here in days gone by! ”
THE OLDEST INHABITANT : “My oath! A chap
didn't have to stand in the street talking to
a station fellow in those days with a pub. so
handy.”
“Hexham”: In answer to “F.H.R.”
(28/3/’O7) have often caught and eaten bonito (not
“ benito ”) fish in Atlantic tropical latitudes and
never suffered any ill consequences. At the same
time, I have heard of such happening occasionally,
but whether owing to the unheaithiness of the
fish during a particular season of the year, or in
special waters, or owing to some particular fish
not feeling well, maritime opinion seems to differ.
The bonito (Spanish, pretty, little) is captured by
tying colored rags on a bundle of hooks, crawling
out on the bowsprit and dangling the apparatus
over the water —a sort of modified fly-fishing.
LIGHT EMPLOYMENT.
First Professional Beer-Eater : “ Lazy, loafin' lot, these 'ere blind men are. Why, I
wouldn't mind working if I 'ad a job like that.”
The Bananaland squatter is jealous of his
private roads. On one south-western property
the following notice is posted to a tree :
This ain’t no road ; anybody who goes this way can’t.
On another, as a warning :
Poison baits laid on this run. If you can’t read look
at the bottom of this tree.
A poisoned bait lay at the foot of the tree.
* f * •*
A snort, also an art-note, from ‘ ‘ Cocky :
Just returned from Sydney Art Gallery. I went to see
Lambert’s picture, “ Across the Black Soil Plains.” Ask
any hayseed (plenty of us here now) if he ever saw a team
of horses without belly-bands !
* * * *
“ Janor ” : Cannot give “ F.C.” (B.
28/2/’O7) the reason why glass can be cut with
scissors under water, but I can assure him he s
utterly wrong as to the running
water condition, for I’ve scissored
out hundreds of glass discs in still
water, and they showed a perfectly
clean edge. The fact that they were
used to simulate silver coin in con-
juring tricks proves the cleanness of
the cut. The glass coin is a handy
prop, for the coin juggler, for the
reason that it is invisible in water.
By the way, I’ve often remarked
what a clumsy person the average
bushman is at glass-cutting. About
the only time he attempts it is when
he makes a bush lantern from a
bottle, and he generally smashes
several ere he succeeds. On the other
hand, the bush woman is a deft hand
at amputating the neck and shoulders
of the dead marine, the bottle so
abbreviated being the universal pre-
serve-jar in bush homes. The opera-
tion is performed with a heated iron
ring. Chloroform is not administered,
the marine being dead. But the
Chow is the ringer at cutting glass.
Was struck once by a bush pub in
Vic., where the slant-eyed Bung
ladled out the snake-juice in tumblers
made on the premises from the butts
of bottles. Also, every opium-smoking
Chinky makes himself a neat lamp-
shade by cutting the neck and bottom
off a pickle bottle. Asked one once
what he made the cut with. “ You
catchem bita stling, plenty lie alonga
bottle, sposom welly hot, you blake
him, sabbe?” That was all I could
get out of him. Tried subsequently
on these lines, and the dividend was
a broken bottle, a frayed piece of
twine, and a cut hand.
“ Lindy Lou ” supplies the last item in a
protracted row :
“ Hawkshaw” (B. 21/3/’O7) quotes B. 7/3/’O7 that John
Moran has no friends in his contradiction of snake-
sliming pars., and begs to enrol himself on the losing
side. Now, Lord preserve Johnny Moran from such un-
reliable friends as “ Hawkshaw." He carefully watched
a diamond snake bite a fine, large rat with the poison
fangs which it doesn’t possess. If “ Hawkshaw ” hasn’t
enough bush lore or knowledge of snakes to know that the
diamond snake is non-venomous, he had better keep out of
snake discussions. An Bft. diamond snake would swallow a
small animal like a rat, without making any sort of fuss,
and the animal would be permitted to die at its own con-
venience indoors. But give him something fairly large,
like a full-grown rabbit. He will kill it by constricting
it and slime it before swallowing. There is the point
that the snaky people have all missed. Small animals,
like mice and frogs, slip down without either bother or
slime but larger animals, such as rabbits, dogs and
elephants, require sliming thoroughly in order that they
may enter the snake’s pantry with neatness ana des-
patch.
“ Percole”: “ Hassan’s ” par (B. 28/3/’O7)
with regard to the blaclcfish which he states is
found “ along our Eastern seaboard,” is another
warning to Abo. writers to be more precise in
names and localities. No doubt he means the
N.S.W. coast; but why doesn’t he say so? Our
blackfish is a freshwater creature ( Gadopsis).
[P.S. We are Victorian.]
■* * * •
“ Mallarapoonie ” tells a tale :
Travelled down the Paroo once, conducting 500 cows
to Bourke. Camped one night above Hungerford, on a
sandhill surrounded by gidyea claypans. Towards even-
ing, an old whaler and his dog came up. Had a feed.
Guessed he’d doss somewhere handy round there. I
pointed out the projected cattle camp, and warned him
off the grass. “ All right, mate,” he said, sulkily, arid
humped his drum a quarter-mile on to another claypan
of water.
The “ old man ” relieved my watch at midnight. Had
been asleep awhile when the faint clacking of cloven
hoofs on the claypan aroused me. Listened. Cattle
walking off camp ! Old man dozing! “Watch ahoy!”
I yelled. “ Cattle stringing off here !1 ” My call startled
the beasts into a trot. Then, by the quick tramp of the
night-horse going at speed, and a string of distant curses
splitting the calm atmosphere of night in a sou’-easterly
direction, we knew that the old man had his hat tucked
under his arm and was riding like all Gehenna for the
lead. That started the whole camp going, and the click-
clacking of running claws on the claypan rose to a sullen
roar.
I collared the spare night-horse and lit out to the old
man’s assistance. He had the lead blocked on the edge
of a scrub when X came up, and was ringing ’em finely.
“ Whoa, girls! wurp, girls! whoa, me little sweet-
hearts! What’s yer little game? Eh! Wu-r-r-rp,
pets! ” But they were out for the evening, and con-
tinued to ring like fury*—mostly round the butt of a large
bushy gidyea, and, as the tailers kept joining in, the fun
waxed merry. The old man sat on his horse survey-
ing the seething backs and forest of clashing horns by the
faint starlight. “ Bust ’em ! let ’em ring ! They’ll soon
tire of that caper. Where’s the camp ? ” I brought it to
his notice that the camp was half-a-mile away, and he as
much as shouted I was a liar —he’d seen the fire awhile
ago quite handy by those gidyeas as he turned the lead.
I never argue in a din.
“Cut in here, an’ we’ll shift ’em back on camp,” he
called after a while, and were about to do' so when a voice
spoke out of a cloudless sky: “May the ?*!—-
pe’petually blank an’*!! ?? a (dash) lot <f cow-
punchin’: ;**—’! for spaced..!!.??.. of blankety
sons of dead asterisks! ” The old man’s iron-grey
hair brisoled under his hat. “What’s that?” he asked
in an awed tone, thinking the Angel Gabriel had called
round for him at last. I remarked that it sounded like
someone speaking. “Who are yer?” called the old
man huskily above the roar of hoofs. “ Who the blank
space am I ?” sneered back an embittered voice from a
gidyea above the ringing herd ; “By the lovin’saints”
“ Spare me days,” I said, “ it’s the swaggy ; we’ve rung
the cattle on his camp ! ” And then followed an explana-
tory conversation that was positively' shocking. For 20
years I’ve punched cattle with the roughest of ’em, but
my chips go on that old sundowner for the most fluent
command of Australian vernacular every time. The
bitterness of his speech was terrible, and, as we worked
the cattle back to camp, we could hear him handing
down the pestilences of Asia on the heads of all drovers,
and calling upon the plagues of Egypt to rise up and
blight all ushers of oxen unto the fifth and sixth genera-
tions. An inspection at daylight showed his camp a total
wreck. Apart from the indignity of being tree’d at 2
a.m. on a frosty morning, his boots, hat, blankets, billy-
can, etc., were trampled to ruin. Had his debts or his
religion been left lying round, I doubt if their remains
could have been identified. About the only part of his
property that was saved was his dog. It saved itself.
Between us we started the old josser afresh in life.


STRAYED OR STOLEN.-A Dry Dog. Last seen in company
man with a glass eye. If this shbuld meet the eye Of either or both; return
to this office and ail will be forgiven.
Joseph Carruthers, at a bun-rally in
a tea-room, has decided to put his
Deform forces on “ a war footing.
The fierce, martial] array of the bun-
fighters is faithfully depicted In the
above masterpiece.
HIS OWN DOCTOR.
Robert Waterman, of Broken Hill, an
old-time jockey, felt very bad, and was
gasping for breath, but after striking
himself on the head with a tomahawk
he felt much better.
The other night a farm-hand up country was be-
guiling the solitude of his bush home with a gramo-
phone, when two snakes came in and stood on
their tails in front of the show. The man fled.
This should be a wholesome warning to per-
formers on the gram, or other ’phones.
The Toihahawk Cure has long been
known to The Bulletin— only we gener-
ally have It administered by an Ameri-
can Specialist. In extreme cases he
prescribes scalping.
Recent thrilling
events in the
bowling
world.
TAINTED FISH V. TAINTED DOLLARS.
Mr. Barns, of San Francisco, arrived last night at
Brisbane. In the course of an interview he said that
owing to bad reports concerning Australian legisla-
tion, the leading financiers in San Francisco would
not Invest a single dollar in Australia. Financial
circles, he added, looked on Australia with suspicion.
L.B.M. (to American
Billionaire) : “My
word, old man,
some of our boys
have been pulling
your leg, I’m afraid.”
“In the old-days the punishment for
Juries who disagreed was to carry them
about In a cart until they did agree,
pot to fine them.”
—Chief Justice Barley-.
NEW SOUTH WALES ITEMS.


This is proving an unkind season for the
poor boarded-out infant. Says Coroner
Cole : 44 Everyone seems to be wanting
.to get rid of it. The child dies, and,
briefly, that is its life history.”
The point of this largely alle-
gorical design Is that the energetic
figure on the top of the coffin-
like structure Is looking for
population.
The dear good Archbishop Clarke has*
been very loud of late upon the matter of
his pet imported institution of Easter
gifts to deserving clergy ; the idea being
that the imported parson gets the churchy
—the local one the charity.
The Bishop s “ And now.
my poor Australian
brother, If you
will call round at
the kitchen, we
will see what
the butler
can do
for you.”
The fruit fly is threatening Vic-
torian orchards with destruction. This
represents an Intelligent Minister’s
energetic effort to cope with the pest.
>• The Rev. Goliath Joseph, a begging
missionary of Asia, has been
• rnittanco to the Commonwealth being
•unable to pass tho language test.
The Bulletin admits It d° e sn t kno
how to face its old friend Stinking
Fish after this.
at poverty point.
\ Ballarat theatrical manager has arranged with a clergyman
to celebrate a marriage in the Royal Princess’s Theatre mvita-
tions to the function being on sale at current theatrical rates.
The union of Church and Stage is nearly complete.
The Rev. Limelight Boggs (the great neglected
Methodist tragedian ot ten years hence):
>• ’lm act I Give me a chance In a service
like that and I’d act Ms bloomin’ surplice
off. Why, I played bishops to crowded
congregations before he was ordained l"
The Commonwealth Treasurer is sending
forty trained Australian sailors, at the
Commonwealth expense, to qualify for
petty-officerahips in the Imperial Navy.
The Tender-hearted ■ Nurse (with the
hungry Intent'a bottle ) i , 11 Yon
wouldn’t begrudge It to the poor
famished thing. I’m sure he needs
it more than you do. How wasted
he does 100k _
MOSTLY FEDERAL MATTERS.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died in Tasmania late last month, J. T.
Illingworth, who had off and on been brewing
beer for Bendigo for 49 years. In his old age his
recreation was to sit on the bench and fine the
local drunk.
Victorian Legislative Councillor Henry
Cuthbert, K.C.M.G., died on Friday at Ballarat
aged 78 years. He occupied a seat as a Coun-
cibor for 33 years, and held office in several
Ministries of varied political color.
, Murra y> R-0. Bishop of Mait-
land (JS.S.W.), entered his 81st year lately It is
the existence of these long-lived R.C. clerics that
almost make one believe in the genuineness of the
frequent Irish “centenarian.” Dr. Murray has
been 55 years a cleric, and 42 years a bishop.'
The recently deceased secretary, William
Gray, of Maoriland Post and Telegraph Depart-
ment, served under 18 Postmasters-General from
Julius Vogel to Joseph Ward. Some of them
seem qmte ancient history now. Affable Pat
iJuckley for instance, was a man of size in his
time, and now—well, who was affable Buckley ?
Announced in the Army papers that the
Duke of Connaught shortly resigns his post as
Inspector-General of the British forces, and will
be succeeded by General French. Kitchener
expected the reversion of the billet, but he has
been by no means a success in India, and will
leave that command with a damaged reputation.
Said Premier Tom Price, jovially, to a
bus-driver at Blinman (S. A.): “Have you got a
brass band to meet me?” “No,” said the
countryman, casually, “we haven’t a brass band
but we re got a rifle club.” And to this day (says
Adelaide Register, which tells the story) Price
doesn t know exactly whether that driver had
some hidden meaning about him or not.
Advocates of colored labor generally single
out Hung Cat for special mention as a hard
grafter. Yet, at Brisbane Central Police Court
the other day, a confirmed Chow loafer was sent
up tor six months for vagrancy, this being his
ninth conviction. He has spent four vears and a
month in gaol for having that tired Chinese feel-
ing, and this sentence will make four vears and
seven months. J
Staniforth Smith, who, a short while back
s< r n , t 1 a begging letter to Carnegie on behalf of the
children of goldfields workers, is said to contem-
plate interesting Carnegie ”in the development
ot rape a. His begging letter was written when
he was a Senator, and addressed from the Com-
monweaUh Parliament, and the posing millionaire
probably thought Australia spoke. It is to be
hoped he knows better by this time, and will
treat Smith as Smith only.
Fowler, M.U.R., the bigoted Foreign-
trader fromi Westralia, proposes to quit politics at
the end of this Parliament and go on the land. In
its dreams The Bulletin hears the impassioned
voice of Fowler, just before he goes on the land
asking that the protective duty on hay be taken
off. And in the visions of its skull upon its bed
it can hear Fowler, after he has been a short time
on the land, saying that the lack of a protective
duty on wheat is simply infamous.
A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.
There are 20,000 British tourists in Paris, and many
have had to sleep in the streets. —Newt Item. y
JEAN CRAPADU (after his nineteen thousandth):
“Ventre bleu! Another! I zink I am not
well—l go home to bed."
Legislation will yet be classified under the
heading of dangerous trades in South ’Oss. Con-
sider the death-roll covering a very brief period :
Z'A' ST?’/' z - Sellfir, W. P. Cummins,
and A. H. Inkster of the Assembly ; and David
HnlfZ a rl Thompson, of the Uppish
House. Charles lucker, if not beneath the soil,
may be regarded as covered with mud. A. H.
Inkster, the latest S.A. legislator to peg out his
claim at the top of the Golden Stairs, had onlv
3ft! the T m , moth blinders constituency
since the general election of 1905. He was a
quiet, modest man, who never boasted about the
tlfing S else. ° f * fatal Compla,nt ’ or about any-
In a recent lengthy and elaborate Sydney
Supreme Court shindy over a horse, the defendant
explained his rather complicated position by saving
he was taken on the
hop. Which recalls
an incident where
a buyer was
“ taken on the
hop” and bene-
fited thereby.
Dr. Thomas
Black was prac-
tising medicine
at Penrith (N.S.
Wales) in the
thirties. He came
to Sydney one
day in 1838 and
strolled into the
Government
Sales Room at
the top of King-
street, where
William Jaques,
“Surveyo r,
Agent, Auc-
tioneer for the
sale of Crown
Lands, etc.,” was
selling “ Allot-
ments in the Town
of Melbourne.” As
Dr. Black entered
the room he bobbed
his head to the auc-
tioneer, and the auc-
tioneer took the tob
for a bid. The lot
was knocked down
to Black, and after
trying vainly to ex-
plain that bidding and
jibing were quite
different he eventually
parted with his cheque ‘for
£167 for a half acre he had never sppn
visited Melbourne to inspect his property and
remained there The half acre is the B?E .corner
SIT EM nBtOD Str t etS - and at one
orou n ht I )r. Black as much as £3OOO a year in
ground rents, and Dr. Black lived to be 90.
Tolmie who went over with Butterman
Denham to the Philp gang, a bou t holds the
Bananaland record for changing his coat In
18.19, when he was defeated, he was a supporter of
Dickson; in 1901 (bye-election), he was an inde-
pendent, Prepared to give support to Philp who
had succeeded Dickson ; in 1902, he was still an
in d 1904 d be VH T S to ° Soon for him to change ;
IqJ 9 ! 4 ’ he become a Morganite ; now, in
1907, he s a pledged supporter of Philp.
Lothian, publisher, of Melbourne, an-
nounces a new half-crown edition of E. J. Brady’s
Ways of Many Waters,” first published by The
Bulletin in 1899, and now out of print. The
Lothian edition will be revised enlarged nnd
freely illustrated by Ale*. Sees "Se will be
agorgeouspirate, wearing a family resemblance
to the author, on the cover. For purposes of
comparison—or identification-an authentic por-
trait of said author will be added. London
Academy classes Brady as the first sea poet on
the list of the Empire’s maritime bards.
Obit at Hobart, Colonel Arthur Temple
Lox, a lasmaman native, aged 71 years Tn isko
he joined the.M.dr.s N.Uive InfaX"' He iS
much service in the Burmese war, and was cro
moted to a Brigadier-Generalship. The kst
Tnflntrv m T? h, £ h h ® served was the 31st Native
Infantry. He bad 27 years service, and for a
time in the nineties, he was Commandant of the
Tas. forces. One newspaper says that in early
hfe he was a great cricketer, and took part in
18b? r tb«s« T atch es- but as he left Australia in
1852 these inter-State matches are practioallv
obliterated by the moth of antiquity P I j
P, T u e iv eV i St 6W u rt V ° f Sfc - John ’ s ’ Moonee
Ponds (Vic.), is a shepherd who permits none of
his flock to miss much of the “discourse” Re*
centlya tired sheep in a back seat fell asleep, but
not for long Directly the “ meenister ” per-
ceived him he stopped short, and his thrilling
accents rolled down the silent aisle. “Will
somebody please awaken the sleeper’” The
sheep was accordingly prodded in the ribs
S,"n e T aWOke A slee Py disgraced:
Then the discourse” went on. On a recent
Sunday however, the Reverend fell in A
small child started crying. The tirade was
stopped, and the audience was collectively re-
quested to put out that crying child.” As the
sobbing Juvenile was led down the aisle the
Reverend started. It was his own infant > Pa’s
preaching was more than the kid could stand
Apropos the recent death of the widow of
a Hawkesbury medico-William Walker M L C
mhis ‘Reminiscences,” tells a yarn about’the
medicoes of the ’forties y ouc ttle
There were also four doctors in Windsor if *•
They were caned “doctors,” whStrtttt
or not. I believe only one of them was sfrinflu 6
entitled to that distinction, and this circumsUnce of
itself caused a quarrel amongst them. One was an M D
two were surgeons, and as to the fourth some asserted
that he had no diploma and no qualification. A lawsuit
actually took place about this matter, the last-named
having brought an action against one of the surgeons for
asserting that he was a quack. As is nroverhialLVn
doctors, they were eternally differing, and thei/an hnosi
ties rose to such a pitch on one occasion fhif in f
surgeons actually bought in the ilfth M D
looked on refusing to interfere, and saying, when a7ked
c o ut d ?hr°oats”!’ % ht are only a pair of
One of South Australia’s patriarchs, Dr
Engelhart, died on Good Friday, at Kingston
S. Australia and the Wakefield system of colonising
happened to be much talked about in Europe iust
when it wasn’t too healthy to hold certain Radical
opinions in Germany, and the result was that the
infant province got more than one shipment of
enthusiastic young scientists, who made their
mark later. Engelhart came out in their train ;
he lived by medicine but he lived for science, and
if a butterfly crossed the road as he drove to a
hfm, if h f 6 had t 0 hang on , to the vehicle to keep
himself from pursuing the insect. He was a
botanist, too, and had hopes of following his
friend bchomburgk m charge of the Adelaide
Gardens, but it couldn’t be arranged. He had as
large and soft a heart as anybody who ever
skewered a beetle. y
The way to know a good thing is to try it
Any doctor wiH tell you that Angier’s Emulsion
is the best remedy on the market for coughs and
lung troubles. It not only soothes and heals the
lungs but it promotes appetite, aids digestion,
chemists * S UP Strengtll ‘ In three size s, of all
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. report: Wool transac-
tions have been on a limited scale ; a good inquiry exists
however, for free bulky seonreds, and weTave been
instrumental in placing several lines at highly satisfactory
TSth e fnsf° Ur i, neXfc auction is fix_ecl t 0 take place on the
18th inst., when we purpose bringing forward about 500
oddments"' Pr,S nfr Que<?nS,and scoureds and statfon
THE ETERNAL LOG-ROLLER.
NEW-CHUM SOUL : “ Why , there’s Jones. Now
on earth did he manage to get into Heaven ? ”
OLDEST INHABITANT : “Ah! IV s the same every-
where. It's the influence that does it!”
‘‘David H. Richards” : If this politically-
unfortunate country only had a few public men
imbued with the same spirit as Mr. J. L Whit-
tnill, president of the Parltes (N.S.W.) Shire
Council, it would soon be on the road to the
Millennium. At a recent shire council gathering
a communication was read from a Sydney
printery, asking for the council’s printing.
When the secretary had subsided, Mr. Whitmill
arose and remarked in a firm tone that he was
most emphatically opposed to sending any work
out of the district, and he’d move earth and hell
to have all orders executed locally. Now, if only
IJeakin could cuss in a good cause like that! He
is to Australia what Whitmill is to Parkes shire.
“ Fib ” from Adelaide :
SwLiFu 1 / < ?L fcy is u suffering from a debauch of
olan ? don Bonython, who is about to visit the lair of his
prehistoric ancestors. If Slangdon doesn’t depart very
soon I will probably smite the next boy who tries to seil
me an Advertiser. For the last week, when searching
lor news in my morning rag, I have been jolted bv
paragraphs both great, small and numerous in refer-
s projected bender. All the societies that
b l ba . sble fl rem °tely connected with have presented him
with the fulsome word, and Slangy has replied at areat
length and breadth, acknowledging that he is all that
has been s ad. Personally, Ido not object to him leaving
thp C ,'? U a tr,V ’ nord i >l v. mind him bein « gilded over with
the gladsome word, but I don’t want to read about it
eyery day. As a mildewy, decayed item of information,
blangy s jaunt is more wearisome than the late Boer un-
pleasantness.
Tlie . reason why Bilnox, M.H.R., from
Victoria, wears such extraordinary hats is not
owing to a perverted sense of beauty, but arises
irom what Pooh Bah termed “family pride.” Bill
claims to be a lineal descendant of somebody
named John Knox, who is understood to have
done something in the theological way in Scotland
some time back. Ancestor John wore that sort of
hat, so his descendants ever since have thought it
up to them to advertise their descent by inflicting
similar ridiculous headgear on the inoffensive
landscape. If Blnox were descended from a Roman
centurion he would probably appear in Parliament
wearing a spiked helmet with an eagle on it As
it is, Bnox descends from Adam, and Bnx in a
hg-leaf would probably attract more attention
than Bx in a hat.
S. Australia invented the reaping machine
and the stump-jumping plough— the latter a
springy contrivance which has spread itself all
°Y er Australia, and has allowed millions of bushels
of wheat to be taken off roughly-cleared and nn-
grubbed mallee and other timber lands. But
b. Australia has never quite agreed as to who in-
vented the tools, though most evidence gives
Ridley the reaper and Stott the plough. Ridley
died years ago; Stott, who was half machinery-
maker and half-farmer (a disastrous farmer
mostly), liv e d on till a week or two ago. He
left an Aberdeen blacksmith’s forge to come to
Australia 56 years back.
From Victoria :
Pn^ e rTnin!a ) J e i arnS w ,! th sur P rise that it has for long
entertained a baronet unawares, and one with a tree
beside which Rupert Clarke’s is a mere shrub. This is
Z J i e lett ’ c ° mmon b’ called Councillor
Kellett, land and estate agent, rent-collector, etc. The
f hablt ™ ns > apparently, in the family,
• was Alderman Kellett, of Cork city,
who in 1801 married a niece of Abraham de Castras
Portuguese envoy to George 111. Kellett long ago decided
that, in pursuing the tenant for her rent on Monday
mornings, it ’wasn t a help to drag around a title, so he
SW4SSSSSiftSSSf **’—SlJ?.
see >Bs all right, in the main, though
Whitakers Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage
and Companionage” for this year does say that
the title is understood to be extinct on the death
!*e 4th Bt. m 1906.” Previous to that
Whitaker s entry was to the effect that William
was the baronet, “but as he has removed to
Australia, little is known respecting him. Heir
presumptive, his brother Henry.” And now
brother Henry would, no doubt, swop the dignity
for the agency of another terrace of cottages.
If the Imperial Conference approaches
the subject of Preference in the right spirit, it
must, even without the aid of Thomas Bent,
arrive at a sensible conclusion. And the right
‘spirit” is R-C.L. Whisky every time. In fact,
the choice of D.C.L. as an inspirational beverage
evidences a preference for Wisdom in all the
affairs of life.
Edison completed his sixtieth year W
month. In reply to the usual congratulations-
by the way, why should people be congratulated
on growing old’-he said it was nearly time he
stopped work and began to plav. ‘“For 45
years, said he, “ I have been making
merits m electricity, but all those years I have
been turning these experiments to commercial
value so fast that I have had no chance to plav
riL T y, i just to - see what 1 c ° uid out
about it. But I am going to give up the com-
mercial end, and work in my laboratory purely as
a scientist. That is a pleasure I have pro-
Sp wood SeemS like leaving off w °* fco
About some old inhabitants
The old rectory at St. Peter’s (N.S.W.) goes down to
Rpv 6 Th ay f ° r v, struct,,re - In the late ’thirties
Svrlnp omas *? aklns on—father of solicitor Makinson
of Sydney—was incumbent at Mulgoa, and combined the
teaching of a dozen boarders with his clerical duties In
Peterl y afVfi' ® occ . u P ied tho old parsonage at St
Peter s and held the parish until the late forties when
with a number of others, he ’verted to Rome and became
Thomas Makinson, gentleman, Darlinghurst.” He was
succeeded by J. S. Hassall, recently dead at Brisbane a
grandson of missionary Hassall, of Tahiti and Parramatta
110 years ago After Hassall, G. Napoleon Woodd (be
careful about the “dd ”) lived there, followed hv E J
Nixon, George King Charles Baker, W. T. B. Uzzle I
N. Manning, E. D. Madgwick, and J. W. Upjohn, in the
churchyard he many old settlers—lcely, M.L.C Post.
master-General Raymond, the mother'of B. R.’vvise
ii.C., who has the whole of “ Crossing the Bar” inscribed
in gold on her tomb, and others of note.
A boy of 13 died lately at Menzies (W.A.)
of typhoid after 3f years’ attendance at the local
school without missing a day. He had put in
tour dreadful summers under the fried iron roof
ot that hall of knowledge. He had thrice an-
nexed the one-and-nmepenny hook for punctu-
ahty. He had almost learned 75 different tables
ot weights and measures, of which 74 are mere
dashed folly arising through this country’s anti-
quated policy of refusing to adopt the metric
system. And he had learned that “colo” in
colonel” is “kur,” and that “lieu” in
lieutenant” is “lef.” Then he gave up
These words may have been the last straw that
prevented him getting the spell that would have
saved his life; the last straw is about the only
vegetation there is at Menzies. On how many
k'bdies tombstones should the record read-A
Died of trying to multiply something by a
table in which 30| square yards make a perch !”
M'. C. T. Goodman, Adelaide Municipal
Tramway Trust’s newly-appointed electrical
engineer, has crammed a fair amount of work into
Ins 36 years of life. He carried out the installa-
tions on some big British electrical systems,
including the Blackpool tramway, Li verpool tram-
way. City and South London railway, and
London and Brighton railway. In '94 he worked
in the United States, and' later in Hamburg
and Berlin. Then he came to Australia, and was
appointed electrical and mechanical engineer in
the tramway construction branch of N.S.W.
Public Works Department, and designed some of
the Sydney system. He left the Government
service to join Noyes Bros., and reported upon
electric tramways for Adelaide, Christchurch
(M.L.) and some other places. Then lie was
appointed consulting engineer on Dunedin (M.L )
tramways. Between whiles he acted as engineer
to Christchurch (M.L.) City Council, and fixed up
an electric lighting plant in connection with the
local refuse destructor. And when he wasn’t
doing light jobs like these he was generally
working-.
A REFLECTION.
Moustache: “ Hullo, old chap, in a brown
study? ”
BAREFACE: “I was just thinking what a dull
thing life would be if there werent any
whisky.”
William Gray, late secretary of Maoriland
Post and Telegraph Department, who died in
Wellington recently, was one of the quiet grafters
who are the backbone of every civil service.
Only, Gray was lucky. He did manage to become
practical head of his show—mostly his kind of
grafter stays at the bottom of the ladder, and
toils long hours for low wages, while some
bumptious individual who spends most of his
time enjoying life gets the credit of the work.
He was a bright exception to the average depart-
mental secretary, inasmuch as he always strove to
run the office as economically as possible. He
never made any great splash, but sat huddled up
at a desk writing early, writing late, and some-
times early again. In his younger days he used
to recreate at cricket, but for many years, when
he wasn t huddled up at his desk writing, he was
to be found on the bowling green. He was
married twice, and his wives were sisters. Both
pre-deceased him. Of his four sons, one *is an
officer in the Union S.S. Co.’s office, Wellington;
another is a dentist at New Plymouth ; two others
are on the staff of the Eastern Extension Co. at
Adelaide and Port Darwin.
“Have followed the shearing season
through New Zealand and all over Australia,”
says Mr. R. L. M‘Bean, Duntroon, New Zealand,
“and the changes of water and tucker always
bring on an attack of diarrhoea, and the only relief
I can obtain is Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy. Every shed now has some
shearers who use this wonderful medicine, and
always carry a bottle with them.”
Mr. T. R. Davis, Truro, S.A., writes:—“Some
months ago I had a very severe attack of
diarrhoea. Knowing that Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy had effected a
cure in many similar cases I decided to see what
it would do for me, and am pleased to say it
checked the attack. I can confidently recommend
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint.”
Everybody who has used it says Chamberlain’s
Colic. Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy is the best.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution!
30,000 Customers Served
at the New Palace
as
a s
3 a
f
.
3!!!
JV-
m
a si
B 3
3&3S
«hA
HE52i
Sri
33 fil
aWS.te
i&s
a
: ; fl
oaa
f
11 ii i
RH
t#tbs
!»
S»«
m
MSW;
i£m a«7»
8*
a
3*
ESB
a
Hitt
3
111: ”1'
; i
sm».
*
s^SSS*
■.'■■■•
. SSWiS
*9!
sp*j
*35
ill !"!' 1
fv**l
jj,:;!
m
1
X
! i ,, r: , « l
m
ii
M
For THE MAN on THE LAND
No. 552.
Myers Perfect Double Acting
Barrel Spray Pump
With Brass Upper and Brass Lined Lower Cylinders, All
Brass Plunger, Brass Check Valve, Brass Valve Seat, and
fitted with Agitator, complete with lin. suction pipe,
strainer, two leads Jin. three ply discharge hose each sft.
long, and two graduated Vermorel nozzles (No. 552).
60s
Price does not include Barrel
shown in illustration.
Ordinary OH Barrel , for use with above
Pump, from 7/6 to 10/- each.
The Perfect Barrel Spray Pump is manifestly the best
barrel spray pump ever offered. It is constructed on the
well-known principle of the Myers Barrel Spray Pump,
the best that mechanical skill and ingenuity can conceive,
being single acting in the suction and double acting in
the discharge, i.e., it discharges half the water on the up
stroke and half on the down stroke of the handle.
The pump has an exceedingly large air chamber, neces-
sary especially when two leads of hose are used, in con-
nection with the mechanical construction above
described, which enables the operator to work the pump
under pressure with much less exertion than is required
with other large spray pumps.
Anthony Hordern (£b Sons’ Machinery
Department is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE one in the Southern
World, and is generally regarded as meeting the wants of everybody. Among
other things, the section devoted to the sale of MACHINERY and
APPLIANCES for ORCHARDISTS and FARMERS is very complete, while
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
Are THE LOWEST in THE LAND.
Douglas’ Hydraulic Ram.
Far forcing- water to any elevation proportionate to the fall, and for irrigating: land, supplying dwell-
ings, gardens, factories, farms and other places with water.
The distance the water has to be brought will determine the length of pipe required, the size of the pipe
being regulated by the number of the Earn to which it is to be attached
No. 3 takes lin. inlet, and Jin. outlet
Will lift 3 gallons per minute
No 4 takes ljin. inlet and Jin. outlet
Will lift 7 gallons per minute.
No. 5 takes 2in. inlet, and fin. outlet
Will lift 14 gallons per minute
Prices and Particulars of Pipe on Application,
■■ 425.
50s.
80s.
195 'OK
EG 3
Double A (fling Force <SL
Lift Pumps,
(No. 601)
The best in the market. Will lift 2000 gallons per hour.
It is made to take either 2in. iron pipe or 2in. hose. It has
a connection to attach a Jin. hose for use in case of fire or
for spraying. Will force water a distance of about 50 feet
from point of nozzle.
Lift Pumps
W. & B. Douglas’
(No. 562).
Nos. 2 3
10/6 11/6
Size of Pipe required, 1-Jin.
Nos. 4 5
12/6 15/6
Size of Pipe required, ljin.
No. 6 .. ..18/-
Size of Pipe required, 2in.
No. 562
Douglas’ Hydraulic Ram.
Send for Illustrated
Price Lists.
Post Free Anywhere.
No. 656.
Ti\e Eclair or Verm, or el
Knapsack Spraying Pump
(No. 556) holds about 3£ gallons, it will treat from
2£ to 5 acres per day, delivering- from 35 to 70
gallons of solution per acre, according to the
aperture of the jet or nozzle
employed.
40s
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


Australia was invited to send delegates to
the Navigation Conference in London, and it did
so. Also, the delegates have stated their views,
which is, presumably, what they were invited for.
Nevertheless, Sydney Telegraph devoted a lead-
ing article last Tuesday to ponderous sneers at
the invited Australian delegates for saying any-
thing, and scoffed at them as mere “colonial
politicians,” and headed its article “Empire
Management from Australia.” Considering how
bad the importing paper seems to feel about Aus-
tralia, it is quite a wonder that it remains here at all.
BEAUTY CHATS, by Helena Rubinstein. The
Structure op Your Skin. —You know, of course, that
your skin is pitted with myriads of little pores. But do
you know that the function of these pores is both to
breathe in pure air and to be the passage way for the
escape of waste products of the body? If the pores are
clogged the skin is stifled. To ensure their activity they
must be cleansed and all impurities expelled. If not, a
“ bad complexion ” is certain, with a crop of wrinkles
and crowsfeet as its attendant. Now, Valaze first cleanses
the skin of all impurities, and then it sinks hungrily into
the pores and is absorbed by the skin cells, and gives
them nourishment. You’ll sometimes feel a tingling
sensation of the skin when you first use Valaze—this is
when your skin has been very neglected and the cells are
starved. And how quickly Valaze does beautify the com-
plexion—how it braces up the tired skin, making it as
clear and radiant as a child's—soft and earessing as vel-
vet, smooth as satin. Your chemist sells Valaze in 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jars. Get a jar and see how it will improve your
skin. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure cures the
most obstinate cases ; approved by medical authorities.
2s. 6d., posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, beautifully
cleansing and purifying, made from almonds and rare
herbs, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Lusmo Hair-killer, for the
home removal of superfluous hair ; won’t harm the most
delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe, 5s., postage
3d. If your chemist trios to press another Skin Food on
to you, write direct to me for Valaze, adding fid. postage
extra. The Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or 274 Collins-stroet, Melbourne.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library :—Dozens of
new books arrive per every English and American mail.
Many are worthy of a place on the shelves of any well-
selected library, the majority are win f en and designed
to while away a few hours of leisure. Every book by any
author of note is available to subscribers of the above
library. All copies arc mean and fresh, and any hook, no
matter how expensive oi how keen the demand, may be
had for the asking. The country subscription, 8 volumes
at a time, ranges from £1 11s. 6d. for 6 months, and
£2 12s. 6d. for 12 months; the city and suburban rates
from £1 Is. and £2 2s. per annum, shorter periods or
larger parcels at proportionate rates. The most popular
books at the moment are; E. W. Chamber’s “ Fighting
Chance,” which reveals life in New York as seen in the
Thaw trial; Spearman’s “Whispering Smith,” and Parish’s
“Bob Hampton Placer.” Do not leave town withmt
joining Dymock’s Circulating Library , 428 George Street,
Sydney.*
Don’t trifle with coughs and colds. All serious throat
and lung troubles start from simple colds. Don’t trifle
with unreliable remedies—Senior’s Black Currant Balsam
is the proper remedy. It’s Nature’s remedy for these
complaints. It does not drug a cough into sil nee as
narcotic remedies do ; it stops the cough by removing the
cause of the cough. You certainly want coughs cured in
that way. It is pleasant to take ; it is equally good for
children or adults. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is.
6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
CHA£ t/
£
O
*
o'
HP
c*
£
c
O?
4/
*
*
&
I*
CHAtA
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
hfg
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
t* ADE ma*kTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 9, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
There was a new thing under the electrics at
the Northcotes’ ball at Federal Government
House last week—the hairdressing of a few of the
guests. One fair Blacklocks out-haired the
limits of the picturesque. She had a crescent of
wire fire-guard or iron mosquito curtain on either
side of her head—a fluffer said it was a full-sized
bicycle wheel cut in halves—and through this
skeleton scaffolding the hair was interlaced like
a creeper wandering through the lattice-work of
your bush house. Result was two fans of hair
(and wire and pad) with a face between them,
and the guests visible through the spokes
of the half-wheels. On a plain woman the
style would make a cab-horse leave at a hard
gallop, but Blacklocks was pretty. Mrs. T. H.
Kelly’s roof-covering was elegantly furnished
with feathers, flowers and jewels. In fact, you
couldn’t see the hair for decorations. One Circe
had smothered her brown tresses with red poppies
(artificial) and natural myrtle.
Miss Chandos-Pole (be sure you call it Shandy-
Poole), who is staying with the Northcotes, is
taking the hearts of Sydneysiders. Her obvious
good health and spirits are infectious, and her
empire gowning at the ball was an achievement
in mauve chiffon, silver embroidery, and some
lace which spells its name with a capital letter.
A lot of studies in brown were present. Brown
may be of a depressing tone —when I was seven I
had an idea that exiles and prisoners and lost
souls were always dressed in brown, and that
perdition was entered by brown gates —or it may
nave a cheerful, peaee-to-your-eyes effect. The
browning society at Government House was tinted
with the brown of some birds’ wings, the russet
of leaves, the tender hue of the cigar and the
cockroach. Now don’t snort! The cockroach is
of a beautiful golden shade of brown. I once
travelled with half a million of him in a boat
from Hobart, so I ought to know. Chief
Mayoress Hughes was a delightful study in
cigar gauze over silk, and Senatrix Gould was
browned to a turn in gauze and silk. It was too
Florentine a night for velvets, but Mrs. J. T.
Toohey’s black chiffon velvet with diamond
buttons had an “absolutely hurrah” setting
amongst the white satins and oyster greys and
silver tissues of the other gowns.
Four fair, downy fledglings, making their dtbut,
were presented to Lady Northcote. If you like
the word “bud” better, call them a bouquet of
buds. Bud is better than “squab,” and it is
quite as good as “kitten.” An enthusiastic
brother of a girl who emerged last year said his
sister was the best-looking of the string of squabs
that came out at the same ball. (A squab is a
young pigeon, and that’s near enough to a young
dove.) Miss Constance Moore, a daughter of the
Minister for Agriculture ; Miss Bessie Lane
Mullins (her father is a well-known solicitor),
Miss Laidley Mort, and Miss Mollie David were
the debutantes.
While the last-named damsel was “ coming
out ” socially at Government House, that clever,
courageous and well-informed woman, Mrs. Prof.
David, her mother, was coming out verbally
with advice in a fine, clear voice before the
Women’s Political League, at the School of Arts.
She touched on domestic work, bad cookery and
the rearing of children. She did not think that
domestic servants were worse treated or paid
than thousands of wives and mothers and
daughters. And she instanced the case of a girl
who worked on a small farm near Sydney :
She did all the housework, all the cooking, attended to
the poultry, fed the pigs, occasionally fed the horse and
cows, milked the cows, made butter,‘and did all the work
of the dairy. Her father never so much as gave her a
pound or two for a holiday. When she wanted a new
dress she had to go and beg for it, and had the money
flung at her. Her father thought that, as she was his
daughter, there was no reason why he should pay her.
This is why so many girls leave housework and take up
dressmaking, typewriting, and other things.
No doubt, when the girl left to work for her-
self, the old sinner employed well-paid help, and
had the work done indifferently. The hoary belief
that the woman is the chattel of the husband and
father dies hard. Many girls working in Sydney
houses or factories have fathers who are well-off
in money and farms. I know of three sisters—
youngest 20, eldest 30—who came to Sydney and
work as generals or in factories. They say they
were never happier in their lives. Their father
is a rich farmer, and the three girls did all the
housework, dairying, poultry-keeping, milking
and sewing. They never had a penny in wages,
they never had a day’s amusement or went to a
dance. Every Sunday the old man drove them
to church, and, if they ventured to show any
pleasure when a man spoke to them, the slave-
owner was wild—like the lion in the African desert.
By some means the girls got to know the terms
of their father’s will. His farms were divided
amongst his three sons, and the girls were not to
get a patch of land, but a sum was to be invested
and the income—about 16s. a week—paid to each'
The capital they could not touch. These girls
and their dead mother had helped to make their
father’s wealth. It was the youngest worm that
turned. She took a few animals that she herself
had reared—-whether geese or calves or foals, I
know not—-into the township, and sold them for
£2O, and with the money the trio came to town
to work, and heroically risked the loss of the 16s.
which was to represent to them the trodden-down
heels of the dead man’s shoes.
That was a year ago, and now their father is
married, and his wife does not get up till midday,
and he has to keep two maids and a man and boy
for the work his wageless daughters used to do
He raves like a westerly buster at the “extrava-
gance,” but his wife only asks, with her mouth
•i* 11 ml chocola te, w hat he’s going to do about
it. Ihe second wife is always unmanageable.
Week of the A.J.C. Neigh trailed off rather
shabbily m point of attendance, but the dressing
kept up to a high standard of taste or expensive-
ness. One of the uncommon trifles in hatting
was a blue velvet head-cover with a wreath of
frey velvet pansies—only that and nothing more.
lillinery flowers were so like the natural thing
that a bee with good eyesight and a faded nose
might have investigated them for spoil. There was
a forget-me-not hat, a hat smothered with cactus
dahlias, and another with white stock. One of the
picturesque Anderson girls was bonneted after
the fashion of 1830.
Women who had put a girdle round the earth,
and when in Paris had stopped to tie several
knots in it, say that the Frenchiest dresser at
the Easter meetings was Mrs. De Wyn. She, a
small-faced, pretty woman, is a Sydneysider,
married to a Frenchman who wool-buys. Her
hair is the shade of a polished hazel nut, and on it
her hats—small hats with large plumes—ar e posed
at an angle that is obtainable only by close study
of French models. Some people go further and
say that all the study on earth wouldn’t produce
the required effect; that such hats, worn at such
superb angles, represent a soul-instinct that must
be born in you, like poetry and music and marry-
ing actors. _ Her gowns seem simple, but that
is only their artfulness. A French frock can
be as subtle as Satan. Seems to me that absolute
perfection of fashionable hatting, gowning and
eoiffing is inseparable from a film of artificiality.
A Mr. Harriman, a visitor from the Hurried
Land of Trusts and Canned Goods, is engaging
the attention of Sydney society these days. He
is a nephew of the Harriman (it was probably
Hurryman at first) now having a difference with
President Roosevelt. At a recent diamond-dusted
function, he and the belle whose company he
favors wore the same flowers—Cape-weed and
daisies, or some such. Mr. H. is said to be
married ; otherwise he would be a fish that any
girl might drown a worm in pursuit of.
Captain Mason, of the N.S.W. training ship
Sobraon, was married last week to Miss F. Bice,
a Nowra girl.
Half Sydney watched the bridal pomp of
Lieutenant Rawson and Miss Dorothy Mitchell,
who were married this afternoon. She is
a slender, pretty, white-faced girl, with a small,
aquiline nose and considerable riches. He is a
jolly-looking youngster, who “takes after” the
late Lady Rawson. The ceremony was sur-
rounded with all the etceteras of vice-regaldom,
but the officiating parson deserved boiling!
He threw a sermon at the unhappy pair,
and it was about 45 minutes in length.
It’s not exhilarating to be advised and told what
a priceless treasure is your mutual love in the
presence of a squadron of naval officers, cadets,
and SUO other guests. Captain Wilson best-
manned the groom, and Miss Rawson cast off
her mourning for the occasion.
Adequate description of Miss Dorothy Mit-
chell’s trousseau would mean driving a long string
of prancing adjectives all over this letter. Last
time Dolores sang in Sydney an evening paper
writer described her voice as “dainty and
distinguished, rich and rare, exquisite and”—
I forget the other alliterative adjective, but the
whole bunch wouldn’t do justice to the gowns of
the bride of Mr. State Governor Rawson, junior.
Yesterday afternoon the wedding robe held a
reception all on its own at the roomsof its maker.
With its back to the reverent beholders—it was
on a wooden model—the Achievement displayed
a wide, square train many yards in length, the
satin Duchesse covered with yards of rare old
point de gaze. The bride’s mother willed the
venerable relic to her. It was the color of old
ivory, and in its design were leaves, flowers, buds,
scrolls and butterflies—all handwork. Some of it
was surely worked while a microscope was in the
eye of the artist.
Train was hooked on to the shoulders and fas-
tened in to the waist in such a cunning way that
the back view of the tight-fitting bodice was in
no wise obscured. The frock part of the creation
showed chiffon over Duchesse, more of the costly,
old-aged lace, a tangle of orange buds on the cor-
sage, and a yoke and high collar of tulle. The
going-away gown was of white cloth, with a dado
of floral silk and silver thread, and a bewildering
bodice with curly-cues, or strappings, of white
cloth edged, with silver and strewn with tiny
silken buds in pink and blue.
One of the bridesmaids at the Rawson-Mitchell
alliance was the 16-year-old daughter of the once
famous lady who was Mrs. Willie Mitchell. The
girl has hair of a most virulent shade of red, but
her face is exquisitely pretty—an uncommon Cir-
cean prettiness that may develop into beauty.
That glowing head and the bridesmaid’s hat of
silver tissue and white plumes made a rare com-
b ination, as of fire and snow.
Mrs. Prof. Carslaw has been one of the prin-
cipal frisk-givers of Carnival week. At her smart
dance in the A.B.C. a Tooth came out. Mrs.
Carslaw has made her mathematical consort mow
off his huge moustache. It was a beautiful copse,
dense enough for field mice or larks, and really
lent the Prof, a certain distinction. Without it
he looks more Melchisadechy than any Solomon
Isaacs who calls out the odds on that white, hot
patch of cement at Randwick. Strange what a
set most women have against moustaches or
beards. If a man have a nose that is “a power of
a beak, his moustache ambushes it somewhat
and ought to be let alone. I'light as well shear
off a rooster’s comb and waving tail feathers as
rob a poor man of his beard. But some women
would beard an oyster in its shell.
Miss Linda Teece, second daughter of the
A.M.P. Society Teeces, was married last week to
Mr. Albert Littlejohn.
Miss Phyllis Seed, of Manly, a pupil of Mr.
Willie Beattie, of Sydney, made her debut at the
Christchurch (M.L.) Exhibition orchestral con-
cert a few weeks ago; and was subsequently
engaged for two other concerts. The local papers
say the flattering word about her pure and culti-
vated soprano voice.
Amongst the debutantes at the Union Club Ball
to-night will be Miss Nora Brenan, a grand-
daughter of the late John O’Neil Brenan, of
“Garry Owen” ; Miss Ida Traill, who is of the
Lee family of Bathurst; Miss Rosalie Collins, a
daughter of Dr. Collins, of Woollahra ; Miss Bet-
tington, of Parramatta, and Miss Shard, daughter
•of the manager of the French Bank. “ Debs ” are
carrying lilies of the valley as often as they can get
them this year. But most of these flowers have
to be brought from Melbourne. At Government
House ball, and at a recent “loud” wedding
many guests carried tight little early Victorian
posies of the modest droopy lilies.
Miss Grace Joel, the artist, has left for London
by the Medic.
The (Dr.) Wunderlich pair, who are fanatically
musical, tell me that they heard the new fiddler-
boy, Premyslav, in Shanghai, where he took the
town by storm, and so interested the silly sex that
a number of it presented him with a massive
silver bowl, as big as a wash basin and filled with
roses.
When the mail left London a comic opera
actress, “ Kitty Gordon ” (she’s the wife of the
Hon. Something Beresford), was suing a burglary
insurance co. for the loss of a sable coat,
which had cost £lOOO. Kitty was on a voyage
from America when some badly-brought-up person
made off with the expensive garniture—leaped
overboard with it, I suppose.
Mrs. and Mrs. G. H. Chirnside, of Werribee
Park (Victoria), with Miss Audrey Chirnside,
have been holiday-making in Maoriland for the
last two months. Their camp was pitched in a
delightful spot on the shores of Lake Tarawera,
and a steam launch was one of the etceteras. Mr.
Chirnside has now gone for some deer-stalking to
Mr. Riddiford’s Te Awaite station, where Lord
Plunket is also a guest. In the meantime Mrs.
Chirnside and Miss Audrey are visiting the
Christchurch Exhibition.
Mr. J. H. Galbraith, solicitor, of London,
writes to state that Mr. Archibald B. Primrose,
once of Brisbane, is still a bachelor. Some time
ago his marriage was vaguely surmised in these
columns —to the extent that it was mentioned
that he might be identical with a Mr. Primrose
whose marriage had been reported.
Mr. William Anderson, of Wonderland City
and of divers theatres in divers States of the
Commonwealth, has earned the gratitude, large
measure and brimming over, of Dr. Alan Carroll
and the committee of the Child Study Associa-
tion. He has gi ven the price (£2O) of the Poseidon
nugget—the Wonderland buried treasure that
was not found despite much excited digging— to
the Child Study people. Twenty pounds will
buy quite a considerable quantity of the diet
ordered by the doctor for rickety, half-starved,
often mentally deficient, youngsters under observa-
tion by the committee.
Mr. Harry Morton’s luck was out on the last
day of the Easter meeting. His steeplechasers
Karamba and Auriculum were killed outright at
one of the steeples. Now he is racehorseless, for
when he went in ardently for motoring, he got rid
of his other gee-gees.
Edwin Geach, who is forming a dramatic co.,
and, with the exception of the two principals,
building it from Commonwealth material, gets
not fewer than 200 letters a day from stage men,
professional, amateur, and casual. It is dreadful
to think that so huge a proportion of the popula-
tion should want to paint its countenance and fall
down a stage precipice in the third act of “ The
Tallest Woman in Gosford.”
Concerning dog-worship: A friend who’s been
touring Maoriland tells me that, at a hotel
in Christchurch, a superbly dressed American,
her husband and an ugly, very-small dog were
reckoned as three personages. Three liqueurs
(Benedictine) were always served them with coffee,
and, though the dog did not take the coffee, he
reached for the Benedictine with all his four paws
and his yap. If he chose to remain asleep on his
missus’s bed in the morning, the servants were
not allowed in to do up the room. Anyone who
chanced to disturb the precious little blot of meat
was bound to hear of her iniquity.
A portrait of, and interview with, Madame
Mary Conley appears in the British Austral-
asian. The picture shows her to have the phy-
sical outline of most noted singers. Her head
seems joined to her body without the interven-
tion of a neck, she has immense lung space, a
good-natured face, an opulent figure, and a
general expression of never having had neural-
gia. A critic said of her : “I knew she
could not be English, or she would never
be to take the open A so clearly.”
Madame’s chief delight is milking, her chief
recreation is revolver practice. She has taken
to it out of exasperation at the climate. “How
can one go long walks when it is always raining ! ”
she exclaims. So she fires her revolver frequently,
and probably imagines she is shooting the weather
—which must be soothing.
Talking about mummers and mummeresses, the
bright little Sidney girl who plays in “ Robin Hood ”
tells how she went to a service at St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral one of these recent holy-day holidays, and
found the place crowded, except about one foot of
seat-space that had been left unoccupied because
of a strong beam of sunlight that smote down
upon it. “I seized the seat,” says little Sidney,
‘‘for I have few chances of being under the lime-
light. The sacred ray was just as bright.”
From my Brisbane correspondent :
The Chelmsford menage (minus Capt. Brooke, of the
humorous eye, who is away to Tasmania to see his limp
missus safe off for England) is booked to return to town on
Tuesday. That is, if the lady has thrown ofif the effects of
her indisposition. Touching that lady and her determined
ways, it is said that after vainly trying to persuade a
merry little Toowoomba-ite to come down and help with
the FSte, and being refused on the plea of home duties,
she remarked in her voice of most convincing sweetness :
“Very well, then, Miss Blank, we will consider it as a
command, and we shall send to meet you on the 12th.”
“ Command or not, I’m not coming,” replied the equally
firm mere citizeness. Her friends felt that such a victory
should not go unrewarded, so they asked her to morning
tea, and presented her with a greenstone heart inscribed
upon the obverse, “ For Valor.” She’s wearing it now.
The literary competition for the F6te closed with 84
gems of song and story, of which the seven best will be
printed in the magazine. All over Australia, Maoriland,
and Tasmania writers were represented.
Two more contracts to lo> e, honor, and obey this week.
Golden-haired Vixen Newton is to wed Paymaster
Woodman, late of H.M.S. Pyramus and Torch, and in
consequence the family rejoices exceedingly. Woodman
was a chippy little dance-goer up this way, and seemed
unable then to make up his mind between a pretty
brunette and the golden hair in which he has finally
become entangled. Vows to be signed and delivered
next month.
The second contract is between Miss M. Nicholson (a
handsome girl somewhat eclipsed by a still more hand-
some family) and “ Mickey,” son of Hon. A. J. Callan, of
Mt. Morgan fame.
The Lillian Meyers Co., now following up its local
success with a money-making trip to the Downs, has got
away with Brisbane’s best woman amateur, Miss Tempe
Piggott, who joins in to play the graceful old lady in
“The New Magdalen,” and other such parts. Miss Piggott
is well-known in your State. She and Miss King (now
Mrs. Waldron)played in “The Gutta Percha Girl,” got
up by “our amusing little friend ” InnesNoad, atßowral.
This is, however, her first professional flutter.
From “Rosna,” at Adelaide :
Ml the upper ten, or four hundred (I’ve never counted
them, but I know there are more than three) of South
Australia, that haven’t taken unto themselves mail boats
and rushed to Britain, joined the holiday throne at
Onkaparinga on Easter Monday. The picnic race-meeting
scored a fine day for once ; no horses were drowned on
the course, and visitors were deprived of the usual
excitement of swimming to the fray. His Ex.
with a private secretary at heel—the secretary didn’t
bark—lent his jovial presence to the verdant scene and
was shepherded by a number of other exalted personages
among them our ex-aide Hon. Victor Nelson, who relin-
quished the reins of Melbourne Government House for a
brief holiday on this side. By some accident there was a
false start for the Cup, and the women who backed the
first false horse—that is, the horse that ran first in the
false start—were an angry multitude when they
found it didn’t count. Women have a tote of their
own on Adelaide courses, so that they can put on their
own money, and have their own row with the man in
charge when things go wrong, and hit him with their
own umbrella if they feel that way. There was extensive
frocking at Onkaparinga ; here a race crowd is about the
only one that doesn’t look economical and down at heel.
Among those who helped to illumine the landscape were
Mrs. Herbert Rymill, Mrs. Arthur Rymill, two of the
“ Oaklands ” Crozier sisters, Miss Flossie Melrose, Mrs.
M’Farlane, and Mrs. E. W. Morris.
Mr. Squire Henry Anlaby Dutton and his tame little
pet yacht Adfele have returned our fathom of viceroyalty
in good repair from a cruise, and now make ready to
breast the foam in the direction of England, where
squires grow wild in the hedges. To be the only squire
on the landscape must be rather a forlorn business; so
Mr. Dutton steams off to a country where he can flock
with his kind. He carries with him Rev. George Griffiths,
a bachelor parson, of Kapunda district, and incidentally
of Anlaby estate.
Adelaide’s bachelor par excellence, Mr. Abe Shannon,
of the gorgeous raiment and wonderful ties, has suddenly
become alarmed lest a new mode of hat brim may have
arisen in Europe, and oppressed with fears that the vege-
tation on his waistcoats may not sprout in the latest pre-
vailing fashion. Wherefore, he packs his 17 trunks and
his hat-box on the Himalaya, and goes to Europe to see
the fashions. It is a fearsome calamity in this under-
manned State when an eligible and dancing Him deserts
it just on the verge of the season. Mr. Edwin Smith also
bestows himself on Europe by the Himalaya, if his wife’s
health permits her to make the trip. She has been
seriously ill for some weeks. Others just departed are
Dr. and Mrs. Swift.
Adelaide has definitely fixed the date for its Exhibition
of Women’s Work ; but if, as someone informs us, a
woman’s work is never done, I should like to know how
there is going to be an exhibition of it. The thing will
be opened with a flourish of odes on August 17. The
last day of entry is August 1. Dry goods are
to be sent in by August 3. Cookables and eat-
ables and boilables and fryables are due on
August 23. A corner of the Exhibition is to be
devoted exclusively to entries from the May Club, an
institution where the exalted and impecunious may sell
their wares, and the exalted and affluent buy them, with-
out mingling with the vulgar herd. The May Club is
manipulated by Miss Mabel Boothby, who paints kooka-
burras that almost laugh, makes scones that melt at your
approach, and is a cousin of the late Guy, who had a
Beautiful White Devil. Miss Boothby is toiling strenu-
ously to make the May Club Court at the Exhibition a
triumph.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


KEEP AWAf FROM
TROUBLE
f BY RIDING
NLfIPTTEES
■ 5s
n
They Ensure
Safety
Comfort and
Reliability
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
None Genuine without thisj
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Akt STATES AND N.Z.
MARK
tSP
<&>
3=
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels- J
are now in such demand
owing to their FINE
WEARING QUALITIES,
AND THE GREAT
COMFORT they give,
that 1 '/t TONS are
now manufactured
and sold by us
every week... Such
a result speaks
volumes for our
heels of pure
rubber. £> £>
Stocked in various
patterns by all
Leading Boot
Stores. £?
Accept only
•* DUNLOP"
Brand.
J> to S
<Dress
Shields
KLEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
h
fgh
ffghfgghfgh
THE PLIANT CORDS of FEATHERBONE
impart the graceful, undulating charm
so effective in the SMART BALL GOWN,
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
ASK YOUR
DRAPER FOR
WARREN’S.
Depots at NEW YORK, CHICAGO,
SAN FRANCISCO, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
<
ME
SULK
m.
3
TEE
WORLDS
«
>\VV
rM
o
fg
■'SOMETHING • &VITE -NE.W-
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 8, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Report still says that wedding-bells will soon be
a-ringing for the Much-Curved Premier, in spite
of his warm denials before his departure. A
charming widow who lives by the sea is
the alleged happy bride-elect of the probable
K.C.M.G. There was reason, so the story goes,
for suppressing any clarion-like announcement.
The weather-stained hand of Sentimental Tommy
was much sought after —and he may have feared
the inevitable consequences of making his inten-
tions known to womenkind in general. Mean-
while the escaped Premier is an object of tender
interest to his fellow travellers. When he got
his big budget of correspondence at Fremantle,
he opened the first letter so hastily that twenty
pairs of watchful eyes saw the tell-tale spray of
pressed flowers which he put back into the
envelope ere placing it in the breast-pocket of his
coat—the pocket that nestles against his beating
heart.
Needlework, which was erstwhile thrust into
the background and the hands of the poor rela-
tion, is becoming a fashionable obsession. And
hands that formerly knew little but Bridge cards,
now crewel the hideous cosy or perpetrate wool
slippers and the like. Perhaps Lady Northcote’s
interest in the needlework part of the coming
Women’s Exhibition has given the craze a fillip.
Then the Princess of Wales, her very own self or
her authorised ghost, is working a screen for this
favored exhibition. Anyhow, Miss Finlay, a
wise woman of exceeding talent, is taking the tide
at its flood, and on Wednesday had a formal open-
ing of a School of Art Needlework. The school is
quite a salon, with comfy seats and lounges, and
soft-curtained, cosy-corner windows, where
scholars may gossip and master intricate' stitches.
The ceremony was a toney affair. Motors and
carriages rolled up to the Chapel-street room, and
swagger folk gazed long and discerningly at
wonderful designs, and threads, and pastel back-
grounds.
Political Vida Goldstein, a dainty vision in grey,
was among the Interested. Vida is an enthusiast.
As she discusses intricate points of Woman’s
Suffrage, her fingers are for ever knitting, knit-
ting ; and in train journeys and elsewhere her
need Ie chases the elusive pattern of the huckaback.
Holy Trinity Church, much be-decorated, and
an imposing reception of some hundreds of
guests, was the backing-up of the wedding of
Miss Mary St. George Sproule (pronounced
Sprole, not Sprowl, if you please), who took the
name of Derham with her captain husband. The
knot was tied by a Reverend, and pulled tighter
by a Canon. _ The handsome bride veiled herself
in an exquisite bit of Honiton, grown pale gold
with age (she wore other drapery). The brides-
maids were led by Sister Dr. Viva. Each brides-
maid’s dress was a subdued rainbow —a rainbow
in a languorous restful mood. Marjorie (Mrs.
Geoffrey AGE-Syme’s little daughter, who owns
three years and a witching personality), carried a
big soft cushion and plopped it down for Mary
Sproule to kneel upon while she told the parson
that she would.
Now the engagement is announced of Sister
Viva—who is M.D. and B.Sc. at the University
and also fourth daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James
Sproule, when she is at “Chatto,” Kew. She is to
marry Dr. Walter Summers. Probably they’ll
practise together and draw lots to decide who is
to go out to the cold cases in the wee small morn-
ing hours.
Travelling on a Collingwood car, I met the re-
incarnation of a great man’s dream. She wore a
scarlet skirt that hung in Vandykes; a blouse of
strident pink ; a cardboard topee, with a flaunt-
ing veil of vivid blue; an untidy neck, and a
place where two buttons should have been. But
above the motley hangings rose the columnal
throat and paradoxical face of Monna Lisa ! The
subtle mouth was there, half-smiling always ; the
noin ted chin; the thin sensual nose*; th
flowing contour of cheek; the brows so e
delicately visible above the wondrous eyes,
that they might have been recently shaved.
True, the curving cheeks had an outcrop of
freckles, and the supple mouth slavered a little.
Unlike the Giaconda’s modestly veiled locks, the
hair of this slum prototype was dragged in greasy
strands over a monstrous pad. When she spoke
her voice was attuned like the lower notes of a
muted violin.. And she said to him who sat
beside her (perchance ’twas Leonardo): “You’re
a nice sort of bloke ! Ask me ter go out wiv yer,
and then expec’ t’ave yer fare paid all ther way,
yer mean cow ! ” He replied : “ Don’t be a mean
joss. Let’s go down ter ther beach, an’ I’ll shake
yer up when we get there.” Monna Lisa smiled
slowly, sweetly, and, with her eyes lingering upon
his thick, uncollared throat, paid the fares.
The Old Melbournians, with their effective
bishop-mitre crest, are sending out cards for their
initial winter shivoos. There is to be a lawn
party one week and athletic sports later. They
carry out these little things exceedingly well, do
the Old Melbournians. Their big ball comes much
later. An imposing list of important “ Old
Melbs ’’—headed by Mr. Deakin and Justice
Hodges-t-appears on the cards.
A woman who had a pretty rocky ride through
the usual companion-secretaryship business has
struck it rich in the house-decoration line. The
Very Best have discovered that the only joy is to
have their carpets woven to order and their friezes
painted to match. They have developed ideas
about beaten copper, pewter, and things for
fenders and door-plates, and have taken to going
one better than another in the matter of mantel-
shelves. Somebody “ discovered ” a heaven-sent
genius in the person of the secretary in question.
She packed her dress-basket forthwith, took a flat,
booked her orders, and is working up a business
calculated to turn all other companion-secretaries
green with envy.
A fine young crop of Dianas is being raised
by riding-mistress Watt (who is, at least,
much safer than a riding-master J at her new
school in South Yarra. There’ll be a place
for side-saddles soon in the museums. The
modern child will have none of them, and
some of her quite elderly elders now ride
astride unblushingly. As one of these, used
to thirty years of side-saddle, remarked, “ It’s all
right when you’re going, but it’s a terror when
you stop.” Even this little difficulty is speedily
overcome, and Joan of Arc isn’t in it with some of
the women who have calmly appropriated their
brothers’ saddles. Mothers are voicing the opinion
that the doctors have been squared by the horse-
dealers, so liberally is riding prescribed now.
The damsel of the coppery curls, whose charms
at present enthral Melbourne’s most important
grass-widower, is said to be the daughter of a
suburban butcher. Relatives who exclaim in
surprise at their kinsman’s seeming infatuation
are reminded that a red-headed girl, reared
amongst raw meat, is apt to boast a double share
of the warm-blooded vitality and animal magnet-
ism which only elderly gentlemen can fully
appreciate.
Commencement Day at the University, on
Saturday, had all the woolliness usually in-
dulged in by the students. In gown and
trencher they gambolled through the city to
the Town Hall, led by a band playing, appro-
priately enough, “Mother Goose” accompani-
ments. They indulged in a mock Conferring of
Degrees in the hall as they waited for the
serious business of the day. Their “ Chancellor,”
a dressed-up Parsifal, solemnly doled out such
degrees as Mus. Bac. to Mr. Lohengiggle and
Man Admirer to Miss Dunlopa Tyrea ; and this
tremendous standard of wit was lived up to all
clay. At the real ceremony and through the
speech of the Chancellor (Chief Justice Madden)
their interjections were so asinine and frantically
noisy, that even the genial, curled, and good-
humored Chanc-Excellency came very near to
losing his temper.
A mighty list of degrees was bestowed with
blessings. Prime Minister Deakin’s golden-haired
daughter, Stella, annexed the purple hood of
B.Sc., though she is not yet out of her teens. Big,
handsome Viva Sproule also added B.Sc. to her
M.D.
Mrs. Fairchild, head of the big clan of Aus-
tralian Fairchilds, died at St. Kilda on Saturday.
The old lady was great-grandmother to five
children. Mrs. Fairchild and her late husband,
Jesse Fairchild, came to Victoria in 1840, and
invested what money they had in sheep. A
drought lost them every penny, and then, start-
ing afresh from nothing, they built up a huge
fortune. The Old Colonists’ Home has three
cottages erected and endowed by Mrs. Fairchild
at the cost of about £2OOO.
From “Typhena” at Ceylon :
Prime Minister Deakin gets no fun out of the voyage
to the Cold Country with the Imperial Conference loom-
ing ahead. He tore himself away in the first instanc :
from a vulture swarm of the Press at Port Ade-
laide, dashed to his cabin, locked himself in, thanked
Heaven with passionate fervor at every knot scored
by the ship’s engines, and prepared for an
extensive loaf. When he transpired from his
quarters, half-a-dozen pressmen sprang hawk-fashion
from places of concealment and alighted upon him. An
ashen look of fright blanched the visage of the Federal
Chief. “ Are you bound homewards? ” he asked faintly.
“ We’re with you right through," grinned back one
stubby bird of prey, and the Deakin store of affability
was strained to the limit. And now his days are all
ashen—the hawks are always in sight, and only in the
oven of his cabin, with the electric fan whirring the hot
air round his burning head, does any sense of relief coine
to him.
We’re tailor-made or nothing this season, and
the high priests so long neglected are taking re-
venge. A cold, hard, firm, “ Not for two months,
madam,” meets the appeal made with tear-
dimmed eyes for the coat and skirt of our desires.
Argument availeth nothing, and we either resort
to the reach-me-down or secure the services of
some struggling tailor on whom fashion’s smile
has yet to shine. He’s usually better than the
swagger cutter, but you can’t talk of him in cres-
cendo at the Paris Cafe or the Vienna when your
dearest enemy, with a palpable wrinkle across
her back, is sitting at the next table. Then,
though its charm 6 are horribly wasted, you really
must have a Hieland plaidie petticoat. The hat
has got to be equally striking, and if you can’t
sport something amazing in the way of a vest
you’re hardly one of Us. A dash of St. Patrick’s
green has to be worked in somewhere.
George Long-Innes put in an appearance here
last week with a bodyguard of sympathetic fellow
Eassengers from the Moldavia. The merry
achelor is considerably depressed by the after-
effects of the same kind of illness his late papa,
the Judge, suffered from. Colombo and an inter-
val on the rolling ocean are prescribed as probable
health-builders for the invalid.
Ex-Senator Matheson sends local chums dolo-
rous accounts of himself and Fogtown weather. He
has been enduring a horrid form of gout, which
confined him for some weeks to the house, as a
daily news-reporter would say. He complains
that English domesticity, perforce, is lighted by
a blazing fire and electric bulbs for 18 hours out
of each 24. Presumably the unillumined six
hours are spent in sleep, since it’s dark all day.
Yet another blessed damsel has a golden note to
hang upon the stave of Australian music. This
time it’s an R.C. college student—lrene Led-
widge—trained by Mrs. Christian, and gifted
with a voice like a mixture of honey and port
wine (which may be a very bad metaphor, but it
has a sublime flavor of a pagan sort). When the
voice proceeds to warble in public at an early
date, its sweetly intoxicating quality will be
freely admitted.
Janet Mrs. Clarke evidences a praiseworthy love
of hygiene, also a steady flow of sentiment.
Every smiling day, as she returns from her round
of “social duties,” she alights from her lonely
eminence in the family barouche by the statue of
the late Baronet Wm., and foots it thence to
Cliveden. This little side-show usually eventuates
at a busy hour, and goes a long way towards
confirming, in the humble mind of Suburbia, the
belief that the lady is a citizeness of superlative
merit.
Died last week, Mrs. Arthur Loureiro. Folk
whom she charmed with her many gifts and
peculiar personality accord her memory sincere
regret. Mrs. Loureiro at one time did art
criticisms for David Syme, and contributed more
or less esoteric essays to other journals here and
abroad. Her husband has been back in his native
Portugal of recent years, but a daughter and an
artistic son still remain.
Stage management generally must have had a
lively time dealing with the young society chorus
girl on the first night of the Opera. She herself
was sadly twisted and twirled and worried. As a
rule, when she dresses for a dance or other shivoo,
mother hooks her frock while housemaid Lena
buttons her slippers, and Sister-16-not-out grovels
for lost gloves among a heap of discarded finery
on the bed. Then she is kissed and bundled into
something soft and silky and wrappy, and is hung
on her brother’s arm. Her round-eyed amaze-
ment when she discovered that one chorus
dresser did for twenty or so girls, was
pathetic. “ I had never worn tights in my life,”
moaned one; “and all those strappy things to
keep your legs firm. How the (oh, well,
you’d say it too!) was Ito get them fixed ? The
dresser would rush past and say, ‘ Like that—and
that.’ Then she’d fly. Time flew. We were
more dead than alive —and in the rush we forgot
to powder our bare arms. They looked like raw
beef. One girl made up her eyes like an owl’s.
My ! we did have a time at curtain —but it all got
sorted out before the next act. Sing ! Why we
were frozen with horror and nervousness.”
“And,” murmured a turquoise Page, “it’s awful
to turn your back on the orchestra stnlls when
you’re wearing tights for the first time, and worse
still to face round in the march and see Johnnies
you tennis with staring at you for all they’re
worth. Then you know what an awful responsi-
bility your legs are.”
The success of “Romeo and Juliet” rose
triumphant over several minor disadvantages.
It was electrical, earthquaky weather—hot as
Hades ; all the doors in the theatre were closed
to keep out late-comers, and the very roof and
“waterfall” ventilators were sealed, because of
the extraneous noises. Then there was a strange
mingling of odors—the mingled scents of hundreds
of brands of powder; a big, soft, thick odor
which would have been a large cat if smells were
animals (I couldn’t give it a name, but it was
soft-footed and treacherous); and a sharp, keen
smell that may have been hair-oil (it is always
associated in my mind with German school-
lessons).
The Germans killed “Romeo and Juliet” by
s’nging it in English. When Juliet leaned yearn-
ingly over the balcony and sang “I loafe ze” to
a Romeo who had just impressively proclaimed,
“ It is ze Eeya3t, and Juliet is ze zun,” it was not
convincing, and we were done out of the blither-
ing sentiment of the tale of old Verona. The
dainty Juliet—Stoller —could say “Ichliebedich”
prettily, I guess, and the house would understand
what she meant—sure.
Saturday afternoon saw the first of the small
matinee-opera, “ Hansel and Gretel.” The house
was crowded with a host of critical Grown-ups—
scarcely a child in the crowd. There was any
amount of enthusiasm. The whole thing is
delicious —a fairy tale, a Grimm materialised,
one that every kiddie (or has-been kiddie) has
absorbed into the very web of imagination. It is
exquisitely mounted and the music wraps it round
softly.
There was the same gay, sociable air about
the dress circle that has characterised all this
company’s houses. Entr’actes were just excuses
forthejoll st afternoon-tea time in the winter
garden. 1 ~e “ Parsifal ” folk were boxed with
the Norman Menzies. Big, fair American “Elsa”
Anderson, -with a large party of satellites,
enjoyed the play-day immensely. The two
pretty Pinschof girls, in their prettiest frocks,
remembered the time when they made a very
good amateur attempt at “Hansel and Gretel”
their own fair selves.
Miss Myrtle Meggy, a New South Wales
pianiste, and Miss Gwen Pelly, an Adelaide
girl who won the Elder scholarship in the pious
capital a year or two ago, have been favorably
press-noticed for their recitals in the Beclistein
Hall, London. Meggy and Pelly ! The droll
combination of names gives a certain power of
attraction to the advt.
I happened lately on someone who employed
Miles Franklyn (unawares) as housemaid for six
weeks, in the days when that young lady posed as
Merely Kitchen Ann. She never had such a
treasure. The authoress of “My Brilliant
Career” always looked fit, and did everything
briskly and nattily. In these times of dunder-
headed maidens, the enamored mistress thought
her millennium had come. Then urgent private
business demanded the girl’s return. She was
implored to stay—offered double wages and per-
mission to have followers in the scullery—but the
treasure departed. When her identity was re-
vealed the weary missus expressed a wish that all
literary women would take a fancy to go Mary
Anning.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
f " n the Premises by Competent Men.
LO..EST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, BpC. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
m
[wm
GrO TO ZXSLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought Prioe Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.—
h fgh
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER
Surgical Instrument
> Makers,
281 George St. , Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
As a result of the proposed tariff reform
in the direction of effective Protection, Nestles,
the condensed milk people, have decided to
build factories in Australia. So the good work
goes on.
Be the happy union of Waddell and
Carruthers. “ Party Government,” saysGoldwin
Smith, “is everywhere tending, by profligate
bidding of parties against each other, and by pro-
fligate accommodations for mutual advantage, to
revolution, perhaps to anarchy.”
There are still believers in the public
debate. Scott Bennett, whose “advanced”
views led him to refrain at the recent elections
from contesting the Ballarat seat in Vic.
Assembly, is one of them. At Melbourne’s Zion
Hall, or Guildhall, or Hibernian Hall (the many-
named edifice which used to be tenanted by
Howie’s disciples), he was recently billed to deny,
against F. Shelmerdine’s affirmation—
That Tom Mann’s and Victorian Socialists’propaganda
will not bring Socialism, because of insufficient moral
basis, and is leading to bloody revolution.
Mr. Bennett is right. Tom Mann couldn’t lead
to blanky revolution. There is too much water
in ; his beer.
THE SUEZ CANAL: THE TOLL-BAR OF
THE WORLD'S HIGHWAY.
The Canal is a monopoly. Shipping firms must either
use it as a short cut, and pay what is asked, or take the
alternative. Here, in this Suez Canal business, we have
an example of the manner in which Great Britain knows
how to fleece all those who deal with her, and more
especiallj’ her colonies. Freetrade proclaims its mission
to be the removal of all shackles from trade. Yet here
is an instance in which it boasts of the right, because it
has the power, to levy a tax of 28 per cent., by way of a
trade toll, upon all who use its highway.— Daily Paper.
Bob Philp’s poll-tax will be remembered
as long in Bananaland as his deficits. When
Morgan took office he proceeded to exempt from
income-tax the people who had little or no income,
and the heartless Philp vigorously defended his
impost of 10s. per head, which he declared to be
the redeeming feature of the Act. The same
Philp, now grasping after office, is in favor of
everything under the sun, and will agree to £2OO
exemption. Further, he will probably agree to
the abolition of all taxation, if he can thereby get
back to the Treasury benches.
“ Moiniugfcon ” : The rural elector, alias
the cocky, was a grossly ill-used per-
son in December last (vide the
Conservative papers), and
his frantic desire to re-
cord his vote was frus-
trated by a tyrannical
Commonwealth Go-
vernment, which
held the Federal
elections on cocky’s
busy day. On March
15 (State election
day in Vic.) I met
four of the genus, on
my way to a polling-
place. None of them
seemed unduly rushed
with work, and they
were all holding up
fences as a staple in-
No. l’s in-
terest in politics may
be gathered from his
share in the conversa-
tion : “What’s the votin’
for? Who’s puttin’ up?
I didn’t know there was
any election.” Nos. 2 and
3 (father and son) “didn’t
know to-day was votin’ day,”
and didn’t think it was worth
while going in. No. 4, an an-
cient, was going to vote, but reckoned
it was a waste of time on tny part,
as 1 wouldn't be on the roll, having
no property in the district. The
proportion of electors who voted in
this beautiful constituency was 44
per cent, of those on the roll.
Noumea is the latest country
to join in the world-wide growl
against the invading Japanese. By
the terms of their agreement, the
horde of low-wage Jap. coolie
“miners’’ obtain all their supplies
from Japan, and the white trader
doesn’t profit a centime by their pre-
sence in the island. The last batch
of Monkey to arrive consists of
artisans engineers, carpenters, /
boat-builders, shipwrights,&c. They
have boosted the white artisan out of
his job; the white trader has lost the
white artisan’s business, and he doesn’t get that
of the Monkey artisan, and both white artisan
and trader are talking some very plain French
concerning the position.
N.S.W. State Insect Carruthers demands
that the Commonwealth should do nothing to
encourage immigration, but should “leave it to
the Mates.” “If a man has a house,” says
Joseph, "he prefers to select his own visitors,
and the N.S.W. Government is similarly placed.”
Well, Australia has a house, and it prefers to
select its own visitors rather than leave the
matter to the man who merely occupies a room in
the house. In any case, the Australian Consti-
tution says clearly that immigration is a Federal
matter, and acting-Prime Minister Forrest should
have reminded Joseph of this, when that cheeky
public microbe put in his cheeky little claim.
Bouchard, one of the four Queensland
Liberals who ratted to the Philp party, is
already reaping the reward* of’ his
perfidy. He represents South Brisbane.
A combined Liberal and Labor vote
put him and Labor member Reinhold
in last election. This time Philp
nominates him for South Brisbane.
But last election he mortally offended
the Tory crowd by defeating its pet,
“ Willie ” Stephens ; so it was decided
that a plebiscite of the National Liberal
Union—which calls itself Liberal to
disguise its incurable Toryism—should
be taken for the selection of two candi-
dates. The men’s branch of the Union
was dead, so a plebiscite of the hen
branch was taken, and a number of
roosters voted with the hens. Stephens
and Davies were selected. The Labor
party, of course, has nothing to do with
Bouchard. He has left the Kidston
party. The Philp party refuses to re-
cognise him, despite Philp’s endorse-
ment. So he will run alone, as the
political leper candidate whom every-
body rejects,
Secesh is again in the air, accord-
ing to the Sydney papers, on account
of the intention of the Minister in
charge of the Meteorological Depart-
ment to have the administration of
the Department done in Melbourne.
But when Carruthers acquires some
manners, the question of the Austra-
lian capital will be speedily settled,
and the whole of the Federal Depart-
ments will for ever repose on Ma State’s
own bosom.
Despite the instructions of the Sydney
Telegraph, Joseph Carruthers blew very cold on
the proposal made by a deputation of importers
that an international exhibition should be held in
Sydney. The Telegraph reminded Joseph that
when he was a member of the Reid Government
a similar wild cat show was once made a part of
the Government’s programme. Carruthers was
vague and non-committal, and didn’t seem able to
remember Reid, though he appeared to think he
had heard the name somewhere. That exhibition
of foreign goods may now be regarded as a
scratched horse.
The Federal Customs authorities have
stopped, as an undesirable immigrant, and by a
judicious application of the E lucation Test, a
person of that strange, hairy, greasy-looking tribe
which comes from Western Asia—the Rev. Goliath
Joseph by name. The Rev. Goliath is an
Armenian, and purports to be an Anglican mis-
sionary of sorts. Australia has enjoyed the visits
of a number of reverend men of the Goliath
Joseph type. It found them large, stout, and
fleshy, oily of skin, sidelong of eye, bushy and
black of beard, insidious of speech, armed with
soiled-looking testimonials from Patriarchs and
Archimandrites, and most persistent applicants
for funds to aid alleged cathedrals in Mesopota-
mia, or Parthia, or Khem, or some place. And
as Australia was feeling a little tired, it asked
the Rev. Goliath Joseph to write 50 words in broad
Scotch or Bulgarian or something like that, and
shut him out when he failed.
SORDID.
“Are you interested in motoring, Mr. Hudibras? ”
“ Certainly. We're in the rubber tyre business,
you know.”
Queensland Teachers’ Association saw
Education Minister Barlow, the other day, and
urged the raising ot the age at which children
may leave school from 12 to 14. The Minister
was sympathetic. Now the mean cookies rage
through the land and allege that if they can’t
start to sweat their children at 12 it will mean
ruin. And that is “ the backbone of the country ”
in the opinion of the Tory press !
Admiral Fawkes may be a very excellent
sailor-man and a dead shot with an 80-ton gun,
but when he ventures into economics he is a
failure. In an endeavor to justify the naval
tribute toFather Bull’s cardboard squadron, he told
a Tasmanian audience that last year the fleet had
spent at Sydney about £93,000, nearly the whole
going in payment for Australian material. Also,
he said that £25,000 was paid for coal, and the
£150,000 paid in wages was mostly spent in Aus-
tralia. Admiral Fawkes’ inference was that
Australia had a very good bargain ; it paid out
£200,000 and got back £268,000. The eminent
economist in the conning-tower actually over-
looked the fact that he got value for the money
expended. When he pays Australia one “quid ”
for coal he thinks he made Australia a present of
the “ quid ’’ and forgets all about the coal.
With what gross ignorance London papers
speak of Australian politics ! London Outlook
gives this cocksure summary of Watson’s Federal
land-tax proposals
The first step proposed is to break up estates of 5000
acres and over by tlie imposition of a tax that will com-
pel owners to surrender. It seems quite unnecessary
generosity on the part, of the Socialists to draw the line
at so high a figure, or, indeed, at any at all ; bur, it is
calculated that this limitation, for the time being, will
confine the number of owners affected to about 750,
whereas, below it, individual proprietors increase very
rapidly.
And these tommy-rotic figures were probably
supplied by some exiled Australian Stinking Fish,
who poses in London as an authority on Common-
wealth politics.
The Victorian farmer, who a while ago was
reported to be going over bodily to anti-Sosh, if
he wasn’t there already, has just been agitating
for more State Socialism, and has got it. He
found that his returns for the cream which he
sends to tlie city butter factories, instead of to his
local co-operative concern, were getting smaller
and smaller. The quantity could not be manipu-
lated, but the “ tests” could ; so Minister Swin-
burne has, at the farmers’ request, appointed an
expert to test cream as it arrives at railway
stations, when and wherever he thinks fit, and
the results are to be forwarded to the farmer to
compare with the factory’s test. The Private
Enterprise factories immediately asked that
copies of these test results should be sent to them
also ; but Swinburne (who wasn’t born less than
46 years ago) smiled sweetly, and said “No.”
“ Priam ” on the same old topic :
How Victoria houses its State-school teachers (salaries
for head-mistresses and masters from 30s. a week up-
wards) is shown by a departmental report. Of 1194 resi-
dences, 799 are attached to the School. Pleasant for the
teacher’s wife to settle the population problem while
the kids are shouting “ seven-times-seven ” the other
side of a wooden partition. Of the 1194 residences, seven
have one room (those seven might well be dynamited
for a start, anyhow), 439 have two rooms, *164 have
three rooms, 409 have four rooms, and only 175 have
more than four rooms. The two and tbree-roomed
houses are mostly built on the lean-to principle. In
the majority of cases, no bathrooms, pantries, or cup-
boards are provided. The teacher’s wife is expected to
keep her pretty things—bought out of the 30s. a week—
under the bed, and the food in a band-box. In the same
newspaper issue which prints this report, the Brunswick
(Melb.) Council complains that its central school build-
ings are insanitary, dirty, dilapidated, and a death-trap
in case of fire. About the best thing that could happen
to Victoria would be to have three-fourths of its school
buildings burned down. Failing that, Health Minister
Cameron might close up Education Minister Sachse’s
schools as unfit for habitation, and stop all education
until Finance Minister Bent found enougli money to re-
build the inadequate, ill-lighted, ill-ventilated, unsewered
shanties.
The Sydney importers, who already had a
grudge against Joseph Carruthers for buying 4000
miles of wire netting in England and distributing
it to settlers less the importers’ profits, have dis-
covered a new outrage. They now declare that,
instead of the netting going into the hands of
struggling coclcies on a system of long-deferred
payments—a class of business the importer is
never very keen on—most of it was disposed of to
wealthy squatters for cash. The tremendous
falling off in trade that has resulted is causing the
importing people to squeal like a small hog under
a gate. If tin's is Anti-Sosh, what on earth, they
ask, is Sosh like ?
The Home Affairs Department is now
getting under way with a new map of Australia,
and has already bumped up against the name
difficulty. Not only have some places more than one
name, but more than one place in the same State
has the time name. One N.S.W. Government
department still boasts of its officer who was sent
to Woodstock down Shoalhaven way, and pulled
up, a blaspheming and exasperated man, at Wood-
stock on the Blayney line. Also dozens of places
have names so much alike that mistakes are
common, and even when a name is fixed, the
public, the press, the Railways, the Lands, the
Mines, and all other persons interested, at once
Set to work to see how many different ways it can
be spelled. A committee was once appointed to
straighten out the N.S.W. tangle, but it retired
n disorder, utterly defeated.
“ Y.” writes
Now I know how to be a successful politician. I
watched one of them—an auctioneer, with a shiny hat
and a shinier smile —toting the Governor round an
agricultural show in his constituency. The auctioneer’s
eyes looked as though he were casting them round for
bit’ - . But he wasn’t. While he got the Ex.’s glance
fixed on the prize potato of the district, he would leap
two paefes aside, grab a constituent (male or female) b.v
the sleeve, and drag the sleeve forward to shake the
gubernatorial hand. The rustics shook, gaped, gulped,
and fell backward, red and happy. The long-limbed,
long-nosed Ex. began to look alarmed ; the A.D.O. slid
away and hid himself among the cabbage exhibit; but
the perspiring auctioneer continued to leap two paces
aside and ceased not. When the constituent was too far
away to be seized by the coat-tails, the auctioneer
whistled, and beckoned with his forefinger. He must
have regretted not having a sheep-dog to round them up.
Finally, the M.L.A. told the local reporter to float round
the refreshment-booth and pick up any stray constituents
who had fallen over the bar. Then his Ex. grew pink,
and said he would like to sit down and rest in the secre-
tary’s office. The local postmaster, who is also registrar
of births and deaths (and therefore a statistician), calcu-
lated that the viceroy in half-an-hour shook hands
with 147 men, 3C3 women, 89 babies, and a dog which
happened to slide its tail into the politician’s grasp at an
unusually busy moment.
This “ new-fangled ” Socialism that so
worries the people who like to be thought to
belong to the “good old Conservative school,”
really has white hairs in its whiskers. Just 50
years ago these good old Conservatives of S. Aus-
tralia hoorayed because
the State had put up
and started to run a
quartz-crushing plant
—the first in the pro-
vince. It was attached
to a sawmill in East
Adelaide.
QUITE A MISTAKE.
In an interview with George Read he stated that lie
would probably accept Billington’s challenge next week.
He has not been in salt water for some time. —New
Item.
Owing to the similarity of names, toe were under
the impression that the above gentleman was re-
ferred to.
S.M. Herald (3/4/’O7) owns up :
The caucus is a deep mystery. The caucus of the un
pledged members—of the Progressives and the Liberals—
is not associated with such deep-laid schemes as those
which form a necessary and vital part of the Labor party.
If a member does not agree with his leader, or with the
majority of his party, he is free as the air he breathes to
vote as "he likes — and take the consequences. It is the
privilege of the Progressive and the Liberal to do that.
Sometime he does it, and for a brief space holds his head
high, and assumes an air of defiance, but he generally
finds his way back into the fold —and the caucus.
In other words, the alleged unpledged member is
so bound by the caucus that he just has to do what
the caucus tells him, or, as the Herald signi-
ficantly puts it, take the consequences. Having
admitted so much, the Herald should now cease
cursing the “ hide-bound ” Labor caucus.
Whether or not astrology claims to be an exact
science, it has certainly won the attention of many
eminent men. Its value, however, as an aid to knowledge
or achievement, can only be proved by personal investi-
gation. And Mr. Herschell, Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria,
makes investigation easy and attractive by offering to
send a test horoscope to any enquirer for a shilling.*
BARDS O' BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bards o’ beer ! Bards o’ beer !
How you mutter, growl, and sneer
In your fourth-rate public-houses where the greasy
pewters leer !
heave your haunts of sodden soaking,
Oease your dreary, useless croaking,
And do something for Australia /
Bards o’ beer !
Bards o’ beer ! Bards o’ beer !
List a while and you will hear
A sound that comes from Northwards that will fill your
hearts with fear ;
You will hear the distant humming
Of the yellow hordes’ deep drumming,
As they turn their slit-eyes Southward,
Bards o’ beer !
Bards o’ beer I Bards o’ beer !
Shed no more the malted tear !
Use your pens to help Australia in her National Career !
Cease your dreary, beery rhymes,
Keep yourselves up with the times,
A nd do something for Australia !
Bards o’ beer !
vie.
BURNETT GRAY.


THE CALLAGHAN
“ECONOMV”
Gentlemen’s “ Economy ’’ French Calf Lace Boot,
pointed, medium, or broad toes
Delivered Post and Duty Free to any address in the Com-
monwealth upon receipt of .. .. .. M
Or in Tan Willow Calf, 18/6 ; Post and Duty Free, 19/6.
16 6
17/6
If your feet become sc
out very quickly it is, of corn
found in every pair of Boots
Order a pair to-day,
money enables you to see
CALLAGHAN
're, it is usually from your Boots not fitting’ properly. If your Boots wear
sel] aUSe Ua ity of mater ' a l lacking. Comfort and long wear will be
remembering that our system of exchanging goods or returnina
i and try on the Boots, without any risk to yourself, State size. '*
& SON, 395 George Street, Sydney.
Please Remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.
P A
n.
'll
*r3
<C>h
ER
>o.l*
>^Ayy
PA WATtR)
* plat 3Pftilw>*
(5 v r
*3
/LAND^
OURN6 1 *>
—4
5/^c
The MODERN
HOSTESS, >#
“I give you ‘KOOMAH
SPA'! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral I
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
MALTHOID
MINERAL ROOFING.
"If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurnlius.
KIND OF A ROOF that the amateur whose taste lies in building
his own little summer-house, shed, or a camping humpy, is the one
A BOY CAN PU-L ON, because it is light, easy to manipulate, and satis-
factory in every way, being sun, wind and weather proof.
BOOKLET, GIVING FULL INFORMATION', POST FREE.
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & 00.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & 00.
JAMES SANDY & 00.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
YOUR RAZOR.
You want your Razor to glide smoothly over your
face—to cut clean and keep right on doing it. The
Razor that docs it best is THE PLUM—every time.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Tears.
the PLUM RAZOR. Price, 10/6
Post Free Anywhere.
"HARNESS THE WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming
implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S «S>
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of ....
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Ciarenoe St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
If
PRICE 27/6
AT LAST!!
Standard Typewriter » t a
s •
n
M
ss»
THE
BRITON
Reasonable Price.
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful M n folder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
i.iesame period as my
other High-Grade Machine
Our 11 Olreot Drive” Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
(KEY)
Is an exclusive patent and saves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
e leceived on even terms of dignity with any the postman carries.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
m a week without an instructor.
Write To-day
for particulars of our Free Trial
offer. All our literature Is Free.
Southern Sales Coy
6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GREY ST.j WELLINGTON, N.Z.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Gup, the Gar-
land Oup, “ Mota ’’ Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and," First in Glass A, First in Class B, First in
Glass O. Also i Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents; Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Importers:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 13 Mouatt 8t„ Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A. J.C.’s Autumn meeting at Randwick broke
several records. First its attendance of 100,000 for the
four days is said to be the record ; the perfection of the
weather is stated to have been beyond anything pre-
viously experienced; no meeting never succeeded in
killing 60 per cent, of the horses in one race before ;
and it is said that the public experienced worse luck
this time than at any other period in the life-time of
the present generation. People who went down told the
writer so, and they ought to know.
• • • •
The victory of Realm in the Sydney Cup
silenced a lot of people who had declared that the
ex-hurdle racer won the Australian Cup by a fluke.
Realm is evidently a good horse over any distance, from
mile upwards, and with a light burden on his back,
he can make his way through a Cup field, whilst the
heavier-weighted “ cracks ” are getting shut out, or shut
in, or shut up. He isn’t the absolutely fastest racer that
ever took first-class honors in a jumping race. Malua
holds the record for mixing it, seeing that he had won a
Newmarket, a Melbourne Cup, and an Australian Cup
some years before he came along again and captured the
Grand National Hurdle Race at Flemington. But in
winning two Cups after scoring brilliantly as a hurdle
racer, Realm has already gone one better than Marmont,
and he is not yet too old for improvement.
• * * *
There was nothing startling about the last day
of the A.J.O. meeting but its death-roll, its crooked
riding, and the surprising way in which the rank out-
sider, Fez (late Sunbeam), ran through the field and
led from almost start to finish in the Final Handi-
cap. Charles Baldwin, the owner, and jockey Perry,
rider of Maximize in the Final Handicap, were promptly
carpeted by the stewards and suspended for two years ;
and jockey Callinan, who rode Legion in the Place and
La Veille in the Final Handicap, was considered by the
stewards an unsatisfactory horse-navigator, and given
three months’ rest in which to brush up bis book-learning
of the art.
The big event of the day—the A.J.O. Plate—
was contested by only four starters. Poseidon was with-
drawn, his name having changed to Mud after his debacle
in the Cumberland Stakes on the previous Wednesday,
when, with Bst. 21b. up, he was beaten by two lengths
by Dividend, who humped 9st. 41b. The race was such
a foregone conclusion that Christian Moses laid 5 to 2
on Dividend, and 5, 7 and 10 to 1 against Proceed,
Blue Spec and Proceedor, in that order. It wasn’t a
race, but a procession. Only once did Proceedor run tap
to Dividend, and that black horse looked round con-
temptuously, sniffed, and once more drew away. He
won by a length, with Proceed second, Proceedor another
length away third, and Blue Spec a bad last, in smin.
34sec. The record for the race was put up by Emir in
1905, when he cut out the distance in smin. 24Jsec.
Of the 31 listed for the lJrmile Place Handicap
only nine came to the starting post. Sydney Cup winner
Realm humped top weight (LOst.), and the most of the
public money at seven to two against. Florance, the
colt that made such a startling run into third place in the
Sydney Cup, shared the weight of money with him at
the same figure. Unfortunately the chestnut colt
dropped his rider going out of the straight, and left his
status somewhat a mystery. Melodrama and Lord
Fitzroy made the running between them. Although
Comely came with a great rush at the finish, the Lord
managed to stall him off, and won by half-a-length in
2min. 37£sec.
The disastrous race of the day was the Second
Steeplechase, and of the five that went out for the event,
only two came home. Karamba, with 11 stone up, was
favorite at six to four against. Ex-Maorilander Rongoa
carried lOst. 21b., and a fair portion of the punters’ coin
at five to two against. Sultana and Auriculum, with list,
and lOst respectively, were bracketed in the betting at
five to one against. Rongoa came down at the logs,
breaking his leg. He was destroyed. Karamba fell at
the fence at the top of the hill, and broke his back.
Auriculum toppled over the post and rails at the six-
furlongs post, and broke his neck. Marjorie, who was
ridden by her owner at 51b. overweight, was quite ex-
hausted and practically dropped out, so Sultana toddled
on to the post and won by something more than a fur-
long. And they called it sport.
» * * * *
“H.GL”: What is the meaning of Karamba,
the name of the nag that carried off the A.J.C. Steeple?
“ Caramba,” the most common expletive among Spanish
races, has a particularly awful literal meaning; hut as
Spanish profanity consists largely of subjects which
should not be discussed in a mixed assemblage, it has
grown so common that, in the course of centuries, its
original indecency has been forgotten. All the same, the
priesthood in Spanish countries frown on the use of
“Caramba ! ” and seventy years ago, in Venezuela, they
imposed a fine of 6d. for every time it was used. With
the sixpences the biggest church in Caracas was erected,
and to this day it is known as “ the church of the Sacred
Caramba,” which is suggestive of “ St. Blanky’s Cathe-
dral ” —only worse.
* • * •
Of the £17,596 distributed by the A.J.O. at its
Autumn meeting at Randwick (Syd.) the lion’s share
went to K. S. McLeod, who took £2760 ; J. B. Whitehead,
whose pockets are bulging with £1979 ; J. Brennan, who
put £1525 in his safe ; and C. L. Macdonald, the appro-
priator of a measly £1278. Paddy Crick got away with
only £2OO, and the small boys out Randwick way, where
every brief boy is his friend, were in tears over his hard
luck.
• • * *
The fact that steeplechase accidents are un-
pleasantly frequent on the Randwick course has been
remarked upon before, but last Saturday’s sensation,
when three out of five starters came to an untimely end,
has suggested to even a thoughtless public that there is
something wrong about either the obstacles or the
position in which they are placed. The matter should
be inquired into, and if the A.J.C. Committee will not
take any action it is up to the owners of valuable blood
stock to take some steps to protect the lives of then-
employees and horses.
• * » *
The daily press notices of the recent meeting at
Randwick emphasised the smooth running of the business
under the splendid management of secretary Clibborn.
The same sort of notice has appeared in exactly the same
sort of manner year in year out. In some respects the
management of the show was simply hideous. When
Karamba came down on the top of the hill and broke his
back, the dead horse and the insensible rider lay
quite a long time unattended. The first help
came from some men who were watching the
passing gallop from the public road beyond, and
they climbed the fence and did what they could for the
unfortunate Montgomery. After a long interval the
ambulance came along, and the rest was easy. One
would have thought that the mind capable of the splendid
management, and all the rest of it, would have had some-
one capable cf rendering first aid stationed at danger
spots, such as a jump at the top of a hill, where the
chances are all in favor of some exhausted horse coming
a cropper. In this paper’s opinion, the neglect of this
important part of the business is darned bad manage-
ment, and completely neutralises the smoothness with
which the supply of oysters came to hand in the refresh-
ment room.
• * • •*
Onkaparinga Racing Club, which holds one day’s
horse per annum on its track in the hills behind Adelaide,
gave £2250 in stakes on Easter Monday, put nearly
£20,000 through the totalisator, and bad a crowd esti-
mated at 25,000. The £9OO steeplechase was won by the
Victorian Napier, starting with odds laid on him. The
Onkaparinga Cup caused a sensation, which is still
humming. At a first false start, all the horses but three
ran out the whole 11 furlongs, and were mostly unfit to
go back to the post. The favorite, which had been left
behind, had things all his own way in the race proper, and
the owner of the first “ winner” talked loudly of legal
proceedings.
* * • *
The closing of Wren’s tote has had a very
appreciable effect on Victorian railway returns on race
days. The sports who used to hang round the tote and
its branches, enjoying the sport of kings and other bad
characters per telephone, now go to the course to put
their bit on, with the result that Easter Monday race-
traffic to William itown jumped from £470 in 1906 to £994
this year. And the department has scored increased
profits on every event since J. Wren was shut up as a
tote promoter.
■* * * *
North-Western Queensland takes its goat race
very serious'y. One owner out Cloncurry way lately sent
a pair to ra-;e at a centre 60 miles distant; but the local
paper explains that the jockey got drunk, wherefore the
“dark "goats never left the stable.
* * * •
The ill-luck that hung over Rand wick race-
course on Saturday shifted to the vicinity of Bondi
beach on Sunday afternoon. Saturday saw dead horses,
Sund ty claimed drowned boatmen. There were nine
men in a sailing boat, fishing, and at the first mutter of
the thunder, and the sudden scream of wind that whipped
the ocean to foam all in a moment, the word was passed
to lower the sails. The 60-mile-an-hour gale struck them
in the act, and fairly lifting the boat out of the water,
burled it down on its side, poured mountains of water
over it, and washed the struggling crew right out of the
craft. Harry Jackson, fresh from a life-and-death battle
with plague in the Coast Hospital, sank at once. The
others managed to swim till the boat re-appeared, float-
ing bottom upwards, and they struck out for it in the
hope of floating with it till assistance came. The boat rolled
horribly, and it was then the grit of the native Australian
came out. Merriman, senior, climbed on to the boat,
and gripping the sides with his legs till both skin and
flesh were rasped off, held a hand on either side to two
companions, while his 16-year-old son, when great waves
struck the boat and threatened to roll it right over, dived
underneath, and hanging on to the mast, acted as a keel
and kept the vessel upright. All around the Tasman Sea
howled and boiled and lashed, rolling clean over them.
The plucky boy offered to swim ashore—a distance of
three miles—and bring assistance, but his father shouted
to him to stay where he was. He stayed and went oh
keeping the overturned boat balanced. In spite of their
efforts one of the men who was clinging was carried away,
and after battling with the waves for half an hour became
exhausted and sank. The seven survivors were picked up
by the pilot steamer Captain Cook.
* * * *
Sydney sailing season came to a fine spectacular
end in a spanking nor’-easter on Saturday last. It was
the last day of Sydney Sailing Club, and no less than
20 boats started—a fine sight. They all sailed well too,
and the race was half over before any of them had
lost all hope of winning. Eight rounded the Light-
ship practically in a bunch. On the run to Shark
Island the water was blotted out by the gorgeous spread
of extras under which the boats romped along. Arawa
rounded first, with Gladwin’s bumpkin right under its
stern, and the leader falling off, or Gladwin suddenly
spurting, Arawa was rolled right over, and precipitated
its crew into the wet substance. At Clark Island, Zena
was in the lead, and Gladwin, Evelyn, Viking, Crescent,
Stella, Maritana, Mona, and Vera all came crowding on
top of one another in a marvellous fashion. Mona and
Evelyn went to the front. At the finish the prize was to
the man who could clap on his extras quickest,
and Zena’s crew did the trick, and sprang across the line
ahead of Mona by about two feet. Yet it is doubtful if Zena
would have won had not Maritana suddenly swept across
Mona’s stern and taken the wind out of its sails. The
impetus carried Mona across the line, but it secured
second place by inches only from the rushing Maritana.
* ♦ * *
Among the open boats Australian leads easily
on the season’s work, having been first nine times, second
thrice,andsecuredfourthirdsandone fourth. Prize money
is said to be about £6B. Nearest rival is Donnelly, with
three firsts, five seconds, four thirds, and one fourth,and
about £34 earnings. Mona and Zena are close up with
£33 and £32 respectively ; and after that they tail away
to Federal, which whips them all in with one third place
and one solitary lone, desolate, marooned Robinson
Crusoe of a “ quid ” of prize money.
* * » •
The Yankee claim to the fastest motor-boat in
the world, since the Dixie got over the mile in
2min. 21 3-10 sec. at the recent Florida motor-boat
regatta, is likely to be upset at the meeting now in
progress at Monte Carlo, on the Mediterranean, with the
pick of European boats competing. This is the first time
that the hydroplane has been represented at the Monte
Carlo gathering, and it was intimated that there would
be several of them present. About the fastest of
these weird craft is the Obus Nautilus, an indescrib-
able flying ark, which appears to consist mostly
of two floats hinged together, with an engine (56 h.p.)
in the front one, and the navigator in the back one.
This thing is said to have streaked alongon a private trial
trip at the amazing rate of over 40 miles an hour. The
whole contrivance is 25ft. long, and driven by a three-
bladed 18in. propeller under the rear float. Another
amazing craft that was to have competed is cigar-shaped,
fitted with side floats, and dragged through the air by
a huge £ero-propeller. But as hydroplanes are smooth-
water craft, and there is generally a jobble in Monaco
Bay, in all probability most of them will be non-starters.
* * * *
Sydney Motor Boat Club will shortly hold a
championship meeting, which should supply good sport.
Arthur Davies has been trying his new Fairbanks boat
with a variety of propellers, and he got one which walked
the craft through the water at 22 miles an hour. The
boat has now been sent to have the water surfaces
polished up with a patent composition. Charles Relph
will rely upon the good old system of black-leading the
bottom, and when they meet there will be a fine race.
Papa Relph has got his new Van Auken boat afloat, and
the engine is said to work beautifully ; but, as some
details have to be attended to, the new type of engine wid
not make its public appearance till the end of thiS week or
the beginning of next. Local motor-boatmen are under-
stood to be sceptical about the double-pistoned engine ;
but Mr. Relph is confident.
• * • •
There was wild excitement at Wirth Brothers’
Circus, on Monday night last, when Mrs. Stace, on Lady
Morton, broke her own and Mrs. Elliot’s record jump of
6ft. 3in. (made at Sydney Show Ground), by taking the
beautiful black mare over 6ft. 4in. in great style. The
lady is a magnificent rider, and, although the off-take
was heavy—Wirths’ high-jumpers have been cutting it
up for a fortnight—she flew it like a bird. There
is no doubt about the height; the measuring
was done by Mr. Somers, of the Sydney Show,
and writer also stretched a tape over it with his own
long white aristocratic paws The Lady baulked several
times, but Mrs. Stace put hei at it again and again till
she did the deed. Talk aboumoter-cars and all the
rest of it, but a pretty, well-dreiscd woman on a fine horse
is the ideal mode of locomotion from a spectacular point
of view. One explanation of the improvement in the
jumping at the Sydney She"' this year is that the heavy
rains had hardened the sandy So ' and made an ideal take-
off of what is usually' much too eo.'t and shifty a soil for
good jumping. The unreliabi.u "f Sydney soil is the
reason why the N.S.W. record i.V iu; ovs put up outside
Sydney.
• • * *
What may be the final round of b/dney First
Grade Cricket commenced on Saturday last,a id will con- ■
elude day after to-morrow. Just at present cricket is
divided against itself: the law is that there should be
another round, but the season is far gone, and a large
portion of the players are in favor of ending it the coming
Saturday, especially those who have no hope of improv-
ing their position. As matters stand, Paddington is
almost sure to win. A match with Gordon is in pro-
gress, and the latter, playing two men short, lost
all its wickets for 116. Paddington has so far dropped
only five for 162 ; and, if the competition ends on Satur-
day, Paddy will be premiers for this present year of grace.
Although the weather was cool, the light splendid, and
everything in the garden absolutely lovely, the men who
battered with the bat did not crack the blue overhead.
Charlie Gregory, of Waverley, was the only bats-
man to attain the dignity of a century, and he
hoarded up 103 against North Sydney’s duck-
ghed before Duff got him off M’Phillamy. The next
best champion behind the bat was Gallagher, of
Glebe, who scored 92, and then fell to Grant. A. J.
Bowden, also of Glebe, had made 75 when Norris knocked
his wicket down. Among the bowlers, Dowd, of Padding-
ton, was daddy, having got away with six Gordon
wickets for 50 runs. Deane, of Burwood, bagged four of
Balmain’s for 41), and Garnsey took another for 56.
M’Phillamy, of North Sydney, got three of Waverley’s
for 44, and after that the figures grow larger, but the
averages smaller and unworthy of mention in this valu-
able organ of public opinion.
• * * *
The tale is told in Maoriland that de Trafford,
captain of the “ Johnnie ” English cricketers, when toss-
ing for choice of innings, used to say, “ Er-ah head or
er-ah feet, er-er-ah, it’s a’fully wude to say Tail, er-ah, in
connection with His-er-Majesty the King, dontcher-
know, ah 1 ” Maoriland was only interested in “ Head.”
The other side was simply “ Damn,” or worse.
* * * *
The old trouble between the Vic. Football
League and the Vic. Football Association has broken out
again. The Ass. has a five-year agreement with S. Aus.
for inter-State matches ; but last November the League
took S.A., along with W.A., N.S.W. and Q., into the Aus-
tralian Football Council, and it is likely that when the
five years are up the strongest teams in all the States will
fight inter-State battles. That will leave the Vic. Ass. out
in the cold. Now, instead of trying to work with the
League and arrange a system whereby the best Ass. team
would go up to the League, and the worst League
eighteen drop down to the Ass., or something to
that intent, the fool Ass. ukases that its teams
must not even play practice matches with the
rascally League clubs. Last year’s Ass. premiers, West
Melbourne, were on the point of arranging four such
matches, and Richmond had already arranged to play
Geelong, Fitzroy, ’Wood, and Essendon, but the Ass.
ordered them to cancel the fixtures. As there is more
money in such matches than in any two ordinary Ass.
matches, Richmond kicked, but the Ass. cracked the
whip, and Richmond had to collapse. It is a scandal
that League and Ass. don’t come to terms. The League
monopolises the attendances, but it only has eight clubs,
and three of them are so bad they couldn’t get even a
“ place ” in the Association ; and when the premiership
is yearly restricted to five clubs, the skirmishes get
monotonous, and monotony kills any game. Geelong
wasn’t quite the worst of the League ciubs last season,
and Richmond wasn’t quite the best of the Association,
yet the latter beat the former, Saturday week, by 72
points to 47.
r • • * «
First-grade Rugby clubs in Sydney commenced
their preliminary matches on Saturday last. The general
bad quality of the play gave an impression that a
majority of the men are out of condition, and hive
indulged in little or no practice during the interval. The
kicking was specially deplorable. Too much time is lost
at the beginning of the. season getting into condition and
practice. The one bright exception was North Sydney.
The way the men handled the leather suggested that
they had been out in the early mornings doing a little
training under a competent instructor.
* • • •
The £s.d. of English football: Wolverhamp-
ton Wanderers, a team only in the Second Division of
the professional League (playing the “Soccer” game),
has refused an offer of £4OO for the transfer of its reserve
goalkeeper. As most matches are decided by a single
point one way or the other, a good “ keeper” is the most
valuable man on the side—and the regular occupant of
the position is always liable to be knocked out by the
charge of a bustling forward.
• * * •
Maoriland’s boss motor car is owned by George
Parker Donnelly', of Hawkes Bay. G.P.D. is the white
gentleman who attained much wealth and more fame by
marrying the rather dashing Maori chieftainess Arini,
who is alway'S spoken of as “ Princess” Arini Don-
nelly. She was a fine horsewoman, a brilliant conversa-
tionalist, and, like all Maoris, a monument of hospitality'.
It was always a point of honor to have the best saddle
horses in the stables at the Donnelly homestead, and, now
that the craze is automobiles, it’s safe betting that the
Princess will pour out gold like water to keep the family
reputation for having the best on top. The next man on
the list is William Henry Peter Barber, M.H.R. for New-
town (Wellington). He had the first car that ever left its
smell in the streets of Wellington, but much study of the
advertising pages of the magazines convinced him it was
but a poor thing after all. So he went one better. Then
a stranger arrived with a 1200-guinea hummer, guaranteed
to hold about 11 people besides the driver, and William
Henry P. became for the time being a demented man.
In a few weeks he recovered ; and Wellington learned the
fact by seeing him tootling round in that new car. But
his joy was short-lived, for the Donnellys brought out
their latest wonder. W. Henry Peter is said to have hied
him to Hawkes Bay, glanced at the new arrival, felt like
the baby does when the new baby arrives, and then spent
a lot of money on cables. The result of the cabling has
not yet come to hand ; but George Parker Donnelly’s
name is likely to change any moment to a word of one
syllable.
* * • *
Maoriland Amateur Athletic Association is
barking vigorously at the door of Parliament for a
subsidy to keep its financial head above water. The
Association whirls aloft the precedent that the Seddon
Government recognised the principle of subsioy to sport
when the “ All Black ” footballers were helped out of
Treasury funds for the onslaught on Great Britain ; and
also cackles horriblv because swimming receives financial
State assistance. The Maoriland Government has been a
very useful milch cow for clubs and associations in past
years ; but, though late in the day, there is dim hope that
State aid to sport is to be wiped out. A branch of
athletics which cannot exist without the Government
prop should be permitted to fall heavily.
Victorian cyclist H. J. Thomas, who has won
most of the big handicaps in Victoria during the present
season, pocketed the gilded Druids’ wheel race at Mel-
bourne last week from scratch. As showing how near
Thomas is to championship form, Australian _ cham-
pion George Farley barely put him under in the
half-mile championship of Australia and the five-mile
scratch at the Druids’ meeting. Thomas is likely to prove
a nut with a hard shell in Australian cycling if he doesn t
get smashed up on the track. N.S.W. champion O. H.
Brook downed Farley and Thomas in the three-mile
scratch event. These three riders were a long chalk
ahead of the other pedallers at the meeting.
The bowler is becoming an energetic sportsman
nowadays, and has taken to having the green lit up, so
that he may follow his wild and whirling pleasure in the
evenings as well as by day. In the days'a-rear, when the
game was supposed to be the pastime of superannuated
gentlemen with bow fronts, it was always played in the
daylight, but a new generation of bowlers has arisen—
city men who lead the strenuous life in their offices and
warehouses all day, and sigh for fresh air and recreation
in the evening. The Warringah (Mosman) Club led the
way, and the green was lit up with the Lux light, which
is a form of vaporised kerosene. The result is a beautiful,
steady, soft light that makes night bowling as easy as
that of noon. Waverley club has now followed suit, but
is using gas instead of the Lux light. Nearly all the
Sydney clubs sent teams to play Warringah on its own
green for the possession of the Denyer shield, given
by the president of the Mosman club for the team
that could score the highest number of points at night.
On Wednesday night last, Waverley Club, having got its
gaslight going, invited Warringah to come over. It
went, and after playing six rinks and 21 heads went home
beaten, minus the shield, but thoroughly contented with
a good night’s outing. Writer is giving up Rugby and
taking to bowls. One cannot play Rugby at night until
someone invents an incandescent ball and a luminoug
goal.
City bowlers (Sydney) are happy again. On the
Warringah green (Mosman), on Saturday, they defeated
Ohatswood very thoroughly, winning by 113 points to 65.
Another struggle will have to take place between these
two to see who is supreme in the section, although at
present City is in the better position, having won seven
and lost two, while Ohatswood has won six and lost three.
The other clubs in the section are Balmain, Strathfield
and Waverley ; they have each played eight matches, of
which they have won four, two, and two respectively, and,
of course, lost the others. The trouble about the
Pennant competition is that the struggle is far too pro-
longed. It started in January, and is apparently as far
off the final as ever. The beaten clubs should drop right
out; a larger element of sudden death would make the
struggle much more interesting.
• • • »
The Yankees are a curious crowd, and fickle as
the wind. A month ago Squires’ name was Sewage, or
something like that. Then Yankeedom heard that he
was on his way with $5OOO to post as a guarantee to fight
all comers, and now all sorts of fighters are represented
as being after that cash. Tommy Burns, who some day
hopes to fight James Jeffries, is said to be trying to get
out of his match with Jack O’Brien, that he may be free
to knock Squires into oblivion and bankruptcy. O’Brien
himself is quite willing ; and even the mighty Jeffries has
announced, through his manager, that he will meet this
Mr. Squires for a “ moderate purse.” Truly, his manager
maintained a dignified silence on how Mr. Jeffries pro-
posed to divide the coin. According to the N.Y. Pouch
Gazette, Jeffries is in need of money—must get it some-
where, anywhere; and will fight any decent slogger now
for what can be made out of it. So, unless he strikes
something harder than himself immediately he arrives.
Squires seems to have a good time ahead of him. The
hardest thing the foreign boxer strikes in the U.S.A. is
the referee. His wallop is a knock-out every time.
$ * * *
Yankee pug. Jack O’Brien is evidently a man
of parts. In addition to keeping himself in nick,
making his own matches, and generally managing
for himself, he has contrived, under the name
of John O’Hagen, Esq., to find time to take to
“literature.” He knows that he looms big in the public
eye, and has started to write his memoirs, and has en-
gaged a bull-faced Englishman named Forder as his
editor. Forder, like the O’Hagen-O’Brien, is out for the
dollars, and is going to serve out the sort of literature
that pays while it kills a man’s reputation, or all
hopes of acquiring one, as a writer. He mixes up ac-
counts of training and bashes on the nose with soulful
references to the sound of the wind in the grass, the
flash of opalescent sunsets, and the tender grace of the
day that is dead, and all the rest of it. Already orders
for the book are pouring in, and, apart from the personal
interest, the awful thing is assured of a mighty, booming
sale as a literary curiosity.
In Sydney one day last week an individual
ballasted with liquor met a hearse, and, with the
irresponsibility of beered persons, he solemnly
climbed up and directed the driver to make for a
certain destination. Amazing to relate, the
driver did so. He drove round town for quite a
while at the direction of the beered person.
Finally the passenger sacked him off the vehicle,
and spent an hour or two driving to various
police stations, and offering to bury any dead
bodies they had on hand. He did all this infinite
jest with impunity, and it was only when he
began to neglect the coffin vehicle while he
whooped things up in public houses that he was
arrested. Even then it only came to “ ss. or the
rising of the court.”
The church parade of the frillitary force,
at Queenscliff (Vic.) fort, on Easter Sunday, pro-
duced an amazing display of unconscious humor
by the officah in command. The gallant ofißcah
had seemingly scented an assertion of rival
authority in the text chosen for the chaplains
discourse, for when the holy man of war uttered
the quotation, “ Stand ye steadfast! ’’.the colonel,
who had previously risen to the occasion, shouted
his countermand, “ The troops will sit! ” After
which he resumed his seat with the air of a colonel
who had taken wise precautions to prevent a
general rising of the soldiery.
BILIOUSNESS.
Db. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS REACH THE
LIVER AS NO OTHER REMEDY DOES.
Biliousness by its terrible effect upon the spirits
and energy of its victim, is one of the most dis-
tressing of common ailments. Usually preceded
by irregularity of the bowels, it is followed by
severe headaches and dizziness and total inability
to do anything whatever. Many medicines are
simply purgatives operating on the bowels only,
and having no permanent effect. Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills act directly on the liver,
cleansing the bowels and restoring the system to
its proper condition. Here is proof of what we
“ I have great pleasure in stating that I owe
much to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” writes
Mrs. Thomas Cross, of West Moree. “Twelve
months ago I was suffering very acutely from
liver complaint and a very severe cold, which led
to bronchitis. I was also greatly troubled with
biliousness, which would bring on purging and
retching. At this time a friend of the family
hearing I was bad, recommended Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills. I procured a bottle and took
two pills regularly every night. Very soon l
noticed an improvement in my condition. J»y
cough became less troublesome and the phlegm
came away from the lungs, and breathing became
easier ; I could eat better, my appetite returned,
and I increased in weight. I completely re-
covered, and now enjoy good health, which i
attribute to the regular use of Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills.”


KUGELMANN’S
/ ' 4; >
*
&
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
AND at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
'!r
r
Test
the
Weight
when you are buying
a new bicycle and
when you are making
such test, ask your dealer
to show you a machine built of
Eadie Fittings.
Then compare its weight with that
of others and note the difference.
You will find it pounds lighter, yet
just as strong 1
That means enhanced speed, comfort
and enjoyment!
If you are interested write, to day, for
latest Rrt Catalogue. Dept a
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings
Collins St., MELBOURNE
WORKS : REDDITCH, ENG.
ON WHEELS.
THE pleasure of cycling and motoring
depends to a large extent upon freedom
from tyre troubles. Miraculum will ensure
this, and relieve you from puncture worry.
Miraculum seals punctures instantly, does not
lift sound patches, and does not affect pace. Do
not let trade prejudice blind you to the advan-
tages of Miraculum. Go and know for yourself.
MIRACULUM
preserves rubber, and when we sell a tube we
guarantee it against perishing. That’s fair,
isn’t it ? Bicycles, 4/- ; posted for two w'heels,
with injector tin, Victoria, 5/3 ; other States,
5/8. Motor Oars from 30/-.
Depots :
266 LATROBE STREET, MELBOURNE;
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY
SEALS PUNCTURES.
FITS CURED
From the first doss of Oaerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the Tory worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price w,b
and 11/e. Thousands of Testimonials. ___
OF AM. CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
WHOLSSALE AGENTS'.
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
■■■ WONDERFUL, VALUE ■■
Cheap Music.
M OkW
Full Music Size.
Pieces
»»
99
Well Printed on GaoJ Heavy Paper.
od. Post Free 25 Pieces
is. 3d; „ 50 ~
as. 3d. „ <OO ~
Sample, 4d., Post F ee.
... 4*. Post Fres
7*. „
... 13*. 9d. „
(An those Prices include Postage to any address in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand.)
892 After the bah waits
896 After the hall polka
909 After the ball lancers
911 After the ball quadrille
208 Arabian nights waltz. Strhuss
211 Agnes Sorel quadrille. Leduc
863 Beautiful Venice waltz
193 Bird waltz. Panormo
201 Birthday schottische. Coote
230 Blue Danube waltz. Strauss
231 Bruder lustig galop
397 Boat-race galop. Coote
514 Boston schottische
551 Andirondacks galop
747 Black hawk waltz
758 Birthday polka. Smallwood
763 Blue Bells polka. Gautier
772 Bogie man polka. Gautier
781 Bogie man waltz. Gautier
817 Barn dance. Gautier
2X2 Caledonians quadrille
964 Crystal waltz
378 Champagne galop
507 Centennial lancers
757 Charlotte polka. Smallwood
702 Clarice polka. Smallwood
786 Cinderella waltz. Ezra Read
803 Canary waltz
•26 Come along polka. Read
•53 Curly headed coons schottische
745 Doretta waltz
173 Doctnnen valse. Strauss
244 Dewdrop waltz. Kinkel
867 D.K.E. waltz
396 Doily Varden polka
852 Dancing on the pier schottische
446 Evergreen waltz. Stoddard
991 Elfin Prince polka
566 Evangeline waltz
760 Express galop
215 Fairy wedding waltz
430 Fairyland waltz. Warren
sxB Fairy dell waltz
543 Flirtation galop
Falling blossoms polka
Florrie's waltz
Gems of the ocean waltz. Read
Highland schottische
Heart's delight schottische. Keller
Heartsease waltz
Irresistible galop
Jubilee schottisch#
Jackdaw mazurka. Read
Les rats quadrille. Redler
La post quadrille. C. Schubert
Little Daisy waltz. Wilson
Lancers quadrille
Little blue eves waltz
Lucy mazurka. Pettit
Les roses valses. Metr6
Lointain's valse. Waldteufel
La verre en main polka
Les amourettes valses
Little playmates waltz
Lone hand galop
Laburnam valse. A. J. voas
La Tosca waltz
Little maiden’s waltz. E. Read
Mountain Belle schottische
Madeline waltz. Waldteufel
Midnight galop. C.J. Petit
Message of love polka
Mocking bird waltz
Moss rose waltz
M y fond desire waltz
M ilitary schottische
Mille-fleurs polka
759 Mermaid waltz
705 Myrtle waltz
799 Maggie Murphy waltz
B*7 Midgets’ polka. Read
836 Maggie waltz. Gautier
402 Nursery quadrille
692 New York glide waltz
359 Original schottische
401 Opera schottische
737 Our darling’s polka
845 Osborne quadrille
1263
387
384
428
429
992
962
5°6
57i
987
5*7
5°
761
807
724
993
249
829
839
946
841
922
956
Over the waves waltz
Primrose polka
Primrose galop
Princess May waltz
Perpetual rose waltz
Peggie Cline waltz
Post horn galop
Queen’s schottische
Qui va la galop
Rainbow schottische. Kleber
Release polka
Rock-a-bye baby waltz
Run of luck schottische
Rose schottische
Rosy cheeks mazurka. Read
Swiss country dance
Sweet kiss polka
Snowdrop polka
Sweet violets waltz. Fitzgerald
Sir Roger de Coverley
Spanish maiden’s waltz
Sweet Marie waltz
Starlight waltz
Sunlight waltz
Saratoga lancers
Sweetheart waltz. Kinkel
Soupir d’amour valse
Sweet flowers waltz
Sea-side schottische. E. Read
Sweetest polka
Tip-toe polka
Tout a la joie polka
Ta-ra-ra schottische
Ta-ra-ra waltz
Tokens of friendship schottische
Ta-ra-ra polka
Two little girls in blue waltz
Two little girls polka
Utopian waltz
Violet waltz
White wings waltz
When the leaves begin to turn waltz
White lilies valse. L. Gautier
You and I waltz
Please order by the numbers, and send amount by postal note (1/3 costs J4d, 4J, 7 , Der ” ( j ozen pieces,
nearest post office). Stamps can be sent for amounts under jJ A trial y f t /3 P P
post free, this is wonderful value. Our large list of Vocal ana Pianoforte pieces posted e.
STaT nOvKtY CO. , 229-231 Collins St.. Melbonrne (Box 466, G.P.O.>
<gEST? 1782 |»
U 7 PITT ST.,
PHCENIX
Assurance Company of London
SYDNEY Chambers)* ROBERT WAITER MARTIN, Manager.
V
pianola
piano
K
<v *«;■
The Piano of the Future.
“Never in my whole life have I received a present which gives
me so much pleasure.” From a Recent Letter to the Pianola 00.
Every time a Pianola Plano enters a home that Instrument
can be counted upon to sell several others. In fact, we have
knowledge of some Instances where a single enthusiastic
owner has persuaded as many as a dozen of his friends to
become purchasers. A member of the London Stock Exchange
created over one hundred sales by his personal enthusiasm.
Do not wait for the information about the Pianola Piano to
come to you accidentally, or through the agency of some
friend. Let us send you one of the most vitally Interesting
booklets you ever saw. Ask for Catalogue Ft.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested
in hearing the Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
HENRY M, BIRGE & CO., 357 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
185 Oollins-St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen-St., Brisbane ; 38 King William-St., Adelaide.
■v ,
* • ■■ t
■Us T
. sc
N
>2
«*
:ru . ;
■r
m.
T>
ISSUft
SHINING LIGHT
or THE TYRE 1
WPRLD' / I
A writer to a London paper remarks that
it might be supposed that the recipient of a
University degree, or a national distinction,
would have nothing but pleasant recollections.
Apparently, the pleasure is not unmixed. Not
long ago, Mr. Asquith announced that he had
never taken his M.A. degree, because it would
have cost him £40, at a time when money was not
too plentiful. A North Country clergyman also
stated that the D.D. conferred on him by the
Archbishop of Canterbury cost him something
like £60. When “Bobs” received his earldom,
he was presented with a bill for £750, and with
another for £1000 when he received the Garter.
And one “distinguished” Australian went to the
Mont de Piete to raise the money to pay for his
blessed “distinction.”
The last Monkey mail brought some cheer-
ful news about the way of the gentle Jap. Japan
is a pretty big copper-producer, and the Jap
miner, having heard of the rise in the copper
market, wanted a larger cut. There being no
absurd Arbitration Courts in Japan, and very
little unionism, the workmen started out to get
their way by other methods. These methods of
the gentle, courteous ally included the levelling
and burning of over 100 houses, dynamiting an oil
store, blowing up the powder magazine, and
destroying the mine workings. Incidentally, a
few score of people were killed—roasted to death,
most of them —and a Judge had to take to his
heels and fly. _


Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to pur-
chase through our Mail Order Department,
where all orders receive prompt atten-
tion. All goods sent Carriage Free.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
C’.afUff*
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Our Illustrated Catalogue shows over
3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather and Optical
Goods. Send for a copy, it’s free for the
asking. A postcard will bring you a copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver, comprising 0
articles, 15s Gd.
Other stvles, 7s 6d,
8s 6d," 18s 6d.
PC
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER, English
Oak, pure silverplated
mounts, with cards, etc.,
355. Other style, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain PURSE, richly
embossed, size Bin x 3Jin, 70s.
Engraved design, 60s.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
am
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, silk-lined, size 4£in x 2Jin, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUJmjARS.
Toilet Rind MIRROR, pure silver-
plated, handsomely embossed, size
lOin, 10s 6d. Solid Silver, 355.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s, 60s.
111
10
r m
A. SAUNDERS.
Bedroom CLOCK, solid silver mounted,
fancy enamel dial, accurate time-
keeper, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH and
COMB, in case, richly embossed, long
white bristles, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH,
richly embossed, long bris-
tles, 8s 6d. Other styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
{HAVING CUP, pure silver plsted,
highly burnished, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 16s 6d, 80s.
ALL GOODS
SENT CARRIAGE
FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIR-
BRUSH, richly embossed,
15s 6d. Others, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
. MANICURE SET, solid
silver, richly embossed, in
silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Travelling CASE,
comprising 10 articles, solid
: leather, fits into, case, £2.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-day Walnut CLOCK, dull polished case, strikes
hours and halts, cathedral gong, enamel dial, 16in high.
37s 6d. Kept in free repair for two years.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud BOX,
pure silver-plated, pierced,
and embossed,, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
. Lemaire’s Field or Marine
GLASS, leather covered, achro-
matic lenses, with sling and
case, 40s. Higher grade, 50s.
SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
telescopic mirror, polished
oak base, 255. Other styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather Purse and
CARD-CASE, pure silvermount*
and lock, 21s. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
m
355
A. SAUNDERS.
Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
Solid Silver, richly embossed,
floral design, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 8s (id,
10s 6d, 12s od, 15s.
fgh fgh
«!*
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER,
solid silver, crystal
glass roller. 4s 6d.
u-:
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet Pomade JAR,
solid silver top,
hobnail cut glass,
6s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d.
, A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Morocco Leather, silk and leather
£2’ ey ery convenience, pure silver lock.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Travelling SOAP BOX, pure silver-
plated, hand-embossed, gilt lined, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s.
Swan PINCUSHION,
solid silver, velvet
top, 5s 6d.
Other styles, Is 6d,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH, buck-
ekin, pure silver shield, best
rubber lined, 4s 6d. Gold
shield, 7s 6d extra. Other
styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Bell RATTLE, Xylonite
Teething Ring, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco^
Leather, pure sll f r „ iS
6d. Other styles, 6s 6d, & 6d 10*
6d 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, tos.
! '
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
i ■
A. SAUNDERS,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


M
m
■
llltpl
miM
m
\
mm
m
m
m
■ ! f .V.
m
m
HWW
v;;c
*y
mrnaea&z'-**
I I, uiiiiir •
TJ.
iigiJll!iiii^iiiii'ii»nina;iax
,A. -V*'
•mm
c:
H
/,*■
.12
mm&m.
m
mm.
CL
SSSW!
5SSW3M
H
n n
*3v ’* •’-'" L r> * *• * .
m
■
mm
mm
m
* wh
-
*m§
JSSF:
*sa
SfcMl
as
Kfes
•MtiMifo,:
Hi
ism
si
i v. „
’ V- \
a-'-- 1 -i ,/y ■ . ,-S' . '»*w.
IPalJEflsS?
*
'
.
<o .
-
si
I
-—'•*?*
m
m
m
m
■
~ ■
Wg-L v.JMPfT? ;-• • X -.
' ’ ’ - .. * . _
v^pm>‘k
A TRAGEDY.
THE GIRL: “ What was tb* worst thing; ’appened to yer on yer last voyage
Bill ? ”
BILE : “Well, we strucR a rocR, lost our rudder, tb’ cap’n died o’ cbolera
tb’ first mate was lost overboard; but, worst of all, I ran out 01
VICE-REGAL, SMOKING MIXTURE!”


TB.tJMTS' 1
Lflav
w
You can cure deafness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write for booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
I'Xmcmfts Q&tamv
f EDISON
GOLD MOULDED
RECORDS
' EDISON fi\
SOLD MOULDED ||
RECORDS VU
fg fg
' EDISON fa
WLOflOUlDEOll
L RECORDS VU
EDISON
GOLD MOULDED
.RECORDS
' EDISON (i\
60 LO HOULOEO I
.RECORDS B,
S0H033H' '
asainou moo
NOSia3i
f iaisoN fi\
SOLO MOI/LDEO (I
I RECORDS B
h hfg
r EDISON] I'
mo nouioeoll
RECORDS yj
' cotsofTk
mid twin Bill
.RfcOQRPS V,
h
What would
MaKe you want
A PHONOGRAPH?
Did you ever leave the theatre possessed by a charming air you could
not recall? Did the concert ever leave a haunting memory of delight
gone forever? Did you ever hear an orchestra play a beautiful melody
that you would like to hear again and again? Did you ever hear a
passing band play a striking march, and regret that you could not master
it and be able to whistle it at will ?
Perhaps you “don’t know music”—“don’t play,” and lacking these
talents you abandon the gratification of these desires.
Don’t give up. Own an Edison Phonograph.
Possessing one, you can have a Record of the lost music, and in the
quietness of your home, play it over and over until you have mastered
both music and words. The fleeting pleasure is made permanent.
An Edison Phonograph and Edison Gold-Moulded Records give this
music with all the naturalness and pleasing quality of the original.
Thomas A, Edison’s many improvements now in his Phonograph have
made it a delightfully entertaining instrument —a treat that asks only
trial.
Let us send you the complete catalogue of the genuine Edison Phono-
graphs and Gold-Moulded Records—post free. We will gladly do so if
you ask for it, and will also tell you the name of your nearest dealer who
will be pleased to play any selections you desire —free of charge. Better
write now—a post card will do.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
Dept. B, 340 Kent-Street, Sydney.
fgh
1 EDISON
|60lJ MOUSED
fr^CORDS
EDISON ti
(SoiomohicmII
RECORDS B
I EDISON
[ GOID H0UUJE0
RECORDS
(' eaisaN'
iom nouipra
R^-aiaos
EDISON B
MlOMOaiflEDll
RECORDS tt
( EDISON
\60U> notHBED
IRECORDS
/ eatsan
(taanouiiu
Iruumgs
' EDISON /a
MLOnOULBEDll
, RECORDS U
' EDISON |
&OLD MOULDED
.REC0R05 I
( EDISON n
GOLD nOl/tDEDI
RECORDS
f EDISON t
mo moulded II
RECORDS II
BETTER THAN AN
ELECTRIC BELT.
We have a Medical Fatiory that is
better and more effective than the
best electric belt ever made.
It will cure
Rheumatism, Nervous Disorders, Sciatica*
It will give new life to the feeble—
it will strengthen your nerves and
make a better and different man
or woman of you. Stronger, more
effective, and will do more lasting
good than the best electric belt
you can buy for money.
Endorsed by Medical Men all over the world.
fg
Price, 35/- Post Free*
Money back freely if it is
not satisfactory.
Write for Booklet. IT IS FREE.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
“ My
Opticians,'
OPTICIANS AND
ELECTRICIANS.
& 393 George Street,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HEATRE
Direction ..
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Evening at 8. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
RAFFLES, The Amateur Cracksman.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as RAFFLES.
Other Characters by Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling 8.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selectee;
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
Carlton Wallace’s Romantic Domestic Drama,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON S IAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
SATURDAY, APRIL 13th, First Production in Australia
of
PETER’S MOTHER.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Prices as usual.
-|- H E LYCEUM HALL, BYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
tl Supreme in Art and Beauty,” and
THE BRESCIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Every Evening, at 8.
md Saturday.
Matinees Every Wednesday
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
WTRTH BROTHERS’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRTNCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8. J 0 . ,
MATlNEES—Wednesdays and Saturdays.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OF NEW PROGRAMME.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Children Half-price except to
Gallery. Plans at Paling’s and Circus office.
Doors open 7, commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
Adults, 6d. | ADMISSION' | Children, 3d.
CLOSING WEEKS .OF PRESENT SEASON.
PROGRAMME OF NOVELTIES AND SENSATIONS.
SOMETHING DURING EVERY MINUTE
OPEN-AIR NOVELTY CIRCUS.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES : Miss Lenore White,
Mr. Ernest Fitts, The Musical Gardners, &c.
WORLD’S TOURING OAR.
FUN AND FLIGHT DEVICES UNENDING.
gT. JAMES’S HALL, PHILIP ST., SYDNEY.
DRAMATIC RECITAL
SHAKESPEARE, POETS AND DRAMATISTS.
MISS ROSE SEATON
TUESDAY, APRIL 16th, at Eight o’clock.
Tickets—3s, 2s, and Is. Nichilson’s Concert Agency.
JOURING QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE, supported by
a high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
CHARTERS TOWERS—APRIL 15 to 29.
TOWNSVILLE—MAY 2 to 7.
rIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
QNG and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE,
taster JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
Miss IDA INGERSOLE. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
3RINN, The Sensational Juggler & Cannon Manipulator.
LITTLE EILEEN O’NEILL. HARRY SADLER.
Mr. JACK WILLIS. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
JISS FANNY POWERS. THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRAOIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
FRED RUSSELL, Ventriloquist.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scottish Comedian.
THE BICKNELLS, Whirlwind Dancers.
CASSIE WALMER, Song and Dance Artist.
Plan at Allan’s. OS' PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45 sharp.
A MEMORABLE AND BRILLIANT EVENT,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in the Great Romantic Symbolic
Mystery Play, entitled,
PARSIFAL.
Miss BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Mr. THOS. KINGSTON as PARSIFAL.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
N
EW THEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
BLAND HOLT.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY WELCOME THE
Re-appearance of BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Dramatic Favorites in the Romantic Military Drama,
REVENGE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Missing Friends.
MARTHA SEIDEWITZ, who left Sydney in 1900 for
Cape Town by White Star liner to reside with her
mother is requested to communicate with Messrs.
GORDON and GOTCH, Melbourne, Australia. Anyone
supplying information of her • whereabouts will he
rewarded.
IF this should meet the eye of WILLIAM
LISTON, formerly of Wurruk, Gippsland,
last heard from in Western Queensland, he will
hear of something to his advantage by commu
nicating with
Mbs. A. BLACKER,
Wdkruk, via Sale,
Gippsland.
To show the wide scope of Bulletin ad-
vertising, on April 5 the Editor of The Lone
Hand received letters enclosing subscriptions for
that publication from Fiji, Germany and Bechu-
analand (S’Africa).
The great art of explanation appears at
its best in the police court. Bast week, at
Broken Hill (N.S.W.), an elderly ex-jockey,
charged with attempted suicide, explained that
he had struck himself on the head with an axe to
relieve a severe attack of asthma. The treat-
ment, he said, had been beneficial. And the
Court, instead of speaking to him kindly as a man
of original research in medical science, said in its
coarse business voice: “Two months.” It had
the grace to suspend the sentence under the First
Offenders Act, but even that was a very poor re-
ward for the person who discovered the new
tomahawk cure for asthma.
This story comes from a St. Kilda boarding-
house. The girl was having a good time with the
young bucks of the place. She was the squatter’s
daughter, and was telling of their horses and
bug fies, the run, and the odious cookies who
seleuted near Pa’s place and lowered the tone of
the district. The old man was busy in conversa-
tion on the verandah, and to verify a statement
he suddenly put his head through the window
and bawled—“ Liza, was it 340 or 430 rabbits
you and Bill skinned inside four hours the time
of Hogan’s drive?” The girl fled. A minute
later there was the thud of a squatter’s daughter
fainting on the stairs.
Queensland still treats its lepers in a very
casual fashion. Six people, certified as having
leprosy—five of them Kanakas and the sixth a
white lad of 17 or 18 —have for some months been
camped at Nelson, near Cairns, within 400yds.
of the public school. They wander around much
as they like. The other evening a planter met
two “boys” who once had worked for him, and he
pulled up his horse to ask how they were getting
on. When they told him that they had “ gotten)
leper ” and were doing a walk-about, that horse
sprang suddenly. It is said to be weeks between
the visits of a doctor, and the conveniences at the
camp are shockingly inadequate. At a recent
date the only cooking utensils available were a
kerosene tin and a billy with a hole in it.
A Melbourne tooth-extractor recently ap-
plied to a registry office-keeper for “ a lady assist-
ant,” requesting her to sift the wheat from the chaff
and instruct the wheat to call along. By noon she
had sent no less than 60 samples of wheat. Then
the angry dentist ripped the telephone bell out by
the roots, and bawled angrily to her to shut off
the supply. He had seen more adjective women
than he had ever wanted to see in his life, and,
anyhow, the position was filled. Then the registry
lady got interested. Which one had got the place—
she wanted commission from the lucky applicant.
“No one,” shouted the dentist, “I’ve got a
Japanese boy.” This little incident throws a
disrespectful light on the commercial value of the
term “lady.”
“ F.H.R.” on a matter of inhumanity :
A case of cruelty to animals and birds has appealed to
me within a stone’s throw of your office.
Passing by a bird-dealer’s shop in Lower George-street
(Sydney) one night, at 10 o’clock, I could not help notic-
ing the strenuous but vain endeavors of the feathered
tribe to gtet to sleep. A group of red-breasted birds were
spread along two perches, forming a good imitation of a
line of infantry in Wellington’s day, and a sentry, two
rungs below, kept vigil while the regiment took frag-
mentary naps. The Java sparrows were as alert as the
policeman on his beat, while the South African parrot
swore as efficiently as the S. African hero. Through the
din a canary imitated a nightingale be had never heard.
The cause of all this misery and insomnia was a strong
light that shone in the room, and the trouble was aided
and abetted by the electric glare from outside.
The most pathetic scene was the publicity given to the
affectionate repose of the monkeys. They tried to sleep
the sleep of perfect innocence, locked in each other’s arms
so lovingly that you couldn’t swear which head owned
the tail, and vice versa.
I don’t know what time the monkey naturally climbs
into his bedstead, but the birds, in their natural state,
would tuck their heads under their multi-colored wings
and find the Island of Dreams about seven o’clock every
night, and if the light was dispensed with, and a cheap
but effective blind let down before the window, they
could do the same in captivity.
Also, the owner of the said shop would hardly like to
retire to rest in the limelight as those monkeys are forced
to do, and if he was, I’m game to bet he couldn’t do it
so gracefully.
The same complaint applies to the Markets, and
the inhumanity should be put a stop to, as it is impos-
sible for the birds to get sufficient rest.
Dean Marriott (Anglican), of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), has just completed his quarter century
at All Saints’, in the City of the Plains. He
succeeded the well-known and popular Tom
Smith, erstwhile of St. Barnabas’, Sydney, who,
having had a fine, spacious row with Bishop
Marsden, retired into private life, and died at
Manly." Dean Marriott did not get on much
better with Bishop Marsden than did Tom
Smith. The Dean claimed to be Dean of Bathurst,
while ,the Bishop said he was only Dean of
the Cathedral. The war was kept up into
the present Bishop’s reign, and the “Cathe-
dral ” was removed to Trinity Church, Kelso,
just as if it were a brown paper parcel
being shifted in a wheelbarrow, so that the two
dignitaries might not meet, and possibly shake
their umbrellas at each other. A year or two
ago thq bitter conflict between tweedledum and
tweedledee was patched up somehow.
The United. States Consul at Freiburg, Ger-
many, has been making some odious comparisons.
Apparently, one object was to suggest whether it
is worth while cultivating a friendship with a
nation that seems bent on committing suicide :
German population is growing at the rate of 900,000 per
annum, Iwhile the British population is increasing by only
400,000 yearly. The year 1890 saw 37,400,000 in the
United Kingdom, and 43,000,000 in 1905; Germany’s
advance was from 49,000,000 to 60,600,000. Yet although
work had to be provided for this enormous increase of
people, German industry has expanded at such a rate
that laborers are scarce. German vitality is proved by
the increased net surplus of births over deaths per 1000
from 11’7 in 1890 to 14 - 5 in 1904, whereas, in England, it
was 10"7 in 1890, and only 11’7 in 1904.
German railway receipts, which up to the 20th cen-
tury were always well below the British, have now risen
above them. The aggregate shows 384,453,500 dollars
for the United Kingdom and 306,589,500 dollars for
Germany in 1890 ; and 545,048,000 dollars for the United
Kingdom and 549,945,000 dollars for Germany in 1904.
In coal consumption Germany is fast overtaking the
British ; 1890 saw 154,000,000 tons mined in the United
Kingdom and 89,000,000 tons in Germany ; and in 1905
239,000,000 tons for the United Kingdom and 173,000,000
tons in Germany.
In the manufacture of iron, where for a century Eng-
land held the primacy, Germany comes out equally as
well. England, in 1890, produced 8,031,000 tons; Ger-
many, 4,658,000 tons. In 1905 England produced
9,746,000 tons : Germany, 10,875,000. In steel, England
cannot compete with Germany at all.
In wealth, Germany has rapidly advanced. The
Prussian Savings Bank deposits rose from 798,106,000
dollars 15 years ago to 1,888,202,000 dollars last year
(1905), against the advance'in England from 540,18i,500
dollars to 973,300,000 dollars. Those paying the Prussian
income-tax have risen from 8 per cent, of the population
in 1890 to 12 per cent, in 1905, showing 4,390,000 people
with large incomes in Prussia alone. Another sign of
Germany’s growing wealth is that the new issues of capi-
tal ill the past seven years were 4,136,525,000 dollars,
against 4,623,175,000 dollars in England.
Every patriotic Australian must feel a
certain sense of satisfaction in seeing two firms,
the one that sold the Japanese onions and the
one that bought them, frittering away large sums
of money in litigation over those same onions.
Leave has now been given to carry the onions to
the High Court, and, by the time the case is
finished, the two bulwarks of the importing craze
will probably have lost the value of the original
Monkey onions twice over.
Sydney Herald, in its bitter antagonism
to everything Australian, does not stop at actual
falsehood. Welcoming the arrival of an English-
man (who, it is hoped, will prove capable) to dis-
place an Australian (who is proved capable), the
Herald trumpets the fact that Englishman Eddy
had to import a lot of other Englishmen before
he could satisfactorily carry on his Australian job.
Asa matter of fact most of the English importa-
tions were conspicuous failures, and it took Eddy
a long time to live down that supremely foolish
action.
Ex-Senator Matheson, the Wesfcralian demo-
crat who always wore imported pants, sits in a Lon-
don fog and yearns audibly for Australia and its
sun-gay days. The ex legislator avers that there are
no scents in the city of chills—only smells ; that,
if shivering Britons had the courage of their dis-
comfort, the Australian climate would be an
ample Immigration League; and he ardently
desires that a purveyor of Stinking Fish may
cross his path, and feel the agony of his Australian
rhetoric. He talks of returning in the spring,
and remaining through the hot season.
Sydney Evening Noose has taken up the
leadership of the Secesh movement, which it
says is in the air, and it recently called N.S.W.
to battle in a column of agony, headed “ i'he
Fluting of the Federal Filchers.” Listen to
this: —
Contemptuous indignation is the real attitude adopted
by the people of New South Wales towards, not Melbourne
and not Victoria, but towards those unscrupulous legis-
lators who have been instrumental in making the
southern capital the repository of their filchings, and by
the aid of these filchings usurping the right to govern
the despoiled State.
But seeing that Chapman, Lyne and Ewing, who
are the “filchers” alluded to, have been returned
at each Australian election by increasing majori-
ties, while many of those who shouted most loudly
at their “depredations” —such as Conroy. Pumpkin
Smith, Lee, and Lonsdale—were defeated at the
last election, the “contemptuous indignation”
of N.S.W. is apparently a boot that is on the
other leg.


Commendatore G. Marconi, Inventor of Wireless
Telegraphy, who has become Consulting Physicist
of the Columbia Phonograph Company.
Mr. Marconi
T TAS associated himself with the
* * Columbia
Phonograph
Company
as Consulting Physicist and Experi-
mentalist.
This is the MOST IMPORTANT
Talking Machine announcement
since the invention of the
GRAPH-o-phone
by Alexander Graham Bell of tele-
phone fame. Bell’s inventions
cover the recording of sound waves
on a wax-like substance. They
made a practical thing out of the
experimental phonograph, which
was, till then, merely a laboratory
curiosity.
The COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH COMPANY, now the largest
Talking Machine Manufacturers in the World, are the owners of these funda-
mental patents, and therefore are the creators of the Talking Machine Industry.
The Company hope that, having secured the genius of Mr. Marconi in
their behaif, they may soon have the pleasure of announcing interesting
developments in . . .
Still Further Perfecting the GRAPH-o-phone
and COLUMBIA RECORDS.
Experiments are to be conducted in the Columbia Company’s
Laboratories in Europe and America.
COUNTRY AGENTS can maKe HANDSOME PROFITS
in this line. Write for Particulars.
T COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Cen’l.
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
<H
XTO soap gets so
close as shaving
soap. Therefore, in no
soap is purity so im-
portant. The creamy,
antiseptic lather of
Williams’ Shaving Soap
leaves the skin even
better for its use.
Williams s s&k*
Williams’ Shaving Stick is put up in a strong,
handsome metal box, covered with maroon leather-
ette. It is not only the most convenient form for
travelers, but is constantly growing in popularity
with those who shave themselves at home.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all over the
world, or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets,
Is.; Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d. (Trial size) of
Williams’ Shaving Stick, 2d.
The J. B. Williams Company
G 5 Gt. Russell St., London, W. C.; 4 Rae Chauveaux Lagarde,
Paris; 161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South Wales. Head
office and factories, Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
Makes you look manly
Before
1
dfler
A Jar of Capillarine
—will do the trick—give you a strong, healthy
moustache, quicker, surer, and safer than any
other preparation ever devised.
CAPILLARINE has a wonderful sale— it has
been on the market 20 years.
Send 10/6 in Money Order or Postal Note for Capillarine.
We send it Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 25 years.
BaKer & Rouse
Propy., Ltd.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
for . . .
KODAK LIMITED,
Have received another large
shipment of new Kodak Goods,
including the favorite
No. 3a
Folding*
Pocket
Kodak.
Usually called
“ THE
POST
CARD
KODAK.”
For pictures
5| x 3£, on
Films or
Plates.
B 5
SfiM
SS-si
This is essentially the Kodak for Travellers and Tourists. It
represents “Kodak Excellence ” at all points and in every
detail. Price
£5 5/-
Baßer & Rouse Propy. Ltd.,
375 & 377 George-St., Sydney.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
37 RUNDLE*ST., ADELAIDE. 78-80 QUEEN-ST., BRISBANE.
A SPECIAL. FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS . . .
In Whipcords and ft / Qft //I
Saddle Twists, 9 Jm j
RIDING BREECHES . . .
Xwlst , j 32/6 tO 50 -
Garbardines and Twillettes
32/6 to 45/-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated,
Design No. HO,
50/- to 75/-
FLY or SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED or BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES,
cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
Smartest Knickers Worn.
Specially Designed for PERFECT
FREEDOM in WALKING, FISHING,
SHOOTING, GOLFING, MOTORING,
L 4 i'liv.
Kfsfif '■ * *h4****S
*?m *f*##*t *#*»<**s***
*M***tex
1 1 H
mp*p
mm
mm
i*f*f+*7
m
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.—A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Oar Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to .. .
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED
TAILORS anti
BREECHES MAKERS,
300-310 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lOd


LION'S LIFE
Untold Suffering and Constant
Misery—Awful Sight From that
Dreadful Complaint, Infantile Ec-
zema-Commenced at Top of his
Head and Covered Entire Body.
MOTHER PRAISES
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Our baby had that dreadful com-
Elaint, Infantile Eczema, which afflicted
im for several months, commencing at
the top of his head, and at last covering
his whole body. His sufferings were
untold and constant misery, in fact,
there was nothing we would not have
done to have given him relief. The
family doctor seemed to be wholly
incapable of coping with the case, and
after various experiments of his, which
resulted in no benefit to the child, we
sent to Mazon, 111., to a druggist and got
a full set of the Cuticura Remedies and
applied as per directions, and he began
to improve immediately, and in about
three or four days began to show a
brighter spirit and really laughed, for
the first time in a year. In about ninety
days he was fully recovered, with the
exception of a rough skin, which is
gradually disappearing, and eventually
Will be replaced by a healthy one. Praise
for the Cuticura Remedies has always
been our pleasure, and there is nothing
too good that we could say in their
favor, for they certainly saved our
baby’s life, for he was the most awful
sight that I ever beheld. Mrs. Maebelle
Lyon, Parsons, Kan., July 18, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in tho
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N* S.W«
A SET OFTEN CURES
Complete external and internal treat-
ment for every humour, from pimples
to scrofula, consists of Cuticura Soap,
Ointment, and Resolvent Pills. A single
set is often sufficient to cure the most
torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning,
and scaly humours, eczemas, rashes,
and irritations, from infancy to age,
when all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sold
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chera. Corn., Sole
Props., Boston, U. S. A. 80“ Send for “ The Great Skin
Book." Address, B. Towns U Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
$
3k
We are just landing
an entirely new stock
of the famous
MICHELIN TYRES,
winners of all the
principal races in
1906, including the
great VANDERBILT
CUP RACE.
S>PLE-AUSTRAL!AM • AGENTS
BARNET GLASSeC?
city OCP9T. a«,e Flirxderi L&r\c .
mcue>.
[ r-ACT9DY • • •
*PARA- RUBSTR-W9KI\S' 1
f^oTSCRAY
188-
hfg
QUEENSLAND RRANOH—
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies r
Vlotorla, B.A. and Tas
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
rOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Solb Australian Agknt Wabash Systems.
105,000
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed !■! !
and keeps laughing.
No. 3.
Red Harry is
This Very Fine
Gent’s Face
Balmoral for
16/6
In box calf, glace kid and patent leather—all at
the one price. You 11 find no boot in Australia
give better satisfaction at the price. Welted
soles —in this find all the newest shapes.
Higher grades at higher prices.
Postage Charges —When remitting add these charges to cover
IUL postage—Victoria, 1/-; other States, 1/6.
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK. —We have a booklet called “ Shoelight"
that illustrates and describes all our footwear for man, woman
and child. We post it free anywhere—write for it.
LEEIYIINC’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne,
And at VIC.
1 (EL 3 Errol St., Nth. Melbourne,
303 Chapel St., Prahran.
A
WINCHESTER.
m
mi
ft*
a
s»
5$
s,V. y*
f *+
V
•*V. '«
•••> \
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
T»\sy Always Oct The Came.
For Sale Everywhere.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladles’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSINC SALOON.
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
,-a® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAIES, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Tklei'UON 2l3B.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND H.OOR.
h
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Moticc
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
MUMMERS ABROAD,
At the Court Theatre, London, lately, John Masefield’s
new three-act play, “The Campden Wonder,” had such
an effect on thefirst-night audience that it received the
fall of the curtain in silence, and then, horrified, bewil-
dered, even protesting", crept out of the house almost on
all fours. Yet the play is simply a dramatisation of an
old Gloucestershire story of peasant crime, well known to
students of criminal trials. It happened- as far back as
1660. A well-to-do farmer set out on a journey, ana,
failing' to return when expected, was supposed to have
been murdered. A drunkard, who had had a Quarrel
with his own mother and brother, and a fight with the
latter, avenged himself upon them by declaring upon
oath that they and he had murdered,the farmer. Despite
the protests of the mother and brother the three were
hanged, and then the farmer returned and explained why
he hadn’t come back before.
London Times calculates that the music-hall strike cost
strikers’ “Alliance” something like £50,000, over
£30,000 having been forfeited in salaries in the six weeks
The Alliance hired the big, empty, new Scala Theatre to
* “ Btar ” . sh ow of its own. For four weeks’ rent
£12,000 was paid ! And the show ran just six nights
before a truce—with all matters in dispute referred to a
Board of Trade arbitrator—brought the season to a
sudden stop.
If he can keep it up till November 19 next, Santley will
then have been singing to the public for 50 years.
That order prohibiting sightseers at the Paris Morgue
doesri t come too soon. Since Browning" moralised in
verse over his sight of Adelaide Neilson’s body at the in-
stitution, one has hardly been able to wander fifty pages
in certain kinds of literature without slipping on the
slimy trail of the dead-house Of gay Paree.
A few of the melodramas that shrieked their woes from
London hoardings during last year: “The Queen of
Villainy, The Girl who took the Wrong Turning ”
‘Lured to London/* “The Marriage Trap,** “A Warning
“The Miserable Marriage,” “ The Unwedded
Wife, Her Lost Self,” “ Her Nameless Child,” “No
Marriage Bells for Her.” Apparently the Cockney cares
for little but the trials and tribulations of the damsel
who was be-ter-rayed, and the woes of her chee-ild.
Doesn t the male Britisher ever go astray ?
Australian votaries of the Shakspearian cult, such as
Henry Guilett, turn over again and again the same old
soil of William s early manhood in hopes of finding some
clue to his means of acquiring his extensive knowledge.
If these diggers shifted their ground and delved awhile
in John Shakspeare’s grave, better material might be
forthcoming. John (William’s father) was a man of many
parts and wide experiences. He was'glover, butcher
wool-stapler, alderman and bailiff in Stratford-upon-
Avon, and, as became a man of such varied avocations
died in debt. Another bailiff went for his goods, but re-
P ?u- t , e u ! r \ the j ar ,? on of the time, “Joh’es Shackspere
nihil habet unde distr. potest levari.” Will some leisured
person give Father John a turn ?
Stated that Miss Lilian Tree is now devoting her-
self to a course of study under the well-known Maestro
Randegger. Presumably she is in the i n fan ts’ class.
Nance °’Neil is in the field again, this time with sub-
stantial financial backing. A Boston capitalist has pro-
vided elaborate costumes and appointments, and last
month she was to have opened at the Colonial Theatre
(the scene of her triumphs of two years ago), in “La
Sorciere, a one-part Sardou play, written for Sally
Bernhardt. J
An English music-hall performer tells a story of how
he was once “ commanded” to appear before his Royal
Nibs at Sandringham. He was then engaged at a London
variety house, and receiving £l4 a week. He was neces-
sarily “off the bill ” for one night, and the reason whv
was duly advertised by the management, which advt.
brought at least 200 extra snobs next night. That was
the artist s share of it. When treasury day came he
found that the management had also “commanded” a
deduction of £2 for that night off.
“ N.L.”: Among the worst of the many absurdities of
stage phrasing is the frequent one that runs something
like this: ‘There is but one way of escape.” “And
that is ?” queries the other man. Why doesn’t the
second party to the dialogue say: “What yer gittin’
at i or something else that a person in real life would
say ?
George Bernard Shaw on himself : “ I am a bachelor an
Irishman, a vegetarian, an Atheist, a teetotaler, a
fanatic, a humorist, a fluent liar, a Social Democrat, a
« debater, a lover of music, a fierce opponent
of the present status of women, and an insister on the
seriousness of art.” And in his latest play he makes a
bachelor say : Under marriage I shall decay like a thing
that has served its purpose, and is done with • I shall
change from a man with a future to a man with a past •
... the young man will scorn me as one who has sold
out; to the women I, who have always been an enigma
and a possibility, shall be merely somebody else’s pro-
perty—and damaged goods at that; a second-hand man
at best. And if such is the fate of a married man, what
is the fate of the married woman ?
“ Adelaide ” : There seems to be some room in England
for the stagestruck Australian, if at all competent. Otto
Heggie gets good parts in London, and good notices
Nigel Brock, who was picked up by Wilson Barrett when
here, is probably making more money, though less heard
of. His bank experience made him useful, and he soon
got off to South Africa as a business manager And now
Fu rank « Bl : adley ’ also of Adelaid e, who went to London on
the off-chance last year, writes out that he is alreadv
well up the ladder. He started on tour in the small
towns, but was presently engaged by another manage-
ment to play Napoleon in “The Duchess of Dantzic.”
He has left the George Ldwardes management to accept
a better offer; and the man who can get in with
Edwardes, and drop him for better things, all within a
year of starting seems likely to go some distance.
e, >r nam . es Raffles, “ His House in Order ” and
The Notorious Mr. Vanderveldt ” as the pick of the
season s plays. He ranks George Alexander below the
late Robert Brough, but Lewis Waller, in » Beaucaire ”
along way above Julius Knight. ’
Australian actor Arthur Greenaway has been engaged
by Leonard Rayne to “star" through S’Africa in
Raffles, The Bondman,” “ Robin Hood,” and several
Shakspearian productions. Mention of “ The Bondman ”
reminds one that Hall Caine’s 16-year-old son is playing
London* 111 PartS m dad 8 play ’ at the Adel Phi Theatre,
The recent Melbourne discussion on the supplv of
corpses for dissection moves someone to unearth the
curious case of an English “Serpent Man,"who in the
intervals of suicida.l public contortion was a desperate
gambler. After losing all his savings, it occurred to him
!lf d / ert r in i he Era , that he would dispose of his
skeleton for a thousand guineas, payable at once A
celebrated surgeon paid the money down. The thousand
gumeas was soon gambled away, but the Serpent
Man faithfully carried with him, on all his travels a coffin
containing the doctor’s gruesome instructions, written in
four languages, for the packing and consignment of his
corpse. I should think you must have been tempted
more than once to leave this box in the cloak-room "
said a Parisian interrogator. “ No, sir,” turned the con-
tortiomst, “such a temptation has never occurred to me
A gentleman keeps his word.” e ’
i This is a story told by George Musgrove: “You
know% said Slussy, ‘ I can’t speak any German. That’s
why I went to Germany to collect artists, I suppose I
was on the lookout for new operas all the time, and I used
to search the papers for advertisements of new shows I
was at Frankfurt, and I was looking through the Mayenee
rar e r r i n t ,n s^ en 1 saw °pera announcements
Monday: ‘ Die Walkure.’ .
Tuesday: 1 Tannhauser.' ,
Wednesday: ‘Gesloschen.*
I said, • Ha, here’s a new opera. “ Gesloschen 1» Won
der who wrote it ? Anyhow, I decided to go straight to
Mayencc and see it. The opera opens about 2.30 I iust
had time to drive from the station to the opera I hired
a carriage and drove up, but I couldn’t get into the
theatre. I was sure I had made no mistake, for right
across every door was a great red label with ‘ Gesloschfn*
written across it m huge black letters. I thought the
theatre must be full up, and I was starting to looker the
door when the cabby tumbled. He called me un
and talked hieroglyphics at me for about ten minutes P
NatumHy, I didn’t understand. Then he beckoned me
to the carriage door He opened it and shut it wit™
F an , ff ’ Ba J’ ln £> Gesloschen, and I said • Yes ’in a numb
sorb of way. So he opened it agfain and bashed if- fv»
agam, roaring in my ear ‘Gesloschen.’ Then I under-
stood. Gesloschen ’is the German for ‘ closed.’ ” ”


. V*
FREE
*
»va
S>N
T,
ft
DAVID JONES 17“
SYDNEY.
TOMACH TROUBLES EASILY REMOVED
THE
LONDON LANCET
says :
“lb is now recognised as a
valuable addition to natural-
aperient medicines.”
HOWTO STIMULATE THE LIVER AND PROMOTE DIGESTION.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the digestive processes so perfectly that errors of diet are neutralised
thereby. It enables you to eat heartily without the dread of overfulness, flatulency, or acidity.
People of sedentary occupation require periodical stimulation of the liver, which plays a most important
part in digestion. The bile should be discharged into the intestine to mix with the food from the
stomach, otherwise constipation will be very pronounced. Perfect digestion means perfect action of
the stomach, liver, and bowels. Kutnow’s Powder acts concurrently on each of these forces of
digestion; hence its value in ensuring regularity. Another point of merit is its beneficial cleansing
properties ; a dose of Kutnow’s Powder cleanses the Stomach, rouses the Liver, frees the bile, and sets
the machinery in perfect working order.
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
says :
“It is gentle, effervescent,
and is a very ‘efficient and
agreeable aperient.”
REV. F. L. SULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane,
“ Highfield, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publish-
ing my testimony concerning the excellent properties
of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it
years ago. In my case it has proved to be an agree-
able and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and
kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms Of pain
or discomfort, and regulating generally the whole
organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLRNV
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD
The Genuine and Original Xutnow’s Powder
can he had of all consc'entious Chemists
throughout the world. !?ee that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and tattle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’B POWDER
A POPULAR NOVELIST
WRITES :
“31, Gatton-road, Bristol,
“August 14th, 1906.
" Dear Sirs, —For a considerable period I suffered
from severe headache and mental depression, no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary occupation as a
noveiist, but I now always fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent, which never fails
to afford instant and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efficacious remedy, and Ido not
wonder at its enormous sale. —Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
WELL-KNOWN
BARONESS
WRITES :
“Albion House, Send-hill,
Gibraltar South,
“12th Jan., 1906.
‘ ‘The Baroness von Gausauge
begs to inform Messrs. Kut-
now that she is entirely satis-
fied with their excellent Kut-
now’s Powder, and has recom-
mended the same to many of
her friends.”
REV. E. LANCASTER
writes:
“ The Parsonage, Tsorao, Transkei, Cape Colony,
“January 22nd, 1906.
“Sirs,—l am most pleased and perfectly satisfied with
the results of using Kutnow’s Powder, and shall in future
never be without it. My little children, too, have also bene-
fited by using it, and, being so pleasant to the taste, they
quite enjoy it. —I remain, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) EDGAR LANCASTER.”
NURSE BOGLE
WRITES :
“ 37, Hill Top Mount, Leeds,
“ Yorkshire.
“Dear Sirs, —Before I ever heard of Kutnow’s Powdf r I
suffered horribly with biliousness and indigestion, but since
taking the Powder regularly I can eat anything and enjoy it.
I have tried several medicines, but they have all proved
useless.—Yours faithfully,
“(Nurse) JANET BOGLE.
BRITISH
VICE-CONSUL
WHITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate,
Tarragona,
March 12, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using
Kutnow’s Powder, and find
same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised
to do.—l remain, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES,
“British Vice-Consul.”
KUTNO


N
Oatine
Here is a face cream that will keep
your complexion soft, clear and
beautiful right through the hot
Australian summer.
It is Oatine, the great English face cream,
made from pure healing oats and free from
dangerous animal fats and mineral salts.
Oatine removes from the pores of the shin
the dust and grime, which soap and water
cannot reach, and leaves the skin clear and
soft as satin.
It prevents freckles, sun-burn, cracking and
drying of the skin, and enables the careful
woman to preserve the charm of a good com-
plexion, however tryin < the climate. It does
nof grow hair.
For men’s use after shaving it is an ideal
soothing cream. Price 1/3 per dainty jar or
a larger size, containing four times the
amount, 2/6.
To be obtained at all chemists /md
stores throughout Australia. /Get a
Jar to-day.
Compulsory Winding-up or the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate or
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
, t 0 a close . they have decided upon the compulsory
winding-of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced-prices to clear:—
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble^wedgefast cross-bojt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price. £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game <
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine andcleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short er long cartridges. -Usual-Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price .. .. £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Prjee-. , 15 o
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Pair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles deli vered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
fgh
iVUdlcatar, «U«
3f inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the hose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDIC ATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for book et free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere. ’
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i } & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
fg
Qjreene^
M
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
"Facile Princeps"
‘ The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Cata; agues write W. P. T’-omp-
son,3l7, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener,Birmingham. ’
Homoeopathy
THE SECRET OF HEALTH.
8. C. F. HAHNEMANN,
DISCOVERER OF
HOMOEOPATHY.
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts Have met witH unpre-
cedented success, and we are glad to be
able to state that the treatment ofWeak-
ness and Kindred Ailments, Nervous-
ness, Stomach and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism and Allied Complaints,
Prostatic Affetfiions, Etc., are com-
pletely and permanently cured by :
THE IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London
Hospital,.stated ‘ Homoeopathy is only in its infancy, and if the
public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment
they would not fly to nauseous medicines taken in large quantities,
but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.”
a would like you to know more about our method, so in
order that you can make a study of our S3 r stem, we will send to
of the sfch Edltion of our Brochure
WORDS Ob WISDOM to any person who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
THE SECOND SUBDIVISIONAL
The Section Includes 32 Choice Dairy and
Agricultural Farms from 72 to 344 Acres.
AUCTION SALE (6000 Acres) OF
THE NORMANBY ESTATE
20,000
ACRES
ON THE FASSIFERN RAILWAY, 46 MILES
FROM BRISBANE, Q’LAND, WILL TAKE
PLACE AT HARRISYILLE, AT 2 P.M. ON
SATURDAY, June Ist
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES*.
NEXT.
The Cressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk Factory (X*
miles away) pays sd. per gallon for milk.
RAINFALL—36.66 inches; average for 18 years.
Close to Market and Railway Station.
Settlers can visit Brisbane and return same day.
No Survey Fees or Residential Conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material, and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land—Bidges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, level roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks.
The Normanby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and large lucerne fattening paddocks,
and has been used for many years past as a
“ Topping ” Run for fat stock travelling to Bris-
bane markets.
LIBERAL TERMS
One-tenth Cash;
Balance Jn . Ten
Annual Payments
at 5 per cent.
PLANS AND PARTICULARS FROM
ISLES, LOVE & CO
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
N.B.—Conveyance meets train every morning.
CB-
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
li/so
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
All C.Bn Corsets have
rust-proof supports*
WORa/
S>C^
CF
Ou
w
£
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
■+>
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a typo
no-r»7L , !\?. a^V ra * ,| y superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to:
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
A. E. Wittey,
York Street SYDNEY.
J. Bunting,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
Consult KERR RASSMUSSEN,
,a “oV P >S 1 „ V „ l ‘^??f, VOU *' S1 ;! n "> d Blood Diseases, and all Spedfle Complaints
fitaob Une
weaKJMen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Csurai the Nerve*, Debility, Isos* Power, Restore Isos*
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Seif-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair-
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS. Bl ° od a » d ski n Disease's,
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6 SplcialPowlrfufooubie^ours^
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Woman Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d. '
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST. P SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; IS PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
’ ’ HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
hfg
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” beat drawings. Hull Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
BETWEEN
YOU AND
CROZINE
! blacking
bla C ck ' e hh,f ''"sired deep, brSIESt
DiacK—a black which is not removed bv
dampness, nor effaced by mud or dusif
th« lJ h S nntQ e t tter than an y other, and helps
H?® t 0 wear, softening and preserv-
TiMs t nnrt e t t i her ‘ The su P ei 'ior cleanli-
ness and elegance of a Crozine shine
lecommend it to fastidious people.
SOLD AT BOOT STORES THE WORLD OVER
ASK FOR THE GENUINE HAUTHAWAY’S
Made only by C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. 8. A.
/°™ts for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.. London, England :
THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
7(6
A
/
7 1
■pHIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
“Songeuse” Asti,
folio size Photo.
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
PHOTOS
With 700
Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 in
Money Order or Stamps of any
country ! Sample Collections of
Photos, and Post Cards at 5/-,
10/-, 20/-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
Postage 2 \d.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of introduction predisposes
one in favour of the bearer, so advertis.
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount of
praise will insure its success-therefore
-1 give you a bottle of my remedy, to try,
before purchasing any; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, and I
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Pits yet discovered. 1 have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World.
A safe remedy—approved by the
Medical Profession.
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum St, Rloomsbury, London,
England.
Send 1/- for parcel postage to the Colonies.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centimes
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1506.
CURES''
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Wealr Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from Thb Bulletin Office.


H Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Aostralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
*
w
A WISH :
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
1“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which i s
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
you want
long, thick
hair, hair
that is really
beautiful,
you must
nourish the
source from which it grows.
Your scalp must have attention.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
feeds the flesh tissues of the
scalp with good hair-growing
energy. That’s its special mis-
sion. It makes strong, healthy
scalps, and strong, healthy scalps
grow strong, healthy hair. Be
sure you get Barry’s.
Reuter’s Soap Cures Eczema
h
THE DEAF HEAR
DEAF persons need not despair. Out of the mass
of failures has come a genuine success. Head
noises are cured and deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were
deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery, based
upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Eh "ricity,
that will assist all persons suffering from L Jness,
fully described.
CD EC By sending name and address to THE
rncc. L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-
street, Sydney, you will receive a description of
this method, which will enable you to restore your
hearing at a very slight expense; and you will be
delighted to learn how easily you can obtain relief.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only ..the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for X/«. and postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorreot.
R. HERSCHELL <O/ London)*
" Woodvllle,» Mount Albert,
Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined*, Pastoral anc or on the Security
t^i^^Xu^ t <^ C N^w t Ze^and SCr ' b< LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
up 20^per l;wjy<year!owithoutFnotfoey < year! 0 without F notfoe or anyone!
Directors The Hon A W Meeks M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator tbe Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman 'Benjamin
’ Short, Esq. 6 ;James Burns? Esq. ; The Hon. R. .1- Black, M.L.0.; RE. Wincheombe Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.F.A., t.S.b.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF: HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUGRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or coffee, or in
food, its presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so quietly,
and with such certainty, that the patient undergoes no
inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. If you mention this paper, we will send hook of
particulars and samples of Eucrasy, free sealed.
Address : THE. EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King ot
Briar Pipes
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Unrivalled for the 6omplexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALODERMA-JELLY * KALODERMA-POWDER
s
•h~
m
• "•
KALODERWA F WOLFF &SOHN
fctrgeschUteK , • Karl £
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Sole Agents:
LOHMANN & CO.,
(St Sydney.
9
fgfgh
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as " run-down ” or “ out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every-
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo=* welcome relief
in a very short time.
DV
r <s■
,v
#
OINTMENT
f
0
I
A
POWELL’S
BALSAM-ANISEED
The only SAFE AND RELIABLE REMEDY
For COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
NIGHT COUGH, IN FLUENT. A, etc.
The unpleasant sensation of tickling in the throat, which deprives so
many of rest during the night by the incessant coughing it causes, is
quickly removed by a dose of Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed. It is a proved
cough remedy of 80 years’ standing. It strengthens the Voice and cures
Hoarseness UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
The Rev.: WM. LUSH writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle—" Forthe past
twelve years I have been in the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending
your balsam. I should not be exaggerating if X said I had never known it to fail. When-
ever I have a cough I use it in preference to anything else, and again and again it has
cured me.”
Mr. A. J. WOODHOUSE, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk writes—“ I-ast
year Powell’s Balsarp of Aniseed cured for me a very obstinate' cough of some months'
duration, which I feared would lapse into a pulmonary affection.”
Mr. Lionel Brough, the eminent actor, writes—’* I think it an invaluable medicine
for members of my profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and
sister artistes." f -
Squatters and farmers, when ordering their stores, should not omit this time-
honoured Cough Remedy. . ~
WARNING.—When purchasing Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed you are
earnestly requested to see that the “ Lion, Net, and Mouse ” Trade
Mark Is on the bottle wrapper, and be not persuaded to take
Imitations.
Sold by all Chemists, etc., throughout the world.
Prepared only by THOMAS POWELL, Ld., Blackfrlars,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland -
ELLIOT BROS.. LTD., O’Connell St., Sydney, and Eagle St., Brisbane.
■HNipf
r#rMcjM


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
hmmmmmm
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WOULD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. •
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies A ct, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116.621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1803 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and Ihrougnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, arid the East.
Directors. —Jas. -Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £'2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chif.f Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of flew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... <£4,000,000
Capital Paid up ... ... .£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £ 165,000.
Hoad Office—96 Bishopsgato St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA —Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Rokburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of ttie markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Business Announcements.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Con sign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICI ES
"• comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick’
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and
card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail Trick, The Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character), the Joker’s
Love Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic
Caricatures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rin»-or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This-splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2a. 6d.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
Now York Novo.'ty Co., 710 George St., Sydney.
Shipping.
KT. ID.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamer
•YORCK ..
*Prinz Heinrich
*KLEIST
’'BULOVV ..
* YORCK ..
•KLEIST ..
TonB
9000
6500
9000
9000
9000
9000
Commander.
Randermann
P. Grosch
H. Formes
Randermann
Sydney
1.30
p.m.
Apl. 20
May 18
Junels
J uly 13
Aug-. 10
Sept. 7
Ade-
laide
2 p.m
Apl. 26
May 24
June2l
July 19
Aug. 16
Sep. 13
*T\vin-Serew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
MAN,LA 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnasre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
limited. ”
Capital Paid-up £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(In vested in Government Stock) 08,000 0 0
±.(01,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
BUOCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
m mm
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAM.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton K timers.
AFRIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 17th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Cape town or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 (i
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
♦MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
A. Simpson
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
Noon, April 26
Noon, May 24
Noon, June 21
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins larire and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DaU/ety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
“
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS,
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Most Attractive Route
to Canada, United States
and Europe.
Sailings :
From Sydney. From Brisbane.
MANUKA- - April 15 April 17
AORANGI- - May 13 May 15
MIOWERA - June 10 June 12
MANUKA- - July 8 July 10
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished
Free on application.
♦
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Mannying Agents, Georye-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies Asa.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security -
fair interest.
EAST TERMS.
mm mm
m m m
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
|J|ont deplßteg.il. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH S f\ t 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
yHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : K. Murray
Smith, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. •
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene. ’
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDIC. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 183 of 1906.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE
Between
JAMES KENNEDY MENARY
. , Plaintiff
And
JESSIE MARIA MENARY
. , Defendant
And
HARRY SCHMIDT
Co-defendant
To JESSIE MARIA MENARY of Woombyein the State
of Queensland wife of Janies Kennedy Menarv and
HARRY SCHMIDT of the same place Tinsmith.
TAKE NOTICE that James Kennedy Meiiary of Woom-
bye in the State of Queensland Farmer has commenced
an action against you Jessie Maria Menarv and you Harry
Schmidt in His Majesty’s Supreme Court of Queensland
by petition bearing date the eighth day of December 1906
praying for a decree that his marriage with you Jessie
Maria Menary be dissolved and by Writ of Summons
dated the seventeenth day of December 1906 which Writ
is endorsed as follows “ The plaintiff’s claim is for a dis-
solution of his marriage with the defendant Jessie Maria
Menary.” AND TAKE NOTICE that by an order dated
the twenty-second day of March 1907 it w . ordered that
the publication by advertisement in this. mof the said
Petition and Writ and of the said Order twice in the
Chronicle newspaper published at Nambour in the State
of Queensland and twice in The Bulletin newspaper pub-
lished at Sydney in the State of New South Wales shall
be deemed good and sufficient service of the said Petition
and Writ upon you. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that in default of you and each of you causing an appear-
ance to be entered for you and each of you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within thirty days after
the last of such advertisements the Plaintiff may by leave
of the Court or a Judge proceed in the said action and
judgment may be given in yourabsence. ANDFURIHER
TAKE NOTICE that you and each of you are required
within twenty-one days after the time limited for your
appearance to file in the said Court your defence to the
Plaintiff’s Petition in this action which is so served upon
you.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of March 1907.
BERGIN & BERGIN
Solicitors for Plaintiff
Victoria Chambers Queen-street
. Brisbane.
Public Notices.
Do we Believe in Australia?
Rather ! We are getting- ready for the Japs.
TYTAJyTED Australian Capital and Investors for three
vv fair-sized Silver-Lead Shows. Total area, 29 Acres.
Bulk samples (3 lots) Cockle Creek:
_ _ , f ton. ltonl7cwt. and 1 ton 16 cwt.
Gave Lead .. 66% Silver 75 oz.
„ 54 oz.
65% ~ 57 oz.
Strong gossan outcrop, traceable over a mile. Favor-
ably commented on by Weinberg of Chillagoe, Country,
“J 01 ' 1 *' 6, Galena at surface. Max. widch of crop,
25ft. B. S. HUNGERFORD, Silvermine Creek, near
Finmgan s, via Pentland, N.Q.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwadr,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
‘‘ On the Trail of the Trust ” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust ra-id on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHFcK
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravenstliorpe Goldfields. '
BRISBANE,
MACK AY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Yongala, Wednesday,
April 17.
S.S. Gran tala, Wednesday.
May 1. ”
S.S. Marloo, April 13.
S.S. Gabo, April 20.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Hold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.,' LTD..
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE.
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows •_
Steamer
ARMAND
BEHIC
YARRA..
nera ..
DUMBEA
Com
mander
Guionnet
Casanova
Schmitz
Boyer
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne.
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
1907. j 1907.
April 22 April 25'April 27
May 20 May 23 May 25
June 17'June 20 June 22
July 15 July 18 July 20
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7s’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais. ’
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS>. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, g to 5 Beaoon sfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 4-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
pEORGE HOTEL,
>St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Hni.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Cameras
are the most suitable for Tropical Climates. The}'
resist heat and damp.
m
re»
SsfltS
m
The
Folding
Metal
Cameras
are perfect.
Fitted with
Focal Plane
Shutters.
Folding- Stays
make their Sol-
idity extraordi-
nary.
They embody
Efficiency with
Lig-htness.
VOICTLANDER LENSES. —“ Collinear,” “Helliar,”
“ Dynar.” Made by the oldest Optical House in the
World. These Lenses are the result of a Century s
Concentrated Skill.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australian Agents—
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd., 3 86 George St, Sydney,
and 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet: “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc., Post- Free.)


Victoria lately made a beginning at tackling
one phase of the agricultural population question
by sending 20 of its State children—neglected
youngsters, orphans, etc. —to the Rutherglen
College, to be trained as practical agriculturists.
So far, the experiment has turned out so well
that it should almost solve the neglected children
difficulty. The lads work in the grounds and
dairy, and get agricultural instruction of the best
as well. They are paid wages at a decent rate,
out of which they clothe themselves, and the
balance is banked till they reach 18. With the
added savings of a few years, each lad should,
before he is 25, be in a position to take up a block
of land—if a land-tax arrives to force the mono-
polist to sell at a reasonable price—marry, and
settle down as a sample of a class that Australia
will want very badly one of these days.
“ Groper,” from Groperland:—
“ Wurrym’s ” statement (B. 14/2/’O7) re Westralian
lands is hardly correct. Though the nominal price of a
homestead farm is £l, survey fees run it up to £4 10s.
As to heaps and heaps of good land being available and
accessible—well, I wouldn’t bet on it. There is good
land 30 miles from the railway; but who is going to
settle there and belt huge timber, with wheat at 2s. 7d.,
and a pack of hungry storekeepers in the town? I’ve
been in the State four years, and know enough about
land to keep off it. Besides, it isn’t all land. In each
block there generally creeps in a fair amount of sand,
sand-plain, and ironstone rubble, which grows mostly
poison plant. The Government is now surveying land
previous to its being applied for, and one man, in order to
get in a little 15-acre swamp—which was all he wanted—
had to take surrounding land to the extent of 2000 acres.
The only decent thing' in the whole business is the
Government Land Bank, which advances money to the
settler as he makes his improvements, giving him full
value up to £3OO and half to £5OO. Without it, half the
fanners wouldn’t be farmers at all, but stipendiary
drudges with no more ambition than a nigger or a cow.
| SPIES’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAI & CO,
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
m m m
MADE
STRONG!
WHO does the world praise ? Why the strong man, of course, —the man who CAN DO,
and DOES! Not the weakling whose very personality obscures him. The world
idealises a manly man, and has but pity for the weak one. Surely you want to appear,
and be, at your best. Nature did not intend you to be a weakling. . . Why drag your legs
about like a wooden man ? Why take a back seat, or be a wall-flower, when the Specialists of
this Institution stand ever ready to make you as Strong, Vigorous, and Virile as any man who
lives.
We know why you suffer, and we also know that by pumping your nerves and tissues full of
new life (Electricity) you can be invigorated, rejuvenated, and made as strong and healthy a&
Nature intended you to be. Follow our advice and wear our Belt.
Dr. McEaug'hlin’s Elecflric Belt
after three months’ use, makes strong, vigorous men out of weaklings and “ half-men.” It will infuse new life into your
nerves and tissues ; will give you a new lease of life, and will make all sunshine where you now see a dull, dark, dismal
future. Guaranteed in every case undertaken, you can be sure it will not fail when recommended. Give it a trial, and
you will rejoice ever afterwards. Thousands have been cured by this appliance, and so can you be—lF YOU WILL.
Special
Consultation
CALL at our office and consult our
Specialist about your health. His
advice is free, and he will tell you
candidly whether Electricity will cure
you or not. He will also explain the
working of the Beit and give you a
FREE TEST. Hours :9a. m till 8 p.m.
Mr. ALBERT JEWELL, of lllabo, N.S.W., who suffered with a De-
ranged Stomach, writes:— “lt is now over three years since I first
secured your Electric Belt, at which time I suffered untold agonies from
stomach troubles and headaches. My stomach was often so bad that I found
it necessary when out riding- on the farm to frequently dismount and roll on
the ground in order to secure any relief whatever. lam now glad, however,
to say I am absolutely cured, and have been so for the past two and a-half
years. I work hard and enjoy it.”
Mr. JOSEPH RYAN, Receiving: Officer, Babblloora, Morven, Q.,
writes as follows “ About fifteen months ago I obtained your Belt, as I
had suffered with weakness of my back for over a year. Now lam entirely
well, and have no return of the old trouble. In fact, the general improve-
ment of my health I have credited to the use of your Belt. I never fail to
recommend it.”
POST THIS COUPON TO US TO-DAY.
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN GO., 1596
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your Free Book.
NAME
ADDRESS
FREE BOOK!
Send us this
COUPON,
properly filled
in, and we will post you our Free Book. It
is worth pounds to any sufferer, as it contains
much interesting advice for men and women,
and gives full information about our life-giving
Belt. Call or write to-day. Our Belt is as
good for Women as for Men.
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN GO.,
100 W. Market St., SYDNEY
i ii'
I
illll
i hi i
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s (id posted. Merrib
England, 9d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dancf., Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, ls 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions With Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald heads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
mm
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Du. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. II ere are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women bofcl} in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mag-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, (is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Maniioou, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s (id each posted. Biudk of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book yoic
want I’ve got it.
Don’t bo fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and!
save your cash. pF" Established 20 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
remit' in stamps, money order, or
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide t® the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, Ss 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, las post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Time. Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time SoN.<ssi(words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age <qf Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The GRANDEST LIVER FILL in the WORLD
“ Take a Cockle’s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile Liver Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
’ ’ Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/li to 22/- i
COCKLE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
*
#
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


VICTORIA
Collins &SwansfonS* MelbourneJP 2
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
395&397 HaySf Perth w[(
QUEENSLAND Vy
QueenS Edward Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
M6&I4S Queen St.
IS-3 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
Z5&&25 3
Princes& DowlingS*Dunedin.
<?
/fit's from
Stewart Dawsons
//s good. 1C
Write the IS
store nearest »
I”
*©©©©©©©©©©©©
c STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.’* Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
Solid Silver Pig Pin Cushion, 9s Gd.
tms&a&ms&s&li*
Solid Silver and Glass Hair Pin Box, 7s 6d.
Handsomely-Mounted Solid Silver Comb, 11s. 6d,
Solid Silver Cloth Brush, Good Hard Bristles, 14s 6d.
Solid Silver Watteau Hair Brush, 12s 6d. Comb to Match, 3s 6d.
Solid Silver Large Size Hair Brush, *1 zb oak
Solid Silver Cherub Hair Brush, 16s 6d. Mirror, 255.
Solid Silver Trinket or Hair Pin Box, £2 10s ; Smaller, 255, 32s 6d.
Solid Silver Pin Tray, 10s 6d.
Pierced Solid Silver Puff
Box, Glass Lined, 255;
Larger, 37s 6d.
Solid Silver Embossed and Pierced
Sweet Dish, 21s.
Solid Silver-Mounted Velvet Glove
Box, £1 6s.
Solid Silver Watteau Pin Tray, 10s 64,
Solid Silver and Glass
Tooth Powder Box and
Rack, 21s.
Ebon3 7 and
Solid Silver
Hair Pin
Roller,
3s 6d
Solid Silver-Mounted Curved Manicure
Scissors, 8s 6d.
Solid Silver-Mounted Daisy Shoe Lift, 3s 6d;
Hook to Match, 33.
Solid Silver-Mounted Velvet Jewel Box, £2 6s
fflwM
m
F'K
m
rr
Solid Silver and Cut Glass
Salts Bottle, 3s 6d.
Solid Silver Watteau Pin Tray, 12s 6d.
mi
nsk.
mm
mm
wcmw
&
Solid Silver Scissors Case, containing 3 Pairs
. Best Scissors, £3 10s.
Solid Silver and
Cut Glass Hair
Pin Bottle, ss.
Solid Silver-Mounted, fitted Leather Jewel Case
£2 15s.
wm
IM
Solid Silver Trinket Box, 30s.
Solid Silver Mounted Shoe Lift, 3s 6d.
Hook to match, 2s 6d.
Solid Silver and Good Bristle Hair Brush, 27s 6d.
Solid Silver and
Cut Glass Salts
m
Solid Silver-Mounted Cherub Comb, 4s.
Solid Silver Oherub Pin Tray, 12s 6d.
Fancy Clear Glass and Solid
Silver Powder Jar, 11s fid.
Solid Silver Velvet Lined Trinket
Box, £4, Smaller £3.
HALF SIZE
Solid Silver and Cut
Glass Salts Bottle, 9s 6d.
Solid Silver Cherub Pin
Tray, 5s 6d.
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Hair
Tidies, 17s 6d, Plain To#, x7s 6d.
All Goods sold for Cash and delivered Free on receipt of Remittance.
m
Best Qualitj” Bristles and Solid
Silver Watteau Hair Brush, £2.
Best Quality Solid Silver-Mounted Shoe Lifts, 4s Gd, ss, 6s 6d.
Boot Button Hooks to Match, 3s 6d, 4s, 5s Gd.
II
Real Ebony and Best
Bristle Hair Brushes.
Solid Silver Shield, 10s 6d
Large Size, 14s 6d.
We offer you the higgest and best variety of fashionable and dependable Goods.


p* u!U ,
tii'i'i'i'uu'ittiiMJJ/
A
• -
» |fj *’ » \
m
V •
11
nil
o. > *:
:
fclia
a
■
■
I :
i w.;. ■ /O.
PERFECT Skin Health denotes a skin free from any nature of disease, of a refined and soft texture, and a
faultless complexion. When you are conscientiously obeying the laws of skin health, by care and proper
treatment you are building up not alone a healthy condition to that organ, but good general health as well.
Skin Health is too good a possession in a young girl to be lost. Clearness and refinement of skin, and
a glowing peach-like complexion, are things that really count most in a woman’s life. Without these qualifications,
a fascinating manner, or social charm will avail her nothing.
As all soaps are more or less caustic, the constant use of them to cleanse the skin destroys the delicate tissues
by absorbing or drying up the natural oil; thus a stoppage of the free access, perspiration results. Naturally, the
loss of moisture from the skin brings about coarse skin, pimples, and in the end skin disease, very often in an
aggravated and chronic form.
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL TOILET SOAP
has incomparable powers in ridding the skin of the evil consequences of harmful soaps, cosmetics, etc. It contains natural medicines which renew the
oil of the dry, parched skin, create new life to a practically lifeless skin, and otherwise ensures perfect skin health.
Zam-Buk Soap is composed of nothing but pure medicines, and is the only soap fitted for use on the tender, sensitive skins of infants. It aids
very considerably in their healthy rearing and comfort, and prevents their many skin affections. MOTHERS ! if you value the skin health of your
children, use Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap for every requirement of cleansing the skin.
Zam-Buk Soap Safeguards the Skin
against eczema, pimples, chapped hands,
cold sores, prickly heat, blackheads, blotches,.
freckles, ringworm, sallow complexion, facial
blemishes, scalp disease, scurf in the hair, dand-
ruff, and all forms of childish skin ailments.
m
Soothes,
Softens and Sanitates the Skin
WHEN YOU USE ZAM-BUK SOAP
You have the satisfaction of knowing that your skin is
getting the very best treatment possible, and from the
outset an improvement will be seen. It is a most econ*
omical soap to use, and lasts twice as long as ordinary
toilet soaps.
ZAM-BUK SOAP can be obtained from all medicine
vendors throughout Australasia and New Zealand, or
direct from THE ZAM-BUK MFC. CO., 39 Pitt 8t„ Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
The importing craze in sassiety! N.S.W.
Government Analyst Hamlet, orating on “ food adultera-
tion,” the other-night, said that large quantities of Aus-
tralian white sugar were darkened by the simple process of
burning it a little in order to cater for the demand for
“ Demerara sugar ” on the part of some of the Very Best
People. Imported Demerara sugar looks dirtier than the
Australian article, so clean Australian sugar has to be
dirtied a little to make it pass as imported.
• » * *
She has come—arrived in Sydney —the bona
fide lady money-lender. She does not advertise in the
dailies as a “ Christian lady, to crush, not to assist,” but
boldly she has hung out her sign as one who lends money
on any freehold security. Incidentally, she runs a
registry office and apartment agency—for the conveni-
ence, no doubt, of her more modest clients.
“Cross Nibs”: Collided with an affable old
gent, last week. He butted into me, with a miscellaneous
bundle of questions, chiefly relating to police-stations. I
asstimed my best demeanor, and he unburdened himself
thusly: “I was just robbed down there at that street
cqrner. Two roughs held me up and purloined all my
money and jewellery ; y’r know, I’ve been away from
Sydney this six years, so I’m a stranger in the old
town. Been away in the Islands, collecting orchids
for the Forestry Department.” I told him my route
took me past the police emporium, and if he
desired he could keep step along the asphalt. We
proceeded, and at the first bar we encountered he
stopped, looked at the swing door, and ejaculated,
“ Flasabanaka, reshallota bingardrio lashitarno.” I gazed
at him perplexedly, but the crooked position of his index
finger, and the way he wagged it, left no room for doubt.
He passed in and I followed. He ogled the lady at the
pump, at the same time eulogising her physical charms.
This was followed with another rush of chaotic verbal
noise. The girls looked alarmed, but the mahogany-
visaged person apologised, and said the Kanaka dialect
had grown upon him while down on the Islands toil-
ing for the Forestry Department. Sitting upon a
form, he inquired if I possessed any knowledge of
matters arboreal. I remarked that I could saw wood.
He informed me that the Government was at last awake.
It was taking steps to conserve the timber, and the
landscape would be free of chips for sometime. He
tapped his breast pocket significantly, and allowed me a
brief glance at a bundle of blue papers deposited within.
A young man was required to look after a plantation on
the New England tableland. If he could make a few
depressions in Nature with a pick, and watch leaves
grow on immature plants, he gripped something sub-
stantial with his salary hook. A nice word paper from
himself, to the Minister of Agriculture, presented by the
aforesaid young man would ensure him living closer
to Ben Lomond. This idyllic existence was pro-
curable for a modest 30s. I suggested the advisability
of first recovering his stolen property. “ Blashmatchi
kerookatoo caramofflty,” vociferated the timber expert,
and I subsided. After another call to the bar, I promised
to meet him next day with sufficient metal to purchase
the azure document. The paper in question is a form
issued to applicants for employment in the Civil Service.
So, hearken, ye strangers, and heed not the old sunburnt
gentleman who speaketh in an unknown tongue, and
shouteth with ulterior motives for the verdant young
man.
* * * *
A Melbourne tailor, who travels in the, country
seeking orders, tells of the difficulty he had with Mr.
Flynn, of Rabbit Holes. Mr. Flynn, of Rabbit Holes,
ordered a brown tweed suit to cost £4, and the suit was
made and delivered. Flynn paid a deposit of £l, but
that was all he did pay ; and when next the peripatetic
tailor visited Rabbit Holes he called at Flynn’s. Flynn
was not at home, but Mrs. Flynn admitted the debt. “ It
ain’t no good you botherin’ about it, though,” she said,
and ducked into the kitchen. The tailor called through
the broken pane in the back window saying that he
would- bother, and promising the Flynn family legal
difficulties if the money was not forthcoming. A lawyer’s
letter to Flynn produced no result. The tailor called
again two months later, and failed to see Flynn.
When he visited Rabbit Holes the fourth time he was
resolved to beard Flynn if he had to camp under his
window for a week. He told Mrs. Flynn this from
his perch on the gate-post, and the lady said : “ Oh, plaze
yerself, sorra a wan iv me cares, but it ain’t no good.”
The tailor remained on the post for two hours and a half.
He saw another tall, scrawny, whiskered man come and
go, but he saw nothing of Flynn. After sundown Mrs.
Flynn came forth again. “ Sure, you’d bether be gettin’
back t’ th’ township, me little man,” she said. “ Not till
I see your rascal of a husband, ma’am,” replied the tailor.
“Och,” she said, “I thought it was Flynn you was
wantin’. You can see me husband anny time, but it ain’t
the same husband.” Then the truth struck the tailor
like a falling tree—Flynn was seven months dead, and for
the past three months his widow had been Mrs. Moran.
\ * * »
Some big Australian firms are adopting a labor-
saving device of American origin. The customer’s name
and address being written at the head of an invoice, the
document (alwavs folded one way) is put in an envelope
which has a slit cut in the front. The name looks out of
this window, and all addressing of the envelope is done
away with, and Brown’s bill never gets into Jones’s
envelope. t
A novel way of teaching children their duty to
parents is adopted by an Australian worthy who specialises
on certain food commodities. Not long ago he gave a free
concert for school youngsters, and used the occasion as a
fit one for the booming of certain of his wares—call them
Breakfast Tadpoles. Mounting the platform at the close
of the entertainment, he remarked: “Now, children,
when you are asked who gave you this splendid concert,
remember that it was Mr. Dinwog, who sells Dinwog’s
Unrivalled Breakfast Tadpoles. lam Mr. Dinwog, you
know. You won’t forget the name Dinwog—D-i-n-w-o-g.
And the next time you have tadpoles, for breakfast, you
just say to your mother, ‘ Mother, are these Dinwog’s
Unrivalled Breakfast Tadpoles?’ And if your mother
says ‘ No, my child, these are not Dinwog’s Unrivalled
Breakfast Tadpoles,’ then you say, ‘Well, if they are
not Dinwog’s Unrivalled Breakfast Tadpoles I won’t eat
them.’ Now mind you don’t forget the name Dinwog—
D-i-n-w-o-g! ”
* * * *
Here is the analysis of one of “ the best brands”
of strawberry jelly
Apple juice.. .. .. 45 per cent.
Corn syrup 48 ~
Granulated sugar .. .. 6 ~
Coloring matter .. .. 1 ~
100 „
Where is the strawberry ? Good old moral Commerce,
which builds and endows churches and is the bulwark of
the family circle.
• • » *
The talk about re-afforesting comes late in the
day, and even now it isn’t much more than talk. Melb.
City Council is already driven to accept wood-blocks of
hill-grown messmate for its streets, red-gum and iron-
bark having practically run out.
Re par. (B. 14/2/’O7) that Australia
could do with a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Dressmaker Girls. Seems to me that, thanks to Grind
and Co., it needs a society for the prevention of cruelty
to everything young, poverty-stricken, or defenceless.
The bull-necked Grind, with his coarse, fat fingers, rubs
the bloom off the lives of generations of children, and
poses as a sort of benevolent fairy godmother with
whiskers. He eludes the Factories Act; and the local
curate, noting the blob of affluence dropped into
his cadging dish, would as soon think of connecting
his bishop with bigamy, as the drapery joss with anything
not eminently respectable. Grind does a roaring trade
in children in Victoria’s second-best towns. He employs
boys (as a great favor), and works them from 7.30 a.m.
till 6 p.m., except on Saturdays, when he keeps them
delivering ponderous parcels till about midnight. He
allows no tram fares, and pays them ss. till for very
shame’s sake they are due for a rise. Then he sacks
them, and engages a fresh batch. One youngster, with
two years’toil behind him, was recently sent at closing
time to deliver a bundle as big as himself somewhere on
the outskirts. There was no one at home when the
kid and the bundle knocked at the door, and
the kid waited an hour in the rain before limping
away to bed with the white boy’s burden. Grind didn’t
take an active part in the sacking process on Monday ;
it was the deputy assistant counterjumper-general who
bad to tell the youngster to go and get his money.
Then another kid went and told a wearied mother that
he’d “got the bullet.”
* * * *
“ Stony ” : I have arrived at the conclusion that
things are becoming - rather tight in the Melbourne liquor
trade now that the Licensing Act is getting in its work.
Three incidents have lately happened which go to show
that the publican sees his finish and is trying to make all
he can before he finally passes into the unknown. I went
one day to that place in Elizabeth-street where Patricia
toils. There they wanted to give me 9s. change out of a
sov., allowing for drinks of self and pal—one drink each.
Next day I went round to the “No Robbery Hotel,” in
Swanston-street, and left my change on the counter as I
went out. When I came back for it the barman was just
planting it—“ keepin’ it fer me,” he said. On the third
day the most serious incident occurred, when I went into
the very respectable pub. run by Mrs. Dolly Doublets, in
Little Oollins-street. There the maid rang up sixpence
for a 3d. drink, which was such a serious mistake that I
went home and wrote a letter to the Argus. I beg'in to
think that the publican, as well as Mr. Jurrall, is due for
a fair meed of public contempt.
* * * *
Jones, after considerable trouble, had secured a
billet in O’Brien’s store at Bargolong. O’Brien rarely
spoke to his men, and they rarely knew how to take him
when he did. One morning O’Brien strolled into his
emporium, and the first man he encountered on the floor
was Jones. “ Good marnin’, Mr. Jones. You look spick
and span this marnin’, Mr. Jones!” “It is only busi-
ness, Mr. O’Brien;” said Jones; “of course, we hands
must keep up appearances as well as wfe can. “Quite
roight!” said O’Brien ; “ quite roight! And how long
have you been wid me now, Mr. Jones?” “Three
weeks, Mr. O’Brien,” said Jones. “Dear me!” said
O’Brien ; “ only three weeks ? And I seem to have known
you for months. You’re a foine man, Mr. Jones, a very
foine man indade ! ” Visions of a half-crown rise floated
before Jones, who said he was very pleased that he had
succeeded in giving satisfaction. “I am perfectly satis-
fied, Mr. Jones,’’said O’Brien ; “in fact, I mightsay I niver,
in all my experience of min, had a man who suited roe
betther.” Jones here began to think it would be a crown,
at least. “ And you’ve only bin wid me three weeks?”
continued O’Brien. “ Just three w'eeks, sir,” answered
Jones, “Will, will. Mr. Jones, you’re a grand man, and
thoroughly understand the business ; and—will, will, I
doan’t know,” Jones here fancied the old man was going
to take him into partnership right away. “ There’s only
wan thing, Mr. Jones, I doan’t like about it arl; and that
is— me son Mick has taken a dislike to ye.” “I can’t
think in what I have offended Michael,” said Jones,
“ and I’m sure I’d be very sorry indeed to do so.” “ Will,
will,” said O’Brien, “ I can’t explain, Jones, because I
nivir inquired ; but the fact remains that Mick doan’t
like ye, and go ye must on Saturday noight.” Jones
went.
The following inventory of advertisements,
appearing on a Victoriah suburban railway station which
used to be passed by T. Bent on his way to work every
morning, may possibly explain his anxiety to get the
Licensing Act made law :
(1) Railway Time-Table.
(2) Drink only Usher’s Whisky.
(3) Boomerang Brandy as supplied to the King.
(4) Oowana (New Tannin Compound).
(5) Velvet Soap.
(6) Pure Grape Brandy.
(7) Theatre Royal advt.
(8) Dawson’s Special Scotch.
(9) Bent on having Continental Tyres.
10 Beale Pianos made in Australia.
(11) Teamsters Quenching Thirst .on Boomerang
Brandy.
(12) Melbourne Punc Cartoons, &c.
(13) Nydia Groping tor Velvet Soap.
(14) Chateau Chablis Wine.
(15) Mitchell’s Old Irish Whisky.
(16) Boomerang Brandy.
(17) “ I Hear They Want More Bovril.”
(18) Robur Te i You Must Drink It.
(19) Carlton Ale and Stout.
* * * *
“ G.T.’ : : Got a letter to-day. Opened it.
Out fell a cutting from a daily paper anent a comet.
Then I found a note pinned to an account. The note
read as follows :
“ Dear Sir,—As you will observe by the enclosed
cutting, a comet is shortly expected to strike the earth,
causing the most fearful and awful damage. Though it
would be rather presumptuous on my part to say that all
will be destroyed, yet we must admit the truth of the Scrip-
tural quotation which tells us that “ In the midst of life
we are in death,” and we all know the immense advan-
tage of going down to the grave having the full know-
ledge within us of a spotless and clear conscience, a con-
science that is, or rather —well, a conscience that has
discharged all liabilities in the matter of its creditors.
To that end, therefore, I beg to enclose my account, and
I trust you can conveniently meet payment of the same
by or towards the end of the present month. Should the
worst happen, however, I hope your end may be marked
by peace and tranquillity.—Yours, Thomas Snip, Tailor.”
I didn’t take much stock in the comet before, but now I
guess I’ll wait. It may kill the tailor.
• * * *
A new idea is to use the cheaper sponges,
specially prepared, in place of flock and kapok, in mat-
tress and pillow-stuffing. For this purpose Americans are
using sponges got on the Florida coast. Australia may
thus find another use for the coast that, for some reasons,
it seems to have rather too much of at present.
“W.P.”: The art of professing to teach the
young office-aspirant how-to lick postage stamps, address
envelopes, &c., has scooped in guineas galore for certain
enterprising individuals. The parental delusion that
Willie in the business college can learn more than Willie
in the office is shrewdly preserved by business college
proprietors. Perspiring parents, with plump girls and
school-sick boys, block up the pavement outside business
colleges waiting their turn to see the “ principal.” The
principal, who occupies a room walled by business
manuals, and who always looks awe-inspiringly busy,
assures pa and ma that their offspring, after a ihorough
college training, can’t help securing remunerative
positions. If a two years’ course is taken, he
thoughtfully points out, a reduction of a pound
or so will be made in the fees. The principal
collects the fees in advance, and then it doesn’t much
matter if Willie “plays the wag” or Fanny stops at
home. Pupils are first taught how to press-copy fictitious
letters, answer mock telephones, and to address
envelopes. The business college boasts of a bank, where
the pupils deposit harmless coins and draw cheques for
alarming amounts. When the novice learns to work the
simple typewriter, be is permitted to acquire actual
experience by typing manuscripts, for which the proprie-
tors pocket payment at regulation rates. At the end of
his business course the pupil is presented with a gorgeous
diploma, signed in the principal’s holy handwriting and
fearfully sealed. Then an advt. intimates that a graduate
of Bluff's business establishment will give his or her
(mostly her) services free in return for clerical experience
THE SUMMER SALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The firm of Shoddy, Rags and 00.
Are famous for their large assortment
Of fripperies, their Summer Show,
And Twigg’s (shopwalker’s) grand deportment.
One day they close for “ taking stock ”
A busy day for window-trimmers —
The doors swing wide, the buyers flock,
The fair sex with excitement simmers.
I often think, when passing there,
The ladies’ dream of Paradise is
A huge celestial Summer Fair,
Where things are sold at bargain prices—
A sort of Shoddy, Rags and Co.,
Who sell,-in their extensive heaven,
Seal coats at two-and-nine or so,
And Paris hats at one-and-seven !
VIC.
O. G. A. COLLES.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
e ’he LEADING
HOUSE —•
CANT
B
BEAT
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more
Our SPECIAL SNAP
m
mmm
iM
warns,
UHUUMiI
Best Selected SilKworm Gut.
Hand Polished.
The “RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., 9d. ; Padron No. 1,16 in., Is 3d; Havana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
Nl-328 Sparrow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
Bridles
mm
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
RrMthinl 6 H^r«l« s ak 7' thlS medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Comnl^ r ° Sor “ eSS Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
ettects a Compk e Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic nor Consumption to develop Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs" have been properly treated with tiffs medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations 2 The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/S; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc || y .
IMOTICE. -Hearne ® Bronch,t,s Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning; of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most arecd person.
(£ f° r
rfUSE
||T^
nP
fit
m j
Disinfecting
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRAGRANT,
NON.-’OJSCNOUS.
1 /“
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable in all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “ SANITAS ” 00., .
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
mmmghm
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making 1 our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of ■ Cl, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase tK- number
of our customers, without addingtoour expenses, by awarding as prizes mar , thousand
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO
pounds’ worth of
DO.
ghj
5
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same fio-ure There is
n w C ? r v reCt^ a /°!v, So L vinB '. this puzzle ’ wbich - if >’ ou discover, entitles you to a
Watch and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in®“ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
„ Wlll be t “ < ?"® stl v v awarded and promptly sent. When sending- yonr solution to this puzzle, mention
whether you would like Lady sor Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm The distance
mnV nl qt !H e T y f f rom Sy j ney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this nuzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you six dozen of the most artistic penny picture post cards you have
Everybody wants picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own
use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you
a Solid o SiiverWntfil thU s ''T B ' eb d ° uWe the value for the money you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Watch. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
_!^!- >SPQN & CO., Angel Place, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NO CERTAINTY without
RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF lager beer
ALL LEADING HOTELS. - *®
Pure and Wholesome.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write -For
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE :
STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAILi A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Will cure
The worst cases
Of Skin
Disease
From a
Common Pimple
On the Face
To that awful
Disease
Scrofula.
Try a bottle
To-day.
vnvv^mwrnm
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
j
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and sb-.ws
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
lul book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I willalsp include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifet.i nm.
Write to-day. Address—
mm jgh
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, U 9 Pitt St., SydneJT
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. The Bulletin Office, Sydney


z
55
l
Consumption.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Bote the name “Hunyadi Jan 'B,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and he Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
0
Q
WARD
TABLES.
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
Icomplete catalogue, which will be
mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOT:
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE I OR N.S.W.
263 George Street, Sydney
LIFE , ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus, V. H. BAXTER. SHtAL
NATURE.
When a person suffers from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemicz
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
SUck Headache
it is but Nature’s warning that the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
are not efficiently doing their duty.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys, are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but, if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins con-
taminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand
until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brickdust, is of an unnatural color, or
has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be
taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric
poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are aotually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. < The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we
suffer from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia,
Jaundice, Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding a
medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [l2]
Amoris Amor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE mellow moon’s a-roving
Along the shining sky,
And the restless forest’s moving
With a mysterious sigh;
And the water’s face is fire,
And in my heart desire,
For the time has come for loving,
Alone, alone am I.
I hear the black bats whirring
From tree to tree obscurely ;
Some fire-spark flashes erring
Where heaven’s calm arch gleams purely,
And all things find and follow
By hill and dale and hollow,
The vision in them stirring—
Mine, mine, it waiteth surely !
O, whither shall I follow
This star-voice sweet that calls
Till, swift-winged as the swallow,
I take no heed of walls ?
O, where on earth’s face art thou ?
Swift come thou, or depart thou,
For life is dry and hollow
If other fortune falls !
And what is this that rakes me
With mingled joy and sorrow?
What fiery passion shakes me
Until from sleep I’d borrow
Lethe, and then so fierce
A dream of thee doth pierce
My spirit that it wakes me
Unto a barren morrow ?
O, how in all earth’s mazes
The one clue shall I find
That brings me whither blazes
The star that lights my mind ?
Sweet star, and art thou waking
In this great undertaking
Wherein a grim fate dazes
The eyes of all mankind ?
I am filled with ice and fire,
I dream of hell and heaven,
And, mad with wild desire,
I burn from morn till even ;
Great thoughts beyond my power
Flash in me hour by hour,
And death’s a proven liar,
For the gates of heaven are riven !
Stone-bosomed mountains standing,
Grim pillars of the night;
Ye moon-white waters branding
The sombre world with light—
Give me your strength and sweetness
That, crowned with all completeness,
may find its landing,
Nor fail in such a flight.
O sweet, most sweet, dost hear me ?
Dost dream I hold thee fast ?
Thou winged splendor, bear me
With all the power thou hast,
Swifter than sky-fire lightens,
To where her window whitens.
The cold, grey mountains stare me,
And the mellow moon’s gone past.
HARRY SULLIVAN.
The Search.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAR out on the blue, unshadowed waters
of the Pacific five people—four men and a
woman—drifted in an open boat.
Of the little company only one was really con-
scious, and even he had lost count of the long,
shadowless days and endless nights of their drift-
ing. His mind, straying back and forth, focussed
no definite thought, beyond the frightful craving
for food by which he was beset. He sat, his great
length huddled forward in the stern of the boat,
and gazed with a cat-like intensity at the woman.
lUs eyes held the demoniacal light that comes
only to the eyes of the starving. All day long
they had watched her, never shifting their cruel
gaze for a moment.
Eor her the door of life had almost closed. She
lay with her head resting awkwardly on the seat
from which she had slipped. Her eyes were shut,
and through her parched, white lips came, rarely,
a tiny, fluttering breath to tell of the life still
struggling there.
She and the man had been fellow passengers in
the steerage. He had shown her a rough friend-
ship, and it was to him she owed her safety now,
if safety it might be called. But he had forgotten
this; he had forgotten everything except that
voice within himself.
The other occupants of the boat lay about in
varying degrees of stupor—two sailors, their wide
eyes staring vacantly upon the wastes of glistening
blue that never lessened, and a young saloon
passenger who was wrapped in almost as deep an
oblivion as the woman’s. He wore no coat; and
one gaunt arm, flung upwards across his face f
shielded it from the pitiless glare.
The sun sank westward slowly, balanced a
moment on the rim of the horizon, and sent forth
his rays, all many-colored, into the white haze of
his own reflection. Then he slipped into the deep
waters.
The twilight faded, and a star or two came out
above the drifting boat where the man still
watched. Darkness gathered. The man moved,
shot out a cautious hand, uncertainly at first,
because in the gloom the woman was no longer
clearly visible. The hand found her neck, and
clutched it fiercely. There was a faint, gasping
sigh, and all was still again.
That night four men tasted food after many
days of fasting.
* * * *
Callender jumped out of the 6.5 train from Port
Adelaide, strolled across the station, and emerged
upon North Terrace. He paused there, looking
round on the hurrying crowd, and in his eyes
there was the interest of one who has been very
far away from life and has returned to it almost
by a miracle.
Callender’s return was over a fortnight old now,
but he still felt a thrill of slow, wondering delight
at sight of the bustle and traffic of the city. Even
the blundering, yellow horse-car that passed
across the space of light at the corner of King
William-street seemed like a valued friend. He
had so nearly left it all, and in doing so had
proved the truth of the ancient platitude that to
value a thing we must lose it first. He had been
lost; and lo 1 his value had increased tenfold.
Everybody had been kind to him since his
return, and someone had been especially kind.
He smiled across at the lights on Montefiore Hill,
and suddenly remembered that in another coi pie
of hours he would be due at the Andersons’, wnere
he shrewdly suspected he had been invited for her
sake. He laughed joyously to himself, and with
buoyant step crossed the road to the club for
dinner.
A score of friendly voices greeted his appear-
ance, and several acquaintances would have made
room for him among them ; but he shook his head
and kept on to the end of the room, where two
men sat at a little table. He was rather tired of
notoriety.
All men are inwardly melodramatic, and, even
after a fortnight, the sight of Callender was
enough to set the tongues of his acquaintances
wagging on the one subject he would have given
worlds to forget. His nerves were still far from
normal, and the knowledge that to these men the
nightmare he had endured was nothing but a
harrowing story of excitement and disaster, made
him shrink from their alleged sympathy.
Down at the end of the room, Engel and
Cowperthwaite were waiting for him.
“ Callender ! Callender ! ” exclaimed Engel,
• imitating the manner of their mutual chief.
“Callender —late again. You are ex—actly
9 7-13 minutes late for your—appointment, and
—how often—have —l told you that punctuality
is the thief of time ? Be punctual or die, Callen-
der, I beg of you.”
“Shut up, you owl,” observed Callender, “ and
permit me to gaze on the programme of events,
will you ? I happen to want some dinner.”
Cowperthwaite passed the menu, and a little
friendly advice.
“ Try the schnapper, Jim ? It’s Al,” he said.
“Look at the giddy old epicure devouring the
list, Engel ? You can’t go better than the schnap-
per, Jim. Try it?”
Callender did not look up.
“I’ve tasted schnapper before,” he said,
absently. His friends jeered.
“ Never ! ” they said. “ Jim, you’re a bloom-
ing marvel.”
Callender gave his order to a waiter, then
turned to join in the laugh against himself.
“ There’s no doubt I have become a giddy epi-
cure, as you are pleased to term it, since——
That is, lately.’’ Then he felt moved to a sudden
confidence. “ Eact is, I’m engaged upon a
search.”
“ Cherohez la femme?” suggested Engel flip-
pantly.
“ No, cherchez la fish. I don’t know
whether there’s some particular glamor about
food when you’re starving, but, the night
before we were picked up, Hensen caught some
fish. I’ve told you about Hensen—the chap who
kept his head so splendidly when the rest of us
were pretty well dead to the world. Ha caught
some fish. Goodness knows how he managed it
—made a kind of net with his coat, and dragged
it in, so he said afterwards, but I doubt if he
really knew himself. Anyhow, he kept us alive
on it till help came. I was off my head at the
time, but I’ll remember the taste of that fish till
the end of my days. I’ve had fish luncheons for a
fortnight, but I’ve never struck the same kind. The
peculiar part of it is that I have a strange sort of
craving for it sometimes. I suppose that is just
nerves or some rot. I’m rather curious to know
what it could have been.”
‘‘Shark, perhaps,” suggested Engel;but Cowper-
thwaite glanced across at his friend somewhat
sharply, and, with an affectation of weariness,
changed the subject.
“How many of you were there in the boat,
Callender?” he asked, yawning.
“ Only the four of us—Hensen, the two sailors
and myself.”
“Urn ! Pretty small cargo under the circum-
stances, wasn’t it ? Isn’t it a wonder you weren’t
more crowded ?”
Callender looked up.
“Why, yes; I suppose it is,” he said, slowly.
“ The fact is, my memory is pretty hazy over the
whole affair. There may have been more in the
beginning for all I know. And now I come to
think of it, I remember —a woman. Hensen was
looking after her, and he gave her his coat; and I
—she must have died—l suppose—before—l can’t
remember. I wonder w'hy—l—didn’t think of
her —before. Poor beggar ! I didn’t mention
her before, did I ? I can’t remember.”
“Don’t try, old chap,” advised Engel, easily.
“It’ll be giving you the blues. Here, let's fill
up and drink to the success of your search.
Callender, Cowperthwaite, ‘ The Search ’ ! ”
He jumped to his feet, followed by Callender,
who laughed a trifle hysterically as he drank his
wine.
Cowperthwaite watched him for a moment,
raised his glass to his lips, then put it down again
without drinking. In fact he. almost seemed to
hudder.


DON’T NEGLECT THAT ACHING BACK.
Backache is Really
Kidney Ache.
Backache is really kidney ache :
the ache comes from the kidneys,
which lie just beneath the small of
the back. When the back is weak
and lame—when it “ cricks ” if you
turn sharply or stoop—when it
burns with a burning ache, and
keeps you awake half the night—
when you cannot bend without a
stab-like pain taking you—when it
makes hard work of the least task
—give your kidneys help at once in
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Doan’s Pills are a Special Kidney
and bladder medicine; they give
strength and tone to the kidneys
themselves, and so cure the cause
of backache, gravel, rheumatic
pains, watery swellings in the
ankles and beneath the eyes, urin-
ary troubles, dizzy spells, pains in
the limbs, spots before the eyes,
sallow complexion, etc.
X
x
1
Every Picture Tells
ci Story.”
When the Kidneys are ill,
the whole body is ill.
A SYDNEY MAN’S
LASTING CURE.
Mr. John Moronev, Ham and Beef Shop, 228
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, says:—“About eighteen
months ago I began to suffer with backache, and got a
feeling in the small of my back as if I had a growth
there, or as if some foreign substance had lodged there.
It did not show outwardly, but troubled me more than
you would suppose. I could not lie in bed with com’
fort. I saw in the paper that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills had cured a man I know, and one day I asked him
for the full particulars of his case. He told me he had
been very bad, and this remedy cured him, and strongly
advised me to try it. I did use them, and have not
much to say beyond that they cured me also ; the back-
ache and the unpleasant sensation have quite gone. I
strongly recommend the use of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills to all who suffer with backache. 1 hear
good reports about them on all sides, and if anybody
calls to see me, I will be pleased to give fuller particu-
lars of my case.”
Seven years after the above testimonial was given,
Mr. Moroney says:—“Thanks to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, I am still well and free of backache.
This remedy cured me seven years ago, and I’ve not
had the slightest return of the ailment since.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.) or direct
from Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. W.
nr DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PIUS
“ Look here, you chaps,” he said, getting up,
“ time flies, and I must be off. So long.”
He passed into the vestibule, took down his
hat, and walked absently away.
“ That’s a pretty tall yarn about the net,” he
said to himself. “ And a woman ! Poor devil! ”
In his rooms a little later he hunted among a
confusion of books and papers until he found an
old green volume that had seen many years’ ser-
vice. Turning its pages for nearly half an hour,
he came at last upon the following paragraph :
Investigation has proved beyond a doubt that men
who have tasted human flesh rarely lose the flavor of it,
and are visited at times by a craving for it that no other
food can satisfy. The Maori tribes were, down to a
recent period, systematic feeders on human flesh. It is
to be observed that these people were the most highly
developed aboriginal race with which European civilisa-
tion has come in contact.
* * 9
At 8 o’clock Callender started gaily out in
the direction of North Adelaide. Along King
William-road the plane trees were casting their
summer foliage, and here and there, where
the light fell upon them, he could see the
yellow leaves drifting in a long line towards
the river. His eyes followed them a sently
for a little while till the river took them.
Then he*gazed on the silent moonlit waters with
a sudden shiver of recollection. With a cowardice
he was unable to conquer, he turned and hurried
in the opposite direction. A feeling of panic
seized him, and he rushed on, with a medley of
half-conscious memories throbbing in his brain.
Again, the moonlit waste of sea and the moonlit
expanse of sky enfolded him, and he drifted—
drifted through the endless nights and days. The
face of the man Hensen rose before him. Then
he looked up to see the plane trees in a long pro-
cession rushing past, their gaunt arms flung to
the quiet sky. Then a building loomed before
him, and the familiar outline of it recalled his
senses. He stopped. He had come back as far
as the City Baths, and he looked about him
wonderingly, a little dazed at first, because it was
difficult to compose his thoughts. The friendly
lights, the bustle and noise of traffic brought
reassurance, and he began to laugh at his own
cowardice. Why should he fear the mere sight of
a moon reflected on the water ?
His late arrival won pardon from his hostess,
but someone else was not so easily appeased. For
half-an-hour he found it impossible to get near
her, and when she finally condescended to turn
in his direction she greeted him with indolent
surprise.
“You here?” she said.
“I —I was late,” explained Callender, lamely.
She raised her eyebrows.
“Really,” she said, with the inane politeness
of an acquaintance.
Callender winced.
In bygone days he had been a confident person,
but lately all his world had been turned topsy-
turvey, and he found it difficult to regain his
poise. He was anxious to justify himself in the
girl’s eyes, and at the same time to let her know
him thoroughly—all his depths of cowardice and
foolishness —and so, in a moment, he found himself
explaining.
“I started to walk over,” he said, looking
straight into her eyes, “ but when I reached the
bridge, the water made me feel rather queer. It
looked like the moonlight on the sea. It was
idiotic, of course, but I bolted for my life out of
the sight of it. Things comeback to you so—aud-
it made me late, you see. I caught a car across
afterwards.”
The girl’s eyes softened with sudden sympathy.
“ Ah ! you poor boy,” she said.
She was very kind to him after that, and Cal-
lender, beautifully oblivious of what his hostess
might expect of him, beautifully oblivious also of
the dark looks of his rivals, kept close to her all
the evening. He even regained some of his old
self-confidence after a while, and, tired of the
surging crowds about them, drew her out into the
garden.
“ Now it is my turn,” he said.
The girl paused on the verandah steps and
laughed at him.
‘‘Now? Why, it generally is your turn, isn’t
it, Jim ?” she said.
Then Callender lost his head—or else found it
—and they became very happy.
* * * *
In the supper-room her little court surrounded
Kathleen again, but this time Callender could
afford to be generous, and when he had supplied
her wants he yielded to a virtuous impulse and
devoted himself to his hostess.
Ten minutes later he heard the crash of breaking
glass, a great babel of exclamations, and out of it
Kathleen’s voice saying—“ Why, how absurd!
It’s bleeding.”
Callender’s impulses of politeness vanished
suddenly, and he pushed his way through the
crowd to her side.
“What is it? What is the matter?” he ex-
claimed. “ Damn you ” —he became almost
hysterical—“can’t you let me through, you fools!”
The men about her made room for him in some
astonishment, and he discovered Kathleen criti-
cally surveying the ruin of her gown.
She looked up as he reached her.
“ Why, what a fuss about nothing ! ” she said.
“My dear man, don’t be so excited. I acci-
dentally knocked down my glass, and there was
some other breakage in trying to save it, that’s
all. Oh, yes ! and I cut my hand ; but lam still
alive, you see.”
She laughed, and held out a white, ungloved
hand with a dainty handkerchief wrapped round
it. Callender, oblivious of everything else, bent
over it tenderly, and removed the flimsy, blood-
stained covering. He was almost going to kiss
it, but Kathleen, embarrassed by the curious eyes
around her, drew it away a little irritably.
“ Oh ! it is nothing at all,” she declared, “ and
I must really go and do something to my frock.”
She hurried towards the door, and Callender
was left behind, the little blood-stained trophy
in his hand. The other men moved away, and
little by little began to leave the supper-room,
until all were gone but himself.
He stood where they had left him, near the
table, still clutching Kathleen’s handkerchief,
but no longer conscious that he did so. His eyes
stared at the half-dismantled supper table. All at
once there had come rushing over him a sensation
that set his pulses throbbing with a medley of re-
collection. The craving he had spoken of had
seized him again, but this time there came with
it a strange feeling of certainty that it would be
satisfied here and now —that his search was at an
end. He crept to the door and closed it cau-
tiously ; and, with the cunning of an animal, stole
round the room tasting every dish with an almost
fiendish anticipation. He even hunted desperately
on all fours under tables and chairs, when the
dishes failed to yield the expected delicacy. But
it was all without success.
He put his hand up to his face, and the sensa-
tion returned upon him more powerfully than
ever. He removed the hand, stared at it, and
saw in it Kathleen’s little, crumpled handker-
chief. He looked at it without realising what it
was, shook it out, and raised it to his lips. Then,
with a sudden cry of understanding, he threw it
away from him.
Even then he did not fully realise the meaning
of it all at once, and he went over and stooped
at ive the handkerchief, and stared at it. It was
Ktthleen’s blood that had set this craving at work
within him—the craving for the food he had tasted
after the wreck ! And the food—Hensen said he
had caught some fish ! But there had been a
woman—and he could not remember.
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.
“07.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE nearer camp-fires lighted,
The distant beacons bright—
The Horsemen on the Skyline
Are closing in to-night!
My brothers, O my brothers !
Lie down and rest at last—
The Years of Reparation
Have rushed upon us fast.
Oh, ride and ride, you riders
Who rode ere I was born !
While blink and blink the star-dust
That blinks before the morn !
And glow and glow, you camp-fires,
And flash, you beacons bright !
They’re riding round the wronged ones
And riding round the right !
My brothers, O my brothers !
With dried and haggard eyes,
In gaol for just blows stricken—
In gaol for women’s lies !
Lie down and pace no longer,
But bathe your eyes in tears,
For Years of Retribution
That shall be seven years.
Their lovers and believers ;
Their sweethearts, sisters, wives;
Their daughters, sons and mothers—
The true friends of their lives !
Hold up your heads and firmly
Look down the Crooked Seers !
Tor Years of Justifying
That shall be seven years.
Inventors, artists, poets !
Exiled or driven mad,
Brain-sweated, sneered at, slandered.
And driven to the bad !
Take up the tools of genius,
Freed from all paltry fears,
For Seasons of Repayment
That shall be seven years.
Oh, ride and ride, you riders,
That rode when I was born
Against a ghastly Skyline
Beneath a storm-cloud torn !
I watched you through my childhood,
I saw the whip and spur,
No spy-glass could detect you,
But I knew what you were!
Oh, ride and ride, my riders,
And flash my birth-star bright!
The youth I never dreamed of
Is with me here to-night!
The hearing, strength, and vision,
The will to do and dare,
The love I ever longed for
Is round me everywhere.
Dead Friendship—ah ! Dead Friendship,
Rise up and breathe again—
I ride my rounds re-honored
Along the ranks of men.
My old mates, 0 my old mates,
Who fought the cur and brute—
My Horsemen from the Skyline
Are drawn up to salute !
My Dead Love, O my Dead Love
Who died for love of me—
Who sleeps amongst the poets
Since five years sobbed the sea !
Since five years blackened honor
And cramped and warped the pen—
There’s glory to your spirit
And laurel leaves again.
My enemies, the causeless,
Of vicious mysteries,
Or mad with jealous madness—
Or for the cowards’ fees—
Fear ye my Cypher Seven;
For seven years to run—
The number set by Heaven
When Heaven’s will is done !
So ride and ride, my riders,
And ride for men and me,
Ride close round madness yonder
And blackest treachery!
Oh ! ride round little children
That sleep through all and smile ;
At daybreak I will lead you—
Now I must rest a while.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
m«
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
If you are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Eemember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Aver’s P'lls cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
,
w '
SQHVO JLSOa
3IJSIJJV P«V
[OlO3
S'
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and wo will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with vou again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
RE-GAL POST CARD Co., 8.K.; Pitt-st., Sydney
PATERNOSTER’S
■■ PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
mi
VW
'// / x
W/Z
AXX
/»>J\\W
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simplv drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
nev. Live , and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this pape'r.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6c’. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin- oflice. Bs l .
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
m jgh
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DE3ILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
L
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney,
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
one Interested,
Address: A. MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
C/je "World’s jtfediciqe
for Weak Stomaclj, Jrepaired J)/gestion,
Jrjacfive Slyer, arid all ffilious ar\d
ffervous disorders.
BEECH AM’S
BILES.
A few doses of BEECH AM’S PILLS act thoroughly upon
the vital organs. They cleanse, strengthen and restore
the system to a healthy condition. They drive all im-
purities from the blood and rid the stomach and bowels
of poisonous gases. They give tone to the digestive
organs and enable the food properly to assimilate.
Appetite returns and sleep is sound and refreshing.
BEECHAM’S PILLS do all this without the aid of any
other medicine. Toey have a great sale because they
make great cures. They cure because they are a great
medicine. They recommend themselves. You will
recommend them after use.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price Vl\ (56 pills) & 2 9 (168 pills).
If You wisli to Realise
,-;wafaWlW.ir- • i. 'Mi'iftagMBDWMWMaMMMMWMWB—BBMB——auiaMgaBBMMW>
TOP PRICES
send your .• •
Rabbit iSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
I I ■■■iiiihXO
HILL, CLARK (Q. CO.,
SYDNEY.
DR. 1. DOLUS BROWNE’S
C hloropyme
Caution- —-Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS. COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, ifee. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWM€
THK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, ls9r>, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chjlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of s tuple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMADirS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
E'l TES. Sold by all Chemists.
THE BALLET GIBL
mm
m gh
m ghj
m ghj
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Li
Madame
Box 913, G
sts of Books and Sovelties
Panza,
.P. 0., SYDNEY.
m j
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name l*F~
MIDY
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SY33WJHY.
ON THE HOP ! —3OO of Hop’s ” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m,
'fc:
men
AND
WOMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 dally.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOH.
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., alid
from all booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent nie'dical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Fluet ations, with Beautifu! Four-Cclued
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical w o'ik published. It, is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical hooks advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has veer been published.
CPCC A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 iliust rations and colon ri plate,
giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIHD OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). iISP /Vote Address : , v ,
DR. MARTBN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing-.
“Elmley House, ”
5/ Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


OILSKINS
For Yashting, Fishing, Camping, &c.
“ Oilclad ’> Brand (Single through) .. 10/6
“Titan” Brand (Double through) .. 12/6
“ Dugong” Brand (Double through),
extra light.. 17/6
Sou'-Westers .. .. ... .. .. 1/9
\ (Black or Yellow).
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES ON REQUEST.
Perdriau Rubber Co.,
270 C2orge Street, Sydney.
HYPNOTISM-
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions ; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF, M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
m jgh
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill lor
Mines or Quarries; Weight about 181b*. Operated bv compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rook Drills.
iSS£ii~W. & J. LEMPRIERE
606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST.* SYDNEY.
Sold
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 V 2-BIjADE
“ PAM PA,"
Cocoa Handle IIC
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
gh
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPfI’
POCKET
KNnfES
are the
BEST.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
6*
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR
NORTON EMERY WHEEL COMPANY,
v •• ft- , \ £ ?y . '-f ' ■ r • " • J ;
WORCESTER , M4SS.
A Large Stock of Various Grades on Hand.
WRITE FOR PRICES
AND PARTICULARS.
ltd.
■
I
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
.MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVe IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
Motor Car
mjhj
Made by the
Siluertouin Rubber go.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
gh
m
QBE CRUSHER
HAND or
POWER.
THE HAND MACHINE rs invaluable
for Laboratory Work «
THE POWER SIZE will grind
2 to 3 cwt. per hour .
Winding ENGINES
Of Superior Design and x
Workmanship.
Single and Double Cylinder.
From 5 to 12 Cylinders.
We can give you Good Value and Satisfaction,
N. GUTHRIDGE. Ltd
*, • >
■J
263 GEOBGE^STREET,
