

DE'WAR’S the WHISKY
lE®, a. oo.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—von
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES. BUTLDKIta ajto GENERAL IRONMONUKEY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
LARGE STOCKS OK HAND.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
HOBART.
fjadley’s Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.l.udowici & Son. Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents
for Portable
nod Fixed..
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
SIMPLE INSTANTLY STARTED ECONOMICAL.
"Take it back,
I must have -
MUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON *
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
*
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security,
Prompt Settlements.
Now South Wales Branch I
14 Spring: St-, Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wants. 151
ate, IdaUfcu)
HOSE.
For DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM, OR ROCK DRILLS.
Sond Your Enquiries and ORDERS to —
Work* »*—
BU.VERTOWN,
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
ESSEX, enqland. Telephone no*. 882, 2435. 279 Ceorge Street, Sydney, H.B.W.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTINC
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
30 PITT SXIIEIEIX, S-3TX>3ST3Ea'Sr.
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabb»t*Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (law* Patters).
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
AL
CH
COCOA
is the Queen of all Cocoas
l Aroma,Strength t'Piirity:
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
n r m
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES*
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Ceelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery,
HELIDON SPA WATER.
Warm Carbonic Acid Gas is unpalatable.
Helidon Spa should be iced.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
V01.28.—N0. 1453.]
[Thursday,. December Id, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission ly Post as a Newspaper.


RECENT NOVELS.
THE TRACKS WE TREAD,
A New Zealand Romance,
c , , r , . ' b.v 4 , tt. 15. LANCASTER, author of “The Spur,”
Sons of Men cloth 3s. 6dL, postage 6«i. 1
EDWARD DYSON’S Most Popular Work. A New Edition
in iiiup picture.wrapper,- Is., postage 3d. v
A BLACK SILK STOCKING, by BRODA REYNOLDS, with six illus. ; cloth gilt
’ 3s. 6d., postage Gd.
Australian Stories by W. G. HENDERSON; cloth
gilt 3s. 6d., postage 6d-
GEORGE RODZDTSON & CO., PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
THE GOLDEN SHANTY.
MIDNIGHT’S DAUGHTER.
MELBOURNE’S
NEW WEEKLY,
u
yy
THREEPENCE PER COPY.
“It Melbourne.had one paper that supported Austra-
lian Federation up to the haft, that put its hoot on State-
ism, and that didn’t mistake Bent for Oincinnatus ....
then there would be ructions in Melbourne. —Bulletin,
?9/8/’O7. .' ~
The writer of the foregoing paragraph must surely have
been accorded a peep into ..the future, for in it he has
described, with marvellous fidelity, the policy of Mel-
bourne’s new weekly,'
“ COMMENTS,”
the first issue of which will cause “ructions” throughout
Australasia on February 27, 1908.
Meanwhile the Editor will be pleased to consider con-
tributions in the shape of short stories, sketches, verse,
articles, paragraphs, drawings, and photographs, from
any and all sources. An Australian tale (about 70,000
words) suitable for serial publication, is also desired. All
matter submitted will be acknowledged in Correspondence
Column, and must be accompanied by name and address
of sender. Should its return be desired if unsuitable, it
must also be accompanied by stamps sufficient to defray
postage ; otherwise it will be destroyed. Accepted
matter will receive prompt and liberal payment. All
communications strictly confidential.
Address Contributions (and let-A
ters relating thereto) : The | i
Editor of “ Comments ”
Address Business Communica-
tions (with regard to subscrip-
tions, advertisements, etc.):
The Manager of “ <
c/o The Falcon Press,
15 Burns Lane,
Melbourne.
To Authors, Artists, anti Occasional Writers : Send us
of your best. We will pay you the highest rates.
To Advertisers: Get in touch with our advertising
department. We are going to “ boom.”
To the General Public : Watch for us, and buy us regu-
larly. We will be absolutely the best threepenny
paper on earth.
«A1)133M M3M
s.SM^noaisw
“Comments”
PER ANNUM, 13/=.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.
A GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF AUSTRALIAN BUTTER-
FLIES, by W. J. RAINBOW, F.L.S., F.E.S.,
Entomologist to the Australian MuSeum, Sydney ; crown
Bvo, cloth bound, 280 pages, 320 illustrations, with fine
three-color frontispiece, direct from original Butter-
flies ; 3/6, or post free 3/10.
Dominions of the boundary, by Bernard
O’DOWD, author of “ The Silent Land ’’and “ Dawn-
ward ! ” Neat booklet of 64 pages, crown Bvo ; 1/", posted
1/1. “Contains a greater amount of unforgettable writing
than either of the two previous books.—“ Elzevir,” Argus.
HE NATIVE COMPANION.”
An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E. J. Bradt.
6d. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HUDSON’S
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
AM
m
A—The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the In
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, j as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food.
CRUDE stuff, with something virile,
sturdy, human beneath its uncouth-
ness, is the latest novel of G. B. Lan-
caster, The Tracks We Tread (Doubleday,
Page, New York, per The Book Lover, Melb.).
Lancaster, whose pen-name conceals, as is
well-known, a young Maoriland girl, writes
with the most astounding masculinity. Sons
o’ Men and A Spur to Smite, her two earlier
books, were studies of Outback, swiftly
etched, starkly visualised, yet so hastily, so im-
petuously done that her work read roughly—
a hedge of prickly obstacles behind which we
caught tantalising glimpses of the thing she
sought to show. A Spur to Smite suffered
from an absurd and impossible plot—pro-
bably the' only sign so far apparent
of Lancaster’s sex, or, possibly, youth.
But behind its turbulence of phrase that
novel showed a real knowledge of the pas-
sions of simply-built men ; with the finer
nuances of more subtle beings—the appa-
rent special province of women writers—
Lancaster has little to do. A Spur to Smite,
conformed, as has here been pointed out, to a
rapidly evolving type of Australasian novel.
It is essentially a novel of action. Pictur-
esqueness of phrase, violent action, rapid
impressions of life, simplicity of character,
above all, the strength, and oftentimes
cruelty, of youth—all these are to be found
in greater or lesser degree in the novels of
Randolph Bedford, T. B. Clegg, Barbara
Baynton, and G. B. Lancaster. So it looks
as if the type—or let us say, the most arrest-
ing and characteristic type—of the Austral-
asian novel is already taking form, is
already, almost, being fixed in a formula.
But this type of the novel of action,
dealing with the primitive passions of
men and women, face to face with the
wilder aspects of Nature, is not peculiar
to Australasia. All it has of special interest
to us is its local setting, its Australasian
vocabulary. The same novel of small
subtlety and less reserve is found rampant in
the Yukon, in Colorado, in Insia. Jack
London, Stuart Edward , White, Gertrude
Atherton, and—in some of his earlier stories
—Rudyard Kipling, show us men who are
simply masculine in the grip of passions
simply primitive. It is essentially a man’s
novel—and two women are busily and
successfully writing it.
The Tracks We Tread marks no breaking
away from the somewhat limited formula of
the type. Yet this latest of Lancaster’s
works is an achievement which encourages
hopes of finer things. Here we have no im-
probable plot,, no extravagant situation, no
lush sentimentality. The Tracks We Tread
are the tracks of men Outback in
Maoriland—to be precise, in South Otago.
Lancaster takes the fortunes of a dozen men
upon a big cattle and sheep station ; she
puts them in up-country bars, in shearing
shed, saw-mill, sluicing-claim and whare ;
and women, except as small cogs in the
wheels of action, have little to do. And the
women are the least convincing of her
character studies. The men, however, are
abundantly alive, quarrelling, working, fight-
ing, galloping, shooting, dancing, drinking,
losing their souls and saving them, loving
and hating each other as man never loved nor
hated woman. And their one commandment
is loyalty, their one religion manliness, their
one duty work. It is a simple creed.
l ’A man’s not a man without a splash of the
brute in him. They are not pretty ; but they’re
tough. The bush won’t have weaklings. I bully-
dam them from the jump, and if they play up
they know it. But, bless you, if I kick them out
they come back the next year with their tails
down. It’s like to like, and no other job can hold
them for long. When the bush calls they’ve got
to answer, if it strips half their life off ’em.”
The yarn has half-a-dozen heroes, and all
of them are kept busy. FrOm this story
one would glean the impression that in
South Otago things happen. The men do
strenuous things and do them all the time.
Lancaster is evidently intent on acclimatising
in M.lji. the ferocious cow-boys of the
American wild west'; and insofar the book is
false. Broken limbs and wounds are but
casually mentioned.
Scott strained his colt’s stifle on a shingle slip
when he tried to prevent a stampede, and Megger
put out his elbow when he left the saddle in a
blind creek. But he pulled it in again by aid of a
stirrup-leather, and collared his bolting’ mob on
the slope below.
This incident seems somehow to have
strayed from our own “ Aboriginalities ”
column :
The gate swung in file wind, and Lou caught it
as Ike’s cob struck i/, full with his chest. The
rebound east Lou three yards down the track
where the pack-horse pinched his arm with a
hind-shoe as it jumped him. Lou twisted ;
snatched at a mane that blew in his face, gripped
the nostril, the mane, forced the bridle he carried
between the teeth and over the ears, and came up
astride, with the cheek-strap flapping.
Lancaster is apt to over-do the adven-
turous. The yarn, however, goes with a
swing, and the vividness of the picture com-
pensates for its exaggeration.
The style, as has been hinted, suffers
from a plethora of simile. Lancaster can
picture an incident with an admirable
economy of phrase ; but often she overlays
the plain fact with too elaborate detail.
For an example of her striking diction,
take the simile of men riding in single file
up a steep track :
Then, as buckets climb the dredge-ladder, they
came one by one to the broken hill-track, and
paused.
And how vividly and accurately Lancaster
can depict the essentials of Maoriland !
The night was cold, with grey blankets over the
hills, and a soft mist rolling along the river. . .
The rock shivered where the jet struck it, and
sunk forward in a puddle of yellowish wash.
Fysh dipped his wrist a fraction, and the water
dug out a big manuka bush, tossing it over into
the night beyond. Then the steady roar blattered
on rock again, sending a comb of white smoke
above the light-arc. . .
The moon swept out from the thick black for
two breaths. Through sleet like the bars of a
cage Ormond saw the great hump of the Lion
Mountain stripped into naked lines and sleek
with streams. Below and brought forward to the
eye, a thousand rivers galloped through scrub and
round bluffs ; spilling side-ways into the bubbling
gullies, and coasting down the Spurs with heads
of foam. Somewhere in the midst of that hell,
the mining race was going out. Somewhere, in
or below it, Bert Kiliat and a dozen more were
racing for life....
The hail shut off with the suddenness of a
beaten stick dropped from a kerosene tin ; and
the boys gasped, stood upright, shook the blood
from battered faces and hands, and took hold of
the mobs again. Round and underfoot thumped
the thunder with the earnestness of a steam-
hammer in full work, until the throb was cut now
and again by the sharp crackle that made the
boys jump,and the out-flung anger of lightning.
Far over on an unseen face came the roar that
was neither thunder nor wind, nor the roll of balls
down a skittle alley. The top of a big tree sliced
the mist for an instant as it pitched, forward.
Then the mighty groan of the parted slip filled
earth, and rang against the sky until it settled
in silence far down in a gully-bottom.
“There’ll Ire jes’ the naked skull o’that hill
grirmin’ at us in the mornin”,’ said Moody,
startled to speech. Then he shivered in the
soaked rags that clang to him. For it was quite
possible that the Brothers might also stand up
skull-bare, and grin over the death that lay hid at
the bottom.
The shingle tread where four men worked was
sloppy as the wash in a dredge-bucket ; and the
sheep stumbled on it, weighted with water, and
crying against the unwearied menace of the dogs.
And still the chain dragged forward, pulling all
life with it : and still the rain pelted straightly,
settling in behind the earth ; loosening, loosening;
and still the boys counted the ridges yet to be won
before the easy slope of the Dome shoulder gave
clean foothold of tussock and broom.
Note the force and accuracy of epithet in
these examples : — blattered ... a comb of
white smoke . . . sleet like the bars of a cage
. . . sleek with streams . . . thumped the
thunder. .... sloppy as the rvash in a
dredge-bucket. The dangers of the pithy
epithet are exemplified in the “ beaten stick
dropped from a kerosene tin.” Here the
simile has been dragged violently in, and
though the meaning is discernible, it is not
clearly expressed. But this meticulous
criticism is made because Lancaster is worth
criticism. The Tracks IVe Tread is a novel
that—within its class—may confidently be
ranked with all but the very best of that
class. Its chief and glaring fault is its in-
distinctness. It is hard reading ; often it is
impossible to see the forest for trees.
But in G. B. Lancaster Maoriland possesses
a novelist of limited range, but within her
limits of fine achievement. F2.
THE RED PAGE
THE AUSTRALASIAN NOVEL
Quite the other type of Australasian novel
—the easy-going, easy-humored, casual collec-
tion of incidents—is furnished by Steele
Rudd. Hitherto Steele Rudd has occupied
himself with the grotesque, cynical humors
of his “ selection ” ; he has moved to his new
selection, to Sandy’s selection, and once
more back to his own selection. But now
he has dropped the careless humors of Dad
to introduce us to The Poor Parson (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.). And it is quite time ; for
Australia was getting possibly a little tired
of the grotesque and exaggerated humors of
Da'd. That old man was really in danger of
dying from over-work ; and he was too
delightful a character to bring to so shameful
a end. The poor parson is altogether a
different person, a quiet, uncomplaining,
hard-up, self-sacrificing minister with a large
family—a type to be found anywhere in
the West. The members of his congregation
are skilfully and sympathetically drawn, and
the story of hardships and humor saunters
carelessly along in the old Steele Rudd
manner, and keeps us pleasantly in-
terested. Australia—especially the Aus-
tralia of the back blocks—dikes that sort of
book; it is just the sort of book that the
back-blocks would write itself—if it had the
/ V
ability and the energy, and there weren’t so
many convenient posts to lean against.
Steele Rudd had worked that selection too
long, and with advantage it might be allowed
to lie fallow while he turns his attention to
common-place people like the poor parson.
For Steele Rudd knows his Australia. It is
curious that there seems a slight boom in
back-block parsons at present. Another
excellent study of the genus, The Man From
Gurdie’s River , by Donald Maclean, was
recently reviewed on this page. The Poor
Parson may possibly mark a transition stage
in Steele Rudd’s literary development. He
has relinquished the grotesque, and is settling
down to the conscientious study of character.
The N.S.W. Bookstall Company must be
commended for its practical encouragement
of an Australian author by its courage in
paying high prices for his work, and the
admirable production of his books.
Ethel Turner’s latest story, The Stolen
Voyage (Ward, Lock, London), shows no
falling off in her facility for writing interest-
ing, and not goody-goody, books for children.
Perhaps it is because they are Australian
children that they do such audacious things;
but the charm of childhood is there always,
and the book is more than readable by
grown-ups. It is hardly recognised here
that Ethel Turner is probably the best living
writer of children’s books ; while other Aus-
tralian writers hardly challenge comparison
with the best novelists over-seas, Ethel Tur-
ner has, in her not too ambitious niche,
made out her claim to permanent possession
of that niche. The Stolen Voyage deals
with the experiences of a lad with a fondness
for the sea, who, in order to get a voyage to
Maoriland, takes the place of a boy who
hates sea-sickness, and even sacrifices a
sound tooth at a dentist’s in order to get his
trip. Humor and adventure are abundant.
A collection of really good yarns, judged
by any standard, is Midnight’s Daughter and
Other Stories , written by W. G. Henderson,
an Albury resident, and published by Chap-
man and Hall (per G. Robei'tson, Sydney).
The yarns are all Australian, and all well-
constructed and interesting. Henderson
does not write like an amateur. “ The
Courting of Christina ” and the title story
are excellent stuff, and, like most of the
other yams, confine themselves to subjects
of pre-eminently human interest-—girls and
fights. Henderson might conceivably turn
out a good Australian novel.
And now we hail the first servant-girl in
fiction who says “ Perchance.” Broda
Reynolds, in her first novel, A Black Silk
Stocking (H. E. Reynolds, Sydney,), has
achieved that fame-. This is exactly the sort
of story that a servant girl, whose sole read-
ing was The Family Herald and Corelli,
might write. It is an affecting tale of the
tribulations of a Sydney girl, and is illus-
trated with probably the worst black-and-
white work ever seen within a book. But,
despite its sensationalism, its slovenly style,
its pervading commonness of thought, the
book shows promise. The writer possesses
a fund of knowledge about the “ shady ”
phases of Sydney life that she knows effect-
ively how to use. The heroine, who has
“ splendid shoulders and hips,” is in-
evitably spoken to in a tram by a
gentleman “ of good girth measurement.”
Subsequently this good girth measurement
becomes “a toad-like corporation.” The
owner of the black silk stocking—only one is
mentioned—becomes waitress, nurse, and
servant, and accepts situations in places not
entirely reputable ; but virtue is ultimately
triumphant, and she is able to refer to herself
as ‘ ‘ the daughter of Lord Owen Castleworth
and niece to half-a-dozen earls.” But,
despite the vulgarity, the audacious frank-
ness of her observations—“ A man in his
pyjamas does not look to a woman what a
woman in her night-dress looks to a man ” —
Broda Reynolds possesses a sense of dramatic
situation and a certain naturalness of touch.
When the husband of the niece of six earls
breaks things and .expectorates in his wife’s
bedroom, she simply goes to the dining-room
and gets drunk. It seems the most obvious
thing to do; but, so far, it is the first
natural solution of a situation upon which
novelists have expended much futile literary
ability. Broda Reynolds has power, but it
is overshadowed by her servant-maid’s point
of view.
AUSTRALIAN ROOKS
A charming Christmas gift from Australia is
the booklet titled, From Range to Sea: A Bird
Lover's Ways, written by Charles Barrett, with
photographs of bird life by A. H. E. Mattingley,
and published in dainty fashion by T. C. Lothian,
Melbourne. In a preface Donald Macdonald
points out that the booklet is modestly intended
to be just an enlarged Christmas card—or the
preface to a more complete work.
Round the World, by an Australian Native
(Herbert H. Wettenhall), from the same pub-
lisher, whose production of booklets must exceed
that of all the other publishers in the Common-
wealth, is just an informative account of a bush-
man’s trip, illustrated by snap-shots, and, appa-
rently, reproductions from picture post-cards.
A Golden Shanty, Edward Dyson’s popular
volume of mining stories, whose publication by
The Bulletin achieved a remarkably successful
sale, and which has been for some time out of
print, has now been re-issued by George Robertson,
Melbourne (Is.), with the illustrations by Phil
May. Dyson’s humor is here seen at its freshest.
Science Gossip, by “Gossip” ( The Sydney Stock
and Station Journal), is an interesting collection
of articles that might well be put into the hands
of any boy. For all boys are interested in the
little local things he writes about.
The first part of a highly-interesting botanical
publication, Illustrations of N.S. W. Plants, a
companion volume to Forest Flora of N.S. W., has
been issued by J. H. Maiden (Govt. Botanist).
The work is intended for lovers of our flora, and
not mainly for skilled botanists; and Maide«
hopes to bring into the compass of one volume the
indigenous flora (plants—not trees) of this State.
Some have never been depicted before, and others
in works of such rarity as to be practically inac-
cessible, even to botanists. In this part the
boronia, the flannel flower, the needle bush, and
other N.S. W. plants are described and depicted.
Photographs of the plants in flower, in addition
to the lithographed plates, would be of use for
identification.
“The Rise and Fall of the Mother-in-Law
Jcke” is a book announced that will be awaited
wi>h tremendous interest.
FROM IRELAND.
I lcnead and I spin, but my life is low the while,
Oh, I long to be alone and walk abroad a mile.
Yet if I walk alone, and think of naught at all,
Why from me that's young should the wild tears
fall ?
The shower-stricken earth, the earth-colored streams,
They breathe on me awake, and moan to me in
dreams,
And yonder ivy fondling the broken castle-wall,
It p-ulls on my heart till the wild tears fall.
The.cabin-door looks down a furze-lighted hiU,
As far as Leighlin Cross the fields are green and
still ;
But once I hear the blackbird in Leichlin hedges
call
The foolishness is on me, and the wild tears fall.
MISS GUINEY
(in Putnam’s).


7
Toys for Christmas (&X all Seasons
At Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Shock Coils, for use in Every Household for
Rheumatism, Muscular and Nervous Complaints,
fitted with pair of handles, 4s 9d, 8s 9d and
12s 6d each.
as
Hand-driven Dynamos, giving 6 volts,
1£ amperes, complete with 13in. driving- wheel
and loop lamp, as shown, £2 10s each.
m
Monarch Dynamos.
Shunt-wound, 10 volts, 3 amperes, £2 15s. This
machine will light six 10-volt 10 c.p. lamps, or
charge two 4-volt 20 amp-hour accumulators.
My
a
Electro-plating Set.
Consisting of 2-cell Bichromate Battery, fitted with
movable elements, Plating Bath, Scratch Brush,
Bottle of Chromic Acid, Nickel Salts, and Bag
of Caustic Lime.
This is a very useful and practical set for Silver and
Nickel-plating Spoons and Forks, also for Gilding
Watch Chains, Brooches, and other small articles.
Price, 18s 6d set.
Geisslcr Tubes, as illustrated —3in., lOd each ;
3iin., lid each ; 4in., Is each ; sin., Is Id each.
In the Electrical Department of the NEW
PALACE EMPORIUM we have a large
variety of Model Electric Motors, Experi=
mental Sets for Magnetic and Frictional
Electricity, Magnetic or Shocking Coils,
Dynamos, Qeissler Tubes, Apparatus for
Wireless and Morse Telegraphy.
1
Pioneer Hand! Car or Trolley —As Illustrated.
Galvanised Wheels, 21s
Galvanised Wheels, Rubber Tyres, 27s
The Wallaby Coaster, somewhat similar to Pioneer, but with
heavy Iron Wheels —
With Iron Wheels, 24s With Rubber Tyres, 30s
Self-propelling', after the style of a Railway Trolley.
Manchester Type Motors, fitted with Tripolar Armatures,
Nickel-plated and Japanned Finish, for Driving- all kinds of Models.
Price, 9s 3d and 12s 6d each ; fitted with Reversing Switch, 17s 6d.
Bichromate Battery to drive same, 3s Od each.
Electricity as a commercial asset is admit-
tedly in its infancy, and there is a wide
field for the expert. A small sum in=
vested in a perfectlyconstructed and tech-
nically correct Electrical Model will secure
a Scientific Toy, at once providing profit-
able study and instructive recreation. We
offer the latest models.
m
*
Wimshurst Influence Machines,
with two ebonite plates rotating in opposite directions. For conducting
all kinds of experiments in static electricity and X Rays. These machines
are fitted with a number of sectors, and by this means are quickly excited,
giving a spark of good volume with very slight movement of the crank
lever handle.
7in. Ebonite Plate Machine, giving 2Jin. Spark, 22s
Sin. „ ~ ~ „ 3in. ~ 28s 6d
lOin. ~ ~ ~ ~ 3£in. ~ 43s 6d
Book of Instructions included with each machine, containing
information as to what these machines can do ; also illustrating and
describing the separate items in the sets of experiments. Sets of
Experiments, including every article illustrated, namely, Paper Tuft,
Bells, Flying Wheel, Dancing Balls, Lightning Tube and Board,
Geissler Tubes, Smoke Condensing Apparatus, Running Ball, Handles
for Electrifying, and Leyden Jar. Price, 39s 6d complete set.
Horizontal Type Motors, fitted with Self-starting
TnpoJar Armatures, for driving tram cars and other models,
7s and 10s each.
Bichromate Battery, to drive same, 3s 6d each.
<Z>
The Ironclad Motor is fitted witch an Enamelled
Iron Dust-proof Case with a Removable Cover over the
Brushes. The Brushes are Self-adjust ing, and can be
easily replaced when required. It can be run with two
.or four volts, but six volts can be usfjd for high speeds
without injury to the Motor-. Price, 255.
Overtype Motors, with*
Tripolar Armatures, for driving
counter shafting, &c., 5s 6d each..
Induction Coils, for giving
sparks and illuminating Geissler
Tubes, 3-16 in. spark, 8s 6d each ;
5-16 in. spark, 10s 6d each;
9-16 in. spark, 21s each.
Send for Our
XMAS PRICE
LISTS,
POST FREE on Application.
Guide to Piccaninnies’
Paradise.
Xmas Grocery, Per=
fumery, and Tobacco.
Xmas Presents to suit
Every Purse.
Books for Xmas and
Leisure Hours.
/■lf you have not
received our 1000-
Pagre General
Catalogue, send
for a copy ; it w Ji
be posted fre;.
mi
§Bi
\
Vacuum Tubes,
showing electric-
ally the natural
colors. Roses, 5s
and 5s 6d each.
Forget - me - riots,
5s each. Parrot,
5s each.
if
»»a
Bichromate Cells, for
working’ Motors and Coils, X
pint size, 3s Gd ; 2 pint size,
5s 3d ; 3 pint size, 8s each.
Hellesen Dry Cells, for
working Motors, 2s lOd,
3s sd, and ss. For use on
Motor-Bicycles, 4J volt set,
size, x 4jin. x 2Jin.,
7s set.
Mesco Dry Cells, for
working Electric Bells and
Telephonettes, price Is Id
each.
Loclanche Cells, for Electric
Bell work, 2 pint size, com-
plete, Is 4d each, 3 pint size,
complete, Is lid each. For
driving Ignition Coils,
Motors, Lights, etc.
Hellesen Flash Motor
Cycle Battery, 4 volts, 7s set.
Samson Leclanche Cells, 2
pint size, complete, 4s 9d
each.
Carbon Cylinder Cell, 2J
pint size, Is lid each.
Electric Torches —9in, x
ljin., 18s 6d each ; cheaper
quality, 9in. x Him, 8s and 13s
(id each ; llin. x IJin., 15s each.
Ever-Ready Electric Pocket
Flash Lamps , complete,
with Battery, as illustrated,
6s 6d each. Renewal Batteries,
Is 6d each.
Geissler Tubes, filled with Colored
7in., Is 9d each ; sin., Is 6d each.
Undertype Motors, fitted with Tripolar
Armatures, 5/- and 9/6 each. Monarch Dynamo,
similar design, fitted with 8-part Drum Armature,
Shunt Wound, Rocking Brush Gear, Large Steel
Shaft, and Long Bearings ; 10 volts, 3 Amps,
capable of lighting 6.10 c.p. lamps, 55/- ’
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
s YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ G-KIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape for
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is-; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is.' Love Under the Tiles, Is; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is.; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. Tiie Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zbr Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s\Secrets of
tiik Romisii Priests, 2s. Tiie Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions. Is ; posted, is Sid. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s (id. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s (id posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring- Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and FiUeNd, by Dr. Warren. Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address'
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
HE
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted
To alt who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented In the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
rive a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Fercha
Heading; Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
Invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or anv
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, See. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order thatour goods may be appreciatea,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and iin addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Cent.’* Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothiugto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send yon the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, t}je prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
grCa wS„t ° Pe “ *“ " limi THEOTTTA PERCHA. TRAPIXO CO.. .120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
JO rams gHiiqfo jl | I MSSIIWMS
HEADACHE, 6 g® OIJ 1 | BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Vnptrtd only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT' WORKS. LONDON, SIC 3.,
by J. C, ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists , <£c., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMIPETIXIOKT.
WINES m Be,t *£* only 0/ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
gj&~
FREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2S.
V NO MONEY REQUIRED WHATEVER— Simply
send us a post card with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents, i
We receive hundreds
oftestimonials /
/
We send your pre-
sent by return post
We have no furth-
er claim on you
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
if you wish.
P-ap, for selling 112 articles of
» ICC jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our “ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
Rnaa for selling
* 1 only 6 ar-
ticles. We will
send solid gold Pin
or Ring, or lady’s
Solid Gold Pend-
ant and necklet or
Bangle
| Send us your
llVame & Hd dress
Free
for selling
only 3 articles
we will send you vour
choice of any articles pick-
ed from our Catalogue of novel-
ties which we send with the jewellery.
Free £2
iThe party selling the 12 ar-
ticles in the shortest time is en-
titled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
Our only
Address :
British Jewellery Co., 907 George=st., Sydney,
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
--»■>
The finest
shape
ever created.
Bn 5®
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
-*>>
All C.B. Corsats have
rust-proof supports.
C.B.
&
&
£
£
%
-cf?
Viy
There are
types to lit
every figure
perfectly.
-ft
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for a book of types to .
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
18 Barrack Street, SYDNEY ; and BRISBANE
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
GREASE LESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
CONICAL. BALL
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
ARTERa
©lff EOS'S & EPOtLILS-
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver DisonJers
iniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skip.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIV ER
PILLS and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin ai
once with CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS, Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
knows about
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
ard cough medicine for children.
Mger’s
'Chemi Sectoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass«i U»B*At
ik
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
SPECIAL VALUE.
BLACK, CREAM, oriBLACK
Tipped with WHITE.
From the Farms of Africa.
Length, 9 inches.
3 FOR Sjm
(Six Shillings) Post Free.
The Featners we offer you cannot be bought for twice
the money in any other house.
Send Postal Note or Money Order payable to John
Miller. Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE
[Mention The Bulletin.] [8
Voig'tlander’s
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
Hiffh-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SOM, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 336 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
___ to Select.” Post Free.
The Standard Emulsion
fom
emulsion
SCOTI ’S is made of the finest cod
liver oil in the world by the finest
process in the world—the original,
perfected SCOTT process.
The Standard Cure
for diseases of the throat,
lungs, blood, bones and skin,
and for any weakness, is
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
SCOTT’S Emulsion is
perfectly pleasant, perfectly
digestible, intensely heal-
ing, intensely nourishing.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicine
Always get the
.Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the Fishman.
IRISH
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza &
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
jjlpfpjijftjjjpiiv-
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WmK...
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH. DRINK ONLY
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA.
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
I It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its (
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how j
splendidly, how easily, and how (
thoroughly it cleans. I
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
i Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oftdge
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.’’
Take no other.
Established, 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
NATURE’S
PERFECT FOOD
Plastnonj
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard a *4
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS & DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
Milk Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
Ask your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Nonagenarian.
He groweth old, as all men grow ;
The lion-strength is on the wane ;
His actions now are cramped and slow ;
His hands, that fifty years ago
Gript hard, are marred with pain.
Care drew deep lines about his eyes
That one time kindled with the spring •
His ears, that heard so many cries
Go up unheeded to the skies,
Are dumb to suffering.
Once grand ambitions thrilled him through;
Strong passions urged him divers ways;
On soaring wings of Hope he flew ;
But now he craves this lesser due—•
In peace to end his days.
His eyes, that long had stood him stead
To read himself into the times,
Have dimmed at length ; within his head
He joins the living and the dead—
Mixed death and marriage chimes.
Though deafness hath assailed his ears,
Perchance he hears, as on a shore,
The rising tide of time, that nears
His house at last; perchance he hears
The sapping at the door !
And yet an ancient instinct clings
Within his soul, and bids him stay—
Though Hope may spread no more its wings—
Down to the bitter end of things,
Than go the unknown way.
VlO.
O. G. A. COLLES.
Philosophy.
Enchained within a cave, mankind
Can only see, reflected
From the Realities behind,
Some shadows faint projected.
So Plato says, and Hume and Kant
Are hardly more explicit.
Small help they give to us who want
To catch the truth—and miss it.
The lips we kiss, the pipe we smoke
(According to our ages),
Considered deeply, they evoke
Thoughts which have puzzled sages.
The Moon that shineth overhead,
The steadfast Earth beneath her,
May haply be, as Kelvin said,
But “ vortex rings in ether.”
The tale that all we feel and see
Is merely an appearance,
Is difficult to grasp—for me—
And seems to lack coherence.
When Spencer writes on Time and Space,
Or even Social Statics,
I feel as if I had to face
The higher mathematics.
One Darwin unto us was given,
And Haeckel is his prophet.
Between them they abolished Heaven
And made an end of Tophet.
The old beliefs that we were taught
Are covered in confusion,
And now the Master Key is sought
By means of Evolution.
Philosophers the air may smite,
And Scientists may squabble.
I think I’ll cast my lot to-night
With the unlettered rabble ;
Or, better still, we two, apart
Prom vulgar observation,
Will study problems of the Heart—
A question of sensation.
MAORILAND.
TAIWA.
An Autumn Day.
To-day recalls an autumn day,
We fled dull city corridors,
To share with dreaming coves the spray
And silvern whispers of the shores.
Brown earth smelled sweet of autumn rain
And seeding grass, and undismayed,
Where summer-gods had feasting lain,
A solitary floweret stayed.
Calm sea and sky were silver-grey,
Soft wafters breathed the crisp sea-tang.
And singing things, in love-lorn lay,
Of summer’s stolen glory sang.
And you were exquisite and warm
With love’s desires and comradeships,
And pulsing yearnings that transform,
As lightning-fire, soft eyes and lips.
And while I sketched the cool, grey shore
You murmured little scraps of verse,
And we together pondered o’er
The sweetest-voiced philosophers.
Sometimes you lit a cigarette
And dropped the ashes on the leaves,
And laughed—and lest you should forget,
I kissed your lips as Adam Eve’s.
No thought of morrow’s irk distressed,
The day’s luxuriousness enthralled ;
Maybe the sadness never pressed,
Sea-waves foreboded when they called.
And we were happy while the sun
O’erleaped brown hills and purpling glades.
And curious star-eyes, one by .one,
Watched us amid the mist-blue shades.
Swift years soon mingle joy and tear,
Brown autumn leaves too soon decay,
And ah ! your sleep is sound, my dear •
I pondered there alone to-day.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


iEAUTIFUL • DURABLE
fiRE -proof • Inexpensive
\el
s'S
n
-.J
M
G*<L>Tr
<322
s
WUNDERLICH
_ AMT METAI*
Ceilings, friezes.
Cornices. <
Wall Linings &c.
SYDNEY
%
4*3
;
rf \ - r
5 * -
MP
£
o
*■
q;
CADBURY’S COCOA
is the idea.l beverage because it is rich
in strength-imparting essentials and there-
fore promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tpbacco
M'&nufacUired in
Richmond Virginia.
by LahusX Brothf.r'C
P«>ck»*W hy Rlowhi * Co. Agenfs,Sydney.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot set
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a toz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of 3oz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JOHNOECCS.
S?ECIM. IIdIKUR
Scotch whisky
“Vrlßu
a
mmi mm
m
/>
L
It
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
TE N YEARS PUBLIC HAS PROVED THAT
0 AIN’S
EXTERMINATOR
jv EVER FAILS.
HEAD OFFICE- Mmtijai ! iff Run DING. MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building’s. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. - *® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
m i ?
■ JHHI
mgmmm
: ■
u»IST3S«
»x«
IN I 1
Ml
m
£%s.Wm
P»*
m
Si
jk
5
E. RICH a
<5. LT? SYDHEY-& BRISBANE
AVENARIUS not only protects your House
against white ants, but will protect your fruit
trees from all wood vermin.
ALL STOREKEEPERS.
E.. RICH (Si CO., LTD., Sydney &. Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1453.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1907.
Prick 6d
A change indeed ! Here you see the expedition
luxuriously frozen up on an iceberg, four artist
drew this picture with a sigh of longing. The
temperature in his palatial studio registered
9ddeg. at the time.)
Here see the. expedition about
to embark' for' the frozen South,
The- bag containing that £5OOO ! - . , „
interviewer V • A |f, th ° .*“■** " photo gmpher and Wht
w«p Mte . a „; - b ., t
Here you see the adventurers exploring away
as hard as they can, everything up to-date, in-
cluding frozen champagne and a motdr car.
- •
Mooching about among, the ice-floes they findankmmothj
frozen fast. They proceed to thaw him out.
And don't they afterw ,nM • !,
Precious beast alone ! d * ,0 " y we » wish they'd left the
/
/'
/
/
4?
cfW
'
■
V
V
■a,
Jr*
A*
•C 5
,o
O*
<9
In the course of a motor-car trip they get a puncture. “ Icebergs,” wrote
the scientist of the party, “are ad sight worse nor carpet-tacks.”
% . • . . -V*V V.’ ifi&mPiiM
for iheTog Jays keeP WS Cye °" thIS eXPedlti °"’ : ’ Twi " make «*«■« reading
ANTARCTIC EXPLORATION.


NOTICE.
Owing to the Christmas and New Year
holidays, “ The Bulletin ” will be pub=
lished on Tuesday, December 24 (instead
of December 26), and on Tuesday,
December 31 (instead of January 2).
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia /'or the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tint Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Jlorv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin icould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin," is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. 'The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlaclc and W hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture 'which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London , W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Ivong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A dents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x llrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole Advertising A dent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
Tj&T&zzSeZzvz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1907.
THE IRON INDUSTRY.
A few days ago the N.S.W. iron and steel
industry, being in great trouble, applied to the
State for assistance, and it is pleasing to record
that it didn’t apply altogether in vain. The
Legislature rose in moderation, and recognised up
to a certain point the urgency of the case, and
rushed gradually to the rescue with limitations.
The promoter of the Lithgow undertaking had
made a great effort to get the public to subscribe
the necessary capital, and the less said about his
failure the better. In N.S.W. the public has no
faith in manufactures. The manufacturer has to
pay railway rates that the most infuriated
economist wouldn’t dream of asking from the
farmer. Being an urban person he has to pay
local taxes from which the N.S.W. farmer has
been exempt for a century. He has to
work his men eight hours where the farmer
expects ten or twelve, and to pay wages that no
one, even in a nightmare, expects the farmer to
pay, and which are, for each hour’s work, about
double those of his English competitors. He has
sometimes been grudgingly allowed a measure of
Protection which covered about half the extra
charges levied upon him as compared with his
foreign rivals, and sometimes he hasn’t been
allowed even that. When he is allowed anything
he is called a parasite and a pauper for taking it.
Whether he is allowed anything or nothing he is
alluded to by that public enemy, the blatant rich
importer, and by the tame papers which feed out
of the rich importer’s hand, as if he were a crimi-
nal of one sort or another. It is always under-
stood in N.S.W. that the manufacturer is to be
poor and struggling to the end of the chapter, and
that, while the man who imports things made by
cheat) foreign labor naturally lives in a mansion,
the man who makes things with well-paid Austra-
lian labor should, for the crime of trying to
establish Australian industry, be glad to live any-
where. So the public, which cheerfully takes up
shares when the big importer floats his business
into a company, refused to put up the money
required to set Sandford, Limited, going as the
great pioneer iron and steel industry of Australia.
Yet a vast mass of costly machinery and appara-
tus were required, for a manufacturing business
isn’t like an importer’s job, which can start with
a warehouse, an abject shopwalker, and three
months’ credit. So Sandford pawned his works,
his private assets, and apparently his shirt and
boots in a heroic attempt to make Litligow
another Pittsburg. Then, being still without
sufficient funds, he asked the State for assistance,
and it was offered to him. Provided the State
got a first lien on the whole £200,000 worth of
assets, it was willing to lend £70,000 at 4 per cent.,
and as it could borrow the money at 3g per cent,
it really asked perfect security and a very respect-
able profit on top of the perfect security. No
“Christian gentleman” who advertises that it is
his business in life to assist, not to crush, could
well have asked more. The impossible offer was
rejected, as a matter of course.
* * « •
The iron and steel business is one of the greatest
of Australia’s natural industries. Providence
placed here in rich abundance the ore and the
coal, and if Providence didn’t therefore intend
Australia to make iron and steel, it is impossible
any longer to regard Providence as a serious
institution. In this respect the iron and steel
business differs from most others. The pastoral
industry, for instance, is almost wholly artificial.
It is based upon a policy of feeding the foreign
and exotic sheep, and feeding it to a great extent
on foreign and exotic grasses. When it started
the Government gave the land free ; it gave con-
vict labor practically free ; in some cases it is said
to have given the stud sheep free. And to this
day, when the artificial pastoral industry strikes a
snag, it is coddled with “starving stock rates” on
the railways, and such like bonuses and gratuities ;
and these concessions are thrown as cheerfully to
the immensely rich squatter, who can afford to
pay, as to the poor one who can’t. The conces-
sion in this case isn’t regarded as a loan, repayable
with 4 per cent, interest and secured by a first
mortgage on the squattage ; it is a free gift. Also
if the squatter isn’t satisfied with the concession,
he just lets his sheep remain where they are and
die of thirst, while if the manufacturer was found
letting one horse die of thirst in his dry backyard to
save the costof removal to water, he would be hauled
up for cruelty to a dumb animal. The farming
industry is also an artificial undertaking. It con-
sists of growing purely foreign vegetables, often
with the aid of foreign implements, and
rearing the wholly foreign and unnatural
horse, cow, pig, and chookey-hen. It has
been boosted up in N.S.W. with railway rates
that are so cheap as to amount to a charity
given at the expense of the city worker; with ex-
emption from local taxation, or with huge muni-
cipal subsidies which make local taxation un-
necessary ; and with exemption from arbitration
laws and from all the trades-union regulations as
to an eight-hours day and a fair living wage. It
is allowed to employ semi-enslaved child labor
under conditions such as would never be tolerated
in a manufacturing industry. Also, it is helped
with gratis seed wheat, loans of public money at
low rates on poor security, and with, at times,
direct tariff Protection, to say nothing of other
aids and devices. And in addition to these two
big, artificial and coddled industries' there are
multitudes of others which are quite foreign and
unnatural, down to fishing for foreign fish intro-
duced contrary to the laws of Nature, and the ex-
porting of the unnatural bunny per medium of a
foreign ship, and the putting of foreign galva-
nised iron on the roofs of Australian buildings.
m * * *
Comparing the case of the N.S.W. agricultural
industry, which has been coddled, aided, bonused,
helped, and propped up for a century, and is still
applying daily for aid and getting it, with that of
the iron industry and its solitary request for assist-
ance, the discrepancy seems ridiculous. Sandford
offered splendid value for the aid he asked, as well
as fair security. To begin with, he offered to
employ some 1000 men on about half a square
mile of ground, which is about 500 times as much
pressure of employment to the acre as the average
farmer offers. These 1000 men and their wives
and families would probably have represented
3000 people directly supported by the business.
Then, counting the agriculturists, traders, and all
the pursuers of great and small industries from
A to Z (in other words, from the actor, agent,
apiarist, auctioneer, accountant, axle-maker,
accoucheuse, asphalter, artist’s model and aerated-
water person right down to the zinc worker) that
these 3000 folk would employ, and, reckoning in
the wives and families of all this multitude,
Sandford Limited offered support, direct and
indirect, to something like 10,000 people. And
these people would pay to the State some
£30,000 or £35,000 a year directly, in taxation, or
£70,000 to £75,000 a year in taxation and contri-
butions to the railway revenue—all this quite
apart from their contributions to the Federal
revenue. So, when Sandford asked for assistance
to the extent of £70,000, he really offered in
return these six compensations :
(1) Interest at 4 per cent, on the loan.
(2) Absolute priority as regards £25,000 of the loan over
all other creditors.
(3) Permission to place a Government representative
in charge of the works to see that the Government’s
interests were carefully safeguarded.
(4) About £75,000 a year of new revenue, equal in itself
to 100 per cent, per annum on the loan asked for.
(5) A thousand—it might be more correct to say 3000—
men who might one day be of the utmost value in the
defence of Australia.
(6) The establishment of an industry which is more
essential to the defence of Australia than almost any
other that can be mentioned—an industry which is so
essential that without it all the others count, in time of
need, for just about nothing at all.
« * * »
And, it must be reiterated, Sandford didn’t ask
for anything like the concessions that the agri-
culturist gets almost without asking. He didn’t
ask for permission to use cheap or gratis child
labor, or to employ men 12 hours a day for cocky
wages. He didn’t ask for exemption from local
rates, or for the amazingly cheap railway freights
that the farmer gets on most of his produce. If
he had got these things, and other things that are
freely given to the man on the land, he wouldn’t
have required State assistance. He wouldn’t
even have required Protection. But he had the
misfortune to be a manufacturer, and many years
of slavery to the importer has accustomed the
N.S.W. Legislature to regard the man who manu-
factures anything as a public enemy. The Labor
party, which never proposes to nationalise the
farming industry when it comes to the Treasury
door demanding the concessions that it has been
asking pretty regularly for a century or so, at
once had an idea that the iron trade should
be nationalised. The other parties reckoned
that when it came to a question of help-
ing to create an industry which alone can
save Australia from one day becoming a province
of Asia, a fair thing to ask was 4 per cent, in-
terest and £200,000 worth of security for a £70,000
loan. The stupendous importance of the bran
and pumpkin and hen-food business is recognised
by all parties, and hardly any public aid is too
great to keep them on their feet. The import-
ance of the industry which, in the day of invasion
and imminent conquest by a race of colored semi-
savages, can supply Australia with cannon, rifles,
and bayonets, with steel rails, and railway rolling
stock and armor plates for ships, is apparently, so
far as the fatuous State Legislature of N.S.W. is
concerned, recognised by nobody. The Labor
party hopes to see it started as a
State undertaking some day ; but any
day will do—or any century. The Free-
trade party doesn’t want to see it started at
all, because it will interfere with the blessed im-
porter. A dreadful idea that there is no need for
haste, that the enemy will wait till we are ready,
that we have before us all the ages between
to-day and the Day of Judgment in which to make
up our minds, pervades the soul of everybody
concerned. If there was displayed in this urgent
matter even half the energy that is put by one
party into a question relating to 2d. a day wages
on a Government contract, or by the other into
assuring the public that we really can’t make any-
thing for ourselves, and must import everything
as long as we live, the outlook for N.S.W. would
be vastly brighter than it is.
* * * *
Of course, it doesn’t follow as a matter of cer-
tainty that the newly-born iron industry is dead.
It may be taken over by some syndicate
—possibly a foreign syndicate—on terms which
will keep the business alive, but which will almost
certainly leave the plucky founder a ruined
man. It may totter along as a bank-owned con-
cern living in a state of semi-liquidation. It may
close up in N.S.W. and revive in some other State
where the local Legislature has more sense and
more patriotism. It may get from the Australian
Parliament the support and recognition that the
narrow-minded, incapable, and anti-Australian,
parish legislators of Sydney have refused. But,
even if the best happens, the disgrace of these
petty local law-makers is none the less. They
stand forth as men who are fully seized of the
importance of the bran and peanut jobs, but who
haven’t the slightest conception of the necessity
for saving their country from destruction. They
appear asahaltingcrowd with neither the energy to
start the iron industry as a State undertaking, nor
the courage to help it along as a private enterprise.
The N.S.W. Legislature goes on the general
theory that the manufacturer should pay the
highest wages on earth for the shortest, hours on
earth, that he should be subject to all manner of
interferences in this direction from which the
importer is practically exempt, that he should be
exposed to the free competition of all the cheap
labor communities in the world, that he should
pay higher railway rates than most other pro-
ducers, and that he should cheerfully submit to be
taxed in order to help the State to supply in-
dividuals like the enormously wealthy Squatter
M’Caughey with cheap imported bunny-proof
netting. The best hope for the N.S.W. manu-
facturer lies in the fact that some other States of
the Commonwealth have cultivated the good
Australian sentiment which his own State so
badly lacks.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Ile.”
S. M. Herald occasionally realises that there is
another side to its Freetrade ravings. For in-
stance, it put the case for the British Imperial Oil
Go. regarding the 3d. per gallon duty on kerosene
in packages:—
Up till seven years ago the kerosene trade of Aus-
tralia was in the hands of the Standard Oil Trust.
Then the British Imperial Oil Co. (which draws
its supplies from Borneo) came on the scene as
a competitor. Not relishing the idea of having a
poacher on its preserves, the Standard Oil Trust—so the
opposing company’s representative alleges—strove with
all its power to crush its competitor. One device was
the “ conditional rebate ” —that is to say, distributors
received a penny per gallon rebate, on condition that they
only sold the Trust’s oil. The British Imperial Co. estab-
lished the system of bringing the oil to Australia in bulk,
and packing it locally. On behalf of the co. it was urged
that this meant the building of factories and tank installa-
tions at the principal ports at a cost of over £IOO,OOO, and
the employment of local labor in drum, tin, and case-
making and packing to the tune of many thousands a
year ; and in this connection a statement was made that
if all the kerosene consumed in Australia was imported in
bulk it would mean an expenditure on labor of £85,000
a year, but if all the oil were imported in tins and cases
the expenditure on labor would amount to only £SOOO a
year. After a seven-years’ struggle, which has conferred
great benefits on the kerosene users of Australia, the
British Co. is seriously considering whether it should re-
main in the Commonwealth. The tariff proposal is the
first measure of relief that has been offered. It will
force the Trust to bring its oil here in bulk, manu-
facture the tins and cages locally under Australian
conditions, and equalise this portion of the competition.
A vote against the Government’s proposal will be help
given to the Standard Oil Trust, of New Jersey, U.S.A.,
whose profits at the expense of the world’s consumers
(mostly poor people) during a few years have been sworn
at nearly £200,000,000. A vote given for the Govern-
ment’s proposal will be in the interests of Australia, and
will prevent a perpetual tax being levied on local oil
consumers by the Trust. The day after the tariff
schedule was laid on the table, the Trust, although it had
a year’s supply of kerosene stored in Australia duty
free, exacted the duty from consumers. This was done
to cause an outcry against the tariff proposal.
All this, however, was printed by the Herald
three days after the House of Representatives had
blown the kerosene duty out. Seemingly up till
then the Herald didn’t know there was any such
concern as the B. I. O. Co. in existence.
*
The Methods of the Foreign Agent.
Considering the exposure of business methods
that has been going on persistently in Australia
ever since the Tariff Commission first opened the
public eyes, nobody expected to find any chivalry
in Commerce. But the foreign agent, in his
anxiety to kill existing Australian industries and
to prevent the birth of new ones, is prepared to
resort to any methods. Biano-maker Beale, of
Sydney, reports cases in which tuners have filed the
strings of his pianos, so that after a little heavy work
they would break. Firms which had condemned
Beale’s Australian-made pianos as rubbish have
polished up some of his second-hand instruments
which they had taken in part payment, and, cut-
ting out his firm’s name, had replaced it with their
own, and sold the doctored implement as new.
Which does not look as though they re-
garded the Australian product as “rubbish.”
On October 19, there was held in Leipzig,
Germany, a meeting of the Piano Makers’
Association, at which the Council was instructed
to demand that the Imperial Government should
use its influence to get the new Australian duty
on pianos reduced “to a reasonable figure.”
Within a few days of the receipt of the news of
that meeting in Australia a number of agents for
foreign pianos held a meeting in Melbourne at
which a fighting fund was subscribed for a “lobby-
ing campaign.” It will be remembered that
within a few weeks an enormous petition, said to
be signed by some thousands of music teachers,
was presented to Parliament praying that the
duty on pianos should be reduced if not abolished,
as otherwise the musical education of the people
would suffer, and we would cease to be a songful
nation, and the export of Crossleys, Mf.LBAS, and
other operatic stars would cease. Presumably
this was all part of the lobbying campaign,
and, apparently, it was largely paid for by
German gold. If anything on earth should
rouse the patriotism of the Australian legis-
lator it is this spectacle of foreign agents
conspiring to discredit Australian goods in the
minds of the Australian people, while a gang
of German piano makers pulls the strings. And
this case was only one of a number in which the
foreign person’s lobbyist was in evidence. When
it was announced that Australia intended to
strike the importation of packed oil with a
duty of 3d. per gallon, an agent of the stan-
dard Oil Trust started for Melbourne at top
speed. While he was on the way the members of
the Foreign-trade Opposition talked glibly about
giving a “real preference” to the dear old
Motherland. After he arrived and had prac-
tically lived in the House for a while, they
still talked about the “ real preference,” but when
the duty on kerosene came up, it was biffed
out without even a division—it simply went on
the voices. And yet that duty of 3d. per gallon
represented a real preference to the dear old
Motherland. It would have knocked out the
U.S. Standard Oil Trust, which ships its oil ready
tinned and packed from its various depbts, and it
would have diverted the trade into the pockets of
English companies which own oil wells in Borneo
and Nigeria. This English oil would have come
in free, and by the time the grinding Yankee
monopoly had got its tank ships afloat, and its
tinning and packing factories erected in Australia,
the English companies would have got a firm grip
of the trade, and have been hard to dislodge. Of
course, the fact that the duty would have caused
£85,000 a year, that is now spent abroad, to be
paid to Australian workmen doesn’t matter. The
Australian workman doesn’t count. Neither
do the Australian business people who would
have annexed the bulk of the £IOO,OOO that
the Trust would have had to sink in tinning
and packing depbts in Australia —they don’t
matter either. The Tasmanian tin mines, which
would have supplied the material for the cans, the
Broken Hill companies, which would have supplied
the zinc, as well as the lead, for soldering purposes;
and the Australian saw-millers, who would have
supplied the timber for the cases—none of them
matter. Nothing matters but the importer. The
great, soulless Trust, that has been convicted of
every crime in the calendar, including murder,
will go on slowly crushing the English and Aus-
tralian oil industries. Oil will not be any cheaper
to the Australian, nor will it be any better—a,nd
the only people who will benefit by the abolition
of the duty will be the bald-headed John D.
Rockefeller and those associated with him.
The Trust agent was lucky in having found
a Legislature composed, like the rest of the
world, mostly of fools. But he may take
away this reflection with him, that Australia
is committed to Protection ; and if we do not
get it this year we will try again next, and the
next after that if necessary. There will be no
fiscal peace in this continent till it gets a High
Protective tariff, and the Standard Oil and all the
other Trusts are barricaded out.
Pianos, Johnson, Etc.
The debate on the piano duties in the House of
Representatives was an affair which ought to
make Australia blush with shame. It consisted
in the main of a savage attack by sundry Foreign-
trade members —principally the dreadful Johnson,
of N.S.W.—upon the Australian piano industry.
It was not alleged that the Australian pianos are
worse than the imported ones, or that they are
dearer, or that they would be worse or dearer
than the imported ones under increased Protec-
tion. But they represent an Australian in-
dustry, in which a large amount of Australian
capital is sunk, which pays good wages to a large
number of Australian workmen for eight hours’
work per diem, and which yields profits to an
Australian proprietary—profits that are spent in
Australia. This was enough to excite the fury of
Johnson and his crowd, and they waved the
blanky shirt at large. Johnson declared with
frenzy that if the figures of Beale’s balance-sheet
were “properly read”—apparently Johnson
wasn’t going by the figures in the balance-sheet,
but by those which he wanted to find there—the
year’s profits of the Beale piano-making co.
would prove to be £BIOS. He stopped to let the
horror of it soak in—the horror and iniquity of a
mere wretched Australian manufacturing concern
making £BIOS. Just a few months ago three
importing concerns, which sell their goods
in Australia but divide their profits in Lon-
don, announced that they had made over
£35,000, £55,000, and £03,000 respectively for the
year, but because they employ no skilled Aus-
tralian labor, and spend their earnings in Eng-
land, this didn’t make Johnson turn a hair.
But the shame and disgrace of an Australian
manufacturing concern making £Blos—it simply
maddened Johnson. Then there were ferocious
scoffs at “ this gr-r-r-r-reat Australian industry,”
with along drawl on the “great,” and a bitter
sneer on the “Australian.” It was alleged by
Johnson that nine-tenths of the materials used in
the manufacture of Australian pianos are im-
ported. This statement Mr. Beale briefly de-
scribed as “an infernal lie, and beneath con-
tempt,” and anyone who has inspected the Beale
factory, and considered all the processes conducted
there, and the mass of ingenious machinery therein
—much of it Australian-made, and some of it
Australian-invented machinery and seen the
making of the parts in active operation, would
consider the things Beale said about John-
son were quite moderate. But the climax
came when Johnson and Knox combined
to solemnly present to the House the
offer of a certain German individual who, it was
alleged, is willing to give £50,000 for Beale’s
business (in which £150,000 capital is said to be
involved), and to manufacture pianos without any
increase'on the present duty, “provided he is allowed
to import practically all the parts free of duty, and
provided his manufacturing process is to simply
consist in putting together these imported parts,
and consequently (though this was not specifically
mentioned) provided he is allowed to sack all the
Australian workmen now' employed in making
the Iparts. This outrageous offer was flourished
by Johnson and Knox as if it were a solid and
irrefutable argument against the Australian
piano-making industry, and again they paused to
let the serious nature of the situation soak in.
And, in addition to these matters, there
was a curious side-issue. An importer, pre-
sumably full of anxiety lest the making of
Australian pianos by well-paid Australian
workmen should get in the way of his importing


business, bad presented to Treasurer Lyne certain
written arguments against an increased duty.
These written arguments, wh'V-h apparently were
not marked “ private,” had, by some accident or
other, reached Bevle, the .lustralian mixnu-
facturer. and had been refuted by him. The
Freetraders, whose possession of Beale’s balance-
sheet was still unaccounted for, asked with
terrible intensity by what unspeakable breach of
faith the Australian maker had been allowed to
read and reply to the importer’s story, instead of
the against him by default, and seemed
to imply that Judas Iscakiot was a mere circum-
stance by comparison. It was a lamentable,
miserable, long-drawn-out business. Most of it
was Johnson ; and the savage anger of Johnson
because anybody presumed to make things in Aus-
tralia, and the rage of Johnson because an
Australian manufacturing concern had the
effrontery to make a profit of £BIOS, while
importers make £63,000 or more without aggra-
vating Johnson in the least, was a melancholy
spectacle. The Bulletin sometimes wonders if
there aren’t countries where a patriotic mob
would be a law unto itself, and chase Johnson
into the next continent.
The Hatred of Australian Industry.
The Tariff debate has been notable, amongst
other things, for the venomous manner in which
almost the whole of the Anti-Sosh members have
slandered Australian manufactures and Australian
workmen. No lie concerning the quality of Aus-
tralian goods has been too gross for these traitors
to invent or repeat; and a visitor, reading their
malignant utterances, might reasonably come to
the conclusion that these men were representing
some foreign country with which Australia was at
war. During the debate on the white-lead duty,
a few days ago, Palmer, the member from Echuca,
it is reported-
read a letter stating that pure white-lead was not
manufactured in Australia. It was a sulphate of lead,
and not equal to lead produced from carbonate of lead.
It is quite possible that the duty would have been
seriously interfered with were it not for the fact
that John Quick, chairman of the Tariff Com-
mission, Was in the Chamber. The effective
manner in which he demolished Palmer’s traitor-
ous lie is worth printing in capitals :
Mr. John Quick remarked that Mr. Palmer’s statement
was a slander on Australian white-lead. Subsequently he
read a metallurgist’s certificate as to the purity of Aus-
tralian white-lead, manufactured from sulphate of lead.
He also read a further certificate from the keeper of
stores at Newport railway depdt testifying to the quality
and covering capacity of the Australian article, showing
that it was superior to the ordinary white-lead.
Yet Palmer hadn’t even the grace to withdraw
his slander. Instead, he followed Johnson,
Edwards, J. T. Brown, Wilks and 12 others
of the slander gang, who voted for an amendment
by DugalD Thomson reducing the duty. The
manner in which the Protectionist members of the
House of Representatives have to be on guard
against the circulation of lies concerning Aus-
tralian products is humiliating to the last degree.
If there is any other country in the world where
men glory in openly traducing their own products
this paper would like to hear of it. At present
Australia seems to occupy a position of lonely and
unenviable eminence in this respect.
♦
Drying-up—A Matter Relating to the
Australian Capital.
“The Queanbeyan River has ceased to flow,”
says a brief telegram from the southern part of
N.S.W. When that statement appeared the
drought had only lasted a few months—not so
many months as it may last years when once it
gets fairly started. Yet already the unreliable
little affluents of the Murrumbidgee are giving
out. And it is among these unreliable little
affluents that the N.S.W. State Frights party—
the party which raves against the proposed Aus-
tralian capital at Dalgety simply because the
Dalgety site is approved by the Australian Par-
liament wants to plant Australia’s political
centre. At Canberra and other places thereabouts
it is possible that enough stagnant water could be
conserved at heavy expense, to see the Federal
city through a bad dry spell, lint it is
all a matter of doubt. The affluents of
the Murrumbidgee are a rather shifty lot at
best. Meanwhile the Snowy River, on which
Dalgety stands, fed by the perpetual snows of the
great Kosciusko range, rushes down to the sea as
usual. It goes on for ever. It turns southwards
out of N.S.W. into Victoria, and there, amid
rocks and gullies and mountains and precipices,
where there is nothing to irrigate, it wastes the
good Cornstalk water that N.S.W. wants so badly.
As it roars along it carries into the ungrateful
adjacent State enough Cornstalk drink to quench
the thirst of a city larger than Sydney, and to
supply it with electric light, and electric heating
arrangements, and power sufficient to run all its
industries, and something over wherewith to
irrigate the Federal territory. All this water
and power and heat and light are Corn-
stalk property which goes to waste to make
A patch of Gippsland scenery. But against
this remains the fact that Dalgety was selected
by the Australian Parliament, and therefore, to
assert their miserable little scrap of alleged
“authority” and to show their power, the petty-
minded State Frights push of Sydney demands
that the capital shall be shifted to a site on some
of the unreliable little creeks that run into the
’Bidgee, and that N.S.W.’s Snowy River shall
still waste its splendid volume of water amid the
Gippsland scenery. And at the request of State
Premier Wade the foolishly affable Deakin pro-
poses to give the Australian Parliament an oppor-
tunity “to discuss the question of the capital
site,’’ just as if the question hadn’t already been
exhaustively discussed and settled. There is some-
thing maddening about the affability of Alfred
Deakin.
Compulsory Military Training.
The Australian Government has announced that
the key-note of its system of land defence will he
the compulsory training to the use of arms of all
able-bodied young male Australians. The idea is
one which should receive the enthusiastic support
of every patriotic citizen. In the case of a country
like Belgium, with 030 people crowded upon each
square mile, the training of a small percentage of
the young men would furnish a fairly large army
in proportion to the area to be guarded ; but Aus
tralia, with about three persons to two square
miles, with immensely powerful enemies at its
gates, and with half the globe between it and
any reasonable prospect of assistance, needs
to hustle for its very life. Even if it
does hustle as proposed, it will probably
be 20 years before there are in Australia 1,000,000
men who have passed through the training course,
and as the proposed course only consists of 18 days’
training per annum, and even that only applies
to young men in their 19th, 20th, and 21st years,
the oldest of the allegedly qualified men will only
be qualified in the sense that they had learned
something about the business 19 years ago. It
isn’t a drastic proposition by any means—in
fact, there is reason to doubt whether it is
drastic enough. But the principle is excellent;
in fact, it is the only possible principle. A
voluntary citizen defence force of any size and
efficiency is out of the question. If a young man
in a bank or insurance office joined such a
force in his enthusiasm, it would presently
be noted in the office that Private Smith was
apt to be called away at most inconvenient
times for his annual training, and the institution
would look coldly upon him as a person whose
military fervor got in the way of business. When
some responsible post fell vacant, Jones, who had
no military fervors, would get the promotion,
while Private Smith would stay in the rut. His
three years’ voluntary service, if it didn’t actually
get him the sack, would often mean three years’
loss of promotion, and he might never in all his
life catch up these arrears. But if every young
man in the institution’s employ was under exactly
the same conditions, and each was called out in
turn for his three weeks’ training, there
would be no handicap. Thus every young
man would get three weeks’ holiday per
annum, and spend it in a way that
would make him in after life a healthier, more
muscular, and more perpendicidar citizen. And
it wouldn’t make him one whit more liable to be
butchered on the gory battlefield than he is now —•
in fact, it would make him much less so. Every
Government has the inherent right to call out the
whole able-bodied male population for defence
purposes in time of dire necessity, and when Aus-
tralia is invaded by the hordes of Asia, they must
be called out. (This fact is directly acknow-
ledged in the Defence Act which provides
for the calling to the colors of all citizens in
war time.) As things are now, these levies
would go out as an almost unarmed and untrained
mob, and thousands of them would be needlessly
slain while they were learning, in the face of the
enemy, the rudiments of the military art. Under
the system of compulsory training they would go
out as men who knew enough to give them
a chance for their lives as well as a chance of
victory. There is no question of aggressive mili-
tarism in the case ; it is merely a matter of giving
the Australian citizen a show when it comes to
pass that he must go out, trained or untrained. A
voluntary regular army wouldn’t be a drop in the
bucket of such an emergency, and need hardly be
considered as a possible alternative. Such an
army always consists too largely of the wasters
and incompetents of the community—the mer-
cenaries who are willing to go Tommying for poor
pay because even that pay is beyond their earning
capacity in other walks of life. But though
the pay be poor and the hired wasters and incom-
petents cheap, Australia can’t afford defence on
those lines. It takes a large army to mate even
a pretence of defending nearly 3,000,000 square
miles of country, and 4,000,000 people can’t buy
one-tenth of the permanent and stipendiary
Tommy that would be required for the work.
The Advantage of Going Often to the
Pawnshop.
E. W. O’Sullivan writes
In The Bulletin (5/12/’O7) you have, by a tortuous
process of logic, proved to your satisfaction that the 29
new tramlines which I gave to N. S. Wales are only
paying about 2 per cent. Permit me in reply to say that
you are either looking at the subject with the wrong end of
the telescope—contraction instead of expansion—or else
you have access to figures not open to the Railway Com-
missioners or the Treasurer of N. S. Wales—the acceptable
authorities in such matters. At the turning of the sod of
the Erskineville tramway, the Railway Commissioners
(who ought to know) supplied the Hon. Ciias. A. Lee,
Minister for Public Works, with the statement that,
while in 1899 (the year I took office) the tramways were
only paying 2£ per cent., they are now paying nearly
6 per cent. As we only had 50 miles of tramlines when
I took office in 1599, and I added 133 miles at a cost of
about two millions, borrowed at and 3f per cent., I
think I have a right to claim that the increase up to
nearly 6 per cent, is the outcome of my work. To cor-
roborate this assertion of the Railway Commissioners, we
have the statements of the Treasurer in his recent
budget speech, that the railways and tramways of N. S.
Wales combined were paying about 5 per cent, it devolves
upon you now to show that your figures are more reliable
than those of the Treasurer and the Railway Commis-
sioners. When you do so, the public will begin to see who
is the writer who is humbugging himself on the
question. Take the case of the Manly tram,
which you have quoted; that is only 1J mile out
of a scheme of 16 miles, which I had planned to go to
Pittwater on one side and the Spit on the other. Even
now the Manly tram of 1J mile is so crowded that they
have had to put on steam instead of horses. In 1902-3
you say wo had a deficit on my tramlines. Perhaps, but
is it not somewhat unfair to judge a tram or railway
scheme after one or two years’operation ? Judge them
now, after six years’ operation, and you will find that the
Railway Commissioners’ report of a 6 per cent, profit on
the whole scheme of tramlines is absolutely correct.
In addition to all this, you have to consider the enormous
impetus given to building operations by my tram-
lines. You can see that in almost every suburb
around Sydney where my trams have gone. Accord-
ing to the S. M. Herald, in the year 1903, when I
was still in power, no less than three million pounds’
worth of new buildings were erected in that year alone in
Sydney and suburbs. The increase of buildings has gone
on nearly at the same rate ever since, and therefore I
think I can honestly claim that the greater portion of
this eight or nine million pounds was the outcome of my
scheme of tramway extension. Putting all other aspects
of the question aside for the moment, what an immense
amount of well-paid labor this gave rise to !
All of which is only so much further proof that
on this question the Owe’Sullivan is the incor-
rigible party that The Bulletin said he was.
Briefly—
(l) The Bulletin didn’t say the 29 tramways which the
Owe’S. “ gave ” N. S. Wales were only paying about 2
per cent. What it did say, on the authority of Coghlan,
was that in 1902-3 (which was one of the Owe’Sullivan
years) “all that the public undertakings had left over
after paying working expenses was £1,509,752”; that
“ N. S. Wales then owed Coiien £71,592,485”; and that
“ the actual return was, therefore, £2 2s. 2d. per cent.”
The Owe’Sullivan had talked about 6 per cent. ; and
£2 2s. 2d. isn’t 6 per cent., except when you look through
a magnifying glass, and Cohen won’t look through a
magnifying glass when N. S. Wales is settling up with him.
(2) If the Railway Commissioners told Mr. Lee, who
told Mr. Owe’S., that in 1899 the tramways of N.S.W.
were “ only paying 2£ per cent.,”and that they are now
paying 6 per cent.,” most of the truth got lost in transit.
Mr. Owe’S. can get much more direct information than
that. The official N.S.W. Statistical Register (1899)
shows that for that year the N.S.W. State tramways paid
3-99 per cent. ; and the Railway Commissioners’ report
for 1906-7 shows that they paid 4'93 per cent. The
Owe’S., relying upon his third-hand information, says the
improvement between 1899 and the present is 3J percent.
On the official reports, it really is less than 1 per cent.
(3) The Owe’S. thinks the increase of 3J per cent,
(which is only 0'94 per cent, and not 3£ per cent, at all)
is “ the outcome of my work.” In S. Australia the rail-
ways improved in the same time from £3 Bs. sd. per cent,
to £5 3s. 2d. per cent., and in Queensland from
£1 12s. lid. to £3 14s. Bd. in four years ; and the Owe’S.
wasn’t even so much as a plain citizen in either of those
States. Apparently, then, Mr. Owe’Sullivan isn’t the
only Providence in Australia. Further, the Melbourne
tramways in 1599 made a profit of £56,629 and in 1907
they made £137,661, so it looks as though there would
have been a tremendous increase of tramway profits in
N. S. Wales if the Owe’Sullivan hadn’t arrived to spoil
the results by building various lines that don’t even pay
working expenses—Manly, Baulkham Hills, and others.
(4) The Owe’S. glories in the fact that the spending of
his borrowed millions created a boom : “ What an
immense amount of well-paid labor this gave rise to ! ”
In other words, because the Owe’Sullivan borrowed,
others borrow'ed, and spent the money —and the bill for
it all will come in by-and-bye. The Owe’Sullivan always
forgets that blessed bill. The Bulletin doesn’t. That is
the difference between them.
♦
Dungog and the Almighty.
“ Bill ” upon prayers for rain ;
The people who pray for rain have my most sincere
encouragement. Rain is wanted just now so much in
Australia that any means of inducing it to come here seems
fair, and if prayers can induce it to fall, that method has
at least the advantage of inexpensiveness. Only, granting
the efficiency of ram-prayers, these people do not go to
work in a business-like way. The rules of the game,
as indicated by those in the know, are based
on the assumption that the Almighty counts
votes. One prayer, like one vote cast for the
candidate lowest on the list, doesn’t seem to count for
much ; but when a majority of the electors put in their
petition the matter seems to call for investigation. Also
even a majority of prayer-votes cast at various intervals
are of no value. The thing, to have any appreciable
effect, must be done simultaneously. Apparently there
is only one polling day, and all votes east before
or after that date are invalid. So it seems as
if the Almighty, who must have known that the
drought was due, can’t be got to attend to it till
He is in receipt of a simultaneous boost from earth. And,
also, according to the accepted rules of the game, if
people go to picnics on prayer day instead of staying at
home to record their votes at the churches, the Almighty
disallows the petition even of a majority. People could
as easily pray at a picnic as in a church, and if the pic-
nickers forgot to bring along the water in the billy, they
would pray all the more fervently. The regulations pro-
vide that every vote must be cast in the polling-booth.
There are, however, regrettable difficulties in the way
of altering the weather. In the first place, if the
Almighty is a just Almighty, He will not grant every
petition that is sent up for consideration. In the
Transvaal war the Boers prayed much more fervently for
victory than the British, and the Boers lost. And if
prayers were always granted there would be no death ;
for death is a calamity that is prayed against with a
fervor beyond all comparison with that of a request for
rain. Arid in the case of a monarch, he has the advant-
age of being prayed for by an enormous electorate. If
weekly prayers by an enormous number could keep
Edward good, Edward ought to be very good by this
time. And the Almighty, considering the petition of
Dungog (N.S.W.) and other places on a small section
of an inconspicuous planet, must weigh the relative
advantages of the gain of a rainfall there with the conse-
quent loss of rainfall elsewhere. The Almighty, taking
into consideration the size of the universe, and the con-
sequent innumerable wants of the assorted species of life
scatttered throughout it, must be constantly besieged
with prayers to alter things. However, let us suppose
that the Almighty has a kindly feeling toward the earth,
even a special partiality to Australia. Then He must
work a miracle. It may seem to Dungog a trivial
thing to make a copious rainfall on Dungog and
even on the rest of Australia. But the meteorologists
know better. Rain is conditioned by certain anterior
causes. No rain falls without a physical reason. So the
Almighty, setting to work to remedy what Dungog re-
gards as a defect in His management, must upset His
whole weather scheme. If rain falls in Australia it will
affect the whole of the meteorological conditions of the
world. So the miracle that Dungog asks for is so
stupendous that turning water into wine sounds like a
mere conjurer’s trick by comparison. For the present dry
spell is casually connected with all the weather that has
happened since the creation of the earth. If there were no
miracles, and yet the rainfall that wasn’t coming to-
morrow were made to come, it would have had to be
led up to by utterly different weather conditions than
those actually existing 1 . And this different arrangement
of high and lot pressures, anti-cyclones and cyclones,
would have been caused by preceding different weather
conditions ; and these, in their turn, would have involved
different conditions to those that actually were there,
right back to the time of the Flood. And if the rain, by
prayer, is brought on a month earlier than the date
which the Almighty fixed for it to be due, then
the Flood would have happened a month earlier
than it was expected, and it would have caught
Noah with his Ark half-built, and that old
salt wouldn’t have had time to make the vessel seaworthy
—to say nothing of getting his cargo of live stock on
board—and the ark would have been swamped, and there
would have been no Dungog, and no Dungoggers. So
the people who pray for rain began too late; they
should have started their petition before the present
arrangement of cyclones and anti-cyclones was get going.
Believing in the efficacy of prayer, Dungog might
have prevented the drought long ago. If the Dungoggers
made a practice of praying for a nice rainfall
once a fortnight there would have been no drought.
However, willing to give the rain-prayers a chance,
this writer suggests two comprehensive and permanent
schemes. First, he is going to pray for a better dis-
tribution of rainfall over the earth, so that those places,
like the West Coast of Maoriland, which get about three-
quarters of an inch every twenty-four hours, might spare
some of their surplus for Australia, and the enormous
amount of rain that falls stupidly back into the
ocean might possibly he diverted ' to the interior
of Sahara and Australia. Failing this readjustment,
he will fall back upon The Bulletin's old scheme of
praying for a whopping mountain range right in the
middle of Australia. Or, if one range of Himalayas is not
sufficient, let’s pray for a do/, n. If miracles can be
worked by prayer it would he just as easy for the
Almighty to boost up a few healthy and quick-growing
volcanoes as to bring down a deluge of rain. And,
having our Himalayas, we need not worry the Almighty
any further about the weather. Where there are
Himalayas, the rain can always be relied upon.
♦
A Fat Man’s Holiday.
The members of Victoria’s House of Fat had a
rollicking time of it the other evening, when the
Amending Factories Act came before them. As
a commencement, Labor member Evans tried to
obtain a Wages Board for clerks. But the House
fell on his idea like an avalanche, only two votes
—those of Evans and McLkllan— being cast in
its favor. Then, by 20 votes to 10, the House so
mutilated the clause providing for a Carters’
Board that it might as well have cut the lot out.
The Quarrying Board clause was amended, so as
not to apply to “agricultural purposes.” Warm-
ing to the work, Manifold, the stodgy and stupid
member for Warrnambool district, moved “the de-
letion from the clause of all mention of the occupa-
tion of gardeners or nurserymen.” Bayne rose to
support the amendment, and made a remark that
should become historical :
A garden is a luxury, and people will not tolerate
factory inspectors entering their gardens, and interfering
with their servants.
Paynf, must have been very impressive, 'as the
amendment was agreed to on the voices. But if
Payne lives a few years longer, he will find that
he will have to tolerate a good few things that at
present he declines even to consider. The House
of Rich Landlords had now got its second wind,
and the egregious Manifold rose heavily to his
feet and moved an amendment limiting the opera-
tion of the whole clause to the metropolitan
district. Said Manifold
The country could do very well without such experi-
ments. The conditions of work in the city were quite
different to those obtaining in the country, where the
relationship between employer and employee was that of
friendship.
And the amendment was carried by 18 votes to
nine. And in Manifold’s own district, where “the
relationship between employer and employee is
that of friendship,” the unfortunate farm hands
work 14 hours a day, Sunday mostly included, for
15s. a week. And Manifold, in his motor,
working no hours a day, approves cordially of the
iniquity.
The Fruit Fly—and Some Mosquitoes.
When the N.S.W. and Queensland delegates to
the recent fruit-growers’ conference in Adelaide
went through Melbourne, on their way home,
they passed the time of day to Bent’s Minister of
Agriculture, Swinburne, and some of Ma’s dele-
gates desired him to abolish his regulations for the
suppression of fruit-fly, while one of them assured
him that if he didn’t, Ma would break out and do
something nasty. Ma has now broken out. The
Victorian regulations applied impartially all
round —to Victoria as well as all other States that
needed them. The Queensland delegates, anxious
to suppress pests, made no moan; nor has any
other State, save N.S.W., kicked up a shindy.
But last week N.S.W. Minister Perry gazetted
regulations prohibiting the admission into N.S.W.
of Victorian fruit and vegetables, except under
special and drastic conditions, one of which is
that the produce shall be inspected and passed by
a N.S.W. officer to be stationed in Melbourne and
paid by Victoria. That the intention is to be
nasty to the “Victorian wolves” can be seen
from three facts :
(1) The regulations have not been applied to the Ma
State, though the fruit-fly (which the Victorian regula-
tions were designed to exclude) exists there, and does not
exist to any visible extent in the Cabbage Garden.
(2) Neither fruit-fly nor codlin moth, which both per-
vade the cantankerous State, attack asparagus, cabbages,
cauliflowers, peas, beans, and several other kinds of
vegetables, yet all these are put on the prohibited list.
(3) The regulations apply to Victoria only, though
fruit-fly and codlin moth, besides other diseases, exist in
Queensland and South Australia, and the moth at least
in Tasmania.
Minister Swinburne has already stated for Vic-
toria that there is no objection to the regula-
tions, as they are in the true interests of the
grower, provided they are fairly and honestly
carriedout; but he does protest against thediscrim-
ination that orders his State to keep itself clean,
while other States, including the chief offender
—theMaState itself—areallowed to continuedirty.
If Perry and Wade imagine they are doing a
good turn to Ma’s fruit-growers they are making
a large-sized error, too. The only possible way to
assist the County oft Cumberland fruit-growers,
and to assure the acceptance of their product in
outside markets, is to compel them to keep
their orchards clean. Perry’s action merely
encourages them to be dirty. Certainly it does
something else—it brings under the notice of a
few more people the necessity of extending the
powers of the Australian Parliament; for a
system under which such a matter as fruit pests
is left to half-a-dozen petty State authorities is
only a shade less absurd than it would be if every
householder in a city were allowed to be his own
water and sewerage board and sanitary inspector.
«
Janet Mrs. Clarke is Invited to a Dancing
Contest.
A North Queensland woman writes some straight
Australian for the benefit of Mrs. Molyneux
Parkes and the Anti-Sosh ladies who lately met
at Janet Mrs. Clarke’s (Melbourne) to drink tea
and air their ignorance :
We North Queensland women have been reading the
speeches of the Liberal League women down south. They
amuse us. lam now living at the back of Cairns ; and,
after wilting 1 in Cobar, Bourke, Wilcannia, and all round
that part of N. S. Wales, I think this part of Australia
The People of the Slums.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Labor in municipal government had in England
removed the slums from many cities, but owing to land
monopoly the slums had been supplanted by great human
rabbit warrens many storeys high. In many of the
villages in England the material conditions were such
that the people had no moral conceptions whatever.
People were not improved by preaching morality at
them, but by giving improved moral conditions. —Frank
Anstey, M.L.A., recently returned from an inspection of
Great Britain.
In the grip of the mighty landlord, yielding th 9
landlord’s fee,
Like animals tamed and humble, behold this
people “free” —
Their verminous rags a token, their noisome lairs
a sign
Of the glory that men call England’s—O proud
and noble line
Whose hovels in Hoxton fester, whose lives all
bankrupt are;
And these are the British “ freemen ” all chained
to the landlord’s car !
As a sign of their vaunted freedom do we spank
the Empire’s drums
In praise of the pauper army—the People of the
Slums !
How long shall the parsons maunder—how long
in high conclave
Shall bishops with rubrics palter when bodies
they need to save?
They are blind to the nameless squalor, to filth
and vice and slime
That are part of the Empire’s glory. The Church
is marking time !
It mumbles its ancient story, it fishes in vain for
souls
When the bodies of men are rotting in fetid dens
and holes !
In its palsied, crumbling pulpit it champs its
toothless gums ;
How long ere the Church shall heed them—the
People in the Slums ?
Grown fat with the sloth of ages—inert, dead-
souled and tame,
The Church is the landlord’s toady and it eats
the bread of shame !
For the squire is the parson’s fetich —the lord of
the country-side.
He is the brewer magnate to whom the pub of
the Church is tied.
So the old traditions moulder, and Empires pass
away
When their creeds wax old and rotten, and their
gods are gods of clay.
The grey-haired Empires totter —and when the
death-grip comes,
They seek in vain for soldiers in the city’s reeking
slums!
Consider the Pauper Army—it marches sadly on—
And the strength that once was England’s is with
it dead and gone !
In the streets of the bloated cities, whereof she
boasts with pride,
They have slaughtered yeoman England, and
Cobden’s hands are dyed !
There the landlord harpies batten ; while the
Church with careless eye
Looks on content and silent as the pauper hosts
roll by!
And the Empire slowly crumbles; and to-day,
with muffled drums,
Are the nation-wreckers marching—The People
of the Slums !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


DEAFNESS a ND NOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long 1 standing or
whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINPORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes : —“ The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
Tub Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of6‘2 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enoua-h to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney,N.S.W.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
TYREE AUTOMATIC RABBIT DESTROYER.
Tests have now been made at Binda, Crookwell, Coota-
mundra, Randwick, and other places. In every case the
rabbits were killed automatically in their burrows with-
out labor. Price, from £4 each.
TYREE AUTOMATIC SPRAYERS.
Thousands of these machines are now in use for killing
Grasshoppers, Prickly-pear, Laritana, Briars, Blackberries,
Poison-plant. For spraying sheep for Blow'fly. For
Whitewashing, Painting, Disinfecting, Fire-extinguishing,
and numerous other purposes. Price, from £4 each. For
further particulars, write Tyree Ltd., 314 George-street*.
Sydney.*
just heavenly. This Mount Molloy is a mining- township,
and whenever a Cobar miner comes here, for a while he
can talk of nothing- but the beautiful climate. After a
while he notices also the beautiful sunsets. If Mrs.
Molynkux Parkes could see us women running round at
election time she would know we did not lie down all day
and have a nigger to fan us.
I attended a breaking-up at the Richmond Hill
(Charters Towers) school two years ago this Christ-
mas, and talk about vitality! I would like to ask
those silly Clarke and Parkes women to let
us work out our own destiny. We northern women
and men are quite capable of doing it. Mrs. Clarke’s
ladies could find plenty to do in their own city slums,
where it is pitiful to see the cigarette-poisoned boys, and
the puny, sweated girls. Mrs. Clarke’s ladies needn’t
worry about us while they have those others at their very
doors.
lam not speaking of the coast line. That is hot, but
not worse than parts of N.S.W. Even on the coast the
men in the canefields, for whom those ladies feel such
pity, work all day, and if there is a dance on at night
they never miss it. I wonder could Mrs. Clarke’s ladies
dance all night (to the music of a concertina with three
of its keys sick)? We do that here. Come, this is a
challenge.
When we get decent land laws and better conditions
for the workers, this Queensland will be the pick of the
bunch. We have streams flowing all the year round, and
millions of acres of good land. But the monopolist is
letting the pick of it to Chows and other aliens ; and—
thanks to the crowd those Clarke and Parkes ladies
belong to—the worker can only look on and wonder when
the end of the folly will come.
Concerning Stupidity.
The Argus recently printed a letter, in favor of
land monopoly, which began with this gem :
Most Victorians are bewailing this year’s drought. I
feel sure, however, it will do good in two ways. (1) It
will show members the stupidity of the “ million-acre
scheme ”; (2) it will at last open the eyes of the Govern-
ment to the dangers of the Closer Settlement Act.
Yes, the million-acre scheme is stupid. At
present, while practically all crops north of the
Dividing Range in Victoria are more or less a
failure, every crop on the Western plains is a
success. The Aegus itself, in summing up the
wheat prospects of the State, declared that the
one bright spot was the Western plains.
These plains, only a minute fraction of which
have as yet seen a plough, will this year
garner no less than 1,500,000 bushels of
wheat, besides hay, oats, and barley. There is a
crop failure around Melbourne, and even on the
famous Werribee plains; but these Western
plains have never known what a drought is. The
Government has a closer settlement estate—
Strathkeller —on their western fringe ; and this
year the settlers are refusing fancy offers for their
growing crops, and stand to make small fortunes.
The Closer Settlement Board recently offered a
dozen farms on the southern edge of this plain,
near Camperdown, and 86 farmers battled to get
them. Therefore The Bulletin agrees over again
that the million-acre scheme is stupid—the whole
lot of these Western plains ought to be forced out
of the hands of the monopolists, and not merely a
million acres. With that done, the unfortunate
cockies who are struggling out in the Mallee, and
who this year will not in many cases put a har-
vester over their land, might come in, and make
something likean assured living.
The release of Reuben Ward, lately sentenced
to death at Dubbo (N.S.W.), on a charge of rape,
said to have been committed on a most remarkable
girl named Cecilia Smith, again calls attention
to the urgent necessity for doing something to
the very remarkable kind of girl. Reuben
Ward’s astonishing girl was cook and waitress at
the pub of Michael Grady, and in between
cooking and waiting she had attacks of hysteria.
Also, she seems to have had a habit of
going out in the evening on very slight invitation.
She went out voluntarily with Reuben Ward,
who seems to have been a raffish young railway
official. She went with him voluntarily to the
lone, dark, deserted railway carriage shed. She
climbed voluntarily with him into a dark, deserted
railway carriage in the shed. And having done
these things voluntarily, she alleged that some-
thing which is alleged to have happened after-
wards was an outrage put upon her by compul-
sion. She had, it appears, gone to all this
trouble in the dark, and taken up this compro-
mising attitude, merely for the sake of the scenery
or something. The apparent reason for this
glaring departure from all human probability was
that girl Smith took one of her hysterical attacks,
and, being delivered to Michael Grady in an
insensible condition in the small hours of the
morning by the alarmed Reuben Ward and a
scared friend, it became up to her to explain to
Mike Grady the cause of her lateness and her
condition. And she explained it in the way which,
by reason of long-continued immunity, has become
the regular habit of the truly remarkable girl.
She took the lie of least resistance. A jury, which
seems to have been the last possibility in the way
of mental incapacity, believed the really amazing
girl, and Reuben Ward was sentenced to death.
Of course, nothing came of the sentence; but the
incredible girl goes scot-free, as usual. If
she is sane she isn’t punished; if she is
insane she isn’t locked up. And next time,
by happening to be a little less incredible,
the astonishing girl may have better luck in the
way of getting someone hanged. If she doesn’t,
some other surprising girl, taking a lesson from
her failure, may have better luck. The country
is full of remarkable girls, and their constant
impunity gives them every encouragement to
keep on being remarkable.
♦
H. E. Pratten, of the Taylor Bros, jam firm, has
been wandering through many countries in Asia,
looking for information and business; and he got
plenty of information, anyhow. Like nearly
everybody who forms his opinions by inspecting
the mild, meek, docile, industrious desirable, etc.,
Asiatic in his own lair, Pratten comes home
“with a deepened belief in the wisdom of our
Australian immigration laws.” More than that,
not only do th'e bulk of Europeans in Asia send
across to Australia a cheer of approval, but “I
found this feeling particularly marked among the
British officers I met in India,” he says. He
went north too, and studied Kiroyiro Monkey in
his house; and —
A curious thing happened while I was in Yokohama.
Two ships containing Chinese coolies arrived at Kobe,
but the Government refused to allow them to land.
Then, having shoved the superior Chinese off
with a boat-hook —the Chinese are so much
superior that even Jap firms employ them to
handle the cash—the jumped-up Jap threw out
his beautiful little chest, and threatened to punch
America’s head for adopting precisely the Jap’s
own policy; and he hinted that, after he had
flattened out America, he would deal with Aus-
tralia by way of a second course.
+.
Keir Hardie, from England, has expounded one
section of his gospel ; he wants us, by reason of
the Brotherhood of Man, or some such theoretical
mullock, to open our doors to all comers, “ irre-
spective of creed or color.” England isn’t
seriously threatened as yet with an overwhelming
Chow invasion which will snow the white race
under ; and Hardie, being truly English, doesn’t
see why Australia, however much it may be
threatened, should shut out the Chinaman when
England doesn’t. In view of that inability,
Hardie had better take his gospel back again
whence lie came. He has utterly misread the
state of affairs. Australia knows its Asiatic better
than he does, despite his recent hurried silly skip
through India, and, if it was forced to choose, it
would sooner sacrifice its free institutions, its
adult suffrage and its Parliamentary system, and
go back to despotism and feudalism, than give up
the White Australia idea. The loss of all these
things would be reparable misfortunes; history
has shown that a white race can generally find its
way back to political liberty, no matter what
temporary may assail it. But the
nation that'lias “gone nigger” and turned Eura-
sian, or mulatto, or Chow half-breed, can never
make its way back. It is damned for all time.
It loses not only its dignity as a white people—
which is something here, however little it may be
worth in the slums of London—but its capacity
for holding on to political liberty. No Asiatic
race has shown the semblance of a capacity for
popular government. The Asiatic has always been
the slave of some despot or another. Therefore
the Tory, who in his heart loves the despotic form
of government, would fain see Australia swamped
by cheap labor serfs, and in this matter the awful
Keir Hardie is his prophet—and a very silly
prophet at that.
; ♦-
I’REMiER-by-accident Philp, of Queensland, goes
to the country on a platform whereof the chief
plank and platitude seems to be “reform of the
Upper House.” Philp, as usual, proposes to
reform backwards. The Queensland Upper
House consists of life nominees, the same as in
N.S. W. Its inhabitants are in the main useless,
stupid, and Tory, but they can be rendered harm-
less. When the Queensland Assembly is ready to
abolish the House of Dodder the Ministry of the
day has merely to nominate 50 or 100 good Demo-
crats to the Council, so that they may vote their
own abolition and that of their mates. It is all
comparatively easy. But Philp aims at an elect-
ive Upper House, based on a property franchise
—a body like the immovable heap of mullock that
sits on the chest of Victoria or Tasmania—the
sort of thing that can’t be moved by any of the
ordinary processes of Government. Philp would
just love, when he goes out of office, to leave that
huge snag behind him. It might take the demo-
cracy 30 or 100 years or more to shift the “re-
formed” Upper House, while the unreformed one
could be obliterated in three months if the
Assembly really felt that way. That sort of
“reform” appeals to Robert of Townsville.
♦
The N.S.W. State Government made an honorable
if somewhat insufficient attempt the other day to
remedy a clamorous evil. It introduced a Bill
providing that the kiddy-employee under 16, who
is now too often a gratis slave, diddled out of his
or her services on the pretence of “learning the
business,” should receive a minimum wage of 3s.
per week of 48 hours, with 6d. tea money and 3d.
per hour overtime when required to work after
b P-hl And the Assembly did a still better thing
by raising the 3s. to ss. Whereupon Minister
Wood did a shockingly bad thing by postponing
further consideration of the Bill.' Wood is a bad-
tempered man with a huge idea of his own
dignity, but he might have taken the extra 2s. as
something in the nature of a compliment—a sort
of encore, in fact.
♦
The discussion of the question of Ministerial
salaries in N.S.W. Assembly elicited very little
that was valuable in apolitical sense. The nearest
point to a constitutional view was that taken by
members who said that if Parliament left a lump
sum to a Government, Ministers would bruise and
blacken one another in trying to pull off the
largest share. The point is characteristic. The
subject did not seem to suggest to anyone the
alternative that the House might appoint Mini-
sters and fix the salaries annually. Early in
N.S.W. /constitutional history, when the ques-
tion of Ministerial salaries was before the
House, James Martin argued for an arrange-
ment whereby salaries would come up annually
on the Estimates, and he very nearly carried
a motion to that effect. He argued that
if Ministers’ salaries were placed on the Esti-
mates the House could show, by striking off a
portion of a salary, or all of it, that a particular
Minister had lost the confidence of members.
That amounted to giving the members, as a body,
control over Ministers singly, and if the power
had been obtained members could eject an objec-
tionable Minister without wrecking the Govern-
ment. The party idea was, however, strong just
then, and Martin was beaten by a small majority.
♦
Poor old Aunty Sosh is punctured again. The
awful incompetence, waste, extravagance, etc.,
etc., of the socialistic London County Coun-
cil has been accepted as a thing so obvious that
it didn’t need any proof, and it has been held up
as an awful example of the inevitable consequences
of Socialism. Finally Edwin Waterhouse, the
independent auditor who stands in the very front
of his profession in England, and is the expert
adviser of banks and commercial enterprises, was
called in to expose the rottenness of the whole
business, and various big Anti-Sosh firms under-
took, if necessary, to put up £5OOO to pay for his
investigation if the special audit couldn’t be
paid for out of the municipal funds. How that
part of the business was settled isn’t clear ; but,
anyway, Waterhouse proceeded with his investi-
gation, and just when Aunty Sosh had settled her-
self down, nice and comfortable, to listen to the
curses, he reports that the business undertakings
“indicate sound and careful management,” and
he adds that “there are efficient and accurate
records of its transactions.” And so another
horrible example of the dreadfulness of Socialism
is blown out, and quite a lot of Fat firms must be
sorry they spoke.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ When Knights were Bold.”
Theatre Royal “The Scarlet Pimpernel.” Mati-
nees, “ Blue Bell in Fairyland.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Palace “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty’s “ Hunipty Dumpty.”
Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Bijou “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Exhibition-building! ... Melba.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
♦
The Bulletin sent a Sydney musical
authority to report Melba, and got this result: —
Very doggedly determined to ovate was the crowd that
filled Sydney Town Hall on last Saturday night. And
rightly so. Melba is our prodigy ; she is the most, wonder-
ful thing we have exported to date ; she is a Marchesi
pupil (poor old Cecchi we wave gently aside). She wears
great Orders, and comes to us followed by the affectionate
regard of a dozen European Courts. She is an institution.
Fervently have Melba-lovers been proclaiming these
weeks past that the Voice is “ still there,” still as fresh
as ever it was, with all its “girlish ” quality of years back.
We are proud of our Melba, and so we protest and we
protest. But does the community at the back of its
head believe all these things which it so wants to believe ?
The writer recalls the night, nearly a decade agone,
when he saw this artist for the first time. Covent
Garden was packed from floor to roof to
hear her with the de Reszkes (Jean and Edouard)
in “Romeo et Juliette.” “On Lammas-eve at
night shall she be fourteen’’—almost the music seemed
to phrase the words, and then Juliet came on with thuds
—not Shakspeare’s Juliet, but a Juliet who was matronly,
buxom, and wore black gipsy hair about her shoulders.
Then presently the gorgeous voice poured forth, and
straightway one knew there could be no other Juliet but
this, the most gracious sweet child-woman any poet ever
imagined ; and till the curtain fell at the end the spell
lasted.
Would the Melba voice of last week compel any such
allusion ? It is divine ; but is it divine as a girl’s voice is
divine? Is it still,'for that matter, of an effortless, un-
dimmed freshness even? Melba, honest, forthright
hater of cant as she is, must .have smiled wearily
and oft at the futile stuff which has been written and
chattered about her in this connection of late. She is still
the great singer of bravura passages, though here notice-
ably a little of the old-time consummate ease is want-
ing ; still a most polished and agile vocal genius,
with an organ which in a thousand respects has
marvellously outlived her youth ; but appreciation stops
at that point, and hysteria and all fulsomeness begin.
Of her numbers the Donizetti “ Mad Scene ” im-
pressed and astounded the most. The valse song—
Arditi’s “Se Saran Rose ” appeared to give more
genuine pleasure than any other to a type of audience
whose cup of joy would have overflowed had Gounod’s
Juliette aria been on the programme. Very beautiful
was Lemmone’s flute rendering of Briccialdi’s “Wind
among the Treves”; and Andrew Black and clever Una
Bourne did notably well.
NORMAN,
The hold had man of the Bland Holt Co.
“Blue Bell,” the new pantomime, staged
at Sydney Royal on Saturday night, has one great
merit, anyhow—it serves as the grandest possible
advertisement of the Australian child. Surely so
many pretty, bright, sturdy, happy-looking,
buxom youngsters have never faced the public
before. This is a show where buxomness reigns
supreme. Blue Bell is buxom; her shoeblack
sweetheart is buxom; the Fairy Godmother is
buxom (this is putting it mildly); everyone is
buxom. Of the minor characters, the majority
look like pocket-editions of the principals in a
physical-culture school.
*-■*-**
Blue Bell is a little girl who amasses a
crust for herself and her two tiny sisters by selling
nosegays in the streets. A poor game this finan-
cially, one would be liable to say in one’s haste.
Yet Blue Bell waxes plump on it, and the infant
sisters grow absolutely bloated. A policeman
materialises (a sordid, unsympathetic rascal, as are
all his kind in the eyes of children and other
natural miscreants), likewise the Fairy Godmother
aforesaid. Later a cat and two schoolboys appear,
partly for comic relief purposes, partly to escort
Blue Bell to Fairyland. Once in Fairyland,
and at the Enchanted Castle of King
Sleepy, things hum considerably. The self-
conscious grown-ups begin to suspect the
lurking presence of an Ibsen-like symbolism
somewhere, and that the Law, or Board of Works,
or other dilatory institution of the kind is being
assailed. For, indeed, these children are cunning
enough for anything.
* * * *
After a while it turns out that Blue Bell
has only been dreaming, and hasn’t been to Fairy-
land at all—a sop plainly to the cynically-intelli-
gent modern kid, who, while patiently tolerating
now and again a fatuous parental jest concern-
ing Fairyland, refuses absolutely to have the
discredited old spot seriously handled in drama.
Blue Bell and the shoeblack are adopted ulti-
mately by an immensely wealthy collector of in-
fan tile avoirdupois or something, and theshow ends.
It is finely mounted, and the youngsters —mere
babies some of them—do amazingly well. The
frantic earnestness with which they take them-
selves and their art is a thing of abiding joy.
Rosie Fitzgerald ( cetat 13) plays the name part, and
does it‘like the accomplished little actress she is.
Lily Moore—sister of our own Carrie —is Rosie’s
sweetheart —a shoeblack, who, if trade languished,
could take on the Infant Hercules game at a
moment’s notice. The chorus won’t appeal to the
typical baldhead, and yet a sweeter lot of little
maidens this scribe has not yet seen on any stage.
The show will run every night till next Saturday,
and then there will be matinees afternoonly.
Julius Knight—Julius of Rome, who used
to make legs at Berenis in her litter, and fold his
arms aggressively at Ahenobarbus Caesar —will
rise at the Royal on Saturday night and produce
“The Scarlet Pimpernel.”
** * *
“Lady Madcap” closes her reckless
career at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) to-night, and
will be succeeded on Saturday by “The Girls of
Gottenberg.” On Friday the big theatre will
take a well-earned rest.
* * * *•
Sydney Operatic Society deserves several
approving smites on the back, and one or two
cautions for its production of “Les Cloches de
Corneville ” at Sydney Criterion. The writer
has searched the programme in vain for the
prompter’s name. This is unjust. At one
stage of the proceedings, the other evening,
two performers stood silent on the stage
whilst the prompter spoke both their parts.
Any person who says two parts at one time is
entitled to have his name on the bill. The ladies
—as is usual in these things—did most of the good
work. Miss Gladys Boyd made a dainty
Serpolette. Miss Winifred Birch, as Germaine,
acted and sang with great spirit; but one had the
impression she would have done even better
but for a little nervousness. Mr. S. Grainger
did fairly well as Henri, Marquis de Corne-
ville; and Mr. R. B. Orchard (Father Gaspard),
like the curate’s egg, was excellent in parts. The
Grenicheux of Kenningham was good ; but he has
the advantage of long experience behind him.
Messrs. W. D. Loughlin (the Bailie) and P. A.
Pawley (Gobo), as a rule, did their best. Some-
times they did their very best. Now and then
they almost succeeded. But before it is too late
someone ought to write a text, “Consider the
Prompter,” and hang it up in a prominent position.
Either that or he should be given some sort of a
costume and allowed to prompt at largeon thestage.
Finally, the chorus singing was splendid, and the
show was in aid of the Home for Incurables—
which should be sufficient excuse for the most
carping critic.
** * *
Next Saturday Frank Thornton takes
possession of the Cri., and produces “When
Knights Were Bold.” The advt. doesn’t say
when knights were bold. Meanwhile, the fact
that Armstrong was bowled in the first innings
for a miserable seven is weighing on Sydney’s
mind a good deal.
** * *
This Christinas, Johnny Sheridan will
leave off being the widow of the lamented!
O’Brien, and will blossom out into a baroness in
“ Cinderella’’—the pantomime whose burden he>
and W. Anderson bear on their joint and colossal
shoulders. The Palace will house the show, and
the stage has been stretched and rolled out till,
at one part of the proceedings, it accommodates!
129 people with a squeeze. The production is>
home-grown, and is hatched in a toy shop, which;
is raided by youngsters representing all the-
suburbs, from Woollahra, where youngsters are;
scarce, to Camperdown, where the bailiff is in:
possession. The leg of the ballet will swing for
the first time on Saturday night.
** * #
West’s Pictures continue a varied pro-
gramme of interesting films, humorous and
scenic, at Sydney Glaciarium. “ A Naval Re-
view at Spithead ” is accompanied by realistic
cannon roar, but no waves splash on to the audi-
ence, though, this hot weather, they would be
welcome. Other instructive films show “ Sea
Bird Colonies,” “Carl Hagenbeck’s Wild Animal
Park,” “The Slate Industry in France,” and
“ Motoring on U.S.A. Racing Tracks.” There is
the usual filling-up of humorous and colored films.
# -* * *
Price and Revost have come back at
Sydney Tivoli, and they make the solid founda-
tions for a holiday bill. Revost (if it isn’t Price)
does nothing except fall over things and off
things ; and until he arrived nobody could have
had a notion how humorous the Fall of
Man may have been. The other item that
deserves the ink expended on it in the programme
is the concertina-playing of a blind bellows-
blower named Henderson. Lots of lonely ’men
start to “learn the concertina,” but desist when
they see the hostile demonstrations of their
fellow-men and the agony of their fellow-women.
Henderson couldn’t see, so he went straight
ahead, and learned how to make the machine
imitate bag-pipes, cats, church-bells, mosquitoes,
cheese, and other insects.
** * *
The endeavor to boom Blanche Arral, at
Melb. Town Hall, after Clara Butt and Melba,
in turn, had made heavy demands upon the con-
cert-going public, was inspired presumably by
the Dolores precedent, for it was the original
season of Melba, at guineas and half-guineas,
which accounted for a sudden enlargement in the
popularity of the versatile little Anglo-French-
Italian artiste. But Blanche Arral is not quite
so well-equipped for song recitals as Dolores ;
moreover, she had previously been heard at
the Princess’s, in “character” mostly, with
an orchestra in front of the stage and scenic-
settings at the back. Nevertheless there was-
a large audience at the Town Hall on Saturday,,
and the somewhat mysterious Lady of the Aliases
was applauded to the encore for every one of her
numbers on the programme. Sometimes the
encore was encored ; in fact, the demonstrations,
especially from certain parts of the Hall, were
excessively loud and frequent. Mrs. Arral
changed her gowns between “ turns,” and each*


NOTICE.
Owing to the Christmas and New Year
holidays, “ The Bulletin ” will be pub=
lished on Tuesday, December 24 (instead
of December 26), and on Tuesday,
December 31 (instead of January 2).
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
advent in a different dress was hailed as a fresh
achievement. Surrounded by an atmosphere of
“guff,” and presenting a kaleidoscopic appearance
of theatricalism on an uncongenial platform,
Blanche Arral is a difficult subject for criticism.
She offends one’s sense of the eternal fit-
ness of things whilst compelling admira-
tion for her method of voice production,
and, in a less degree, for her fine, melodious
voice, which seems to have gained strength
and lost a little of its suppleness since she first
sang in Melbourne. It was always more admir-
able even in the production than in the execution,
perhaps. At any rate, the artiste who sings the
Mad Scene, from “Hamlet,” and other things,
within a week or two of Melba’s warbling them,
must expect her trills and runs and shakes to
suffer by comparison. They are brilliant enough,
but they lack perfection of finish. To be severely
truthful, one may say of Blanche Arral’s art that,
though obviously fine, it is conspicuously
tawdry; and she is never an excellent per-
former save in the light comedy and broad
comedy ditties that accord with her personality.
True, she is “great” as compared with the
average public singer in her vocalising of such
florid pieces as “Ah, Tors e Lui ” from
“Traviata,” but in these, as in “ Sancta Maria.”
she sings without sentiment. A mechanical
gesture of an arm, or a prayerful folding of the
hands, gives no expression to the music.
Histrionics merely assist a stage illusion when
they are artistic. Mrs. Arral is not a clever
actress, neither-is a bare-backed platform a stage
illusion.
* * * *
Except for some long waits between turns,
and a protracted half-way interval, the Arral
concert was not dull. Dr. Brice played an organ
solo, and took part in a mixed accompaniment to
“Sancta Maria.” An “ obligato of instrument-
alists,” nine in all, included a violinist (who
swayed with his music as though his fiddle were
his infant and he was rocking it to slumber),
Stoneham on the flute, and a young harpist —Mr.
Torzillo—with a masterly pair of hands and a
Davidian soul. A second concert was announced
for Tuesday, and a third for Saturday, but this
last fixture will presumably be shifted to a more
inviting date.
* * *
Melba has booked Saturday for her own
at the Exhibition building, and the second concert,
on Boxing Night, will be her farewell. Andrew
Black, also a full opera orchestra conducted by
Slapoffski, are engaged for the two events, and
the world at large, which has thus far waited to
“hear Melba” on easy terms, will be able to
gratify its craving at half-a-crown a head. Re-
served chairs at ss. each, and some still more
reserved seats, at half-a-guinea, in the vice-regal
district, were thrown open for selection last
Monday.
** * *
On Saturday likewise the Williamson
panto, at the Melbourne Majesty’s will break out.
Its name is “ Humpty Dumpty ” —for even a
panto, needs a name—and the managerial pro-
mise of “unexampled completeness” is backed
up by an impressive list of people who will figure
in the medley. Phydora, Florence Young, Harry
Shine, and others of the “ Mother Goose ” co. will
be there, together with a number of new girls and
a pair of freshly-imported comedians, both of
whom are familiarly addressed as “Bert.” One
of these is Bert Gilbert, the panto humorist of
yore, who used to stand unsteadily on his dignity
and hiccup, “ How dare you, you blackguard ! ”
*# * *
Wirth’s Olympia re-opens on Saturday,
but not for the purpose of circus. The educated
horses and the odorous menagerie will be away
from Melbourne for a long time, and Philip
Wirth is just off to Europe in quest of astounding
feats for the arena. J. T. West has leased the
Olympia for nine months, and during that period
he will present hundreds of miles of cinematograph
films to local notice. The West Pictures in Mel-
bourne will work in conjunction or alternation
with the show at Sydney Glaciarium, and the bill
— i.e. the pictures on the vast expanse of sheet-
will be changed every week. Olympia has been
floored, and otherwise refitted for the accommoda-
tion of 4000 fellow-citizens, and West hopes that
by strict attention to business, and the aid of a
full military band, he will sometimes attain the
happiness of standing room only.
*# * *
And the Bijou re-opens on Saturday, at
the bidding of Anderson. The last Melbourne
season of the Anderson co. concluded with a long
innings of “The Squatter’s Daughter,” and when
time was called that amazing drama was not out.
The innings is about to be resumed on a smaller
pitch than before.
** * *
A few remarks re Melbourne Princess’s
and Royal are being held over for next issue,
seeing that the first said house will not return to
life until Boxing Night, and the Royal has not
yet exhausted the resources of “The Midnight
Wedding.” A while ago the “Wedding” began
its Last Nights, since when they have seemingly
been growing in number, like the vultures at a
banquet.
** * *
Following the example of the Marshall-
Hall Conservatoire, the Melbourne University
Conservatorium gave its first operatic perform-
ance on Saturday at the Princess’s. There were
scenes from “ Der Freischutz,” “Romeo and
Juliet,” and “Faust”—and, of course, the inevit-
able Spinning Chorus. On the whole the work was
pleasantly mediocre, no one being viciously bad
in acting or singing; but in every instance save
two —both of them masculine ones—the performers
showed a certain rawness and uncertainty. The
“ Romeo and Juliet ” scene gave Sydney Monk an
opportunity to exhibit a charmingly lover-like
manner and a ringing tenor voice. His Juliet,
Miss Treweek, also looked young and amorous,
and sang very brightly. What regret the comely
couple aroused, though, for their own vocal
deficiencies, and the unloverlikeness of great
singers we have heard ! What a sad thing
it is, that great artistry usually entails a
paunch, and that youth can seldom sing like
passionate angels ! The best performance of the
evening was the Kermesse scene from “Faust,”
in which one Henry Thomas sang and acted
Mephistopheles with subtlety and fire. The
choruses were very creditable to Miss Harrington,
who.taught them, but over all was a chillness and
a repression that made for tediousness.
Latest comers at Melbourne Opera House
are Seeley and West, whose clever musical comedy
business has been improved during their four
years of absence from these shores, and Rhodesia,
the comely juggless. The average male professor
juggles more deftly than Rhodesia, but in the
matter of sex the frequent and common
man is not to be compared with the
rare and occasional lady. Other items in the
Rickards show are mostly the same as
they were a fortnight ago—Hayman and Frank-
lin, Finglass, Bluett, Terry and Bentley,
Miss Lottie Kay, Majorie Bray, and the various
human portions of the First Part. They continue
as before. Also La Martine —whose “La ” belies
him —spins a steel baton between his thumb and
fingers until it looks like a four-spoked wheel,
which is a feat more exciting in the observance
than in the cold, hard statement of it.
* * *
“Tom Moore,” at Adelaide Royal, has
resulted thus, after a spirited contest: Andrew
Mack 1, Melody 2, Sentiment 3. The placed
horses were closely attendant on the winner
throughout—in fact, nothing was going stronger
than Sentiment at the finish—but Mack won
handsomely, with his mouth open. Coincidence
was always prominent, with Arrah and Begorra.
Also ran : History and Probability; the former
received several nasty bumps, and was hardly re-
cognisable at the finish, while Probability, after
being jumped on by Coincidence, took no further
part in the event. There have been various other
excitements. The old real-ice palace (the first Aus-
tralia knew) has modestly re-opened as a roller-
rink. The Tivoli continues, though the Hippo-
drome has closed. The railway-travel illusion,
doing great business, is now open 12 hours a day,
and at present takes travellers about Europe,
including a thrilling journey on a single overhead
rail. And Clara Butt, possibly stimulated by a
recent Bulletin statement that she had “ drawn
the last dollar out of Adelaide’s pocket,” has re-
turned for one low-priced evening at the Exhibi-
tion, and drawn the city’s last half-dollar also.
A good New Year resolution —to send
The Lone Hand to a friend abroad, so that he
may think well of Australia. Send the subscrip-
tion money to The Lone Hand office, and we’ll
pay the postage.*
S. Australia has a Royal Commission at
work considering the dirty cow-man and the con-
dition of his produce. It did a good day’s work
last Monday inquiring into the animals, etc., that
are found in cream when it arrives at the factory.
They have been known to include grass, rushes,
ants, blow-flies, maggots, mice, rats, and a jew
lizard over a foot long. It was a very old lizard,
too, and fell to pieces when picked out of the
can. S. Australia now thinks of trying some
beastly State interference with the liberty of the
subject, in the shape of a Dairies Supervision Act
Dead at Bendigo (Vic.), aged 82, Wooten
Lansell, brother to the late George. Wooten
came to Victoria in 1852, and moved on to
Leichhardt, where he spent about 30 years making
the surface of Australia smile by tickling it with
the plough. Like George, he speculated some,
and when he died was a director of something like
20 concerns.
“ Uloola ” : Be statement (B. 28/11/’O7)
that Italian miners were employed rock-chopping
on the Cataract (N.S.W.) contracts. If so, they
must have been there before the job was let to
contractors Lane and Peters. I went to Cataract
with the contractors, and, as timekeeper, knew
every man on the job. All the rock-choppers
then were old sewer men. Some were badly
“ dusted,” and regarded by their mates as doomed.
The mates would calmly remark that they
“ ’Sposed they’d be the same some day.” How-
ever, the rock-chopping at Cataract was not
nearly so deadly as the same work in the sewers,
being mostly in the open on the surface, and not
at the bottom of a narrow trench.
One of those seasoned sinners whom the
new Vic. Vagrancy A.ct is being used to suppress
met trouble the other day through playing tricks
on about the most persistent man in Melbourne.
The lady has the reputation of being an accom-
plished pickpocket, and when she happened on a
stranger in a Collingwood street at about midnight,
what time he was lighting his bike lamp, it was
the work of a moment to pass him the time of
night, whip a purse containing £4 out of his
pocket, and step delicately away like Agag
treading upon eggs. Missing the purse the bikist
followed the lady to a house in a neighboring
street, and entered at her heels. He demanded
his property, and, though the lady scornfully
denied all knowledge of him, he insisted, and
threatened a disturbance, with the police at the
end of it. Foreseeing trouble the house-
holder assumed the r6le of a disturbed
and outraged citizen, and ordered the pair
off his premises, so the lady 'left, and
so did her victim. They traversed several
streets together, the lady putting on an air of
virtuous indignation, while the gentleman at
intervals cordially invited her to come with him
to a police station and argue the matter out. The
dame presently wearied of her escort’s company,
and started to scale a handy fence, but the other
ungallantly grabbed her by the leg—and felt a
purse in her stocking. This only made him a
more determined citizen ; but the lady still denied
all knowledge of his purse. After much argu-
ment, she offered to allow him to search her, and
to that end removed her skirt in the main street.
He perceived the why and wherefore of that
tricky move when she started to scream and
threatened to charge him with assault and several
other crimes. After that there was more argu-
ment and much walking to and fro, till finally the
pair happened on one of Melbourne’s scarce con-
stables, and the trio adjourned to the watch-house
at 2.30 a.m. There the feminine was recognised
as an old offender, and passed in. Next day he
got his money, and she got her twelve months.
AT POVERTY POINT.
MISS RUBY ADAMS, a new Sydney soprano
of great promise.
Photo, by Talma & Co. , Sydney.
“ J.A.C.”: Good old Ben Leveson has joined the countless
caravan of the dead. Although not occupying a very high
rank in “ the business,” nobody was better known, or better
liked. He was connected with the Australian operatic
profession for upwards of 40 years, and was a member of
W. S. Lyster’s first opera company, singing in the
chorus and minor parts. His cheval de bataille was
the King of Spain in “ Mantana,” and thereby
hangs a tale. Ben had a slight nasal twang.
Another Hebrew, who used to dabble in theatrical
management, and who had a twang like an elephant
breathing through its nose, on one occasion complained :
“ I heard Bed last digh.t as the Kigd of Spaid, add, do
you kdow, Bed calls it Baritada. Yes, I distigdly heard
hib say Baritada—dot Baritada, but Baritada ! ” Ben
had one of the gentlest natures I have ever known. In
the course of an acquaintance of over a quarter of a cen-
tury I never heard him say a harsh word of anyone. He
was a born gentleman, quite different from being a
gentleman by birth. His last theatrical “ shop ” was as
stage-doorkeeper at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, but I think
his manner was too suave to suit the management ; at
any rate, when the theatre was rebuilt after the fire, he
was shunted. Ben, who was horn in Sydney, must have
been about 70 years of age. He was one of a numerous
family. He had a sister who was an excellent pianist,
although born deaf and dumb. She was sent to London
to consult an eminent specialist, and died there, at the
age of 22. His brother John, not very long-dead, was
editor and owner of a Masonic journal published in
Sydney, and was about the first to run theatrical adver-
tising programmes in that city. Ben’s real name was
Solomon, and his father, Philip Solomon, was a Cockney
Jew, who came to Sydney some time after Captain Cook.
Old man Solomon built a house at the corner of Erskine
and Clarence streets, which he called Solomon’s Temple.
For the last few years Ben' was accorded the hospitality
of the Montefiore Jewish Home.
Abiding at the Australia just now are the only Julius,
also the Elbert-Orton lady, likewise sweet Miss Beatrice
Irwin, and, moreover, Ola Jane Humphrey. In addition
an Unpleasantness has taken lodgings at the hostelry.
There is a rift in the relations of these beautiful peoplel'
Some do not play speaks with others, and the Baleful
Glare is liable to pass at any moment across the public
dining-room and turn the intervening milk sour, or
ullage some unoffending person’s whisky and soda. The
whole trouble is connected vaguely with the harassing
problem of whether Julius has or has not allowed himself
to be married recently ; and it is all most lamentable and
diverting.
The rumors as to Jack Wren’s far-reaching designs on
theatrical management in Melbourne have boiled down to
the fact that, firstly, he is “presenting” Mrs. Blanche
Arral (the somewhat mysterious “ prima donna of four
continents ”) in two or three concerts at Melbourne Town
Hall. Last year the lady presented herself —or her
Yankee husband did it for her—at the Princess’s. In
Wren’s more important character of theatre-lessee he will
presumably not make his debut until next midwinter.
He has contracted with Meynell and Gunn for a sub-lease
of the Royal for some months (four or five) in each year
until 1912, when their existing lease expires. George
Musgrove will be associated with him, and will direct the
director, even though his—G.M.’s —name doesn’t figure
at the head of affairs. As for the new theatre planned
by Architect Pitt, in Russell-street, it will be Anderson’s
spec.—not Wren’s. Seemingly the profits from Wren’s
Tote, plus the profits of his City Tatt.’s Club, were almost
as great as they were reported, and, notwithstanding his
alleged heavy losses in backing his own and other people’s
’osses, he is still full of money. Incidentally he has let
himself be lured into the cheap tailoring trade, and his
scheme for clothing Melbourne’s manhood in 30s. suits is
said to be going to involve him in the ownership of forty
shops, city and suburban. But forty, even if you speak it
slowly, sounds a large number to begin with.
Hiphen ” : At a cinematograph entertainment, the
tiickergraph wa,s ruining our eyesight with pictures of
rugged mountains and witching lakes. “ Oh, these Nor-
wegian fiords ! ” exclaimed a lady next me, clasping her
hands ecstatically. “ Aren’t they simply too lovely ! If
we only lived at Home and could run over there in two or
three days.” “Pardon me,” I interrupted, “ these aren’t
fiords; they’re the Maoriland Sounds, and you can get
there in three or four days.” “The Sounds!” she ex-
claimed disgustedly. “Pooh!” She jumped up and
went out and asked for her money back. No, she didn’t;
that’s a lie. But she certainly did snort contemptuously,
and seem to kinder lose interest in the entertainment.
“N ”: Melba feels an itching on the instep of the beak,
the new soprano has appeared in London—Mrs. Tetraz-
zini, from South America, an overwhelming success at
the Grand Opera, in “ Traviata.” Worship the Rising
Melbourne Age made open confession, in a recent lead-
ing article on the theatre : “ Newspaper criticism is
largely responsible for the desertion of the cultured
theatre. . . . There is very little genuine newspaper criti-
cism now. .. . Censure has been practically banned from
the columns of the press.” This is lamentably true, and,
in case anyone should doubt, the Age provides satisfactory
demonstrations in its own treacly theatrical notices
David does badly, but, with true Scottish unction, he lets
it be seen that he knows better.
“Bloggs”: Had 2J hours’ of edification at Sydney
Hippodrome t’other night. An allegorical play—“ Dare-
devil Dick”—which deals absorbingly with the warfare
that rages ever between the powers of Light and Dark-
ness, is running there. On the one hand is ranged
Daredevil Richard (Virtue); on■ the other Don Manuelo
(Vice). Richard’s supporters are the ladies of the
cast, a sheriff’s officer, an Irishman, and a parson,
who looks as Hamlet would have looked had
lie (Hamlet) attained middle age and contracted the
drink craze. Manuelo leads a gang of Indian scene-
shifters and cowboys and (most wonderful) a monoeled
British dude—who is probably the first theatrical dude
ever found on the side of Vice. The worsting that Vice
gets at the end of each act is most cheering, and the joy
with which the audience greets the series of paralysing
rebuffs dealt out to Manuelo reflects
credit on its moral character. Judkins
should visit the Hippodrome and see for
himself whether the drama can’t be
elevating when it tries.
“J.D.”: Herewith mv unbiassed esti-
mate of the Melba voice and Art, as con-
sidered after a lapse of six years :
Noticeably the voice has lost in compass,
freshness, and sympathetic quality. The
high notes are failing. Melba, neverthe-
less, is not cultivating her medium
register, while the free use she makes of
the chest register tends to rob her tones
of their old liquid sweetness —attributes
that rightly should stand to them for a
very long time yet. Patti, whom I last
heard in the Albert Hall over 12 years
ago, was an example in point. Her head-
notes had left her then ; but her singing
in the lower register was an artistic
treat; and her mezza voce a thing not
to be forgotten. Melba’s voice in the
late ’nineties had de diable.
Particularly was it remarkable then for
its even quality, and purity of attack.
Both of these were lacking last week
—markedly so in the Bach-Gounod “ Ave
Maria,” concerning which item an
amount of humbug has appeared of late
in the local press to make the judicious
grieve. Of yore Melba’s “ Hamlet ” scenas
were astounding—if only for the singer’s
entire absence of effort in vocalisation.
That is so no longer. Her method now
lacks a little that unstriving vocal charm
(witness those ascending scales of hers)
which is really the only raison d’etre
for bravura passages. In the “Hamlet”
scena the artist’s singular lack of mezza
voce was hard to explain till one ana-
lysed and realised that the excessive use
of the chest register (killing to a pure
mezza voce) was responsible. A great
charm in the Melba art, and one which
seems to have gone unnoticed during the
present tour, is the great singer’s im
proved diction. Time was when Melba’s
pronunciation of his tongue induced
pangs of sorrow in the worshipping
Gaul. To-day her French is delicious ;
which is a reason why one prefers her in
French numbers rather than in English.
“When Knights Were Bold,” the piece that Frank
Thornton will shortly stage in Sydney, would have been
qualified for production at the recent Women’s Exhibi-
tion in Melbourne. It is claimed to be woman’s most
successful attempt in farcical-comedy writing thus far,
the authoress (“Charles Marlowe ”) having divested her
pen-name of its pants after the comedy had caught on.
This device of sex-alias is a strictly one-sided practice.
Now if a man named John Jones were to write anything
under the name of Letitia Brown he’d be snorted at when
the fraud came to light, but a she gets honorable men-
tion for calling herself Charles Marlowe or George Eliot.
Said Sara Bernhardt, with a quite British smugness,
last month, apropos the suggested wiping out of the
censor’s office in the United Kingdom : “ The public is
the true censor and the only censor. In Paris we have no
censor, but if a piece is obscene or truly immoral, it is
hissed out of the theatre.” Which is probably the richest
thing, this lady has got off her bust for some years.
Putting aside the extremely steep productions at the
Nouveaut.es and the Grand Guignol theatres (both quite
fashionable), Paris still has its Palais Royal. All
the world goes to the Palais Royal. A first
night there is quite an event. The acting, taken by
and large, is classes ahead of anything to be found in
a London theatre (French people act as naturally as
they breathe), and the lines are humorous and witty to
a degree, but also they are obscene—obscene as any to
be found in a Paul de Kock novel. The conventions of a
Palace Royal farce change slightly from time to time (for
instance, nowadays, it is mostly the husband who
triumphs in the third act, and not the lover), but the
indecencies remain fixed and immutable. Last of these
shows I saw was two years ago. All the old props I had
known eight or nine years previously—the double-bed
scene, the unclothed heroine, the night-shirted hero—
were on hand. The oply—to me—wholly new jape was
where the well-meaning aunt of the newly-married couple
who are staying with friends at the sea-side accidentally
dopes the entire house-party with what the audience
learns, amid shrieks of laughter, is an aphrodisiac.
Writer has seen a fair number of Paris shows in his time,
but, not yet has he encountered the one a Paris audience
would hiss because of its obscenity.
“ D.” : Picked up the World’s News last Saturday, and
in half-a-column concerning mummer Kingston unearthed
the following:—(1) “He was educated at St. Augustus
Benedictine College, Ramsgate.” (He wasn’t; for there
is no such place, nor any Saint of that name in the
Roman calendar. St. Augustine’s is the name of the
Ramsgate education-factory ; it’s as well-known in Kent
as cricketer Hutchings.) (2) “ Kingston early attracted
the notice of William Terris.” (The murdered melodrama
star did not spell his name that way, otherwise the
item contains the truth-germ.) (3) “Under Frohman
Kingston played in ‘ Two Little Vagrants.’ ” (Never. No
such play exists.) (4) “In mentioning his most success-
ful parts we must go back to Sydney Carton in ‘The
Old Way.’” (Presumably “The Only Way” is meant.
Perhaps the writer had some hazy idea re Besant’s
Herr Paulus, and his gibberings about the Ancient Way.)
The piquancy of the above lies in the fact that the Daily
Telegraph (which is guilty of the World’s News) has
ever been loudest of the anti-tariff press in its talk of
the educative influence of dirt-cheap newspapers.
John Wren (of Collingwood), now a full-blown entre-
preneur, employs the same literary expert to fashion his
advts. re, Mrs. Blanche Arral as was turned loose to set
forth in glowing adjectives the stupendous prowess of
Boshter Bill, and the pugilistic virtues of Micko Plugug
and Ginger Thickear. There is no mistaking the flam-
boyant style, the swelling adjectives, and the superh
disregard for the laws of syntax. This is how one
breathless burst of eulogy is wound up :
“The Strange Song-bird, who entered with success
that famous aviary wherein has nested so many brilliant
rivals. “ Yours faithfully,
“JOHN WREN.”
Another opens with the following gem :
“ Blanche Arrals’s Opening Programme of her farewell
series will contain many of those charming little chef
d’oeuvres, breathing in their every note the gaiety and
mirthfulness of those climes of which they are charac-
teristic.”
That sounds so fine that it’s really a pity it doesn’t mean
something.
MRS. MELBA’S MOTOR OAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I heard a mighty tooting on the wind,
I saw the people scatter wide and stare.
The streets were rocking wildly to and fro,
I also felt a twisting in my hair.
I hit the roadway hard and saw the stars,
My brainpan gave me notice of the jar,
And as I raised my eyes I heard them screech,
“ It’s Mrs. Melba’s lovely motor car.”
“ Great Scott! ” I said, “ her rotten motor car ! ”
I bought an ev’ning paper going home,
And saw a big black-lettered heading line ;
I read along, and then began to laugh,
1 found it was an extra motor fine.
As I crept on I thought I guessed the end,
And, bless my soul, I hadn’t gone so far,
When hip, hip, hip hooray, I found, my oath,
’Twas Mrs. Melba’s beauteous motor car—
Hip, hip, hooray, her smellful motor car.
I went to bed, and started dreaming fast.
And, bet your boots, it was a motor dream,
For, all day long, in suburb or in town,
I listen to that horrid racking scream.
It’s thumping through my poor head all the day,
At night I’m ill, and so it troubles Ma.
I’m looking now for peace, I’m full right up
Of talk of Melba’s 1-o-v-e-l-y motor car—
God help us all, her fiendish motor car.
VIC.
HAL GYE.


For tHe Bathing Girl
This smart Bathing Gown made of good quality Striped
Zephyr, Navy Blue with White Hairline Stripe, We
have purposely made this of Zephyr, finding materials
like Striped Drill too heavy for the bather to wear
with comfort.
Price, 6/11.
All sizes are stocked, S.W. and O.S.
Cap, as illustration, 1/6.
We pay carriage on all goods throughout the Common-
wealth, so that you buy at our marked Sydney Prices.
Should the goods not fill in every way our advertised
statements, they may be returned and your money will
be refunded.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFT, for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portuga
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Sydney city council has at last got
authority to tap Cohen for £160,000 to pay for
land in Hay and Engine streets on which to
build new produce markets; so the squalid,
smellful old muddle through which people have
to pass when they are poured out of the Owe-
Sullivan’s railway station will disappear in course
of time. Between his breakfast and his work,
the man who walks into the city from the so-
called Sydney railway station gets almost as
many smells as tourists pay heaps of money to sniff
up through their handkerchiefs in, say, Canton ;
for after he has picked his way through the rotten
fruit that has been thrown out on to the streets,
he must still take a fill of the Chinese stinkeries
and a dozen cheap doss-and-liash houses, from the
Salv’army “Palace” onwards, and they all seem
to boil their cabbage under the gratings that open
on to the street. The Fat person who trams and
cabs doesn’t notice these things; but the shop
and factory person, who can’t do either, must
often reach toil in a very agitated frame of
stomach.
* * * *
Rupert Clarke is taking a sporting in-
terest in Lieutenant Shackleton’s Antarctic Ex-
pedition, and is understood to have given it some
financial impetus. Regarding this dash for the
South Pole as an international race, with the
French and Belgian parties as the other competi-
tors, Rupert reckons that if Shackleton can get a
fair run with his experimental ice-motor he will
win handsomely. Also, he may do the trick with
a Siberian pony if the motor breaks down. Any-
how, the Britisher’s mount is worth backing.
The folks of Broken Hill publish strange
“narky” advts. about each other, and it is an
everyday occurrence to find Smith advertising
that he won’t be responsible for his wdfe’s debts or
his daughter’s conduct, and his wife replying that
she always paid her own debts and also bought
her husband’s beer, and the daughter stating in
print that if her pa’s conduct could bear inspec-
tion as well as her own, he wouldn’t be the loafer
he is. As for the advts. stating that if Mrs.
Johnson, of Opal-street, doesn’t stop saying
things about Mrs. Ferguson, of Potch-road, she
will be prosecuted to the very threshold of the
High Court; and that Mrs. Jones will be
arrested if she doesn’t apologise ; and that Mrs.
Thompson must keep her goat at home or take the
consequences ; and that the brolly must be re-
turned at once as the person is known—they are
like the sands upon the sea-shore for innumerable-
ness. But the Broken Hillite also rushes his
gratitude into print on all possible occasions ; he
even thanks by advertisement the people who
“ kindly inquired ” when his wife with the kettle
in her hand fell over the dog in the yard and
broke her neck. And out of all the thankful
notices, this, from a recent Miner, is surely the
limit:—
THANKS.
T BEG to tender my sincerest Thanks to Dr. Setzke
for his successful treatment, of my Wife, who suf-
fered for 17 years with running sores of both legs.
My Wife has been cured within a fortnight.
, Argent-street,
Broken Hill.
Only a man here and there would publish his
wife’s legs in that reckless fashion. But what a
time the press would have had in Galilee, if there
had been a press in Galilee, when the local in-
habitant rushed into print to thank Barnabas,
the apostle, on the ground that his daughter used
to go about naked and possessed by 49 devils, but
was now quite well and looking after the house-
work in a perfectly rational manner; and when
the other inhabitant stated in the agony column
that the old family leper was miraculously healed,
thank you, and was open to take ringbarking
contracts on Lebanon !
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : Recently the boarded-out
and unwelcome infant had a bad fortnight in
Melbourne. From the 16th to the 30th of Novem-
ber the district coroner inquired into the deaths
of 10 boarded-out babies. Five more small
corpses were discovered dead in various parts of
the city and suburbs, and one kiddy was over-
lain. It almost pays nowadays not to be born at
all in Melbourne. The Argus had a long article
in which it attributed the whole trouble to a
bad milk supply. The milk inspection is certainly
shockingly inefficient, but it doesn’t seem to
explain the deaths of such a large percentage
of boarded-out babies. Do these small unfor-
tunates get all the bad milk, or what? And bad
milk doesn’t explain the infant who is found dead.
As a matter of fact, until illegitimate children get
the same care and attention and love as legal
babies, they have got to die in large numbers.
And they won’t get the same care while the birth
of an irregular child is considered (by the parson
and the Dorcas Society and a large section of
society) an indelible stain upon the mother. As a
matter of fact, if the State can’t find the father,
and make him pay adequately for his offspring’s
upbringing, it should take charge of the mother
and child itself. An illegitimate baby is of much
more importance than a lot of things the State
does take care of.
THROWING HERSELF AWAY.
ALGERNON (the rejected one): “ What! Not that
feller Brovin? Why, dash it all, the collahs
he wears are oulwageously old-fashioned!”
A woman in the Adelaide divorce court
has established a fearsome record. She was cited
with a blackfellow as co-respondent ! Drink, of
course.
THE DREAM AND THE AWAKENING.
When the fanner's daughter told the poetic young man that she milked the cows every
morning, he said he thought she would look just the thing as a milkmaid. But what he saw
was somewhat different from what he imagined.
Brief notice in Gippsland Mercury (Sale,
Victoria), whereby Pun Wah apparently repudi-
ates his predecessc-’s liabilities in one act: —
CHARLIE PUN WA.'t —WONG SING LAUNDRY
belong-to Charlie 1 m Wah this week anybody
Money go wrong nothing co him.
» * * *
The N. S. Wales police count up Black
Brother every October; but it is an irregular
reckoning, Black Brother
having a habit of wandering
over boundaries without
giving notice. One thing is
certain, though—he is drop-
ping out to the extent of from
60 to 150 a year ; and there
are fewer full-blooded children
(under 20 or thereabouts) than
there are adult males, so he
will drop out still faster later
on. In some districts the
piccaninny is just about un-
known ; scattered over the
Milparinka district, in the
droughty far north-west,
among 77 all-blacks there are
only two youngsters. The
half-castes, however, don’t
diminish ; last year more than
two little social sins arrived
to every all-black piccaninny.
There are nine or more State
schools where the colored
youngsters are taught, and
these schools are ‘"inspected ”
like the rest. The reports
don’t vary much—the pupils
can imitate, but reasoning is
painful ; so their writing,
when they have a line at the
top of a copy-book to guide
them, is their star subject.
All told, there are over 7000
aborigines in the State, of
whom only 2500 are now
reckoned all-blacks.
• » ■*.
It is probably the ex-
traordinary luck of Ander-
son and Meynell and Gunn that tempts John
Wren (late Jack) into the theatrical profes-
sion. Anderson rushed in where angels fear to
tread, and scooped riches and glory. Meynell
and Gunn followed in the same game, and oof and
honor are theirs. Why should not J. Wren, pur-
veyor of popular pony sports and pugilistic
comedies, succeed, too, as an entrepreneur? He
has only to take the rope off the ring, and call it
a stage, and there you are. Still there is a larger
scope for the burning of fingers in playing the
plays than there is even in playing the pugs or the
ponies. Australia is a fair hog for its bit of drama
while it has its trousers full of shillings, but the
moment the pinch comes the theatre is the first
item it economises on, and then the theatrical
manager becomes a pale martyr to the cause of Art.
The deadly hat-pin nearly settled the
account of a man who fled into Melbourne
Hospital, the other evening, and desired the
house surgeon to remove a spike from his chest.
After the doctor had probed for and withdrawn
about six inches of broken head-skewer from the
region of the heart, he asked how it happened ;
but the victim declined to be more explicit than
that he had been “ larking with a girl.” Evi-
dently he had got hold of the wrong sort of girl.
It really seems as if the abolition of the
British Peerage would be a desirable reform, con-
sidering what a lot of unnecessary turmoil is
caused by the Earl of Mountararat and Earl
Tolloller, and their kind. For years the relations
of a party by the name of Druce, who used to keep
a fancy-goods shop in London, and who, so far as
is known, died and was buried 43 years ago, have
been trying to prove that the deceased was iden-
tical with one Cavendish-Bentinck, better known
as Duke of Portland. Portland is said to have
gone into the fancy business under the name
of Druce, and worn bogus whiskers, and treated
himself to a mock funeral for no reason that any-
one can allege. There seems to be no doubt that
both the deceased Druce and the Duke of Port-
land were real persons, but there is much doubt as
to whether they were the same person. A curious
part of the business is that two joint-stock com-
panies have been formed to push the claims of
various members of the Druce family to the Port-
land title and estates. As a result of the clash of
interests, one Druce has been prosecuting another
in a London Police Court for perjury, and the
directors of the latest-formed company ai’e suing
each other in the Court of Chancery, where it was
stated the other day that the shareholders were
mostly artisans and domestic servants. It is not
easy to understand the state of mind of artisans
and domestics who risk their money in an attempt
to get a peerage for a total stranger, and on such
evidence.
+ * * *
A N.S.W. Public Service panjandrum of
tremendous inconsequence lately laid a series of
charges against another big public servant, and
the Public Service Board has been engaged in
hearing them in the full panoply of war. One
charge was that the big official had been pur-
chasing quantities of high-priced liquids with
Government funds, and using them at his own
table. Before this rumpus accused and accuser
had been bosom friends and frequent partakers of
each other’s hospitality; and when before the
Triumvirate the accused upset the gravity of the
Board by declaiming in fierce anger that his
accuser had drunk most of the alleged misplaced
liquor, and by asking the Plank’s candid opinion
of a man wbo would go and drink his brother
man’s whisky, and then pop up serenely and say
it was stolen ; and he wanted to know why didn’t
the panjandrum charge himself with receiving.
The N.S.W. Public Service is gloating over the
whole business, and its sympathies are all in one
direction.
*»* * *
Things are getting mixed under the new
Act for the suppression of certain pubs in N.S.W.
The special courts which are to decide what pubs
shall be shut, in accordance with the local option
vote at the last general election, have begun to
sit. In the metropolitan district one Judge and
two Police Magistrates decided that proceedings
would have to be hung up till a short amending
Act filled up a hole which Costs had observed
somewhere or other; yet out in the Far West
another Judge and two other Police Magistrates
threw scorn at the 217 (or thereabouts) .alleged
flaws that were held up for inspection, and in the
Broken Hill electorate gave half-a-dozen pubs
from six to 12 months’ notice to disconnect the
beer pump. Mostly the pubs that have to go are
barns built in the days when, so long as the beer
was wet and considerable, nothing else mattered
much ; and in some cases even the best of conduct
hasn’t been able to save them from the blue pencil
of the pub sub-editor.
WINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Unfermented wine,” was the subject of a paper deli-
vered by Mrs. Downing. Most of the unions had been
able to persuade such of the local church authorities as
were open to conviction that it was humane and scriptural
to use pure and unalcoholised juice of the grape when
celebrating the Holy Communion. Footscray was, how-
ever, the only union reporting all churches in the town
to be using unfermented wines. Mrs. Press (treasurer)
said she had herself made many experiments in the manu-
facture of unfermented wines, and hoped she would soon
be successful.— Christian Temperance Mission item from
Victoria.
Alcohol is in the air !
Alcohol is in the clay 1
You will meet it everywhere—
Everywhere, and every day—
Go, be buried ’neath the wave—
Alcohol is in the grave !
Other people, Missus Press,
Ere you, made experiment—
Savages of scanty dress
On a new distraction bent—
Wine fermenting for a drunk,
Oozing from the palm-tree’s trunk.
“ Wanities,” oh ! Missus Press !
Are the drinks of blacks and whites ;
“ Wanities ! ” no more nor less —
As the Reverend Stiggins writes—
Unto Brick Lane he did come
Full of unfermented rum !
Full of unfermented rum,
Smote he Brother Tadger’s spleen—
Brother Tadger did not come
Up to time—nor was he seen—
Where the cold tea nods its head
At the crumpet in its bed..
Once I had a drink of juice
Which had not fermented been !
How I went upon the loose !
Ask my brother saints who’ve seen—
Since then I’ve adhered to gin,
Finding it the lesser sin 1
Better devils that we know—
Better beer whose bite is sure—
Than the fluid you’d endow
With the virtues you secure
From a faith that sure prevents
Chemic changes and ferments.
Prayer and unfermented wine—
Law of gravitation dead—
Mercury, the thermal sign,
Works no more, but snores in bed.
I admire your certainty—
“ Prayer doth conquer chemistry.”
Meddle not, oh ! Missus Press !
With the thrice accursed drink !
(Saints do always make a mess
When they walk too near the brink).
’Ware the yeast that circumvents,
’Ware the microbe that ferments.
vie.
MARTIN LUTHER.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” ring-s, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“ Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write —
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45-47 Melville St M Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland:
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY,
Pain in the side or chest can be speedily
relieved if Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is ac once well
rubbed into the afflicted part. First application
gives relief.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where sijc
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
.
THIS
SUIT CASE,
35/-
If you’re going away for the
Christmas holidays you want
this Suit Case. Holds quite a
lot of wearing apparel, and
keeps it nice and smooth.
It is easy to carry—is strongly made of solid leather, and will last a lifetime. Just the thing
for week-end trips—and even if you have plenty of bags and trunks there’s nothing like
a suit case for carrying suits in.
35/- EACH (18 inches long). Postage, 2/0 Extra.
Other Prices for Larger Cases—37/6, 42/-, 45/-, 47/6, 52/-
PEAPES AND CO. LTD
“Men’s 309-311 George Street,
Outfitters,” SYDNEY.
S. M. Herald is not more than half
satisfied that the British navy is really all it is
cracked up to be; so she has been round among
all the naval men she knows, begging them for
pity’s sake to say whether it is true that “none
of the ships of the British auxiliary squadron now
in Australian waters are seaworthy.” The Garden
Island authorities were “as dumb as oysters”—
all but one, who said “Rubbish !” Which was
very natural, since there is no auxiliary squadron
in existence. Still, one genius, though he told
the Herald that it was not permissible to discuss
service matters, said :
The plan of constructing a ship that could withstand
the explosion of a torpedo at close quarters is not yet
discovered.
That is a startling statement for even the least
reliable naval expert to make. The Dreadnought
is supposed to be torpedo proof, and here’s what a
better expert than the Herald says about it: —
This “proofness” resides in part in solid bulkheads,
but these are new only in our navy. The Pallada and
Bayan, torpedoed at Port Arthur, kept afloat by virtue
of the same thing.
So even the information that the Herald did get
landed her farther away from the truth than she
wa3 at the beginning.
FINDING HIS MERIDIAN.
“ Here, d’ye know it's one o'clock in the mornin’? ”
“Course I do! Wharriwinterknow ish, wha’
mornin’ is it? ”
A PUBLIC NEED.
“ Why in thunder don't you get a wireless clothes-line, Maria?"
The Home of Compassion, in a Wellington
(M.L.) suburb, run by the Rev. Mother Mary
Joseph Aubert, wants a reservoir. There is plenty
of hill to cut down to make a reservoir, but the
problem arose how to pay for the removal of the
soil. Mother Aubert mentioned her diffi-
culty to the Governoress, and Lady Plunket
said: “Lend me spade and wheelbarrow,
and I’ll dig the reservoir.” Accordingly
she organised a Government House working
bee, led by herself and Lord Plunket, and
they went to the site of the works and
shifted several barrowfuls. Now, ever
since, the populace of Wellington has
been getting in its own road at the Home
of Compassion, and the Trades and Labor.
Council rivals the Chamber of Commerce
jn digging out that hill, or what is left of
it. Mother Aubert is able to sit down and wear
a happy smile. As she said to a reporter : “Our
reservoir is as good as built.” The moral of this
is that the Government ought long ago to have
persuaded Plunket to put in half a day’s graft on
the Main Trunk line. That undertaking was
commenced 24 years ago, and it isn’t finished yet !
A lawyer writes
“The Crown” has fallen in again over its attempts to
convict Mrs. Scales, a reputed Sydney fortune-teller, for
an offence under an Act of Parliament passed in the
reign of George IV. Mrs. Scales’ fate was closely allied
with that of one Quon Yik, convicted originally as a
pakapu or fantan player. The Chow appealed to the
High Court, where the conviction was quashed on the
ground that the old Act of George IV. did not apply to
N.S.W. This ancient Act gave persons convicted under
it the right of appeal to a Court of Quarter Sessions.
Counsel alleged that when that Act was passed Quarter
Sessions were not known in N.S.W., therefore things
didn’t fit; and the Court accepted the story, and let
Quon Yik go.
Now, as a matter of fact the advice given to the High
Court was quite wrong. So when Mrs. Scales came up
before the Police Court, the N.S.W. Crown Law Office,
which had discovered the error, informed the police
magistrate, and he nodded sagely and said it was a
deplorable fact, but he must obey the High
Court. So he dismissed the case. “The Crown”
trotted Mrs. Scales off to the Full Court, which said the
same thing as the P.M. Thence “ the Crown,” still with
its expensive barrister in tow, confronted the High Court
and demanded a conviction of the clairvoyant.
The Chief Justice admitted that the previous decision
was wrong on the one ground the Court had given.
He then read the old Act of George IV., and pointed out
the penalties Mrs. Scales was liable to. For the
first offence she was to be whipped and taken to the
place where she was born. For the second offence she
was to be whipped again and a piece of gristle removed
from her right ear, and for a third offence she was to be
hanged. As Mrs. Scales was charged with telling quite a
heap of fortunes, it seemed as if all these things were
liable to happen to her at once—the two whippings, the
ear-operation, the removal to her native town, and the
hanging. Chief-Justice Griffith, however, added briefly
that what might seem ill right in 1827 was barbarism in
1907, and refused on general principles to allow the
appeal. And it'really seems as if “ the Crown ” might
have saved a lot of Costs if it had read the Act before it
appealed so much. Surely it didn’t really hope to get
Mrs. Scales whipped twice, and then removed and muti-
lated and hanged !
• * * *
A most expensive half-sovereign’s worth
of law is debited to an Adelaide dentist, who, in
the course of a series of nagging cross-actions with
another citizen, found himself obliged to sign
recognisances to avoid being arrested. He signed
all right, one Saturday morning, but objected to
the ten-shilling fee tlie Court charged. That
afternoon, just as (he says) he had changed his
mind and wanted to pay up, he was arrested, and
it was Monday before bail could be arranged. He
reckoned the Sunday in gaol was worth £lOOO to
him, and sued the police-magistrate for that sum.
Action (as anybody could have foretold) dis-
missed ; and with Costs “ as between solicitor and
client”—which is a horrid form of the animal,
with specially long claws and teeth. And all
this over—originally—a ten-bob fee !
Sydney City Council wants to hear from a
man with a scheme for turning an elephant into
pork or some other brand of payable meat. Back
in 1891 the ancient market buildings that were
begun in the days of Governor Bourke were
pulled down, and a large ornamental elephant was
raised in its place, and the large ornamental
elephant has in nine years cost something over
£75,000 more than it has earned. Things are not
getting any better, because of the growing cost of
keeping up the vast buildings with the inside like
a tomb—which is the elephant previously alluded
to. So the Oouucil wants suggestions for turning
the whole concern into something that will
pay for its keep, and it is prepared to give £lOOO
to the man who can tell how it is to be done.
Apparently, however, it isn’t prepared to spend
more than £75,000 on the reformation of the beast;
so if anybody has a scheme that will cost more
than that, he had better boil it down before sub-
mitting it for the inspection of the Board that
the council has appointed to consider all the
bright ideas, with plans attached.
That School for Scandal, the Wallace
divorce case, continues to give lessons on the
manners and customs of Melbourne sassietv.
There is one change, though. After the few first
days of fierce struggle for front seats, when the
court cleaners swept up buttons, laces, belts,
satchels, bits of muslin, and sundries in the
morning, the police kept order in stern fashion.
Now the leading lady in the tragedy enters and
leaves court by the little door near the jury room,
passes out into the courtyard guarded by con-
stables, and enters the hansom where her sister
waits behind drawn blinds. The pair don’t look a
little bit like the part that the other side assigns
to them. But little nurse—she who wept all
night because of “Ruby’s” alleged naughty
threatenings—little nurse looks just what, she
ought to—quiet, cool, fresh, and womanly. So
far, the most artistic touch in the drama has been
the dressing of the leading lady : mostly of black,
but seldom the same costume two days running ;
relieved often with touches of white, or toned up
with a shimmery gossamer. The sombre hue was
deepest while witness after witness painted her
in colors to correspond; then, as her witnesses
threw an atmosphere of gay but quite proper tint
over the proceedings at “Novar,” “Ruby’s”
gowning grew quite cheerful.
# W * *
“ E.D.” wrestles with the problem, and
gives it up :
The interest the Wallace divorce case has excited in
Melbourne is unprecedented so far as my experience
goes. I remember many celebrated cases, but not one
that took so intimate a hold of the people, that hit them
where they lived so emphatically. It does not appeal to
“ society ” alone, but to all classes and conditions, and is
discussed as vehemently on a workman’s tram as in a
loaded motor. It has given an enormous impetus to
newspaper sales; and “off” journals which went
frankly into details were simply rushed, second-hand
numbers being saleable at fancy figures. At
home and abroad, in theatre, office, railway,
restaurant, and church, one got nothing but Wallace
case. The court was rushed daily by swarms of well-
dressed people, many of them “ladies.” Some of the
women dragged children with them. Facts and specula-
tions were greedily exchanged and discussed, and people
were ready to tear down houses only to get a glimpse of
the respondent. It all beats me. There is nothing very
exceptional in the case. The lady is a beauty, but nothing
like as distracting a vision as the hysterical squeak of femi-
nine scribes would lead us to believe. The details of the
alleged sins and wickednesses are the same old sordid
details that have done service in procuring a thousand
divorces. The trials and tribulations of the hus-
band, the vicissitudes of the wife, the vagaries of the
“ c 0.,” as set forth, and contradicted, in the sworn testi-
mony, are all tale as stale as “Old Mother Hubbard.”
But the greedy interest does not pass.
The avidity with which the Melbournian fastened upon
the smallest, driest details of Wallace v. Wallace ex-
tended even to bricks and mortar. “ Novar,” the house
in which most of the boorish and bibulous gaieties
described by Wallace’s witnesses were said to have taken
place, was besieged by crowds every day of the trial, and
on the intervening Sundays thousands made pilgrimage
to the place, and stood in the roadway, staring stupidly
at the front of the building, or in the right-of-way, staring
fatuously at the rear. “Novar” is in an out-of-the-way
part of St. Kilda, but these people thought it worth a
long tram journey merely to look steadily for half-an-
hour at the bricks and mortar, inside which the “gay”
dullards are alleged to have thrown chicken bones at each
other and emulated the refined exuberances of the bar
parlor in a snide pub ( vide press reports).
Melbourne Paunch, with a fine, fatuous capacity for
divining the tastes of fatuous people (this is sometimes
called “ gauging public opinion ”), catered for the needs
of the silly multitude by printing a picture of “Novar,”
front view, and a picture of “Novar,” back view. The
“back view” is mainly corrugated iron fence, but it
includes a wooden gate—just an ordinary wooden gate,
but the gate through which somebody is alleged to have
slipped in and out on divers occasions, and that makes it
thrilling. Now we anxiously await pictures of the tram
the lady used, and the hansom she was seen in, also the
corner she turned round on divers excursions, and the
spot of ground she is said to have sat upon on the mo-
mentous occasion when she turned away her head.
And why not a photo of the bottle that “ Hec ” carried
the whisky in ?
* * * *
The scandal of the long divorce case in
Melbourne seems to have had a legal as well as a
social character. Even Brother Madden, the
learned Chief Justice, who is regarded as a judicial
whale for petty details of domestic disturbance,
made some candid comment on the protracted
cross-examination of the petitioner. “We have
been here nearly three days, and we have not
touched the question of actual misconduct yet.
We are hardly on the fringe of it,” said the pre-
siding Wig. Later on he put the matter in a
financial light: “All this is not only irrelevant,
but costs a great deal of money .” Which suggests
that the walls of every law court should be hung
with illuminated texts from the Unholy Bible of
the Learned Brethren. For instance, “ Money is
the Root of all Irrelevancy,” “Time is the Thief
of Costs,” “ A Long Purse makes a Long Suit,”
and “ Circumstances alter Cases.” In the Court
of Dirty Linen cynics always chuckle over the
self-evident proposition that there is more law for
the rich than for the poor.
Somebody is looking for trouble in emula-
ting the thriftiness of that Bluenose skipper who
lately had much argument with his crew, and
was shown to have sailed his ship without lights
so as to save kerosene. The other night the
Peregrine passed a full-rigged ship, churnirg
along outside the Barrier reef without a single
light showing fore or aft. That made the fourth
ship so reported lately. The punishment for that
sort of thing ought to be the drowning of at least
one of the owners—with Costs.
THE FREE-LUNCH TRAFFIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
if n Varraville (Vic.) “ temperance ” meeting, a
bef ruthJ“ spoke of the influence of counter-lunches
in hotels, and said he thought much good would result
from their prohibition.”— Age (4/i~y Of).
The carter with the horny hand,
The leader of the German band,
All sorts o’ chaps —why do they stand around in cursing
bunches?
Ah, why ? The horn o’ plenty ’ll pour
Corn’-beef and sanwidges no more—
They’re waging now a holy war against free counter*
lunches!
O, this is funny, more’n most—
It soon will be the good man’s boast
That Bill is off anchovy toast; it’s only beer be crunches
These joyful days ! Ber-ruther, shake !
And let us have, for goodness’ sake,
“ Temp’rance ” in everything we take —including counter
lunches !
At lunch, wild flies arrest their flight
On lettuces with Chinese blight,
And foreign bodies flop and fight. . . . The warm crowd
simply munches,
No matter what queer things appear !
I must abjure the pony beer
I used to drink at times—for fear it leads to counter-
lunches !
No jokin’, now T —it’s serious, chaps !
Good gosh, I’m nearly starvin’ —p’r’aps
it’s joy for some, if we collapse without our humble
hunches
O’ food —our snacks o’ meat and bread !
Free victuals ? Well —one must be fed !
We’ll pay —if we can get instead free, long beers with our
lunches 1
VIC.
FRANK HENTS.
MADRIGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What needs it then we stand so long- a-gazing,
And do not our lips mingle,
Since our hearts, so long single,
Have married, as if in a dream amazing?
Our lips in such a joy should follow suit,
And on each other feed as on Love’s fruit.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
THE PURSUIT OF PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Proceeding, the Kaiser said he hoped that history
would acknowledge that in his foreign policy he had
unswervingly pursued peace. —Edifying cable item.
In ancient days on the Attic shore,
And where the waves round Lemnos roar.
They grew the olive and curling vine
To the glory of Greece and the Argive line ;
And the glad earth yielded her increase
To the Kaee that shone in the arts of peace.
High thought, high art, high aims were born
In the Islands under the Golden Horn—
High eloquence and elegance ;
With the silver lyre went the graceful dance,
And after the dance the joyous feast—
The worship of Beauty never ceased.
They followed Peace and followed Joy,
The Race that had conquered sacred Troy ;
All the pleasant arts beneath the sun
They came to perfection one by one
In the halcyon days of Immortal Greece,
And life was spent in pursuit of Peace.
Alas ! it passed, that Age of Gold,
And now, when the world is getting old,
Although we follow Peace to-day
We do the thing in a different way—
Our rulers hasten in her tracks
In a battleship, with a battle-axe!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
BrU »™?.,t^!L tCh A W o e Rope H ®yward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransome & Go. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers,
steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Cas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:— U.K., 3/-; Cahada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4Jd. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
For pretty well three years Sydney has been
watching the old softgoods and shipping firm of W. and
A. McArthur, Ltd., and wondering whether it could pull
through. The marvellous recovery made by Australia
after the drought set one or two other rocky concerns on
their feet; but the McArthurs had plunged too heavily in
S Africa to reap the same advantage ; moreover, though
there has been profit in most things in Australia during
the last few years, this co. managed to strike some of the
few duffers. The co. was formed in 1898 to take over the
business of the old firm, which had then been running
57 years. The price was £300,000, half in fully-paid
shares. Altogether, the public has put up £175,000 for
preference shares; and after the first lot of ordi-
naries (15,000 at £10) were issued, 10,000 more were
sent out, £1 paid. As the ascertained losses amount to
about £235,000, all the ordinary capital is to be
wiped out, and 7s. 6d. in the £ of the pref. capital.
Creditors are to be paid partly in 5j per cent, preference
shares in a new co. to take over the warehouse business,
which is said to be profitable. There is a liability of
£90,000 on the last issue of ordinary shares ; but the
receiver, according to the cables, is “ unable to hold out
any hope that they will realise anything from the un-
called capital.” That is a matter that ought to be
probed. People are encouraged to give credit to concerns
on the strength of uncalled capital ; yet again and again
creditors have been compelled to suffer because no ade-
quate attempt has been made to recover this capital.
People are shy of giving credit to no-liability concerns
because they know that the shareholders 5 liability
for uncalled capital is almost wholly a myth ;
and after some Anglo-Australian experiences, they
will be presently coming to the conclusion that
the liability in a “ limited ” co. is to be relied upon
just about as little as if it were the other sort of co. In
the McArthur case a meeting of shareholders in London
has adopted the proposed scheme of reconstruction. The
scheme is really the liquidation of the old co., the
forming of a new co. to take over the warehouse business,
and the winding-up of the other disastrous part of the
concern as soon as possible.
* * * *
When the Sandford iron people appealed to the
N.S.W. State Government, it was proposed (and the
Commercial Bank of Sydney agreed) that the State
should have a first mortgage to the extent of £25,000,
but that, as to the other £45,000, it should rank
on ev;en terms with the bank. The bank is a
creditor for about £130,000. The Assembly, how-
ever, said that the State should have a first
mortgage for the whole £70,000. Of course, the bank
wouldn’t consider such a thing ; if somebody was to have
a first bite to the extent of £70,000, the bank itself might
just as well be the party to have that first bite. Parlia-
ment, in fact, made a monumental ass of itself; it
spent two long days deciding upon terms which
any banker could have said had not a hope of
being accepted; and when it made an offer
which any bank would have been prepared to make, it
hemmed it about with conditions—the appointment, for
instance, of a director with power of veto—which no
banker w«uld have had the effrontery to suggest. It
offered help, in short, to the indispensable industry on
ludicrous terms ; and it posed as quite a public-spirited
benefactor while it arranged those terms. The bank
thereupon took possession, putting accountant Borchard
in charge ; and only the blast furnace is now at work.
Negotiations with Premier Wade are understood to be
still in progress.
* * * ■ *
The National Bank op Tasmania
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
May, 1902 £4472 5 p.c. =£3991 £4Bl £29,648
Nov., 1902 4479 5„ „ 3991 488 30,136
May, 1903 4908 5„ ~ 3991 917 31,053
Nov., 1903 4699 5„ „ 3991 708 31,761
May, 1904 5247 6„ ~ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904 5438 6„ „ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905 5291 6„ „ 4789 502 33,370
Nov., 1905 5752 6„ ~ 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906 5696 6„ „ 4789 £lOOO 34,240
Nov., 1906 6249 6,, ~ 4789 1460 35 700
May, 1907 9077 7„ „ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907 8570 7,, „ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
Considering its limited opportunities this bank is still
making very good profits indeed. Progress in Tasmania
is, however, wretchedly slow : only about 30,000 have been
added to the population in the past 16 years, and pro-
bably two-thirds of that increase has been due to the
opening of the West Coast mines, for which outsiders
were mainly responsible. As to agricultural and manufac-
turing population, the increase has been inuclT less than
the “ natural ” increase; and a bank which has to battle
along under such handicaps can’t very well escape stag-
nation. That profits in the past two or three years have
shown a great improvement is mainly due to the wonder-
ful metal and wool prices ; but the bloom is off the
unstable metal markets now, and already the profits fall
away. The bank’s detailed figures, however, still show
no change for the worse :
Nov., ’O6. Nov., ’O7.
Notes in circulation.. £63,167 £66,089 Inc. £2 922
Bills, etc 8,784 14,908 Inc. 6,’124
Deposits at interest.. 245,624 250,382 Inc. 4 758
Free deposits.. .. 287,252 314,542 lne. 27’290
Liquid assets .. .. 201,651 155,173 Dec. 46,478
Advances .. .. 567,775 662,281 Inc. 94,506
Premises, etc 27,932 28,268 Inc. 336
The advances are unusually heavy, wherefore liquid
assets now represent only 24 per cent, of the debt to the '
public. Nobody knows very much about the current ac-
count (free), money except the people who are inside a
bank. This free money is sometimes of as much use to a
bank, no doubt, as fixed deposits—it depends upon the
depositor. Yet, at the best, it does seem as if this
bank were taking very considerable risks, the proportion
of current account money being large and the proportion
of liquid assets very small. Assuming that the advances
are justified, what the bank needs is more fixed-deposit
money ; it could very well stand some more, because at
present it has £1 of shareholders’ funds to every £3 7s. of
the public’s money, and, with reasonably sound manage-
ment, the public is justified in lending a bank a consider-
ably larger proportion than that. As for the small holding
of liquid assets, no doubt it is much more profitable to
lend money at 6 or 7 per cent, than to keep it in the
vaults ; but there must be limits to that sort of thing.
And very serious things have happened through those
limits not being recognised.
On the basis of total shareholders’ funds the
profits have lately shown the following return
May, 1904 .. £5 14 2 p.c. May, 1906 .. £6 2 3 p.c.
Nov., 1904 .. 518 1 „ Nov., 1906 .. 614 2
May, 1905 .. 514 5 „ May, 1907 .. 913 5 ”
Nov., 1905 .. 6 4 1,, Nov., 1907 .. 819 3’’
Considering the comparatively small proportion of public
money in the bank’s hands, the return is unusually high
—and the reason why has been already sufficiently ham-
mered out.
* * * *
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance and
shipping people
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898 .. £83,571 8 per cent. = £BO,OOO £3,571 £l5O 439
1899 .. 85,537 8 „ ~ 80,000 5,537 155*976
1900 .. 90,086 8 ~ „ 80,000 10,086 166,062
1901 .. 80,971 8 „ „ 80,000 971 167 033
1902 .. 84,848 7 „ „ 70,000 14,848 181,881
1903 .. 48,825 5 „ „ 50,000 180,706
1904 .. 64,802 5 „ „ 50,000 14,802 195,508
1905 .. 85,892 6 „ „ 60,000 25,892 221,400
1906 .. 103,981 7 „ „ 70,000 33,981 255,381
07 / 142,743 7 „ „ 70,0001 „ ,
1907 Written off Premises, £30,000 / 42,743 298,124
The co. formally writes £30,000 off freehold and leasehold
premises this year. Something may have been written
off in previous years—it certainly should have been—and
this £30,000 may be in addition to the ordinary writing
off. If, however, something- has been written off in pre-
vious years and charged direct to profit and loss, and
nothing except this £30,000 has been written off this
year, then it would not be fair to compare the disclosed
profits for this year with those for former years. As a
matter of fact, in connection with a business of this sort,
which deals in properties and securities liable to violent
fluctuations, one can’t judge the figures without also
judging- the management. Take these following figures
for example:—
1897. 1906. 1907.
Perpet. 4J debentures.. £620,000 £620,000 £620,000
~4 „ .. 1,643,210 1,643,210 1,643,210
Termin. 4 „ .. 279,070 468,380 431,080
„ 3J „ .. 15,500 Nil Nil
„ H „ .. 25,735 86,730 94,430
„ 3 „ .. 60,530 1,600 2,600
Sundry creditors .. 1,089,425 2,214,715 2,558,194
Cash deposits .. .. 257.772 611,869 398,739
Advances, etc 4,442,398 5,109,102 5,595,005
Premises, etc 219,809 614,045 728,894
The advances, almost all no doubt on the security of
pastoral properties and rural products, total over 5£
millions ; and nearly half a million of that has been
advanced during the past 12 months. In transactions of
that size, in connection with such an erratic industry,
obviously a vast deal depends upon the amount of current
“ profit ” used to write down assets ; in other words, set
aside internally to provide for probable future losses—so
highly probable as to be practically certain. Well, what has
the reputation of Dalgety’s management been, so far as
this matter goes? About the best available test is the
dividends paid during bad times : only by making large
provision in good times, can a co. honestly pay divs. in
bad ones. This co. started in 1884 ; it began with 7 p.c.,
soon advanced the div. to 8 p.c., and was still paying that
8 p.c. when the first list printed above opened ; and some
of the intervening years had been shockingly bad from a
pastoral point of view. In the very bad years of 1903-4,
the div. got down no lower than 5 p.c. For a concern of
this kind, that looks like very prudent management in
the past. There is absolutely no way to tell what it is in
the present; all that can be said is that the personnel
has undergone very little change. This year, as last,
£5OOO has been deducted from profits and put to the
credit of a staff benevolent fund.
* m *
The Derwent and Tamar Fire, Life, and
Marine Assurance Co. (Hobart, Tas.)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Oct., Loss. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1898 ..£10,780 5 p.c. = £2625 £55,799
Profit.
1899 .. 8,260 10 „ „ 5250 £3OlO 58,809
1900 .. 7,152 10 ~ „ 5250 1902 60,711
1901 .. 3,028 6J „ „ 3281 60,458
1902 .. 8,909 10 ~ ~ 5250 3659 64,117
1903 .. 4,140 7£ „ ~ 3937 203 64,320
1904 .. 8,233 10 „ ~ 5250 2983 67,303
1905 .. 9,684 10 „ „ 5250 4434 71,737
1906 .. 10,122 15 „ ~ 7875 2247 73,984
1907 .. 7,014 10 „ ~ 5250 1764 75,748
This little office’s connection is largely marine (it does no
life business, by the way, in spite of its title) ; and marine
losses have been heavy all round during the year. Con-
sequently results are only middling
(he- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1898 .. £20,095 £30,419 £5llB 151‘4p.c. 25'4 p.c.
1900 .. 23,061 13,910 6115 60'3 „ 26'5 „
1905 .. 19,795 8,208 6465 41'5 „ 32'7 „
1906 .. 20,485 8,585 6477 4D9 „ 31‘6 „
1907 .. 21,275 12,835 6379 60'3 „ 29 '9 „
Considering what a little office it is, the expense rate is
unusually low. The loss rate figures are erratic—neces-
sarily, on account of the smallness of the business : one
or two claims more or less make all the difference. For
this reason it isn’t much use taking notice of a single
year’s profit figures. In fact, the surplus of revenue over
outgoings in any fire office is only profit in a
loose lhanner of speaking. This co.’s position is re-
markably strong, taking the size of its risks (as judged
by premiums) into account. Of capital and reserves to-
gether there is £591 for every £lOO of annual premiums ;
while for 1906 the average for 55 British offices, tariff and
non-tariff, was under £155 for every £lOO of premiums.
The fact is that in proportion to risks undertaken the
Australian insurance office almost invariably puts up a
vastly greater amount of capital than the British office
has paid up; and that of course means that the
Australian office offers greater protection for the man
who insures. What this co.’s investments are earning
can’t be said positively, because it lumps fixed deposits,
which are investments, with agency balances, etc.,
which are not investments. This sort of lumping
ought to be dropped. The bulk of the assets are
mortgages, which represent £85,452. No doubt they
yield a good return ; but they are not the sort of quickly-
realised security that a fire insurance co. ought to load
up with.
* * * *
The Kauri Timber Co. (forests in Maoriland,
head office in Melbourne)
Net
Written Visible
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1898 .. £39,857 Nil. £15,199 £142,827
1899 .. 35,005 2J p.c. = £14,625 16,218 138,665
1900 .. 33,731 3 „ „ 17,550 32,530 155,014
1901 .. 59,646 4 ~ ~ 23,400 66,472 185,240
1902 .. 38,476 4 „ ~ 23,400 5,927 176,091
1903 .. 37,691 4 „ ~ 23,400 10,000 171,800
1904 .. 32,390 4 „ „ 23,400 16,000 178,810
1905 .. 23,065 4 „ „ 23,400 10,000 189,145
1906 .. 40,276 4 ~ „ 23,400 172,269
1907 .. 69,342 5 ~ ~ 29,250 14,500 146,677
The book-keeping methods of this co. have undergone
considerable changes. For many years, down to 1901,
the proceeds of the sale of timber, after paying working
expenses, were treated as profit, and nothing was written
off the value of the assets. In other words, no fund was
accumulated out of profits to take the place of the assets
that had been chopped down and sold ; so, to make the
balance-sheet balance, and on account of a provision in
the Victorian Companies Act, this item had to appear in
1901: “ Accumulated assets depreciation, £264,920/’ in
addition to a paper asset, “Debenture expenses account,
£16,037” —total, £280,957. Against that there were
reserves and undivided balances totalling £95,717, leaving
a visible deficit of £185,240 at the end of 1901. as shown
above. Since then an effort has been made to get rid of
some of this paper stuffing by replacing it with un-
divided profits; and the paper has been reduced to
£219,920, against which there are reserves of £73,243,
leaving the present deficit at £146,677. Meantime, the
current destruction of timber is being more or less pro-
vided for. Apparently nothing was written off on this
account in the year 1905-6, but last vear £5OOO was pro-
vided ; the other £9500 (making up £14,500 shown as
written off) was for depreciation of real estate, including
mills. The movement can be put in another way
1901. 1906. 1907.
Liabilities (me. debentures) £327,610 £195,191 £129,387
Liquid assets 148,342 143,061 177,437
Deficit £179,268 £52,130
Surplus _ _ £48,050
Thus what may be called the cash position has improved
to the extent of £lOO,lBO during the year. Obviously
this has not been through profits (the figures, by the
way, are taken as they stand in the balance-sheets, before
the payment of dividends). A large part of the explana-
tion lies in a reduction of standing timber, stocks, etc.
from £439,458 to £382,509 ; there have been heavy realisa-
tions of stock or sales of other assets. Since the close of
the year a further £30,000 worth of debentures have
been paid off ; and this lightening of the interest bill will
be a relief in dull times. As to the big “ assets deprecia-
tion account” mentioned above, the directors say that
kauri forests have gone up in value, wherefore “a careful
revaluation is now in progress,” apparently with the
object of writiug-up the remaining assets and thus
wiping out some of the deficit. But the shareholder or
investor, before he accepts any such revaluation and
writing-up, ought anyhow to satisfy himself that the
spring in value is permanent, and that the new
Australian timber duty was taken into account
when it was made. The capital is £585,000;
150,000 shares are paid to 335. and 450,000 are paid to
15s. ; 7s. per share was written off in 189 S. Prior to that
year the co. had for some time paid no dividend, owing
mainly to the heavy debenture debt (over £300,000), re-
presented mainly by trees which weren’t spinning-any
visible profits to help ray the interest.
* * » *
The Universal Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
Losses
(apart from Deben- Profit
Debenture ture on Total Nominal
Oct., Interest). Interest. Sales. Losses. Deficit.
1898 .. £5956 £2104 £BO6O £21,985
Profit.
1899 .. 414 2001 1587 28,572
1900 .. 1151 1974 823 24,395
Total Profit.
1901 .. 2538 1842 696 23,699
1902 .. 4246 2369 1877 21,822
Total Loss.
1903 .. 1837 1897 60 21,882
Reserves.
£23,747 written off Capital 1,865
(£52,239 written off Capital; assets written down)
1904 .. 1418 1912 494 1,371
Profit.
1905 .. 2472 1908 564 1,935
1906 .. 1989 1324 665 2,600
1907 .. 1943 1024.. £1386 2305 4,905
As shown in the table, a large amount of capital was
written off in 1903, when tw'o £1 shares were issued to
replace each £5 share. The properties were written
down to match ; and steady realisations have since taken
place. Hitherto no profit made on these realisations has
been taken into account; the transactions have no doubt
been on a time-payment basis, and, to cover the risks
that necessarily hang- on to the tail of that plan, as well
as to provide for further possible shrinkages, the surpluses
have been used as an internal reserve. Now-, however,
the year’s profit on realisations is shown ; the directors
explain that, since the writing down, the properties that
have been sold have averaged 7 per cent, above the
reduced values, so they conclude that the need
for special provision to cover probable losses doesn’t
exist. But, though disclosed reserves will now
have a chance to mount up, there can be no dividend for
shareholders yet a while. The society held a good
deal of Scotch money; and in 1899, when a re-
arrangement became necessary, the old creditors accepted
debentures, half carrying 5 per cent, and half 4 per cent.
The 5 percent, debentures have now been paid off ; but
£26,616 is still owed on account of “B” (4 per cent.)
debentures, and under the rearrangement no dividend
can be paid till all this debt is wiped out. In four years
£18,176 of “ A ” debentures have been paid off ; mean-
time, however, debts apart from the debentures have
been increased from £28,169 to £33,66o—mostly over-
drafts and deposits. The greater part of that newly-
borrowed money has, however, gone into the society’s
Collins-street freehold. But it may not be safe to assume
that the realisations will go on as satisfactorily. Seasons
are not likely to continue as good as the last three or
four, so sales will probably ease off ; and then, as the
properties age, upkeep will increase. Still, as far as
things have gone, shareholders ought in the end to get
something substantial out of the wreck. Judging by the
fact that properties when sold bring more than book
values, it might be assumed that they have been written
down low enough. Yet, reckoning the debentures in as
capital, the return, after paying interest on the com-
paratively small deposits, etc., was only about 2| per
cent, last year ; and that is low enough to raise some
doubts.
* * * *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901 .. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £256 £256
1902 .. 1528 6 „ „ 104 £1262 162 418
1903 .. 2957 6 „ „ 253 2583 121 539
1904 .. 2778 6 ~ ~ 320 2147 311 850
1905 .. 4958 6 ~ ~368 4188 402 1252
1906 .. 4206 6 „ „ 432 4126 900
1907 .. 4352 6 „ „ 479 3873 900
Sept.,
1907 .. 3731 3731 4631
This purely co-operative society makes its distribution at
the end of its financial year, in March. The business is
still growing, and the profits (to be shared by the people
who supply the business) grow with it. The half-year’s
turnover was £272,414. The capital is only £8587.
Almost of necessity, therefore, the book-debts ap-
pear very large in proportion to capital. Yet,
though they amount to £33,045, they really represent
only about two-thirds of a month’s sales ; consequently,
the risks are probably not what the size of the book-
debts would suggest. Still there must be some risks, and
with the growth of the turnover (and consequently of
the book-debts and the risk of bad debts) there ought to
be an increase of reserves. Private Enterprise in this
business appears, however, to fight the co-operative en-
terprises with all sorts of weapons, and many of the men
who would gain from co-operation in the long run—who
would save for themselves the profits that Private Enter-
prise has hitherto pouched—can only be kept loyal by
stretching the bonuses to the last possible penny.. Later
on they may get educated up to a better understanding.
Meantime (still on this question of book-debts and risks
and reserves) the co. has this in its favor : that of its
capital of £8587 only £599 is sunk in fixed assets, such as
store, plant, etc.
* * * *
The lead market has been doing the same sort
of gymnastics that the copper market was guilty of a
while ago ; there was a fall of 225. 6d. (down to £l4 10s.)
in one day. Thousands of people were lately inveigled
into Barrier stocks when lead was up at £2O, and as they
have that figure stamped on their minds, they naturally
think that £l4 is surely about the worst the lead
market can do. Unfortunately it is nothing of the sort.
Here, half-year by half-year, is what the market averaged
after the 1900 boom :
Sept., 1900 .. £l7 6 9 Mar., 1904 .. £ll 8 9
Mar., 1901 .. 15 1 11 Sept., 1904 .. 11 15 8
Sept., 1901 .. 12 3 3 Mar., 1905 .. 12 11 6
Mar., 1902 .. 11 4 6 Sept., 1905 .. 13 8 0
Sept., 1902 .. 11 5 9 Mar., 1906 .. 16 0 3
Mar., 1903 .. 11 8 1 Sept., 1906 .. 16 17 9
Sept., 1903 .. 11 11 10 Mar., 1907 .. 19 12 10
It is true that the average level of prices is higher now
than it was a few years ago, whether in consequence of
increased gold production or something else doesn’t
matter. Therefore lead will probably not fall now to the
depths to which it used to descend. Which is a mighty
good thing for even the best of the Broken Hill mines. In
1894—the bottom of the slump which followed the mild
boom of 1888-1890—the average for lead was £9 11s. 6d. ;
and, with the high returning charges which now prevail,
that price would shut up every mine but two or three
on the Barrier.
* * * *
When lead tumbled to £l4 10s. the other day
S. M. Herald printed a comparison showing how Broken
Hill stocks had come back compared with prices as at
December, 1906. That was a very useful comparison, only
it ought to have included another column giving prices
as at December, 1903, just to show what these stocks can
get down to when a bad market hits them. Here is the
Herald’s list, with the other column that should have
been there, but wasn’t: —
1907. 1906. 1903.
British Broken Hill .. .. 12 0 48 0 7 0
Souths (paid) 64 0 170 0 23 9
Souths (contg.) 55 6 157 6 15 3
Junction North .. .. 12 9 37 0 2 0
South Blocks 9 0 50 0
Block 14 (ord.) 16 3 32 0 3 6
Block 14 (pref.) 15 9 29 0
Proprietary 47 6 111 0 31 0
Junction 26 90 2 11
Block 10 62 0 100 0 28 0
North 49 0 90 0 9 0
Sulphides (ord.) .. .. 8 3 18 0
New White Leads .. .. 0 3 5 Nil
The prices in the third column lasted, with no great
variations, for about a couple of years.
Curses come home to roost again. Years ago
the Broken Hill eos. had an agreement with the miners
which was terminated without warning just when it
suited the cos. to terminate it. Since then the miners,
whenever they fix things up with the owners, stipulate
for an agreement running a stated time. In November
last year, an agreement was made about wages. A
sliding scale was suggested ; but the miners pressed for
what meant a rise of about 12 per cent, for two years
certain ; and as the lead market was then booming, the
owners gave it. Now' lead has slumped, and the owners
are face to face with a high-wage agreement which won’t
run out till the end of 1908. It looks, however, as though
some of them will either have to sue for mercy or shut up
shop long before then.
Jfr ■Jr Jfr Jfr
In 1902, when lead slumped to £lO 2s. 6d., the
mines on the Barrier which kept on working had to pick
the best ore out, and some of them were then making
only Is. a ton profit. To-day, in order to place those
mines in a similar position, lead need fall no lower than
£l3. The difference is brought about by the increased
returning charges, which next year will be £5 ss. to £5
10s. per ton of concentrates instead of £4 ss. ; and the
higher wages and other costs will account for the balance.
* * * *
It is just about certain that, unless lead prices
harden again, Broken Hill Block 14 won’t turn the mill
wheels after Christmas. Up to the time of the fire the
mill was running only two shifts daily, and it is pretty
evident that not more than eighteenpence a ton was
being made out of the sulphides mined, even at the good
metal prices then ruling.
* * * *
South Blocks are struck hard ; but a big slice
will be taken off working costs by the stoppage of develop-
ment W'ork at Block 5 shaft. Still, even so, if things don’t
improve in the metal markets, this mine may take a very
long Christmas holiday. It is almost wholly dependent
on the lead market ; its silver production amounts to
next to nothing.
» * * *
Broken Hill Junction North is finding the drop
in lead inconvenient. Already hands have been short-
ened underground, and the mill is taking things easy.
The mine has this advantage : the stopes are now well
opened out, and manager Palmer could keep on hauling
for three shifts a day if required. The character of the
ore will, however, make low working costs difficult.
«• » » *
It didn’t take a very big wave of depression to
swamp the Broken Hill Junction. Bad steering was not
so much to blame as the fact that recently the co. got
into shoal waters. The 900 ft. level, upon which hopes
had been built, failed in the time of greatest need.
Rhodonite appeared in the north end, towards the Junc-
tion North boundary, and the south end pinched and
made again, flickered for a while, and then almost went
out. Then there was a lot of poor ore showing in the
other levels, and stoping was so unprofitable to con-
tractors that it was difficult to induce them to undertake
the job. But those are only temporary difficulties, and
should disappear if development work were further
advanced. When Browne’s shaft reaches the 1000 ft.
level, and King’s shaft is down below’ 400 ft., and the price
of lead is high enough to provide sufficient water, the
Junction will float again. It is a habit it has got into.
• * * *
The Sulphide Corporation’s pref. shareholders
get 10 per cent, again for the year, and ordinaries once
more get a shock. In 1900 the ordinaries got 15 percent,
(on 155.) ; since then, nothing at all. There are 550,000
shares of each sort, originally £1 paid ; but an inadequate
ss. was written off the ordinaries on the failure of the
Ashcroft process, which the co. was formed originally to
work. It did look as though the ordinaries would get a
taste this year, on account of the high price of metals.
It only takes £55,000 to pay a 10 per cent. pref. div. ; and
the profits in the 12 months to June, 1906, were
£136,364, though lead in that year averaged only £l5 11s.,
while for the following two half-y'ears the averages were
£lB 7s. 2d. and £l9 17s. Id. The Sulphide Corporation
has, however, about £79,000 of first debenture stock
maturing at the end of this year; and very likely it is ■
preparing to repay that without further borrowing,
intending possibly to write down works, etc., to corres-
pond. As mentioned above, the sum written off capital
originally, after the failure of the Ashcroft process, was
utterly inadequate ; and shareholders have had to pay
since for the old lack of courage. For the assets had gone,
whether the co. was prepared to acknowledge it or not.
* * * -K
One of the few bright spots in Broken Hill
mining affairs at present is in the north drive at the 800 ft.
level of the British, between Howell’s and Thompson’s
shafts. At first this drive was thought to be skirting the
eastern vein ; but when it plunged into the heart of an
ore body, that theory was queried. For 25ft. or 30ft. the
drive has been in what would be first-rate ore if it were
not cursed with so much rhodonite. As it is, the ore is
much better than that developed in the eastern
vein by the north drive from Blackwood’s crosscut.
In the face, overhead, underfoot, and on either
side the ore is showing well; but whether the drive is
crossing the body at an angle or following the strike, has
yet to be determined, so nothing can be said about its
size. When the drive is finished, steps will be taken to
ascertain whether the ore belongs to the eastern vein or
is an independent shoot. In any case, the development
adds something solid to the ore reserves.
* * * *
One of the humorous features of the daily papers
is the country correspondent who, after reporting the
big pumpkin and the accident to Muldoon’s cow, finds
himself suddenly up against a prospector with a tale of a
marvellous local discovery. The S. M. Herald lent its
ear to one of him last week, and had a beautiful yarn
poured into it. “Samples sent for assay have returned
140 oz. silver to the ton, with 50 per cent, lead, 33 per
cent, zinc, and 17 per cent, copper.” In other words, the
stone was 100 per cent, lead, zinc, and copper, so Heaven
only know's how the 140 oz. silver found room to crowd in.
“ There are vast quantities of this stone in sight,” says
the S. M. Herald. Hooray !
* * * *
After writing off 10 per cent, for depreciation
of plant and works that have been charged up to capital
account, Mt. David (N.S. W.) gave a profit of £2419 for the
year, which ended on October 31. Liquid assets at that
date, including stores, amounted to £2016 ; liabilities,
£146; leaving a surplus of £lB7O. Complaint has been
made in a vague way that excessive administration costs
eat up any profit this mine is likely’ to make. As usual,
however, the working expenses account sets out the items
in great detail—Directors’ fees, £260 ; secretary, £156 ;
travelling and escort expenses, £5B ; mine rent, etc., £lB3.
As the accounts are for a year, the figures are by no means
staggering. No estimate of ore is made —in fact, none of
much value is possible—but the manager is justified in
saying that prospects have greatly improved, and he
adds that crushings during the current year are “more
than likely to amply recoup shareholders for previous
disappointments.” The present co., a reconstruction of
the co. formed in 1901, which in its turn was a recon-
struction of an old co., is in 120,000 10s. shares, on which
only 3Jd. is uncalled.


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleicherb & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
One set of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, is at present being constructed for the Berry United
Gold Mines, to the order of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and
Company. The set will consist of 3 lifts, each of 200 ft.,
the total lift being 600 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in
diameter and 10ft. stroke, and the discharge 2,500,000
gallons per day. The valve boxes are made in separate
pieces, instead of forming part of one H piece, and the
valves are of the compound flap type. The total weight
is 110 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
this work in hand. This Company has constructed and
erected most of the big volume, deep alluvial plants now
working in Victoria."
* » * *
The Insurance India (London) in its Septem-
ber, 1906, issue writes “We have to congratulate The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society on a remarkably
excellent report for the year ending 31st December, 1905.
From a new business point of view, the year was the most
successful that the Society has experienced for a long
time, the new policies issued numbering 3687 and assuring
£922,401.”*
* * * *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen Street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* *■ * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Oobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keamand Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply a t American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne, *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» » * »
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply’ftbntract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* .* * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• * * •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
«' * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Producer and Suction Gas Plants and
Engines. —Directors, managers, and engineers, who have
so often had prospective dividends absorbed by excessive
fuel and repairs account, should consider this successful
and economical power, which reduces running cost to 6|d.
per horse-power per week of 54 hours, includingattendance.
Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent-street, Sydney, will
send particulars of plants from lOb.h.p. to lOOOb.h.p. to
those interested. Krupps, of Essen, have placed repeat
orders on three successive occasions for engines of 1600h.p.
because of their proved reliability and excellent running.*
LOHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
80LEACBHTS for kraiiss LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Covts. of N.S.W., Victoria
a nd Tasmania, and all principal mining' com'
panic:, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running’ at Mt. Lyell M. &It Co
imp-i'i'tors of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 '
The old Mt. Hope (N.S.W.) has been resur-
rected, mostly by Coonanible people, who early last year
formed themselves first into a syndicate, and then into a
co. (capital £lO,OOO, in 20,000 shares, of which 15,000 are
fully paid, and the other 5000 are paid to 45.). The accounts,
for nearly 18 months, to the end of August, are only just
issued; but how things will pan out, in view of the
slump in copper that happened after that date, isn’t yet
certain. As the accounts stand, the syndicate and the
co. show a profit of £3134, after paying £1975 for new plant
out of proceeds of sales ; but it is possible that the co.
will find it has overdrawn against shipments. Mt. Hope
has a big ore body, but most of the ore needs concentra-
ting, and, partly because the mine is miles at the back of
nowhere, costs are-heavy.
7C * * *
Things are a good deal unsettled at Newcastle.
Last week it looked as though all the arrangements
which ended the recent strike would break down on
account of the Hebburn difficulty ; but, after some delay,
the miners agreed to work the electric coal-cutting
machines. There is, nevertheless, a feeling of unrest
among the men, and on the other side there is a feeling
that the men really want more than they say they do
(that explains why so much stress is laid upon the re-
sumption of work with coal-cutting machines at Heb-
burn) ; so the whole situation will still have to be handled
very delicately to avoid trouble.
* -a * *
Nymagee copper mine (N.S.W.) has had a
very brief run under its new English owners ; word has
already arrived to shut down. The property was only
this year taken over from the Great Oobar people. Costs
have always been heavy at this remote mine.
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) had used up all its fresh
water, and practically every other outside mine in the
Cobar district was in the same trouble, when heavy
thunderstorms arrived at the beginning of this week.
The rainfall will relieve the anxiety at Great Cobar,
where preparations had been made for a famine water-
supply ; but it will wipe out an excuse that some of the
outside shows badly wanted for closing down.
* * * *
As expected six months ago, the value of the
Westralian gold production for 1907 will be half a million
less than that for 1906. The total output since 1886 to
the end of November this year was £19,606,598,
valued at £77,349,406. Dividends have t0ta11ed£17,244,321,
of which £1,507,156 was paid between January and
November 30 of this year. The December distribution,
so far, reaches £130,000.
* * * »
Golden Horseshoe Co. (W.A.) has purchased
the adjoining Ivanhoe South Extended for £35,000. How
this value was arrived at no one seems to know ; and, as
the sale has not caused any disturbance, no one appa-
rently cares. For some years this property was worked
in a half-hearted way, but on the strength of the drill
cutting 4ft. of 35dwt. ore at 1920 ft. from the surface, the
main shaft was recently taken down to 2000 ft. So
far as can be gathered, results from development
work at this point have proved disappointing.
This, coupled with the fact that not a single ton of
payable ore has been raised, makes the mine look dear at
the figure quoted. Still the possibility of one or more of
the Ivanhoe lodes underlaying into the property at depth
gives it some speculative value. It is intended to test
the Horseshoe lodes by means of a long crosscut from the
Extended’s 2000 ft. workings, and this will rank as one of
the most interesting and important pieces of deep
prospecting carried out within the borders of the Golden
Mile.
# * * #
South Kalgurli’s • estimated ore reserves show
little alteration compared with what they were a year
ago. Then the figures stood at 112,060 tons of 7Jdwt.
ore ; now they are given as 111,039 tons, worth 7jdwt.,
with 73,527 tons of “ probable ore,” assaying 6fdwt. This
looks all right on paper ; but, judging by recent returns
from this tricky mine, it seems as if mill returns are going
to fall short by a dwt. or so per ton of what the sampling
results led the management to expect. As the ore now
going through the mill is harder, more expensive to
treat, and lower-grade than that previously handled,
shareholders had better prepare themselves for increased
costs and smaller profits.
* * « *
The financial position of the Golden Ridge Co.
(W.A.) is getting sounder : £2OOO is now lying at interest,
the bullion reserve for equalising monthly outputs stands
at £3500, while, after paying the forthcoming dividend of
2s. 6d. per share, the co.’s current account should be
£2OOO or so in credit. Next year, the profit from ore
treatment should exceed £25,000 —equal to 16s. per share.
At the recent half-yearly meeting of shareholders, a pro-
posal was brought forward to split the shares into 10s. or
ss. scrip, and open an Adelaide office ; but as to both pro-
posals it was decided to wait a while.
* * * *
The Ivanhoe Junction crowd isat it again. This
time shareholders are informed, per medium of a rambling
circular, that while mill results have proved the mine to
be worthless in the top levels, good assays, ranging from
lOdwt. to 35dwt., have been obtained at a depth of 340 ft.
Something is also said about the development of payable
ore at this point giving new life to the property, and for-
feiture of shares is threatened unless the current call is
paid. So far, some £60,000 has been squandered on this
life-like image of a wild cat. Any more money that
may be raised seems to have no better chances.
* * * *
Ivanhoe Junction’s request to the Westralian
Government for a subsidy to sink another 100 ft. ranks as
about the cheekiest of its kind. It is not so long since
this mine was alleged to have 9000 tons of 15dwt. ore,
besides vast amounts of 9dwt. stuff in sight; yet the ore
passed through the mill only averaged about 6gr. per ton.
Local papers, which were booming this failure when The
Bulletin wasn’t, now profess astonishment that anybody
should have wasted time and money in breaking, raising,
and treating stuff worth less than Is. per ton. '•
9** * < u
The official intimation that the rich pipe is
cutting out in the Oroya-Brown Hill’s north bl6ck is a
mild way of putting it. Still, apart from this shopt, there,is
a good quantity of low-grade ore blocked out dr partially
in sight, besides which the liquid assets are Worth
£40,000, or nearly 90 per cent, of the mine’s present
market valuation. ■ '
* * ■
By acquiring a four-sevenths interest in the
Golden Link the Lake View Consols is liable for £lO,OOO,
representing the remaining Is. assessment. Shareholders
in the old Link Co. had the right,to apply for 353,190 ss.
shares, credited as paid up to 3sj but as they only sub-
scribed for 149,646, the underwriters (in this Case the
Share Guarantee Trust) were landed with the balance.
They managed to sell their interest to the Lake View' for
£6400. The first call gave the co. about £f 1,000 working
capital, and the Is. still outstanding will provide a further
£17,000 ; while if the Lake' View C 6. exercises its call on
the unissued shares,' a' further substantial sum will be
realised. In that case the Lake View will hold seven-
tenths of the concern.
« * * *
During its,financial year Burbank’s Main Lode
(W.A.) made a profit of £14,030; but after writing off
£9704, representing the whole of the cost of development
to June 30th, 1906, and after allowing for London
expenses and for plant depreciation, etc., there remains
only £2069, which with the amount brought forward gives
a disposable balance of £6257. Out of this sum a
10 per cent, dividend, absorbing £3OOO, has been declared.
Ore reserves, which now stand at 24,000 tons, show a sub-
stantial increase compared with what was in sight twelve
months ago, and big type is used to emphasise this fact
in the report. So far, the property has been opened up
to a vertical depth of 480 ft.; but as the shoot is 700 ft.
long at that depth, and as it looks well in winzes sunk
below, the proposed new level at 600 ft. has decidedly pro-
mising prospects. A fact to be remembered, though, is that
the reef went wrong at or about that depth in the neigh-
boring Burbank’s Birthday Gift leases.
v ** * *
When the accounts presented at the half-yearly
meeting (November 11) were made up, the Phillips River
Gold and Copper Co. (W.A.) had a credit balance of
£46,210, which it was decided to carryforward. In arriving
at this result, the directors valued stocks of ores and
matte and shares in other companies at “ present market
quotations ” ; and there has probably been a fall since
then, in which case the profits are less than the accounts
allege. Additional plant is on order, and general manager
Klug is at present in Broken Hill, making tests with the
Elmore oil process on 2 and 3 per cent, copper ore.
State mining-engineer Montgomery (W.A.)
thinks well of Ravensthorpe prospects. He tells the Minis-
ter for Mines that as they go down the shoots get larger
and often longer, and that the present depression is due
mainly to the restriction of operations because the owners
expect better working conditions when the railway is
completed and smelting works are-improved.
• * * •
Some excitement has been (caused in Westralia
because about 30cwt. of Mulgabbie ore has given 600 oz.
of smelted gold and 400 oz. of telluride and gold specimens.
One lot of 300 oz. of almost-pure gold, taken from Cable
and Kelly’s claim, has been purchased by the Government
for show at the Anglo-French Exhibition. Mulgabbie is
situated near liurnalpi, and is the only place outside
Kalgoorlie where telluride has been discovered in W.A.
The metal, however, only occurs in dabs, and, like the
rich patches of gold, takes a lot of finding.
* * * #
The Lady Miller, Norseman (W.A.), is appa-
rently in trouble. This is a cast-off of the once-boomed
Lady Mary Co. Lately there was a crushing, since which
all has been silence. And the West always knows what
that means.
• * * *
The Mararoa reserves (W.A.) are largely hypo-
thetical, owing to only a small percentage of the so-
called ore in sight being blocked out and ready for
stoping. This means that a lot of development work has
yet to be done before the official estimate given recently
is justified. It must be borne in mind, however, that ore
worth 70s. per ton is showing in the bottom level; and,
although the known length of the shoot in the workings
above is only about 240 ft., the outlook for the Mararoa
turning out a small but first-rate mine at depth is very
promising, contrary to all that past experience of the
field might have led one to expect.
* * •* *
Another returned prospector’s opinion of Mool-
yella tinfield (W.A.): —“ Moolyella may have been fairly
good for tin-getters while the late sky-high price pre-
vailed, but the few (about 100) men who have not cleared
out now make little more than food.”
• * * *
The long-neglected Two Mile end of Gvmpie
(Q.) is on the eve of developments. Great Northern, the
mother property, has been developing the Empire Reef
during the last couple of months, and has got out 100
tons of quartz for a trial crushing. There looks to be a
safe ounce per ton in it. Considering that there are not
as yet any stopes on the reef, and the reef has only been
opened 40ft., an ounce would be very satisfactory, for a
start. It is only 14 months since work began." Great
Western, adjoining the Northern, and floated in Sydney
last August, has a shaft down over 70ft., and winding
machinery is now going up. This property, of 25 acres,
floated at 6d. (48,000 half-crown contributing shares and
12,000 half-crown shares fully paid up), has now a market
valuation of about 2s. 6d. a share. With five or six reefs,
and slates at a shallow depth, its prospects are bright.
Great Northern Extended, east of the parent mine, is
down some 240 ft. Unfortunately, it has struck heavy
water, but the engine is beating it; sinking, though
under more expensive conditions, is being continued.
Slates in this mine lie at a depth somewhere near 1000 ft.
The Two Miie, a new co., is re-testing a previously tried
area. With a start of some 680 ft., it now has a shaft
845 ft. deep. The position is close up a mile north of the
Great Northern. At a depth of 730 ft., it proved a band
of good gold-bearing country, called locally the First
Bed. On Nov. 30 the manager reported cutting good
slate and plumbago at 842 ft. This represents the Second
Bed. The importance about this co.’s work is that it
brings that end of the Two Mile area right in line with
the rest of the field, in so far as the position of the slate
beds is concerned. The Peter and Paul reef, when pros-
pected in these lower beds of slate, should give payable
results. A 25-acre lease to the south of this property,
called the Peter and Paul, includes the reef of the same
name ; pot holes 70ft. deep on the reef gave lioz. quartz
in 1899.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) has refused to exercise the
option over Peak Downs, so that very misguided concern
is now in a hopeless mess ; and the worth of the tales
told concerning the mines resources, and its slag
dump, and its thousands of tons of basic ore lying at
grass, ought now to be clear to shareholders. The
Bulletin was officially slated because it dared
to expose the true position at Peak Downs,
while a crowd was doing its best to get the
public to take shares at high prices. Fortunately
one section of the public was warned off ; but another
section went in, and now finds that Mt. Morgan will not
even take over the mine as a flux quarry. Yet the co.
has provided itself with a smelting plant in the wilder-
ness, and a fine, fat overdraft in the city. It
is not likely anybody will shift the furnace, but the bank
will want the overdraft shifted. Where the money is to
come from is a mystery, so far. Had the money which
has been spent foolishly on smelting equipment been put
into the mine, something might have been found good
enough to influence people like Mt. Morgan to take an
interest in the concern. As it is, the gamble at Peak
Downs could only be attempted by a co. which could get
the property for nil.
* * * •
“A Shareholder”: It is true the capitalists
who had an option over certain Peak Downs (Q.) shares
did not take them up ; but it could not be on account of
size or quality of the lode, as the assays are not yet com-
pleted, and no report has been issued. It is understood
that the assays made by Mt. Morgan practically con-
firm those made by Mr. Rands in 1899. As for size
writer saw the lode at the 270 ft. level, continuous for
600 ft. in the drive, varying from 2ft. to 10ft. in width.
Underneath, there is a winze 110 ft. deep on the underlay
showing the lode to be 6ft. wide at bottom. The Peak
Downs ore, although rich in iron, contains in the upper
levels a certain amount of silica, of which Mount Morgan
has a superabundance. But if the big co. is not prepared
to take the crude ore, it is very likely that it will be
glad to buy:the Peak Downs matte for the iron it con-
tains, and that would suit the Peak Downs Co. best of all.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, shows a
1 old front to a dejected share market. On the half year’s
output of 23,450 tons, it made a profit of £5032 ; but
practically all of this was paid away for plant and in
other capital expenditure, so there has been no chance to
reduce the overdraft. Costs were 355. 9d., but the
new plant is expected to lower that. The manager
reckons cyaniding can be done for 3s. 9d. and milling
for 4s. 9d., and that the 255. it costs to mine the stone
will be “reduced in proportion.” It is tantalising for
the Extended to have 65,000 tons of stone dead on the
payable limit—enough to last for, say, 18 months. The
future depends, therefore, entirely on the development
of a rich shoot in the deep ground; the prospects
although capricious, are fair. But there is an overdraft
to be paid off, and the end of capital expenditure is still in
the distance.
* * * *
From Policeman Creek (Queensland), where
the sapphires come from: “The correspondent (B
28/11/’O7) who says the off-color sapphires, used for
mechanical purposes, are now selling at 3s. per oz nuts
the price too low : about 4s. 3d. is nearer the market
and ss. 6d. is paid at times. The real slump is in the
blue gem-stones, which bring from 30 to 40 per cent less
than they did six months back. As to yield, two or three
claims occasionally give lOoz. to the load, but most of
them run from l&oz. to 3oz. Anything under loz fhalf
blues) is not payable with present appliances.” ’ v
On appeal to the District Court, the warden’s
reversed .(Q-) tribute case has been
arafn somp th ® . le ? al ball ro]ls the other way
bp hnnSpS f T ,n u’ minted or otherwise, will have to
the h leasp d Thp J ° v h - n M ° ffat and Alexander, who own
ThP Phlpf lunged on a loose verbal agreement,
during tho f f fc 2 s £ that -t rlch P atch of tin was found
/ a tribute, and in order to get it out
was k i n tl „°° ntl P™; d 011 Sundays. The warden’s decision
hrMPh pf fi? r °- bhe tnbutors, even though a technical
p°p“ h , 6 regulations had occurred; but the
bi o her court stands the case the other end up
* * . *
Gilmore (North Queensland) directors soon shut
on the practice of putting up their tin to compe-
tition. In fact, they tried it only once, with the result,
it is alleged, that the shareholders gained £6O on the
aeai. ihe co. has purchased a carrying outfit from the
Endeavor and Leslie Co. (which, alas! has no more stone to
carry). The Gilmore ore will be carried, as hitherto, to the
Gurrumba mill. An offer was made lately for the ‘ ‘ dirty ”
tin, but the directors considered the price too low. Im-
purities consist of copper and sulphur ; there is no zinc
or arsenic. Wolfram, which is considered detrimental in
Australia, is, under certain conditions, an asset in Corn-
wall, -where magnetic separators are being used with
success. The Irvinebank district needs a calcining plant
and a separator, as the penalties imposed for impurities
are very heavy.
* » * *
The Chillagoe Co. still wants to send the
Etheridge railway via Charleston ; the Queensland
Government is understood to favor the Georgetown
route i and so a curious situation has arisen. The
Chillagoe Co. has to provide the money in the first place ;
the Government will no doubt <have to provide it
later on, when it takes over the concern ; and meantime
the Government guarantees some of the interest. So each
party says it is the proper party to decide the route.
The matter being hung up, the Etheridge Development
Co., which was on the stocks, has been hung up also,
though there are probably other reasons at work in
connection with that.
* » • •
20 miles of railwa V line to Mt. Molloy
(N.Q.) will be open for traffic early next year ; a shipload
of rails from England arrived lately. Sleepers are still
hard to get, particularly ironbark ; Australia has had the
importing mania, and to pay the bill it has exported
things it badly needs itself. Molloy’s smelting costs will
be reduced when the railway is through, and, with
cheaper fluxes and coke, the co. will be able to compete
for customs trade. Coke is rather dear, having to be
shipped to Cairns and railed up; but the discovery of
coal at Mt. Mulligan, near the Hodgkinson, may after a
time provide a, local supply of coke. Over-capitalisation
and the floating of wild-cat shows has made investors
sceptical about North Queensland, but a land of such big
resources is sure of a great future.
* * * *
Glad noises are again being heard from Mary-
borough (Vic.) over deep-lead shows. Once the Main
Leads, Main Leads North, Duke United, and North Duke
all flourished like the green bay tree. Now the drum can
only be beaten over the Duke and Main Leads and the Burnt
Creek, and neither of these deserves much noise. Burnt
Creek is, in fact, rarely mentioned ; but a good deal of
fuss is made over the Duke and Main Leads
and some of the two-penny-ha’-penny quartz shows. The
yarn pitched about Duke and Main Leads is that from
No. 2 shaft (whence pretty well all the gold comes) the
outskirts of the Duke lead have been entered. Wash and
mineral are said to fix the identity of the gutter. But
how does this fit in with the belief that the Main Leads
North had worked the Duke gutter at this point, and
proved it so unpayable as to lead to the shutting down of
that mine ? This is a matter one would like to hear some-
thing about from the old management of the Main Leads
North, now defunct.
* * « *
Prentice and Southern, Rutherglen, is being
rebuilt by Bewick, Moreing and Co. into a company of
200,000 shares of £l, paid to 18s. Peacock, telling how
funds have gone, says there is no desire to push out old
holders. Ha, ha 1 Quite likely 1 Everybody, from his
office-boy up, knows that no one is shouldered out of
deep leads just now. The trouble is to keep them in, so
as to get calls out of them—he he ! But really the
little bill showing how the cash has gone at the
Prentice absolves the directors and everyone else
from any thought of the kind that Peacock suggests.
The co. began with £30,000, earned £4643 from gold ;
total, £34,643. The expenses have been : Development,
£11,117 ; plant, £2813 ; stoping, £1513 ; pumping, £7487 ;
and, among other items, “ General and London,” £5368.
Therefore the co. has spent all its capital to get £4643 of
gold, and one-sixth of the total expenditure has been on
“general and London.” No, there isn’t much fear that
anybody is being pushed out. What they no doubt fear
is that the beggars won’t stop in.
* * * *
Minister McLeod has displayed the wisdom of
Solomon in the way he has handled the Burnt Creek
application for the forfeiture of the Duke Junction
claim, which is wedged into the Burnt Creek leases at
Maryborough (Vic.). Duke Junction was loafing, and Burnt
Creek wanted the ground to work from its old shaft. On
the Junction Board was one of the Burnt Creek directors,
also an M.L.A., also some Ballarat men. Altogether a
smart and strong set had to be faced. Evidently torn by
conflicting emotions, McLeod finally cut the Junction
claim into two sections. One of these he flings to the
Burnt Creek ; the other the Junction crowd has to bore or
work, or off the ground 1 goes to the Burnt Creek !
The point in it all is that if Burnt Creek pumps at No. 1
shaft, it will drain the Junction claim. Now-, will there
be any pumping?
• * * *
First Chance, Ballarat East, is well named, for
its called-up capital of £6333 has been returned, and a
bit on top. Still, the return is poor considering that it
took £68,000 of gold to do that little. Grade of stone
crushed is about 6dwt. This does not mean that all the
quartz developed will average that much. What with big
breaks and little breaks, cross-courses and slides, and big
bodies of barren quartz, it’s always uncertain whether a
crushing will pay. However, W. J. Pearce, the manager,
has the pluck to say that this half-year will see better
times. Ballarat needs them.
* * * *
At the much-boomed Electro-Hydraulic con-
cern, at Carngham (Vic.), the attempt to work the
ground by gravitation has failed dismally, and now
gravel pumps are to be given a chance to realise the
golden hopes of investors. At the next half-yearly meet-
ing it will not be surprising if some of the amateurish
persons concerned with the management should apolo-
gise for the failure of the gravel pumps, and promise that
everything will go smoothly when a battery is utilised.
The stern fact is that the ground is too hard to be profit-
ably broken up by the highest water pressure available,
and this should have been realised from the start—or
very soon afterwards.
* * * *
Some optimistic people still retain confidence in
the Steele’s Pioneer, Yandoit (Vic.); yet it had a severe
shock a while ago when the glowing official statements
had a hole knocked through them by the actual returns.
It may be significant of the value of this mishandled
property that the local crowd bought up the greater part
of 6000 forfeited shares. The bottom level is being pushed
north to pick up the shoot of stone struck in the whim
shaft.
At New Rice’s, Ballarat district, the expected
“ bust-up ” is now inevitable, though there may be one
or two decent crushings raked together. Yet, in spite of
that, the co. is going to the expense of erecting a com-
plete plant. What is the game ?
New Normanby, Ballarat East, should soon be
on the div. list again. Last two yields wiped ouc an
overdraft of over £9OO.
* • * *
The chairman of Mt. View (Yic.) has his
own opinions about it:— I “Re remarks (B. 5/12/’O7).
The mine has been in the hands of the present co. for the
past nine years. When the co. was formed all the work
done was a shaft sunk many years ago to 90ft. This
shaft has been cut down and continued to 350 ft. and is
now connected with a tunnel nearly 900 ft. in length. It
has been proved that a gold-bearing reef exists at tunnel
level 280 ft. ahead of present workings ; a winze sunk on
this reef, which is from 4ft. to sft. wide, disclosed payable
gold 18ft. from tunnel level. This was continued to 60ft.,
and a drive put in north 55ft. and south about 60ft. Reef
maintains its size and value the whole distance. Three
trial crushings at a local battery and one.at Footscray
clearly demonstrated to the directors that they were
fully warranted in putting up a battery and compressing
plane, which has been done ; and when water is available
crushing can be started. The winze on reef has been
sunk 120 ft., carrying payable gold the whole distance.
The shares are held by men who know the value of their
property, not as a speculation but as an investment.
There are no sellers of any moment; an offer to purchase
1000 would meet with no response. If all the mines in
Maldon strove to emulate the perseverance and pluck of
the Mt. View Co., Maldon ventures would stand in better
odor with investors.”
* * * *
Peter’s Gully, Heatlieote (Vic.), is reported to
have 18in. to 2ft. of stone worth £l5 a ton. This
is quite a new make, being further west than the
original Peter’s Gully reef, and an eastern crosscut at
200 ft. is going out to cut the old reef, supposing it to be
there. As this reef was shown by the old shaft, which
the present co. unwatered, to be living strongly below
150 ft., the prospects of the new workings hitting it are
good. A little ring of bears hits the stock whenever it
goes above 4s. or ss. ; but it still has strong local
support.
* * * *
H.H.M.: Write to Mines Department, Sydney,
fora pamphlet on the subject T.J.M. : Send us the
papers ; the public should be warned of such dangers,
anyhow. ...P.J.K. : Can’t risk dealing with type-
written copies (alleged) of balance-sheets.


ERE, THE SANDS
OF 1907 RUN,OUT
decide to improve your mental and finan-
cial position by entering upon a course of
POSTAL INSTRUCTION
under our skilled instructors. Our methods
ensure the speedy acquirement of money,
earning knowledge, and are not to be corn-
pared with foreign stereotyped methods
which are unsuited to local conditions.
to
Shorthand. Typewriting, ftooh-
herpine. Commercial Arithmetic.
Correspondence. Penmanship, etc.
|Send tor "HOME STUDY." Post Free on application
BUS I NESS
EDUCATION
TECHNICAL
EDUCATION
f STOTT&HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
'moor E St* 1 -SYDNEY
Cats and bruises should receive immediate
treatment before the parts become swollen, and
this can only be done when Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm is kept at hand. First application gives
relief.*
To enjoy your dinner try the invigorating
qualities of a bath served hot with a liberal sftpplv of
Scrubb’s Ammonia in it. Scrubb’s Ammonia is one of the
joys of life. No matter how fatigued or stupid or
dull you may feel—and the like misfortune occurs
to everyone at intervals—Scrubb’s Ammonia wakes
you up. A little girl was asked what she liked
best in the world, and replied, “Scrubb’s Ammonia,”
just as if she were an advertisement agent. She
was quite innocent; she really meant a testimony
to its effect in removing those stains from her
frocks which in her youthful enthusiasm she never failedi|
to achieve hourly.*
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ S.F.” on the emu’s slit windpipe :
In answer to “ Sallad ” (B. 5/12/’O7). The emu (Dromceus
Novce Hollandiat) is normally provided with a tracheal
diverticulum of great interest. There is a natural defect
in the front of the windpipe at a variable spot between
the fiftieth and sixty-fifth ring: of cartilage. The deficiency
may involve six or more rings. In the emu chick the
defect is scarcely noticeable, and the extremities of the
rings are almost in contact. As the bird grows, the
mucous membrane lining the windpipe becomes gradu-
ally pushed through this opening, till it forms a large sac
between the skin of the neck and the trachea. The adult
emu inflates this bag when it produces its peculiar boom-
ing sound resembling the noise made by blowing across
the mouth of a large bottle. Concerning the function of
this pouch nothing is known save that it seems useful to
boom with. It sometimes becomes inflamed and dis-
tended with mucus.
* * * *
“ Hiphen ” : Someone asks (B. 5/12/’O7)
if anyone can tell him how the emu comes to have
its windpipe slit. I always understood that the
bird does it while shaving.
A PROSPECTIVE PLEASURE.
PRISONER (recently converted): “When I die I
would like to meet ray dear old cobber who
died some years ago."
PARSON: “That is a very laudable desire, and
no doubt you will meet your old friend in the
Better Land. What was the cause of the
death of the poor fellow? ”
PRISONER : “He Was shot by a crool policeman
durin’ a burglary with violence.”
“ T.A.W.” : Be “ Ham O.’s ” inquiry
(B. o/12/’O7) as to origin and meaning of the ex-
pression “No good to gundy.” “Gundy” is a
corruption of a Welsh word meaning to steal,
shake, pinch, or hook, and the expression simply
means that a thing is not worth stealing.
“William V.”: “HamC.” (B. 5/12/’O7)
asks for the origin of the expression “ No good to
Gundy.” Gundy is an abbreviation of Gundagai,
and the phrase originated way back in 1852—the
year of the big flood, which caught up Gundagai
in its embrace, and scattered it over Riverina, and
threw bits of it as far as Thargomindah. On the
eve of the catastrophe a bulloeky pulled into
Gundagai, and camped at the old crossing on the
Murrumbidgee. After tea, he had a look round
the town to make sure that it was all there, and
then turned into bunk in the waggon. He woke
at daylight, feeling sea-sick, and found himself
afloat. Mistrusting the seaworthiness of his
craft, he made haste to get from under the tar-
paulin, and with a plunge and a splash, was safe
among the branches of a gumtree. After disen-
tangling a few codfish from his whiskers, he looked
towards the blank that had been Gundagai, and
remarked sadly, that “’Tweren’t much good to
Gundy.” In confirmation, I might mention that
the tree is still there.
♦ * * *
‘ 1 Boronia Be place-nomenclature. Here
is a collection of names from the south-west of the
great Sandy State (“Up,” I might mention, is
Binghi’sterm fora watering-place):—Boyanablup,
Eurraminnup, Dodenallup, Mokadillup, Mulally-
up, Wilinarrup, Quaggainirrup, Corbulup and
Bandleucup.
“G.S.K.”: Following on my par (B.
26/9/’O7) regarding the naming of Australian
towns and stations, a collection from the north-
western part of N.S.W. herewith Nogabri,
Boggabri, Narrabri, Benalabri, Therabri, Menede-
bri, Cuttabri, and Oollarendabri. The terminus
“bri” means “ running water.” •
■» * * *
“ J.P.” : Here at Barcaldine (Q.) we are
having drought again, but, thank Heaven ! we
have got last year’s flood to talk about; and the
stories grow whiskers and other ornaments as
they get older. During that flood the towns of
Stonehenge and Jundah, on the lower Thompson,
were threatened by famine, when some bright
mind conceived the idea of carriage by water. An
order was given to a Longreach firm, and shortly
afterwards the pioneer boat was launched. She
was christened the Storm King, and, after re-
ceiving her cargo, started down stream amidst
enthusiasm. She arrived safely, after battling
her way over the tops of trees and through a
wilderness of logs and wreckage. Other liners
were built; then came the Lusitania of the
West, viz., the Great Eastern. She was a
beautiful-looking craft with hurricane decks, and
classed A 1 at the Longreach pub. When
she left port and sailed gracefully out to sea
her captain and crew received an ovation.
The first day or two out they experienced excep-
tionally dirty weather, the seas running shrubs
high. Eventually the wind abated, and the crew,
dead tired and knocked up, anchored in a shel-
tered bay to get a rest. When they woke in the
morning the craft was high and dry on a mud
bank, half-a-mile from water of any kind. A few
days later the sailors rolled up their swags and
tramped back to town. There’s good prospect of
getting the vessel re-floated about the year 1920
that is, if the law of averages holds out.
* * * *
“ Poleaxe ” : “ Agricola ” (B. 28/11/’O7)
describes the hunting of a ’possum by a gohanna.
That go. must have felt very hungry, else he
wouldn’t have been so violent. The oil-producer
usually gets his ’possum by sprawling on a
limb in the sunlight and mesmerising the little
animal out of the dark hollow it inhabits by eye-
traction pure and simple. Have repeatedly seen
this done, and the ’possum’s laments are painful
as it crawls up under the influence, to taste death
in its most revolting form.
* * . * ♦
“ P.C.K.” : “ Gip ” (B. 14/2/’O7), praising
the pluck of “ willie wagtail,” does not praise it
enough. Never have I seen such eagles as were
on the Upper Macleay, 40 years ago
—eagles, mind, not eagle-hawks—and
I have seen some big ones on the
Bathurst side, and bigger on Monaro.
Yet, big as were those of the Macleay,
many a time I have seen them abandon
their majestic soaring flight, and, with
unusual flappings of mighty wings,
ungainly downward plunges, and
furious jerkings of fierce heads vainly
endeavor to shake off the maddening
assaults of willie. That fearless little
bully always got himself somehow
between the eagle’s wings, and always
kept above him, no matter how fast
or high he flew. From his refuge be-
tween the giant’s wings he would
dart at the top of the head and the
eyes. Magpies, leatherheads, and
dollar-birds will often follow an eagle
for miles, and sometimes in the nesting
season will venture to attack him;
but seldom single-handed, as willie
does always. Other birds, too, alter
their cries when an eagle appears, but
willie does not alter worth a darn.
* * * *
The complaint of “ W.H.M.” :
Is “ Agricola’s ” story of gohanna and ’possum (B.
28/11/’O7) a temperance lecture, or what? I am not
satisfied with the fight put up by “ Agricola’s ” ’possum.
Also I am willing to back the ’possum to do the drop act
any number of times without coming to grief, and, if
necessary, to lose any gohanna in a contest of speed at
even weights.
As a kid I used to go ’possuming with other kids along
the thickly-covered gum flats of the Murray, near Echuca
(Vie.). We depended on a company-owned pack of mon-
grels and a rusty “tommyhawk” or two to do our
execution. When a ’possum was located in a favorable
sapling we set to work to demolish the foundations of
his home. The dogs knew their work, and would rush
the head of the tree from all sides the instant it hit the
earth. It was exciting sport, but we got few ’possums.
Often a too eager dog rushed too soon and was laid out,
and sometimes there were casualties among the hunters,
but the quarry escaped to the next tree nine times out of
ten.
After one experience the ’possum never waited for the
crash, but took a flying start from the falling timber.
Now, I cannot reconcile the extreme alacrity of those
’possums with the slothfulness of “Agricola’s” beast.
* * * *
“J.P.” (Blackall) : Be John Fry’s shear-
ing of 828 sheep in a week (B. 11/7/’O7). It’s a
fair performance, but no record. The Australian
record belongs to Jack Howe, of this town,
who shore 1437 sheep in a working week
of 5| days, at Alice Downs, in 1892. His
best effort on that occasion was 321 for the day.
A good performance was that put up a few weeks
ago at Tocal, down the Thompson. A team there
averaged 159 per man per day from start to finish,
one day getting as high as 182. These men are
known as “ Pyper’s guns”—Pyper being a Long-
reach shearing contractor who travels around with
a portable plant. The leading “gun” in the
show is Billy Lynham, who one day cut 225 ; he
exceeded the 200 in 12 out of 18 full working days
in the shed just referred to. May remark that in
the search for really big shearing tallies you’ll
have to come to Queensland every time.
A PLEA FOB MERCY.
PATHETIG DHUNK : “ Don't arrest me , conshable, don ’ arrest me! Remember , I've (jotter wife an ’
two bottles er beer to support."
“ Bdyson ” : I was travelling in a waggon
when I struck the tightest of all the tight town-
ships in my wide experience. The man who
owned the waggon was selling dry goods, tobacco,
and sly grog to the peaceful agriculturists, the
butter founders, and the navvies of the camps up
the line. The township was a new one, and com-
posed mainly of navvies, splitters, and their wives,
who had settled down about theNativeDog, a way-
side shanty, and induced a speculator to run up a
paling, iron, and sugee-bag store. The men went to
work up the line on trucks worked with levers.
We drove into an empty township. The waggoner
tried a few homes, but all were silent, fireless,
desolate. The Native Dog was bolted and
barred, and the sugee-bag store bore this legend :
“Up at the accident, back in a month.” The
waggoner picked a camp and unharnessed. We
built a fire and made tea, and presently the in-
habitants of Cobb’s Corner began to drift home.
They were capable of drifting, no more. In point
of fact they were an unspeakably drunken public,
and too full for utterance. They surged down
the track from “ up the line,” fell into their tents,
huts, and houses, and slumbered where they fell.
We made earnest inquiries, but elicited nothing,
and conjecturing that some mad philanthropist
had thrown open his illegal still to a grateful
people, I started up the route on a voyage of dis-
covery. I walked three miles. The way was
littered with slumbering drunks, and as dead
centre was approached I heard the murmurs of a
mad jamboree. An amazing spectacle met my
gaze when I turned into Humble’s cutting. Here
a locomotive was turned on its side, and the
wreckage of a train was piled against one rocky
wall. About a big pool in a rock-hole to the right
were gathered half the inhabitants of Cobb’s
Corner, and divers men from other places. They
were lying on their stomachs, and when they felt
disposed they refreshed themselves at the dam.
The mystery was explained. There had been a
truckload of beer on the wrecked train. The
barrels had been burst in the concussion, their
contents had drained into the receptacle in the
rock, and a reservoir of beer was thrown open to
the simple bush dwellers. When I arrived a
committee was holding down two men who wanted
to swim in the public beer, and the policeman
from Bealiba was preserving order. Never was
order more sedulously preserved. He was tucked
away under a truck, dead to the world. *
“ Mallarapoonie “ M.M.” (B. 14/11/’O7)
tells how some incautious person pushed a walking
stick through an ant-eaten State school. I once
accidently shoved an umbrella through the bottom
of a life-boat off the Westralian coast. The
harbormaster at the port of clearance had spoken
disrespectfully to our skipper about carrying
inadequate life-saving apparatus, and firmly re-
quested that increased accommodation should be
provided. The owners supplemented the usual
battered dinghy with a dry-rotted deathboat, and
we went to sea in the height of the monsoon
season with the man-trap riding bravely at the
port davits. I was coxswain of the corpseboat
when landing mails up the coast, and the insignia
of my office was a gamp to stave off rain and sea
spray. Had occasion once to throw down the
brolly and take hold of the tiller with both hands.
The gamp stood erect on the bottom planking.
The Japanese seaman on the stroke oar grinned.
When I withdrew the gamp a small live geyser
started to operate on board. I looked serious.
The Jap seaman grinned some more, but said
nothing. Replacing the gamp I corked up the
geyser. When we returned to the vessel, and the
boat was on its way to the davits, our skipper’s
eagle eye detected the orifice by the escape of
bilge water. Then he surged a lob about some
passengers practising pistol shooting at gulls
reckoned they couldn’t hit a haystack, and would
be scuttling the ship next. The carpenter started
to put a patch over the orifice, but the bottom fell
out of the tomb-boat and saved him the trouble.
* * * *
“Brad”: Be “Douglas T’s” query (B.
31/10/’O7) as to why the average dog goes cranky
when a crow approaches his private apartments.
Knew a tame crow at Hamilton (Vic.) which was
on excellent terms with the house-dog (a mongrel
fox-terrier). The only time “ Foxy ” showed any
dislike to his black friend was when the latter
attempted to dine with him.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : During my Outbacli
exile I wrote a par. for The Bulletin describing
how a well-known Outbacker had been badly
bitten on the nose, cheeks and chin by a cod in
the Paroo, while lying flat on his stomach to have
a drink ! I pointed out that the bitten man was
so badly scarred on the cheeks and chin that he
had to grow a beard to hide the serrated souvenir.
Unfortunately he couldn’t grow whiskers on his
nose, where the worst part of the trouble was.
Incredulous folk (like “ Wun Hi'’ and “Wun
Lung” and “Wun Man Wun Vote”) sniffed
incredulously. How comes a well-authenticated
story of the biting of a Wagga professional mau
by a Murray cod in the Murrumbidgee. I attach
tile Hekali) par. as an unimpeachable authority.
“F.H.R.”: While quite agreeing with
“ Janor” (B. 3/10/ 07) in his attack on food fad-
dists, I would be very thankful to him for some
further information re those 20in. logs he and his
mate timbered their rise with. Given green
timber of, say, 6ft. in length, these logs would
weigh about lcwt. per foot, or at least Gcwt. in
all, for anything less than a 6ft. rise is super-
fluous. Now, despite that 421 b. of meat, could
“Janor ” and his pal pull 6cwt. up a one-in-forty-
five? Of course, I’m not such an ancient as
“Janor ” admits to be, but I helped to put up a
rise in bad country out North Gippsland way a
few years back, and we used 6in. by 12in. timber
(bush logs), joggled. We had a block and tackle,
and we found it hard enough to keep the timber
within cooee of a treacherous back at that. We
were forced to fire an occasional shot in a hard
substance which ran through the ore channel, and
when we did the face used to have a nasty habit
of climbing 10ft. or 12ft. out of reach and drop-
ping short tons on us while we bullocked the
timber up a wet, crooked pass. Time meant life
there, and the small timber spelt time. If we
had used “Janor’s” timber, death would have
overtaken us before we got the trees in position.
* * * *
Melbourne Age lately reported a queer
accident that happened to Mrs. Clingan, of
Camperdown (Vic.), whose husband threw a
scythe at a cow he was bailing up—or, rather,
wasn’t bailing up. The weapon bounced off the
beast’s horn and cut the lady’s cheek open. This
habit of persuading a harmless, necessary cow
into a bail by means of a scythe is highly
irregular. There are several recognised ways of
accomplishing the feat. One is to get a small
boy after school to step down the paddock and
round up the milkers; the small boy—dog-tired
and disgusted—has ways and means that the
grown-up knows nothing about. Another wky is
to sool three or four healthy mongrels on to
Strawberry’s heels; you won’t get much milk
that way, but you’ll get the cow, with luck.
Another is to set the women-folk on to the job
while you stand off and pray; but you have to
pray very hard. Probably the simplest plan,
though, is to shift the bail and put it round the
cow.
* * * *
“ Gr.S.K.” : It were a crime, when con-
sidering utterly dead N.S.W. towns, to overlook
Milparinka. It is the climax and the extreme
limit of Outback dreariness. Milparinka was
prosperous in the days of Mount Browne. Now
its scores of buildings, which were once banks,
hotels, stores, etc., are falling to pieces. Two
pubs remain, and their efforts to ensnare custom
afford the only amusement that comes in the way
of the mournful inhabitants.
THE ORDER OF THE BATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This Sunday bathing, unfortunately, is only one of the
many forms of Sabbath desecration that are attaining
abnormal development at the present time, and not a
‘ "V of our own young people are being carried away by
,l. Two or three young men and women, members of a
suburban choir, resigned from the choir so as to be free
to go bathing on Sunday. —Extract from religious paper.
We had some comely maidens in our choir, but the best
Was pretty Dorcas, dainty and demure ;
She brought a congregation that no other church
possessed,
And every one salvation reckoned sure ;
We’d hundreds of Endeavorers, who kept each godly
rule—
Each mission-evening won us some recruit;
And scores applied as teachers at the little Sunday-school
Where she taught the young idea how to shoot.
But, now, in awful discords are the famous anthems sung.
The sermons fall on transepts desolate,
The Missions all have stopped, and the Endeavorers are
bung,
And, worse than all, quite empty is the plate;
And with the younger members that we want so much
to reach,
Two-up, I grieve to say, has taken root,
And not a single youth is there who’ll volunteer to teach
Where Dorcas taught the young soul how to shoot.
For the surf has whispered to her, and our Dorcas has
resigned,
Obedient to its sweet, seductive call;
To-day her dainty figure in a costume is confined
That fits her like the paper on the wall.
While the church is vainly praying for the converts she
can make,
Her missionary zeal is bearing fruit,
And every Sunday morning where the biggest rollers
break
Is Dorcas teaching Bondi boys to shoot.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


If you promptly apply Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm to a sprain before inflammation sets in, a
cure is ensured in about one-third of the time
otherwise required. First application gives
relief.*
NEWNESS
and QUALITY
are our two main studies —
business life studies.
WE secure newness from England and the Continenft*-
our London people send us the latest each mail—
Quality we secure by making the goods on the premises.
Each piece of gold is assayed before being used, and when
made it is not only stamped, but every ticket is marked
in plain figures with the assay quality, and so buyers can
read all about our goods.
No House in Australia makes better quality goods than
we do.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House, in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures Cash.
4 Special Amethysts, 5 Selected
Diamonds and 6 Pearls, £7.
Pearls and Amethysts, 955.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : I agree with “ Full-
lup” in his protest against the use of “yer”as
bush vernacular. During my three years of Out-
back exile and exciting experience, I carefully
studied speech peculiarities. “You” is invari-
ably called “ya,” not “yer.” The “a” is ex-
tremely short. Readers of “Pannikin” pars will
have noticed my adherence to “ ya ” as the correct
bush vernacular. In the plural, “yuz” or “yz”
is much more common than “ yez ” or “ yous.”
* * * *
“Human” : “The Prooshan ” (B.
28/11/’O7) oversteps the truth. Some bushmen
still wear doormats on their chins and sufficient
head foliage to stuff a mattress. Know one my-
self, intimately. He’s a real old whaler, and has
humped Matilda for years and years—between
the top of Little Bourke-street and the bottom
thereof.' Sometimes, greatly daring, he strikes
out for the desolate wastes that lie N. by N.W.
of Menzies’. But not often. He is getting on in
years now, and has lost a little of youth’s dash
and recklessness. He carries a swag, billy,
damper, bowyang, stringy bark, and buck-
jumper—all the regular properties of the true
bushman. Withal he cadges—ye gods, how he
cadges ! When he strays into the wilds of St.
Kilda road he grows uneasy; and once, when a
cruel deceiver lured him, by means of lying talk
re beer, into Albert Park, a search party had
to be despatched. He is the most convincing
sample of sundowner I have ever seen. A grand
type which—under the Yag. Act—is unfortunately
becoming extinct.
* * * *
“Broadaxe”: “F.H.R.” (B. 7/11/’O7)
mayn’t know all about those “sleepers” either.
Have found that a sleeper’s capacity to absorb
moisture depends more on the density or other-
wise of the timber than on the mode of producing
the sleeper. It is possible to prevent a “quar-
tered ” or free sleeper from split-
ting at the end when the “ dog”
is driven into it. Helped to saw
many thousands of redgum sleepers
for Junee-Hay and Narrandera-
Jerilderie railway lines, and as both
Department and contractors were con-
vinced that timber was too valuable to
be reduced to sleeper choppers’ chips,
thousands of sawn “ quartered” sleepers
were taken. But the saw-millers had to
bore and bolt the ends of all “quartered”
sleepers. I saw many of the old original
bolted ends doing service 20 years after.
Writer was not arguing re the comparative
durability of sawn or hewn sleepers, but
protesting against the wholesale waste of
timber by sieeper-squarers as compared with
the saw-millers’ waste in the same industry.
Along the lines above referred to where
sleepers were cut by saw-mills, it is safe to
say that millions of feet of sawn timber were
produced from thoseparts of the sleeper logs
that “ choppers ” make chips of ; and those
millions of feet helped to build the towns
of Wagga, Junee, Narrandera, Hay,
Wentworth, and most of the Darling
River towns, to say nothing of countless
villages, woolsheds, and wells; also, I
contend that it is better for the Railway
Commissioners to provide work for bolt-
makers at our ironworks than encourage the
sinful waste of timber, which only provides
feed for bush-fires to ruin our growing forests.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: As “ Wun-Hi ”
asserts that I am not a liar, and admits that he is
a liar, I am content to leave the controversy at
that.
* * * . *
“Garry”: !“ G. Mac’s” bridle-breaking
cure reminds me. This was my cocky’s plan to
cure a horse that would not pull. He would take
the beast down to the river, where it was narrow
but deep; stretch a rope from bank to bank, hook
the “jib” to one end, then get his favorite horse
Boxer on the opposite bank and hitch him to the
other end. The next move was to start Boxer,
and back would come the jibber until he dis-
appeared with a splash in the river. My cocky
would then,turn Boxer down stream, and tow the
other out. In this way he had cured dozens, he
said —used to buy them cheap, cure them, then
sell them as pullers. When I was with him he
brought home a splendid-looking horse, which in
harness refused to budge an inch. “ We’ll take
him to the river,” was all he said. He started
Boxer as usual; but when Boxer pulled the
other pulled harder, till Boxer landed in the
middle of the river. Then the trouble started,
for at this point the jibber stopped short and
would not pull Boxer out, and we had to manage
it somehow between us. We did it; but the
language haunts me still.
THE LOST ONE’S RETURN.
“ Why, look here, there’s yer brother Bill coming along that yer heard had pegged out up in
Queensland last year.”
“ Yes, that’s him all right. And he ain’t got that old kangaroo slut that he took away with
him. My word, but the old man’ll rouse if he’s lost her.”
Apropos of the renewed discussion con-
cerning the artesian water supply in Australia,
Dr. Jack, who was for years Queensland’s geolo-
gist, holds that the sponge-like rock that he
christened Blythesdale Braystone, is the absorbent
which maintains the supply. In all artesian
country, he says, there is such a source.
Taking that view of the origin of the underground
reservoirs, he regards it as highly improbable that
the stock will give out, unless rain leaves off fall-
ing as a permanent thing. In Cheshire (England),
where the artesian area is limited, it has been
found that the greatest flow is six months after
the heaviest rains, and that fact is one of the
pillars on which Jack built his comforting theory.
ALL OUT.
BATSMAN : “ I’m out.”
WICKET-KEEP (stopping it on the point): “ So
am I!”
“P. Winkle”: “J.G.”is quite correct
about Murray cod and perch being found in many
unlikely places since the big Campaspe flood in
September, ’O6 (B. 5/12/’O7). But what has this
t 0 do with the quick growth of our native fish
that run to size ? My experiences are based on
dams dug and filled from the Campaspe irrigation
channels. If “J.G.” knows anything about the
channel country, he must be aware that wherever
the channel crosses a road the inlets are covered
with wire netting, with an inch and a half (or
l ess ) mesh, to keep out the rabbits, so
sma ll fry (or ova) only can reach the
dams . Most of the tanks or dams on
Restdown are like sieves, and owing to the
eternal soakage have to be partially filled three
or four times a year. Now, there has been no flood
for 15 months, and the tanks I speak of as holding
fish have been dry for a spell since last Christmas
(’O6) owing to the channels being washed away by
the Campaspe September overflow. When the
channels started to run in July the dams were
filled, through the wire-netting meshes necessary
to exclude bunny—yet there are now decent fish
to be caught, and this is December !
—— 1 ;
A thoroughly Australian Christmas gift
for a friend abroad—a subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep vour friend
current with Australian life.
“ The Prooshan ” : I once struck an old
miner prospecting for a deep lead under the
basalt. He was 40ft. down, and had driven 70ft.
from that level without employing assistance. As
soon as his sft. x shaft reached the slinging
limit, he erected a platform of logs 4ft. high, put
on a windlass, and fixed a wooden shoot leading
from the edge of the hole, with side cleats to
keep the bucket from sliding down when tipped.
He fastened a short, light tail-rope to the hoisting
rope to avoid greasing that with mud at the
bottom. When his bucket was full, he pulled on
his “ endless belt ” rope, and up went the stuff,
and, adroitly swinging it out, he dumped it on to
the head of the shoot, then tipped it with ease,
and, reversing his pull, brought it back overhead
and down again for refilling, He shovelled the
tip out twice per day, lunch time and knock off
time. Some miners think it’s impossible to sink
a shaft on your own, but it can easily be done. A
winder is idle three-fifths of his time except in
soft country.
* * + *
“Agricola”: Re “Elmore’s” caterpillar
(B. 24/10/’O7). Instead of four bunches of yellow
flowers on its back, it has eight, and it is with
these that it does the mischief. So long as peace
reigns, the flowers lie flat, but when touched the
creeper raises them and jabs them into the in-
truder. In the bush the caterpillar is known as
the “ Spiteful Jack.” The smart from its sting
does not go away for about five days ; and always
becomes more painful after washing. Strange to
say, it cannot sting the palm of the hand, and I
have seen a child carrying seven of the brutes to
school in her bare hand. Yet these same stung
me on the back of the hand when I went to in-
vestigate. The Spiteful Jack is the larva of the
Mottled Cup moth, and its smooth, oval chrysalis
case, with a circular cap off the top, is exceedingly
common on the bark of the stringy-barks and
messmates.
* * * #
“Crow”: I was running a farm down
Gippsland way, and had an old mare (named
Bloss) within a week of foaling. One morning I
threw her a sheaf of hay, but she refused to eat,
which struck me as uncommon, she being usually
a mighty feeder before the Lord. I jumped at
the conclusion that she was pretty bad, and rode
into the township for the vet. He treated
the mare, and she seemed a bit easier. At
this stage, as we were watching Bloss, and just
intending to go in for a feed, about a dozen crows
flew down, and lobbed on the fence. I remarked
that they were the first lot of crows I had
seen for months. The horse-killer seemed to
like Bloss’ chances of recovery less when he saw
the crows. However, we went in and had a bit
of “scram,” and on returning found that Bloss
was the mother of a dead foal, and the crows were at
dinner. Now, how did the black flying prophets
know that Bloss would slip her foal ?
LAZY SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the summer-time, and now that summer’s on the
spot
It’s up to us to speak of how “ the weather’s gettin’ hot,
And, on the windy, dusty days, to curse the breeze from
Bourke,
And ponder (over beer) new ways for dodging summer
work.
This is the summer-time wherein strangle Sunday fish are
caught
In quantities, by men of sin —when boating-beer is bought
On Saturday, at eventide, by people who appear
To think the fisher-fates deride the man who brings no
beer.
Quite so ! And, summer nights, it is the thing for us to go
And watch the breakers foam and fizz all round the girls
we know ;
To see cool symmetry afloat among’ the crimson weeds,
And watch pink, paddling toes, and note white knees
across white steeds
That race along the sunset wastes of ocean. Here’s the
clime
In which the torrid thirster hastes in droves to “see tha
time ”
Between the acts ; who comes in late, chewed cloves
upon his tongue,
And leaves, betimes, to seize his plate of bivalves while
they’re young.
Here is the summer-time, all hot; and we are heated, too.
It’s pleasant, now, to find a spot beneath the staring blue,
Wherein to spend an hour ill thought, and where the
distant swarm
Of grubbing bustlers matters naught; where beer is not too
w’arm ;
And where stacked ice in mighty blocks salutes the
thirsty stare
Of men who chase the beer that mocks, in sleevers rich
and rare.
Yes, now’s the summer-time, red-hot, when Brown and
Johnson lurk
Behind long beers, to hatch a plot for dodging summer
work.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.J.E. : “Tryst” is a ghostly thing without
the ghost. If you had floated a dead girl in your “ pool,”
and put an owl in your “ pine tree,” and planted a star-
ing assassin on the water frontage, and dropped a wasted
heath and a spectre in the background, and then sort of
rushed around and raised Gehenna, it might possibly
have passed muster. Still we get much worse stuff than
yours Jobber : Curse received in good order and boil-
ing side up Nancy S. : “Vandal” horribly conven-
tional—T. Melb.: “ Mission ” runs on very ordinary lines.
Not a spaik of inspiration in it W.J.F.: Wouldn’t
recommend that nostrum at all F.B. : A bit of your
poem herewith .
When called New South Welshmen or Victorians just
simply say you lie
Australia one in Unity is now our Battle Cry.
Aunt Matilda: Not bright enough Bill S •
Materials for a sketch; but not well handled Satur-
day :Go ahead. This first attempt would have got in if
it hadn’t left a bit too much to the imagination of the
reader....Chiniquy: The good man has bad his seud-olf
already Fred A. : Tub Bulletin believes in peace, cer-
tainly ; but it has no illusions that the way to peace’is to
be timorous and undefended... A.M.M.: That baby-show
joke, which you “ actually overheard ” m Maoriland, was
made and reported weeks ago in Melbourne TeuaKoe:
This paper never said that a shark always turned on its
back for lunch, so it takes no interest in your frantic
disclaimer..... id. I. : “ Cricket ” not very novel.. ..Henry :
Don’t think much of your Limericks, or anybody's....'
Kay X. : Your gohanna is quite an ordinary, everyday
gohanna. Most gohannas do that sort of thing now and
again. The gohanna that does that sort of thing sells at
two for threepence Mineas : Poem about the bashing
of the dead boues doesn’t appeal to us. The preservation
of old bones is unhealthy. Other verses hardly up
Fran Agher: Too crude, but has streaks of originality.!.'
Autumn Leaves : Hopeless. Approaches the iuiotic. Fit
for Familv Herald A.J.M. : Just failed F. Wal-
ford : Good idea poorly expressed Punter: We punted
it The Buccaneer: If it were all up to your last verse 1
Blackboy ; One may, t’other mayn’t Bougie:
You’re right:
And who can blame the troubled bard
If he forsakes poor poesy
And prospers writing ads. for tea ?
We don’t blame you Nomad : Onealmost sneaked in
it was so nicely typewritten Dux :It may console you
to learn that you are in good company. The basket is
rather like Hell —good fellows in both. We don’t print
everything by the contributors you name. It depends
upon the work, not the name. Often we stretch a point
in favor of a new contributor who looks promising, in the
hope that he will become more promising—so you ready
have a better chance than our most aged contributor.
But his stuff is usually good; your sample isn’t
Weroona: Good; but not in The Bulletin’s line...!!
McTwitter: Rabbit, pursued by your doggerel, ran for
cover —and found it Yeoman: Sydney and Melbourne
already have the National Defence League, with an
energetic monthly paper, The Call ; hon. secs., Colonel
Campbell and Hughes, M.H.K The Friar : Thanks.
Rev. Beale and Oarruthers are hideous anomalies as Aus-
tralians ; but the type grows mercifully rare Goolwa :
Yarn re female who rang up Mr. (Christian name
Jack) to explain that she and “ the child” had left home
for good, unsuitable. It’s too obscure. Can’t even
gather, failing personal inspection of the female, whether
the happening constitutes a tragedy or otherwise....
J.H. : (1) A paper must expect to be “had” that way
now and again. (2) Would advise you to see some Mel-
bourne publishers re cost of binding. It should cost you
about 7s. Lid. per half-yearly volume— i.e., 30s. for the
two years Thwack: Can supply from 1890 at Is. per
copy, post free T. : Your theory that many great
batsmen who play right-handed to-day are really left-
handers (and vice versa) wrings no word of approval from
our sporting editor. Further opinion, that “ the only
weapon a man swings naturally ” is an axe, and that all
cricketers should therefore take to axeiug forthwith as a
means of discovering the best way to bat, moves him to
mild derision. Figure to yourself Mister A. O. Jones
swinging an axe A.T. : Hopeless W.E.G. : Some of
your rhymes are wonderful—“signs” and “minds,”
“designs” and “chime” are beautiful samples....
Brooklet : “ Farewell ” only remarkable because there is
a stile in place of the familiar sliprails Mat Clay-
stopper : Most ordinary tale Stranger : All the curses
of Shimei, the son of Gera, who cursed David just after
Mephiboshetb’s flunkey had sent him the bottle of wine
upon the ass, wouldn’t fully describe your “ p0em.”....
W.E.G.: “Sydney Harbor ” hasn’t a show Orthos : A
supremely incomprehensible yarn, and the constant allu-
sions to “ the bos ” grow' wearisome. Why not vary the
spelling now and then V... .Tenax : “ Jacky’s Heiress ”is
one more version of an oft-told tale... .Nico : Idea good ;
treatment as flat as the beer of yesterday... .Slowheart:
Poem too rapturous, too giddy, and too naked.... C.E.D.:
Plain rot Jack H. : “Jerry” is a very faint imitation
of G. R. Sims Hobbes: Triolet good; address too
vague and illegible for remittance purposes.. ..Reklaw:
Whisky poem ambles all over the shop....M.K. : Not
much point in the tale of the publican’s wife whose kiddy
died W.P.: “ Light Verse ” too light and too darned
foolish C.K.: Regret to say “Philosophy” was
slaughtered Alon G. : Delicate little love songs
without much meat on them By Gum : Too subtle
and mysterious Glenelg: Story of Frederick, the
Dog, spoiled by too much detail about what
Frederick had been eating. Still, there are points
about Frederick, the Dog Charles E. : Don’t see any-
thing wildly humorous about Maori race-meeting advt.
Do you? R.S.R. : “The End” is a struggle with a
theological question which is better left alone. No one
gets much forrarder on that question.... Monaro: It is an
utter, complete, hopeless, shameless, shocking, lying
fraud and swindle. Also, it is a falsehood, a take-in, a
confidence trick and an invention of the Devil... .Orion :
Just below the mark F.D.: Good subject; treatment
artificial Motor: “ Memory " won’t go ; considering
other R.M. : Can’t afford space to refer to pars. here.
If good enough they are printed and paid for; same with
“joke” suggestion for pictures J.P. : Dumped
accordingly; but there are lots worse Cashmore:
“ Matilda ”is too wobbly ; “Sacerdotalism” better, but
not better enough J.B. : Can’t trace the joke about
a man eating peas. If it was like this other
one it was probably sent out for fumigation....
H.A.D.E.: Poem demanding to know" What is Religion ”
opens too large a question Nugget: Your “Gundy"
explanation the worst up to date. Jokes not much g00d...
Stan : Rather rough and scratchy Whiskers : Yes, it’s
old enough to grow them ....“Sr”: A sad story, yours,
of the scurvy treatment meted out to you at the Mayoral
ball, because you attended with a hole in the seat of
your trousers Unsuitable: A. M. Stafford, Woori or
Koori or Houri, A. Lyon, R. Lambert, H.G., Hasahgn,
W.E.S., Cymru, Biljon, J.A.D., Frances, W.J., Nil, Trix,
The Bub, C. 8., Higginson, A. 0.8., Dashwood.


'ife 'fauclf
Jirvy
AV
A tivfa
Vi rrttrfev*.
% k A>|„y
HeJ*y fot. .
Qu*.cK ? .„
' jsj© [ 60W-WOW'
itlTcess
■ -
E'ten l{« I\llef
We II !
✓AWV-
Ah H?f> «" Jo]?
Ne»ry c.Ubf>«<*
>*o c&rsg*>®- |> csc^j»e.,
AUSTRASIA, — (The jim-jams of a China-roving Gumsucker.)


A Peace Society has been organised
in Australia, and religious bodies are
Invited to co-operate and hold “ Peace
Services."
than the Arch Enemy of Peace imme-
diately sets about fabricating some
particularly prayer-proof armor.
THE OLD STORY.
No sooner does My Lord the Bishop
Invent a specially potent prayer against
the enemies of Peace
All the same, the Newly-Awakened
Dark Person is here taking a pot-shot
at the dove.
Han of Peace (to man leaning on the
post) : •* You have no arms, young
man; don't you think you’d lean
more comfortably if you took off that
uniform as well ?”
THE DAN BEHIND THE (QUAKER.)
GUN.
THE DOGS OF WAR.
B thine enemy black one of thine
eyes ask him gently to “do” the
other, for the sake of uniformity.
Mrs. Cof. Snags by, to Col. Snagsby
(hero of a thousand paradesy. •* Now
then, leave off Chose gewgaws and
that bloodthirsty aspect, and come
with me to the Peace Society meet-
ing.”
Maxim of the Peace Society : Trust
In Providence and keep your powder
. moist..
PEACE—BLESSED PEACE.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming: Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
The holiday spirit, which is now making
its annual reappearance, is supported, as chief
mirth-maker, by D.C.L. whisky, a beverage
whose part is always that of making glad the
heart of man. Indeed, D.C.L. is the holiday
spirit, because the best inspirer of that wisdom
which is a guarantee of perennial cheerfulness.*
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm promptly applied
to a cut or bruise prevents blood poisoning. It is
an antiseptic, and assists such injuries to heal in
one-third of the time usually required, and with-
out maturation.*
The Ardath Tobacco Company, London, has
just placed on the market a new smoking mixture, The
Ardath Special, which is up to the fine reputation the
Ardath Company has won with its “ State Express ”
cigarettes and other specialties.*
hose’s
CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
Is the National Remedy for Sandy
Blight, Swelling Blight, Inflamed Eyes
and Eyelids. It gives strength to weak
eyes and rest to the tired.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
may be used at all times by old
and young with benefit.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally, send postal
note for 1/9 for a bottle, to the Sole Pro-
prietors and Manufacturers;
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
S 3! GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. .
Ask for Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
and refuse all substitutes and imitations.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Bulletin is informed that the late
Mr. Henry Clarke paid over the Hoskins legacy
(of which he was trustee) to Mr. Hoskins’ son
within a few months of his (Mr. Clarke’s) death.
Joey Carruthers, ex-Premier of N.S.W.
(who, by the way, is becoming something sizeable
among squatters), will reach his half-century on
the 21st.
Theodore Francis Bevan, who took the
home trail from North Sydney recently, aged 47,
spent part of his life blazing the White Man’s
track in Papua, and in 1887 discovered two
rivers, the Aird and the Purari, the latter being
the second largest trickle in the Possession. His
book, “Toil, Travel and Discovery in British
New Guinea,” tells much of what he saw in that
yammy country.
PAINTING IT RED.
Lieutenant Shackleton said that lie spoke in no spirit of
Jingoism when he said that if they could even put a
little more red on the map, if they could paint a little
bit redder this small globe of ours, the Antarctic
expedition would not have been in vain.— Sydney
TELEGRAPH.
The start of the Wallace money, now
being poured out in Costs, was in a Victorian gold-
fields grog-shop, in the roaring ’fifties. “Johnny”
coined £l2O a day, it is said, for one pretty long
spell.
During the 12 days that 40 South Austra-
lian legislators (including three Ministers) spent
sailing in gladsome fashion down the Murray in
the steamer Trafalgar, only five bottles of whisky
were consumed on board the vessel, and there
were no other intoxicants carried. A large pro-
portion of the Parliamentary party were Metho-
dist local preachers, like Price, and nearly all the
Labor members are teetotallers.
Robert Laidlaw, a Victorian pioneer dating
from 1839, died at Heidelberg, last week, aged
over 91 years. He was Scotch, and was all his life
on the land. His first venture was a squattage at
Boroondara ; he bought the land for £2O, and the
sheep thereon for 365. per head. The progeny of
the sheep he sold later on at'4s. fid. each.
Vere Goold, the Monte Carlo murderer,
seems to have had a passion for order. To this
craving he set down the mutilation of Mrs.
Levin’s body. The remains, said the neat and
tidy Thug (what a title for a poem, by the way—
“ The Tidy Thug ” !), looked confused and irregu-
lar in the box, and he cut them up to make them
more uniform and symmetrical.
Frederick Lassetter, of the Sydney uni-
versal providery, entered upon his 79th year on
Friday. He came to Sydney with his parents in
1832, then went to Tasmania, then across to Mel-
bourne, where he entered the office of William
Easy, an early-day auctioneer. He married a
daughter of Lancelot Iredale, an ironmonger who
had established himself in Sydney in 1820 ; and
after that he “bogged in ” commercially and grew
to greatness.
Died last month at Craigie (N.S.W.),
.T. Gr. Gough, whom J. C. Watson ousted from the
Young seat in 1894. Gough entered Parliament
in 1889, and was re-elected as a member of the
first N.S.W. Labor Party in 1891, but his refusal
to sign the Party’s pledge in ’94 brought Watson
into the field against him as the official candidate.
Gough was a builder and contractor by trade,
but was reckoned to know as much as the average
about mining, and did a lot in that line.
Bruce Smith and Janet Mrs. Clarke and
the other people who reckon that the North is
only really habitable by Chunder Ram and Co.,
and that the white person up there can’t be ex-
pected to do anything more energetic than fan
himself, ought to have been in Brisbane while the
Englishmen were playing cricket, so that they
could have seen Hutchings. Fresh from the Kent
hop-fields, he batted vigorously for over an hour
in each innings. And he did it bare-headed,
though the sun was streaming down in its best
Brisbane manner.
Man that is born of woman never looks
much more ridiculous than when his pet name is
read out in court during the divorce proceedings.
In the course of the Wallace divorce case in Mel-
bourne it transpired that some of the men who
foregathered at “Novar,” answered to the pet
designations of “Sossa,” “Fatty,” “Bunny,”
“Viv,”and “Jam-pot.” When a man begins to
answer to the name of “Jam-pot,” there is only one
lower depth—he might be called “Towzer,” and
get the bone on the mat. By the way, in every
divorce suit of any note in Australia there is men-
tioned someone named “ Bunny.” Why ?
“ Auld Lang Syne” : Fifty years ago a
Rev. John Reid thumped the pulpit cushion of
the Presbyterian Church in Elm-street, Hotham
(Melbourne). The shepherd, after a long time of
vacillating conduct,
'gave such offence to
his hearers that they
adopted the extreme
measure of locking him
out. The holy battler
was not dispirited. He
rented a disused hay
and corn store at the
corner of Queensberry
and Errol streets,
Hotham, and went on
grind i ng out th e blessed
Word as before. After
some months’ strenu-
ous endeavor, he found
that the nimble three-
penny bit did not fall
into the plate in suffi-
cient quantity to pay
exes, so he renounced
Presbyterianism to be-
come a Congregational
pastor in Sydney. The
Lord gave him two
sons. One of them,
George, has always
ignored his days in
Hotham, and affects to
have forgotten that he
passed through the
doors of the North Mel-
bourne Grammar School
many times before he
proceeded to the Scotch
College to finish his edu-
cation. The writer won-
ders if the Hon. George
recollects playing the
truant from Hotham
school, and going to the
Saltwater River to
bathe. Probably the
sole of his foot still bears
the trace of a scar left
by a broken bottle at
the back of the old
grand stand on the Flem-
ington course.
Auctioneers are getting a mortgage over
tbe Mayor’s cupboard in Adelaide. T. Bruce has
been followed by Frank Johnson, the talky
Adelaide-born son of an old Parliamentarian.
Ihe new man has to call in a married sister to say
the nice things at the Mayoress’s end of the table.
Ihe McArthurs, whose big “reconstruc-
tion ” is a bitter Christmas pill to a lot of people,
hawe for years tried to mix softgoods and politics.
Vy A., born in Sydney 50 years ago, is pretty
high up in the Liberal party in England, and was
-J umor Lord of the Treasury from 1892 to 1895.
His father, Alexander, was in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, and afterwards member for Leicester in the
Commons. McMillan, the best known of the
directors in Australia, is a nephew of Alexander’s.
Parkes made him Treasurer.
Wi Pere, who for years represented a
Maori constituency, got tossed out of his seat in
Maoriland Parliament at last elections by a young
Maori B. A. Wi was a fightable old rangatira. He
once smote the nose of an interpreter for refusing
to interpret some unpolished words to the
House, and, when pulled up by the Speaker,
threatened to call out the militia. But he
is a shaky old man now, and has lost his sting.
Lately they lifted him up to the Legislative
Council. But since that he has made only one
little speech, protesting that he couldn’t fight
among the lords. And as he couldn’t fight he
sat down and went to sleep.
PROOF POSITIVE.
“ Pat, I’m surprised to see you knock a man down like that.”
“ Well, yer Rircrence, ’e called me a loiar, and, begobs, I made 'im prove it!”
George Yesey Allen is back in Sydney,
as manager of a team of Fijian cricketers this
time. Allen is putting up a record. First he
was known to the public as Secretary to the Royal
Commission on Railway Commissioner Eddy.
Later he was appointed to the N.S.W. Public
Service as shorthand writer, which job he threw
up after a year or two. The conventions of the
official grind annoyed Allen. Later still, he was
Secretary to the Bendigo Jubilee Exhibition.
Between times he has faced many troubles, and
either beaten or bluffed them all.
The public can tell now why William
M'Millan, Parkea’s Heaven-born financier, left
politics. M'Millan’s firm—W. and A. M‘Arthur,
Ltd. —had an “ ordinary ” capital of £160,000 and
a “preference” capital of £175,000. The co. left
off paying “ordinary” dividends in 1903, and,
on account of a number of ghastly investments, it
is now admitted that the whole of the ordinary
capital is lost, and will have to be wiped clean
out, while 7s. 6d. in the £ of the preference
capital will have to go the same way, and
various creditors will need to take shares to see
the thing through. And William M‘Millan (who
would now have a lot more sympathy if he had
been a lot less bumptious) belonged to the party
whose chief shriek is that Private Enterprise
can always do the thing better !
One of an ancient name out Leichhardt
(N.S.W.) way died with the month—George
William Hearn, aged 56 years. The original
Abraham Hearn, who lies ballasted with a sub-
stantial monument in Ashfield cometery, came to
N.S.W. from Gloucestershire in 1790. He settled
on a farm at Camden, and afterwards kept the
Spread Eagle Inn on Brickfield Hill. Afterwards
he bought land from Captain Piper on the Parra-
matta-road, and built the Australian Hotel in
1831. He was a witness in the famous Newtown
ejectment case. In 1849, a younger Hearn took
over the business and called the inn the Bald
Faced Stag, by which name it is still known,
and going strong. It is marvellous how the old
pioneers ran to pubs. It is hardly possible to
reminisce over one of them without mentioning
which hotel he opened, and which other hotel he
moved to later on.
“ S.S.” meets an agitator :
The red ties flocked in thousands to give Keir Hardie a
reception when he arrived at Spencer-street, Melbourne.
Red ties, red badges, and red neckerchiefs were very
much in evidence. Then Hardie stepped out of the
carriage, looking not a bit like the frenzied iconoclast,
but very like a Wimmera farmer down for Christmas,
and a gasp of disappointment went up from the
multitude. “ Whj', ’e ain’t got a red tie!” snorted
a disgusted gentleman on my right. Hardie was
not sporting the red badge of courage, and I fancy
he slumped in popular estimation as a result of
his shameful neglect. There was a curiously vague con-
ception of the stranger’s mission abroad among his ad-
mirers. I asked people why he had come to Australia, and
the answer was “He’ll show ’em!” or words to that
effect. Nobody knew what Hardie was going to show, or
whom he was about to show it to, but the opinion was
that the operation would be very beneficial to the work-
ing man. For my part, I welcome the Tilletts and
Manns and Hardies, since close investigation destrovsthe
Australian’s meek faith in the man from a far land, as
against the local product.
Charles Rasp, the discoverer of Broken
Hill, died a few weeks ago ; and George
McCulloch, who got the biggest bite of the new
find, has now followed. Rasp was boundary
rider on Mt. Gipps station; McCulloch was the
manager, and as one member after another of the
little syndicate took his profit, McCulloch bought
the shares. Then he became an absentee and a
big-pursed patron of Art—about the last thing
that would have been expected of him. Still,
though he was an absentee, he had some virtues :
knowing what a God-forgotten place Broken Hill
was, and how deadly lead-mining is, he helped
the Broken Hill hospital pretty liberally, and gave
Broken Hill’s little art-gallery a good start.
There are others—jackeroo Philip Charley and
tank-sinker David James, for instance who
apparently haven’t given a thought to the people
who swallow dust and tear out the metal.
Died the other day in a rabbit-burrow, at
Moonta (S.A.), William Thomas, aged 19. With
that red haste which is twin sister to delay William
crawled into a large burrow to fish out the rabbit
and thus save digging. He stuck ; he struggled ;
the burrow fell in ; and that ended the story.
Old John Brown is dead at last. He was
an ex-navy man, and 19 years ago entered Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) Asylum. He said he was born at
Canterbury (Eng.) in 1787. For several years he
lay on his bed in the asylum, unable to move,
speak or hear—or to die. His personal reminis-
cences, when he was able to reminisce, and his
huge stature impressed the asylum authorities
favorably in regard to his alleged age. A hunt at
Canterbury for his birth records was unsuccessful l
still birth records weren’t so methodically com-
piled 120 years ago as they are now; and, anyhow,
a lot of things might happen to the best of records
in 120 years.
Lionel Terry, who emphasised his dislike
of Ah Sin by shooting one of him in Wellington
some time back, announced that he would like a
“fortnight’s change” from the asylum, and faded
into the greyness of Central Otago. As he was
hatless and shod with sandals, his recapture
within a day or so was predicted confidently, and
the Dunedin detectives chartered a motor car with
light hearts ; but for quite a heap of weeks the car
continued to go to and fro over the earth in search
of clues. An enterprising firm seized a cheap
advertisement by exhibiting three pictures exe-
cuted by Terry while in Seacliffe asylum ; but this
enterprise was sternly checked by the medical
superintendent, who demanded the instant with-
drawal of the works of art. The doctor also wrote
to the local press that his late charge was a
courteous and talented gentleman, and that
dwellers who might observe a stately figure in
undress uniform bearing down on them need be
under no apprehension.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
An ancient Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) native, Edward
Parnell, died at Newcastle last week, aged S 4 years. He
was born at Richmond in 1823, and when a very young
man went to the Narnoi River district and settled upon
the station of his father, near Gunnedah. He afterwards
located in the Hunter district. In 1867 he took up Ids
residence in Newcastle, and resided there ever afterwards.
The first Parnell of whom we have note was a somewhat
historic character. About the year 1810 Daniel Parnell
wrote a respectful letter to Secretary Campbell, asking
him to obtain permission from Governor Macquarie to
establish a theatre. On Macquarie’s arrival Daniel was in
very poor circumstances, and was anxious to get up “a
theatrical temporary display,” which might lift him out
of his difficulties. Governor Bligh had authorised the
erection of a theatre, but the change of Government
consequent on the Rum Revolution put an end
to the speculation. Parnell winds up his letter to
Campbell with: “ I feel some assurance that your
acquaintance with the Muses will befriend at so critical a
juncture, by a representation to his Excellency favorable
to my application, confident as you may be in the assur-
ance that regularity and good order shall be the premier
objects of attention with Sir, etc., Dan'l Parnell.” The
application was evidently not granted, as permission to
build a permanent theatre was not obtained until
Governor Bourke’s time. So presumably “ Dan’l Parnell ”
remained buried in his difficulties. *
DITTYFUL BENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing hey ! The political, dittyful Bent!
He’s huge and audacious,
He’s fairly pugnacious,
He’s full of a bluster that must have a vent;
For men’s merriment
He was funnily blent,
And vvas put on the throne as a Ruler, was Bent.
He’s full to his wonderful, thunderful brim
Of stories eternal,
Of humor infernal,
And sometimes he’ll cheerfully chant you a hymn ;
He’s burly of limb,
He’ll fight with a vim,
And he’s full up of biz to his wonderful brim.
He treads in his lumbersome, cumbersome way
In places forbidden,
And, though he be chidden,
He’ll always come up again, smiling and gay ;
In work or in play
He’s a beggar to stay,
And he’s got a good grip in his cumbersome way.
We smile at political, dittyful Bent—
But, rowdy or ruly,
He manages duly,
And cannilv minds how the money is spent;
And this ballad is meant
With a kindly intent—
For the land has done roorse than with, dittyful Bent !
QUEENSLAND.
A BENTITE.


i
smut
■ V .
L
•v
I
Q
/
I
;rs
V-/
£§2
u
u
o
O
b/
1
l
a
u
j
WfLUiOoNftui*
«
What’s the score ?
lO for 6 pence, CAMEO CIGARETTES.
99


DRINK THE WINE
OF BEST REPUTE.
CHARLES HEIDSIECK'S
CHAMPAGNE
Has the KING'S ROYAL WARRANT
and is supplied to all the
PRINCIPAL EUROPEAN COURTS.
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
A*
Wholesale
for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson
&Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
The [one Hand
We want you to keep your eyes open for the
January Lone Hand.
It’s going to be published on Christmas Eve ?
so that it will be available to cheer your holiday
trip.
It’s going to be extra bright and interesting, so
that you will think The Lone Hand monev the
very best shilling you spent this year
Watch for it Christmas Eve!
pElHIEfISl
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
A little lady you all know in this city was
once very unhappy. Everyone wondered why.
She had money—piles of it—a figure that men
used to fairly rave about—hosts of admirers—in
fact, was quite ripping. Only her complexion 1
Blotchy and rough, tanned by the sun—it was
wretched. That was her sorrow. Then a change
came about—everyone noticed it. Her skin lost
all its blemishes —it became soft, and smooth, and
beautiful, with that clear satiny look you see in
the skins of little girlies. And the lady is no
longer sad. She is the admired of all. Would
you like to know how the change was brought
about. Listen, while I whisper it. Valaze.
That’s all. Valaze. Has the little fable any
meaning to you ?* 1
Young Australia expects to receive presents at
•this time of year, and it is just as well to know where to
get the very, thing he wants. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd.,
393 George-stree't, Sydney, is the right address for all
sorts of mechanical toys.*
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King- and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 17, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
N.S.W. has known two great A.D.C’s.—Wal-
lington and Wilson—and of these the greater is
Wilson, who shortly leaves us. Does the average
onlooker realise all the qualities of tact, good-
humor, memory, firmness, tolerance, and high
diplomacy requisite for success at this invidious
job ? There are, roughly, 5000 people who go to
State Government House. Of these the ones
with sufficient sense not to expect the A.D.C.,
who has seen them once, to remember
them for ever after are in the minority.
No human being does, can, or wants to remember
any fair proportion of a crowd of 5000. It is part
of Wilson’s genius that he creates the illusion of
knowing everybody, and of hankering for a sight
of each fresh face that confronts him. This sort
of thing carries its own punishment often enough;
hostesses struggle for so amiable a young man,
and when they can’t get him (which happens
often enough, since there’s a limit even to an
A.D.C.’s capacity for being entertained) tend to
grow acid. But somehow no one grows acid
in connection with Wilson. He is that
marvel, an attractive man whose name
has never been connected with that of any local
female person, a D. 8.0. (and you wouldn’t know
from him that he’d ever smelt powder), a success-
ful organiser, actor, polite-letter-writer, and a
score of other things. In fact, he’s a prodigy, and
why he ever descended to A.D.0.-ing is one of
the mysteries of this hemisphere. Wallington
was a genius at his job of leading Governors by
the nose, and putting bits into the mouths of the
Buster-Crosses of Australian Society and then
driving them as he pleased. But his talent for
not seeing people of no importance or bank balance,
no matter how well he knew them, amounted to
so much genius that very few cared how soon he got
off the Southern Cross'premises. Besides, he looked
as if he had citric juice in his arteries instead of
blood, and the 4500 persons whom he never could
remember were always telling one another that
he had proposed eighteen times to a certain
millionairess.
The conclusion of the Wallace case will remove
a lowering cloud from the lives of many gay
young men hereabouts. This has been a drear time
when none knew what the evening paper (late
edition) might bring forth. A number of maidens
have made it their heartless practice latterly to gaze
with sympathy at their dinner or theatre partners
and ask in the hushed tone adopted in houses over
which the shadow broods, “ Hare you seen the
Evening Herald?” As who should say, “The
worst has occurred. Is it going to be rat-bane or
the harbor ? ” It was impossible for the man to ask
the girl if any terrible suspicion had at last fallen
upon him ; nor could he leave her right there, and
flee with a disordered visage to the nearest news-
agent and buy a paper regardless of cost. So he
could only sit and speculate miserably upon what
might be, and when, later on, he found that it
wasn’t, he would gladly have slain that girl till she
was quite dead.
Mr. Cricketer Braund must be gnashing his
teeth these test-match day 3. Either that or he
must be icily philosophical. When he goes out
to take his share in the cricket battle half a
thousand raucous young male voices are raised in
cries of “O, Len, dear, how’s Kiddie?” or
“Heard from her lately, Len?” “Boys,” as
Carlyle remarked, “ought to be brought up
underground.”
If the South Pole isn’t nailed down with a
million walrus teeth, I believe the new Antarctic
expedition will catch it. Talk about speed—why,
the Nimrod hadn’t been tied up much more than
24 hours to a Maoriland port before one of its
chief officers had pursued an auburn-haired local
product to the proposal point and persuaded her to
say “ Yes,” or else “ Yairs,” or perhaps “Yep.”
James Edmond, from Lake Te Anau (Maori-
land) —a belated contribution :
Te Anau.
This a land of calm.
Its peace suggests some old, slow, droning psalm.
There is no tram-car screeching on the shore.
No motor fiend is reaching for your gore.
The bobby passes not with heavy tread,
In boots that are enough to wake the dead.
’Tis the abode of peace,
Like places that we read about in Greece.
The people here dwell twenty miles asunder.
No newsboy rouses them to sudden wonder.
Nor wakes the slumbering echoes with a yell
About a Horrid Tale he has to sell.
There is no smell of Beer
In all the long-drawn aisles of leafage here,
And here the mountain tops are very tall,
And the sandfly is numerous and small.
It seemeth to be mostly afternoon,
Or the white hills are reaching for the moon,
Or else the bright red morning sun gets up,
And he whose horse has lost the Melbourne Cup
Behold, his language isn’t half so red
As that same sunrise. Here the winds are dead,
And yet the forest is a living thing,
And birds make all its deep recesses ring.
Just now and then the boat
Creeps in like a soft-footed ghost afloat.
There is no Care
In all these leagues of verdure rich and rare ;
And Worry has gone overboard and drowned ;
And Woe is lost, and shall no more be found.
Therefore, we’d settle down and be at peace,
As folks once did in storied isles of Greece,
Only we miss the papers and the cars,
And sometimes we grow weary of the stars ;
There is no tragedy to talk about.
We also miss our Great Australian Drought.
We cannot stay,
Because we are just ordinary clay.
We haven’t been supplied with sets of wings ;
We’re fitted for plain, ordinary things.
Therefore we scoot from Paradise amain,
And never hitherward shall come again ;
And yet the land is the abode of peace,
Like isles where Byron once got drunk in Greece.
Miss Ola Jane Humphrey was the fixed star in
the audience at Melba’s first concert. In her
recent flight through Paris and New York she
paused long enough to collect some frock works
of art. One was an inspiration in apricot and
coral, with an overdress of white net embroidered
with big poppies and convolvuli in mother of
pearl, fish scales and silver. Her kimona was
black, with gold embroidery and tassels, and her
sportive hair sported amber combs and a white
waving fore-limb of some bird. A revelation in the
way of motor costumes is her skirt and Norfolk
blouse of golden brown kid. Every inch of it is kid
—beautiful fawn baby-goat. With cap and long
boots of the same little billee or nanny, Ola Jane
used to let tidal waves, and suchlike wet circum-
stances, wash over her on the voyage down here.
In reply to the inevitable and profoundly
idiotic question, “Are you glad to be back?”
said Ola Jane : “Why, certainly, I ought to be,
but I’m not sure yet. You see, I left here only
eight months ago, and thought I might come back
in about eight years—if ever. But I feel as
if I’d been bounced back, and so quickly,
that I’ve got a little concussion of the brain.
There were alarms and excursions by speech and
wire and letter with Mr. Williamson ; I, hedging
and dodging from a verbal promise, because a
foreign aunt of mine, with a villa outside Paris,
had offered me a sparkler of a time, with inter-
ludes of rest at Nice and Monte Carlo and by the
Seine itself, and I really badly wanted to rest and
sparkle. Besides, there was the motherling in
New York —I had only a week with her on my
way here. A sudden sally on the part of Mr. Wil-
liamson, at Marienbad, caught me in Paris, when
his wifeand I were at dinner at Mr. Frank Gardner’s.
Say—l’ve seen millionaire and billionaire homes
in N’York and London, but never one so artistic
as Mr. Gardner’s. Why, Honey, he’s got pictures
and marbles and tapestries and ivories whose
namesarekept onfile in the Public Library archives
as if they were the treaties of the Great Powers !
And, unlike other of my countrymen collectors,
you can see he owns them—they don’t own him.
“ The Paris hats ? Well, Honey, this is one—
yes, you are right even if you are horrid. It
is a murderous assault on the whole scheme of
harmonious coloring.”
The huge hat was covered, crown and brim,
with flowers and foliage. A crimson hibiscus lay
prone against a pink rose, a gentian blue trail of
florality trespassed with violence on premises
occupied by a bed of mauve daisies. The artiste
looked meditatively at the millinery transgression,
and then headed into another huge circle of
velvet, with weeping willow feathers of marabout
and heron, and not weighing more than five
pounds. “Mauves and purples are my favorite.
Did you see that someone called the violet frock
I landed in ‘my astral shade’ ? They—no I don’t
mean the Fates when I say they—are wearing
high-necked gowns with the tight-fitting empire
backs and the indeterminate waist line. You
must have a figure like a boy, you must not pull
in your corsets ! If you do They will say you are
only a slug or a chrysalis, or something that isn’t
finished off perfectly.
“ My costumes in ‘ The Scarlet Pimpernel ’ are
not so very unlike the fashions of now. They
follow those worn through the book by Lady
Blakeney—the big hat with the waving plumes,
and the blue velvet robe, and the tall stick with
the bunch of ribbons. Then there’s the opera
gown, the short-waisted, classical thing, covered
with gold embroidery and the spray of scarlet
pimpernel in the hair. No, I won’t say ‘Lud
love you, sir,’ ‘odds fish,’ and ‘gadzooks.’ Mr.
Knight uses all the mild early eighteenth-century
swears that have to be sworn. I hope Sydney
will like me as Marguerite. Say, Honey, if you
don’t like me in it, don’t pretend to be dead, so’s
to be carried out. Isn’t that what Nero’s audi-
ence used to do when he sang on the stage ? He
sang so badly.”
Diabolo is beginning to wind its tentacles
around Sydney. One of the young Stephen boys
has put up a record of 750. But the demon won’t
cast out the Bridge devil—at least, not till Sydney
is cooler. A model form in a current fashion
paper proves the diabolo craze. Its braiding ex-
ploits the string, spools and sticks used in the
game.
Mrs. Charles Bright, widow of the well-known
journalist, has a book on the market, “A Soul’s
Pilgrimage,” which sounds good, though tired.
The will of the late Mitchell of the library
gives to his cousin, Miss Hose Scott, £5OOO. His
sister, Mrs. Merewether, who has a quiverful of
grown-up children and a large bank-balance, is,
after the Library, the largest inheritor. Mr.
Mitchell was always good-humoredly unsym-
pathetic towards Miss Scott’s connection with the
advanced women’s movements.
In this hot-bran-mash weather, when any exer-
tion save lifting a glass of iced lemonade is
anathema, working for a charity will be
counted trebly for righteousness. At Rand wick
Town Hall, last week, Mrs. Rutter arranged a
juvenile matinee in aid of Mrs. Allen Taylor’s
Thirlmere Home Fund. A feminine house (nary
a man) greeted the youthful performers. Miss
May Summerbelle had roped in Miss Linda Davis
and Miss Curphey, from the Tivoli, and the two
skilled ones put the high lights on the perform-
ance.
Miss Chandos-Pole (doesn’t she call it Shandy-
Poole?), who was here visiting the Northcotes
a while ago, is again in Australia. A niece of
hers —an outside-size, goddess-like young party,
Mrs. Sitwell by name—is stagnating on the Blue
Mountains.
A note from London says that Mr. B. R. Wise
is about again in good form, and he attributes his
second wind to his wife’s good nursing.
Mrs. Baker, a daughter of a well-known Maori-
lander, one-time Premier Whittaker, got into
Sydney by the Omrah on Saturday. Another
ex-Maorilander, MissMinnett, one of the smartest
frocked exiles resident in Melbourne, is in Sydney
for the Connell-Mitchell double wedding, when
two squatter brothers marry twin sisters.
Two very old families were united on December
5, when Olendon, eldest son of G. M. Kable, of
Orton Park, was wedded to Emily, fourth daughter
of Mr. Hutchinson, of Wattle Flat. The bride
was given away by her brother-in-law, Leslie
Piper. The original Kable came out in the first
fleet, and the original Piper about a couple of
years after. The Pipers went over the Blue
Mountains in the late ’2o’s, and settled at Allo-
way Bank, on the Kelso side of the Macquarie
River.
Possibly to prevent complications on their wed-
ding day, the twin Mitchell girls (of Neutral Bay)
dressed unlike —for the first time. They have
hitherto been chronically frocked, batted, shod,
and coiffed to correspond. And as they are as
exasperatingly similar as the firm of Dromio and
Co., none but intimate friends knew, without ask-
ing the lady, which was Marjorie and which Wini-
fred. If they had had the naming of themselves
they would probably have both been Marjorie
or Winifred. As it is, are their respective
husbands, the brothers Connell, quite sure that
they have married the right girl ? They may
have proposed to one thinking it was the other, or
to each thinking she was both, or to both in
succession thinking she was only one. But the
expert squatter can detect an unlikeness to its
fellow in each sheep’s face; so perhaps to the
Connells their brides have different ear marks,
even if they are to most people as same as two
coffee beans.
Talking of weddings : A triple alliance will
eventuate in Victoria this month. Three sisters
are to marry three brothers. There’s unanimity !
In N.S.W. there is a boom in doctors in the
matrimonial market. Six bachelors and one
widower are to take up the pale citizen’s burden.
Brennand, Coen, Diethelm, Gillespie Burford,
and Donovan are five of them. Miss Esme Mann,
of Randwick, who has a lovely load of money, but
who could afford to have none, so attractive is
she, is one of the brides-elect.
Miss Selina Anderson, of Parliamentary candi-
date fame, is about to take a consort at Wellington
(N.S.W.). She is a bright, capable woman, and
deserves all kinds of good fortune.
Dr. and Mrs. Worrall returned from globe-
girdling last week.
Mrs. Greig Smith, wife of one of the IJni.
teachers, who has started Sydney into a serious
business of founding a Norland Institute for the
higher training of children’s nurses, looks like a
prize doll. Not a trace of the iron jaw, with
which the serious business of life is often and mis-
takenly connected. Mrs. Mackinnon, the consort
of a N.S. medical man, hopes to start a babies’
boarding house at Manly, at a charge of
about 15s. a week for each young tiger. She
tells with truth and pathos of the sufferings
from heat endured by young children in the
country. Their mothers cannot leave their homes
to bring their offspring to the sea coast for an
extended time, but if there were an accredited
place in which to lodge Silken Hair, funds
could be spared to that extent. Mrs. Mackinnon
is the big-eyed young party who bore the name of
Eleanor Addison—suggestive of Marion Craw-
ford novels. Anyone with such a name is bound
to have high-class “ views.”
Melba and the heat—the heat that hangs like a
vast railway rug wrung out of hot water —are the
two topics affecting Sydney just now. But the
heat has no effect on Melba, and she has
some effect on it. For she is filling
the Town Hall in spite of it. Saturday night’s
audience was described by a man who knows
everyone as an “astounding audience.” It was
no bigger than a Butt audience, but pretty well
every well-known face in Sydney’s Church and
State and School and Society and Politics was to
be seen. Melba was princess-robed in pale blue
with an over dress of white net glittering with
silver embroidery. Her diamond crown keeps its
lustre, and her black hair its ebony.
When Sydney read (over its wheatmeal biscuit
and coffee) that Melba had walked nine miles
owing to the vice-regal motor breaking down at
Fitzroy Falls, Sydney said it wasn’t taking any
foxes in this heat. But Captain Wilson, Miss
Rawson, and the rest of the party have made
affidavits on the matter —so we accept those
nine miles as the Israelites did some re-
marks made from a burning bush. On Sunday
the untired star went to Manly with the Mariches,
and strolled on the sand, laughing at the surf-
bathing; then the party went to Mr. Marich’s
camp at Middle Harbor for lunch. In the evening
the Voice went up the North Shore line to
dinner, and got back at midnight, as untired as
when she began the day. To-day she went on an
all-day picnic to Narrabeen with Mrs. Burdekin
and a party.
On Saturday the Voice listened to another
voice—that of Miss Eva Champion. Spent half-
an-hour giving the youngster a lesson and advice,
and both the voice and the method with which it
is being produced passed their examination with
honors.
“Mario,” from Brisbane :
The Governor’s wife returned to town from Gabbinbar,
last week, to distribute the prizes at the Church of
England High School at Southport, where her own small
hopeful managed to gather in an award for general pro-
gress. Later, the determined lady attended the weekly
meeting of the Children’s Hospital, and her investiga-
tions produced a lively half-hour. First of all, she
inquired into the infantile mortality. The statement
of the resident medico that climatic conditions were
chiefly to blame did not seem to convince her, and with
that practicability which ever characterises her words she
suggested that if Brisbane was unhealthy for gastric
enteritis, the little sufferers might be shifted to the
Sandgate sanatorium, where fresh ocean breezes and
a purer air are available. This sensible view was,
however, met with numerous objections by the
medical staff, and her Ex. then let drop some
pertinent remarks to the effect that, if less time had been
wastedin haggling over small details, the new wards might
have been built, and the hospital authorities might have
been able to produce a better record. When she rose to
go, it was in an atmosphere charged with electricity.
After two race-days—mostly umbrellas, rubber shoes
and ill-temper—the Q.T.C. finished up its first summer
meeting in bright sunshine, and in the presence of some
lovely frocking. The golden-haired proprietor of the
local variety show was one of the best-turned-out women
present, in silver-grey, with a wonderful panel arrange-
ment of blue chine ribbon and Paris guipure. Pretty
Mrs. Cleghorn, wife of one of our big coal men, was a joy
to behold in a gown in which black chiffon glace, black
Maltese lace, and a ribbon-worked white chiffon
vest were skilfully combined with a droopy black hat.
A perfectly elegant leg, daintily stockinged, and finished
somewhere about the knee with a lace-frill, was one of
the sights of the day. It was the property of a dame with
a brown hem to her robe, and was revealed as she fled in
haste to the telephone call-box, to ’phone hubby that she
was one of the lucky 22 who drew £2O 17s. on Joker.
As I write yet another social bomb bursts beneath my
feet. Miss Fannie Collins, she of the pale , golden halo
and dark brown eyes, fourth niece of the firm of John
Collins and Sons, Logan squatters, is to marry De Burgh
B. (Burgo), the second and very popular hope of De
Burgh Persse, of Tabrogalba.
Women in politics are becoming a seething mass in the
land. At every turn the wild she-leaguer is to be
hurrying to meetings, distributing unreliable tracts, or
button-holing voters. If the Boodle Party doesn’t retain
office it won’t be for the want of female agitators.
There are only three topics in Brisbane these dog-days
—the weather, the test match, and “Captain Jones,”
who lies slowly recovering from bronchial catarrh in the
Victoria Hospital. Of the three, Jones stands easily first.
The half-hour-progress wires of the test match, sent over
to him by the Waily Tale, have had such a marked effect
that the invalid is now confident of Christmassing in
Sydney.
Speech day at the Grammar School, on Friday, was
productive of some wholesome talk and at least one well-
deserved compliment, when the Premier promised the
utmost support to the establishment of a Queensland
universitjq and said that when that dream was realised,
the life work of Mr. R. H. Roe (for 20 years headmaster)
should be recognised by the offer of a professor’s chair.
The applause damaged the building so badly that tenders
have been called for repairs.
The Buchanan dame and her chicks are back at
“ Enerton,” from Sydney, and we are promised a double
wedding in June. Mrs. Buchanan declares that when
this function is over she will flit for ever from a State
where Mary Ann has died out. Her chicks, however,
will have a try at keeping house for a young rising
medical husband, and a ditto ditto barrister husband
respective!}', and hope, by a politeness that approaches
servility, to get a Mary Ann apiece occasionally.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Last Monday, at Brisbane, the strong arm
of the law hanged August Millewski, a man with
a scraggy beard and retreating forehead, chiefly
on the information of his wife and son, for the
slaying of Wallum Nabby. Two years ago Wall am
Nabby was tried on a charge of burning Millewski’s
barn, and acquitted. Johnnie Do, from some-
where in Asia, gave evidence against Nabby, and
it proved unhealthy for him. When Johnnie
Do’s body was found it was almost past recog-
nition. Nabby was tried for murder, and
again his luck stood by him, for he was
acquitted a second time, in spite of a solid, popular
conviction that he had done the deep damnation
of Johnnie’s taking off. Had Millewski done his
crimes on his own he might also have got off, but
when he went forth at night and shot Nabby in
his bed, he took his wife to carry the lantern,
and his son to consult about the burial of the
remains, and these relatives turned dog on him.
He died urging the public to burn Mrs. Millewski
alive, and complaining of the bad ventilation of
the cap that is put over the head of the hangee in
his last moments.
“ M.P.” supplies a nice, cheerful dose, to
be taken before bed on December 25:
The bungling in the hanging of the youthful George
Toffts, at Tamworth (N.S.W.), calls to mind several
instances of bad hangmanship at Melbourne gaol. In one
case old Rowley, chief warder of the ’sixties, did a pen-
dulum act. When the condemned man got his last drop,
the knot didn’t adjust properly, so Rowley put his arms
about the suspended man, and swung with him until his
neck was broken. Then there was Howard, strung up
for a stabbing affair. When cut down, he was found to
be still breathing. The Governor was for giving him
another swing, but a cooler subordinate checked the pro-
ceedings, whereupon the poor victim, who had doubtless
been listening to the discussion, gave a couple of sniffs
and snuffed finally out. Landells, a big, soft, fleshy
fellow, got too long a drop which—ugh 1 Phelan, a tough,
muscular fellow, didn’t get sufficient rope, and prac-
tically strangled. But you can rely upon getting
much better service in Melbourne now. A register
is kept showing your height, weight, type of physique,
etc. The governor, medical officer, arid chief warder
hold a confab, and the victim is allotted his share of drop.
It only remains for the hangman to adjust the rope
accordingly. The heavier the subject the shorter the
drop. The rope is soft-soaped and stretched all night.
It is attached to the top tier with a large stone on
the end to take out the “give.” The hangman’s knot is
so arranged that it self-adjusts below the ear the moment
the “ bolt is drawn.” Pressmen and other onlookers,
under present conditions, merely get a glimpse of the
suspended man, then a curtain falls, and the drama is
ended —at all events as far as the public is concerned.
Nevertheless, the performance is sufficiently disclosed to
admit of keen criticism by an experienced pressman. For
instance, when Deeming was hanged at Melbourne Gaol,
his descent and decease were most carefully noted by the
late Mr. Spooner, who afterwards went to S’Africa as a
Boer war correspondent, and died there. Spooner hadi
come over from Sydney to writeup Deeming "details for
the Nooze. He knew his business. He watched the con-
demned man in his downward flight, and summed up the-
tragedy in three little words —“ Not a kick ! ”


V
/ Walk on our soft Para Rubber 1
Heels. They have no equal l
for COMFORT, QUALITY, and
WEAR. 60,000 of these wonder-
ful wear-resisting Heels are sold
in Australasia weekly—evidence
of their popularity. But you
must specify "DUNLOPS
berH
all boot stores
DUNLOP RUBBER. CO.. All St»t«* * Nt
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
*
£
■9t
Are now used by all the leading
mines In Australasia, and
giving better results than did the
imported article.
Our Suction and Air Hose, Rubber
and Batata Belting. Packings.
Valves, Oc., are unapproached for
Quality and Price. Tenders and
Samples Submitted.
Correspondence Invited.
THE. DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Malbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
Brisbane, and Ohrtstohurch, NX
m
41
COROETJ
■'SOMETHING • &VITE -NE.W-
“jmLIML
3
WORLD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 16, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Wonder if the grim Scotch ghost of “ Johnny
Wallace watches the divorce court and sets his
face in horror at the gilded glad guineas piling
up for the lawyer folk each artfully protracted
day ! His personality was strong enough to
make his ghostly presence felt. Johnny Wallace
was a great broad fellow, grimly grey, with a
peculiar limp and a heavy stick. He’d plunk,
plunk, plunk a forceful way down Oollins-street.
“That’s Wallace,” busy men would say when
they heard the plunk. Wallace made history in
the old Ovens District. For 20 or 30 years
there was no one better known than he. In
every little mining centre Wallace planted a pub
and a store —a money-making combination. His
hotel was always called “ The Star.” The Beech-
worth (nee Ovens) district is studded with the
“Stars’ of Wallace. They were like a well-
regulated line of ships, and the careful Scot piled
up money in heaps. Wallace was never out of
the saddle—he’d ride over every inch of the
Ovens country, drawing canny threads from
every point. Everyone knew Wallace and his
jumper. Always the same dress—a red and
white striped soft shirt, corduroy breeches, and
long boots—and the Devil’s own seat in the
saddle.
Wallace always rode to Melbourne on his busi-
ness trips, and, though he owned so many pubs,
never wasted a bawbee at a Melbourne bar.. All
his store business—hardware and such things—
was done through M‘Ewan’s firm. Wallace in-
variably carried his swag on the saddle; when he
reached Melbourne he would put up his horse in
the M‘Ewan stables, at the back of the stores, and
climb up to the loft with his bluey for his own
rest. That was his custom for quite 20 years.
Later years Wallace rushed fiercely into mining.
He discarded the “jumper,” wore ordinary
clothes, and abandoned much of his Scotch caution.
Mining and experiments and patents and big ven-
tures simply clutched the man, and the huge
fortune was riddled and eaten. His first wife
was the big, handsome daughter of millionaire
“Tommy” Monaghan, and the old man’s money
was bequeathed to her children, with his son-in-
law as sole trustee. “Johnny” interpreted his
duties as trustee as including power to “do what
he jolly well liked,” and in the glamor of mining
enthusiasm, with a bitten investor’s dreams of
Golconda, the fortunes he held in . trust were
somewhat impaired—not much impaired, but a
little. His son Charley Wallace, the divorce
petitioner, states his pile at not more than six or
seven thousand pounds a year.
During the last work, while Mrs. Wallace was
igiving her evidence, the court was crowded from
imorn till adjournment hour. The lady affirmed
quite heroically. For three consecutive days
■she was in the box under the verbal fire of
a K.C. and a quintette of other famous lawyer
men. And during all that time she never
lost her self-control for an instant. Occa-
sionally under special stress she blushed or
blanched ; but no tears nor hysterics. It’s an
interesting study—the effect of one woman’s atti-
tude upon many men. Day by day one may
observe by subtle signs just how much and in
which direction the listeners are moved. Also
such observation points out the instability of
masculine regard. In Mrs. Wallace’s audience
there is seldom a settled opinion for any length of
time.
An amazing divorce is promised to those who
love to learn exactly how sinful their brothers and
sisters are. The co-re. will be the centre of
attraction. He is a plump, popular youth who
has looked at the world in a supercilious way,
from a high official social-post.
The Northcotes, before putting the furniture
into summer pinnies, gave a children’s dance-
full regalia of fancy dress for the youngsters, and
an At-Home for fond Mommers and. some
Poppers. It was a joyous spree for the kiddies,
anyhow. The Governor Lady has a genius for
entertainment, and the party was neatly stage-
managed, with an eye to avoiding any congestion
or slump in the entertainment. Punch banged
Judy and heaped indignities on the baby for
half-an-hour in the drawing-room, whilst the
youngsters shouted their appreciation. The visit-
ing Talbottle dame got as much fun out of the
sins of Punch as the kiddies did. What a girly
face she has ! If it were not for the grey hair she
would look 20 in profile.
Ruby Madden, beauteous in a short frock and
her hair in a knot, looked seventeen as she
romped. Baby Beatrice might have passed for
an elder sister. The Madden dame, pale and
quiet, talked Exhibition with the grey Janet
Missus. Among the nippers, Mrs. M‘Donald’s
little Cupid wore little more than some glorious
amethysts and a tawny skin. Dodo Chenery,
Mrs. George Chirnside’s niece, the prettiest girl
there, was in all white, with tan riding boots and
shooting gear, and a stockwhip wound round her
lithe little body.
Bibron, the adored of the dancing maiden, has
broken his bachelordom. The girl who made
him happy was Miss Kate Charlwood, a hand-
some Melbourne demoiselle with a clever press-
woman sister. The honeymooners have departed
to Charlwood, at Dromana, for the summer. The
bride was offered her choice of a brand-new house
or a trip to Paris. In sensible the
lady chose the tangible bricks and mortar.
Mr. Maclellan, boss of the Big Store, Prahran
(Melb.), and a partner, presumably, in the Foy
and Gibson business, belongs to the muscular
Christian sect. He favors exercises for the body
and the soul, and runs a girl-employees’ guild at
St. Kilda. It consists of some 300 members,
ranging from four years to 40, though the 40 is an
exception. The other week, he took his flock
along to St. Kilda Town Hall, and gave an invi-
tation display, the full brigade occupying the
floor, under the supervision of strong man Weber.
“Mac” himself works the pianola, whilst the
girleens juggle sticks and dumb-bells, and gene-
rally endeavor to improve their health. In a
game of basket ball they bucked in like football
teams in a final. As a show of physique, the
exhibition was first-iate. “ Mac,” as an apostle of
guild, drapery and religion, talks to his following
like a' parson and a father, and at the same time
holds up the practical end of the show with cash.
Apart from this big guild, there are some 16
others helping to train the Melbourne mothers of
the future in the way they should shape.
The true moral of Victoria’s latest clerical sen-
sation is that a wise Judge may have a foolish
wife.
The Green Ball last week was voted the best
that Mrs. G. and daughter Florrie have accom-
plished. In the darkened Town Hall —with good
music and limelight effects—the chicks and chick-
lings toed their well-trained gambols to an adoring
house of relatives. All the popular comic opera
ballets came in for miniature copy. The boy, Harry
Lazarus, who led the ballet in the “Blue Moon ’’
Crocodile dance is a born contortionist, but the
hard work over-taxed him, and he fainted—in
masculine earnest —when he was through with it.
At his next attempt his father watched him from
the ballroom with the anxiety of a footballer
awaiting a catch, or an old Homan emperor select-
ing a fat senator for killing purposes.
More pleasing than the prettiest dances were
the “ Sandow Girl ” movements of Maudie
Millett, who reproduced Fanny Dango from
“The Dairymaids” with an array of children
behind her. Maudie is a well-built blonde,
verging on the ’teens, with more physical-culture
about her than was apparent in her adult Dango
model. She has a turn for low comedy mimicry,
too, and can give a faithful copy of Little Cliff, an
imported boy performer one time a large item in
the bill at Rickards’.
The Arral got a faithful and clamorous house
for her adieu on Saturday night. “ There’s posi-
tively no one here, my dear,” sniffed one Society
dame to a kindred late-comer, but the hall was
fairly full of people, despite the scarcity of the
Mighty. Remnants of German opera scattered
round the balcony. They are all reappearing sud-
denly ; Miss Heinze spread her voluptuous
charms one side, with the Pinschof maidens for
company. Mamma Wiedermann Pinschof kept
papa Von at a safe distance in the opposite balcony.
Why the family scatter ? Slap and a scarlet-
clad daughter had a corner, and the Carlyle
Smythes viewed from aloft. Arthur Collins sat
solemnly through the concert with his youthful
fiancee. Hunger was to sing—but mysteriously
did not appear.
Mrs. Blanche acknowledge her warm welcome.
At her second appearace a head-light of a red
rose hit the eye and roused a feminine murmur,
“She’s changed her dress.” Mrs. Arral made a
triumph of her singing in something from “ Tra-
viata ” at the finale. She would sing like a bird
if she had less “ trickiness ” and purer technique.
Saturday saw Miss Leslie Tope change her name
to Mrs. Tommy Murdoch. The alteration was
made in the council chamber of South Melbourne
Town Hall. Afterwards, a reception and dance
in the large hall permitted a picturesque oppor-
tunity for congratulations. The little lady was a
delicious arrangement of sheeny white satin, silver
and soft, beautiful lace, and a superb Limerick
veil. After a rather original honeymoon tour, Mr.
Tommy and his brand new better-half will settle
down to domesticated romance in Hobart.
The Carty Salmons have invested in a town
house Fairholme, at South Yarra. Once estab-
lished in that pleasant mansion, Mrs. Salmon
intends to play hostess often and extensively—
particularly to her husband’s Parliamentary
associates and friendliest constituents. (Being
an acute matron, she’ll probably include a few
unfriendly ones, who may be liable to conversion,
before next elections.)
Miss Grace Palotta was in Melbourne for a few
days last week, on her way to Westralia, Mar-
seilles, Monte Carlo, and “the little mother.”
She gadded about none, and but few of her friends
knew that she was in the city. Rumor says that
the delightful actress will be back in Australia
within twelve months.
Louis Esson, the singer of queer clever songs
about slum folk, dead gods, and other interesting
and more or less proper people, went off to Ceylon
in the Moldavia last week. From there he goes
through India, and on to Thibet, Burmah, China,
Java, and Japan. And all he sees, hears, and
smells in these strange places is to be detailed in
future numbers of The Lone Hand.
Other Moldavia passengers were Mrs. Bigjohn
Forrest, whose emperor installed her in her cabin
and fled back to the tariff discussion ; Mrs. James
Gibb, and the J. A. Wallaces. Mountainous Mrs.
Wallace, in a feathery hat, came in for close in-
spection from strangers, who mistakenly thought
they saw in her the hapless lady who stars in
“ the case ” of the month.
The air is laden with feline plaints just now.
The Cats’ League is scratching for funds. It has
been indulging in more cream and fish (of doubt-
ful age) than it could well afford, and has had too
many sprees this year. The tardy rebellion of
rural Cats, and the League’s journalistic joke, are
other reasons for its money worries. Country mem-
bers, who don’t participate in the management of
the paper, and know nothing of the pleasures of
dooming “copy” to print or the waste-paper
basket, can see no reason for encouraging its
expensive existence. And they, for the most
part, know no more of the league’s festivities than
is published concerning them. Consequently the
cats whose homes are miles from the central
milk-dish have begun to withhold the shillings
which used to make things easy for the
gay metropolitan branch. So the league
has had to appeal to the pleasant hum-
bugs who were elected on its vote a
while back. The pleasant humbugs pain-
fully proffer small contributions, and invite the
league to lessen its appetite for cream and fish
(of doubtful age). The pleasant humbug is often
quite unpleasant when he’s asked to be genuine,
especially when asked for a genuine cheque
negotiable at his bank. And the league has been
inspecting its receipt books, and therein found
new cause for worry. One matron, unpopular as
any successful person could be, and pompous as a
Court orderly, has been practically bossing the
Cats of late ; yet she is discovered to be the con-
tributor of but one half-guinea since the league’s
inception. Another officialess had parted with
the impressive sum of ss. '
Lady Talbot’s first public reception at Stoning-
ton was on Monday, and took the form of a
crowded garden party. The garden deserved an
afternoon’s admiration to itself, by the way. It
was one radiant blaze of scarlet and green, with
here and there a cloud of pure pale lilies. The
Lady wore a supple gown of grev-blue panne,
with interjections of metallic embroideries; and
looked young and comely. Evidently a respite
from local Sassiety is a boon to all conscientious
martyrs who are broiled officially on a grid shaped
E.R.
The Federal pair, with a trio of aides, hap-
pened during the afternoon. Her Ex. was robed
in a grey garment, which hid itself beneath a cor-
duroy coat. Otherwise the clothing was incon-
spicuous and familiar. Mrs. Madden was in her
white lace frock ; Miss Leslie in matronly black ;
and the flower of the flock bloomed in green and
white muslin. With them was Irene Marks
in an infantile gown of grey ninon, and a
huge and vivid lid laden with green velvet.
Mrs. T. M. Maclnerney emphasised her fine
eyes with a violet-blue dress to match them, and
Mrs. Ernest Brookes crowned an exquisite lace
robe with a howling hat in harsh purple tones.
Some folk put pathetic energy into the up-
holding of appearances—-even if the tottering
props have to be held together with a bent nail
and a bit of string. It was a’Bus—a Malvern
’Bus—on the day of the Talbottle strawberry
hunt. Something hot and fat and pompous and
gold-laced hurried from the train and hailed the
trundler. It took some minutes to ship the im-
portant cargo, which stumbled over its sword and
tangled its gold tassels and its military records in
the doorway. Then the sleepy car got under way
again, and all the gossipy matrons, with their
respectable shopping baskets, had a gapeful of
delight at the gorgeous apparition. Further
delight came with its putting of the “tuppence”
into the slot, to the watchful accompaniment
of the all-seeing Eye that gazes through the peep-
hole from the Box. Pomposity took more gaps
out of the time-table schedule in dismounting
at “ Glenferrie Road.” Finally the ’Bus rumbled
away. Gold-lace smoothed his ruffled plumage,
straightened the ramrod of his back, marched
round a corner and importantly hailed a hansom.
Hansom and gold-lace completed the few yards
of remaining road and accomplished the vice-regal
drive with imperial dash. The story reminds one
of the taking song with which Grace Palotta won
Melbourne’s heart in the wayback days of “ A
Gaiety Girl.” “If you can’t afford a hansom-
take a ’bus,” was the Palotta maxim.
Another periodical made its appearance last
week—a quarterly budget, called The Heart op
the Rose. Its advent was celebrated by a dinner
at the Pension Fasoli, and all the world which
wears astounding neckties and flowing hair
was bidden. The wife of that world,
as usual, stays at home to mind the
baby; but its best girl and sister put
on their greenery-yalleriest draperies, and sat
through the proceedings with much unction.
Most women are Bohemian with difficulty. The
room wherein the soulful gathering ate mncaroni
and garlic salads, was decorated gorgeously with
flaming, scented red roses, and Mr. Bernard
O’Dowd. All the poets, and painters, and respect-
able writers, and tolerable art patrons, and sculptors
who are available in Melbourne w'ere on show as
well. After they’d eaten largely, they listened to
the singing of soft and sentimental ballads, and
to the speeches of certain mutual admirers. Dr.
Wm. Maloney made some extremely graceful
remarks about everything. David Wright did
likewise with charming effect. Fred MacG’ubbin
gave a bowdlerised account of his innocent
adventures abroad. Then the poet O’Dowd
talked intimately of Hell and Heaven, and the—er—
Hesperides. No one understood him, but they
applauded him enthusiastically. You see,
mystics—and that’s what readers and writers of
the Rose must be—never need know what they
or the other chaps are talking about. Indeed, a
grasp of any subject shows a gross materialism,
from their point of view. For the rest, Thomas
Bakhap, our best authority on Chinese literature,
A. T. Strong, Mrs. Colles (who versifies as
“ A.8.C.”), T. P. Maclnerney, E. J. Brady and
another distinguished bard in prunella boots,
and witty Jeremias Josephi, relieved the nebulous
mystic gloom which hung over the occasion.
And publisher Lothian and Douglas Hart made
jokes.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Those frugal people who have been holding off in the
hope of a popular-priced Butt concert, got what they
wanted in the end—in moderation. The Taits, having
achieved a fine for overcrowding in Perth, took discretion
by the fetlock, and hired the old Exhibition barn for
their final distribution of melody in Adelaide—prices 7s.
6d., 55., and 3s. The place was thronged, including six
rows of a specially-built gallery, and the audience went
off its joint and several head with enthusiasm. The
great Clara wore silver, a wonderful garment with a
flounce of lace worth the ransom of the Peishwa of
Poona, or the Maharajah of the Mahrattas at Satara, or
even the Ahkoond of Swat (at a push). And she carried
the indispensable bouquet of carnations.
Michael and Patrick broke in upon the guileless Andrew
Mack at the Theatre Royal, last week, and made him the
usual presentation between acts, tellinghim what a broth
of a bhoy he is and always will be. Miss Mae Stevenson,
leading lady to the co. is new to this village, and shows
herself a somewhat attractive and frocky little party.
In fact, even a Mack show is a blessed relief to a State
beset by troops of Church bazaars, and overrun by shoals
of strawberry fetes.
But now we have achieved a two-act opera. It is called
“The Rose Maidens,” and is bestrewn with earls. The
music is by a blind musician, O. Brown, and the words by
A. Bernat. It was performed at Norwood in a thronged
edifice the other evening, to the tune of great applause.
For their hilarious spree at the Theatre Royal on 21st,
the undergrads have secured the services of “ The
Players,” under Percy Walshe, as an antidote to their
own exquisite foolery. Fragments of “ The Lady of
Lyons ” will help lure the elusive mite and obolus and
drachma from the pockets of the populace.
Sassiety is getting into the habit of handing out the
buttered scone at a municipal kiosk, which has just
sprung up at the end of the Glenelg pier. The thing is
three-storeyed ; the eatables dwell on the ground floor,
and cards, smoking and other furious varieties of sport
may be pursued upstairs, while salt sea breezes are flung
in free of charge. Some energetic folk gave a huge
Euchre at this kiosk, t’other evening, the guests being
carted back to the city in drags after they had got tired
of asking one another what were trumps, and foolishly
taking up the left bower.
Apropos of gambling, I have been informed that there
are 60,000 people wandering homeless around Europe
through not leading trumps at the right moment, and
that there is £975,000 lying in the cellars of the civilised
world through the coin rolling down the grating after
somebody had “ tossed up.”
S. Aus. Rhodes Scholar, Roy Lister Robinson, has just
captured a B. A. degree and a Baroness Burdett-Ooutts
scholarship at Oxford. The youth has a brilliant record
behind him. During his Adelaide days he chased a B.Sc.
degree to the death, and ran to earth every available
School of Alines diploma. But, alas ! these brilliant jmuths
don’t come back. Adelaide’s first “ Rhodes,” Norman
Jolly, has joined the Indian Forestry Department. Yet
another local savant, E. Jordan, B.Se., who has been
teaching the young idea of Sc. Peter’s College to spell cat,
goes off to the U.S., as lecturer in Applied Hieroglyphics
or Musical Botany, at Leland Stanford University. He’s
a crack tennis player too, which makes it all the harder
to part.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
N.S.W., which enjoyed a short spell
with only one of its Supreme Court Judges on
pension, enters 1908 with three—W. J. Foster,
Gregory Walker, and H. SI. Stephen—represent'
ing a total of £5460 per annum. A couple of sitting-
Judges are expected to move on to the list shortly,.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm will promptly
relieve the severe pain of a burn or scald, if
applied as soon as the accident takes place.*
rpts
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr?d. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
The Lone Hand for January will be pub-
lished on Christmas Eve. (You couldn’t go away
on your holidays without it, could you ?) Watch
for it on the bookstalls.*
The U.S. A. has become convinced that Australia
badly needs the particular sort of tubing it produces.
Wherefore Mr. R. H. Herveyis here on beh .If of the United
Flexible Metallic Tubing Go., Ltd., pushing a new and
exceptional brand of the article. It is made from copper
or galvanised steel tape, in one continuous length, rolled
spirally, so that the edges are made to interlock. The
tape is so rolled as to form a groove, in which a packing'
is inserted. The tubing is from Jin. to lOin. internal
diameter, and its owners claim it will carry steam at all
pressures up to 3001 b. per square inch. I’s good stuff—
the sort in fact that, under a rational fiscal system, we
should have long ago been making for ourselves.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
u
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEV.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Hesch’s Limited, Agents,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Of course it can’t be true that Philp, the
Queensland Premier who refused to resign though
presented with six consecutive no-confidence
motions, thinks of grabbing the chance to lift up
an old political pal to the Supreme Court Bench.
Certain fools of some importance are start-
ing a Peace Society in Australia, and propose to
preach the doctrine of disarmament to a country
which already has hardly anything to defend
itself with, save road-metal. If the Peace Push
would try its eloquence upon Japan, it would be
more to the point. If the lamb and the wolf are
to cksarm, it is always best for the wolf to disarm
first.
DEAKIN EXPLAINS.
DEAKIN (to Out-of-work): “It's like this. One
finds you a job, and the other sees that
you're paid for it.”
Ex-Minister Kenneth Mackay has been
gazetted as Colonel commanding a newly-created
“ Intelligence Corps,” which is “ to help the De-
fence Department in connection with topography,
the preparation of maps, information with regard to
the country, transport, and various other matters.”
The most remarkable thing about the new branch
of the Defence service, though, is that it is “ not
to be subject to military discipline ” ; which means
that if a spy manages to coax Colonel Mackay to
enrol him, and is caught giving wilfully false and
misleading information, he cannot be hanged or
shot. In return for that concession, these men
who are much too fine to be soldiers are to work
for nothing. Presumably the motto of the new
corps will be—“No paying; no potting.”
A Committee of N.S.W. Assem-
bly, now taking evidence, shows the
danger of letting in the private rail-
way co. Years back, before Sydney
knew what far-western N.S.W. was
stuffed with, Parliament let a co. build
a line to connect Broken Hill and the
S. Aus. border. Since then, in one year,
the co. has paid as much as 81 per
cent, in dividends. But as the State
can only take over the line by paying
for it on the basis of profits earned,
State purchase has been turned down
as out of the question (the State would
have to pay about 12 times the cost
of the line); so even the local Labor
party is now driven to barrack on be-
half of another syndicate, which pro-
poses to build a competing line. The
party has to either swallow its prin-
ciples or put up with freights which
mean 80 per cent. divs. ; so it swal-
lows its principles, and tries to look
happy—and can’t. Though why not
propose a State-constructed competing
line?
Any old lie is good enough for
the Brisbane Tory papers these election
times. On December 7 the Courier published this
from its Charleville correspondent:—
Many electors who were at the last elections staunch
supporters of Mr. Kidston have become disgusted with
his late actions in conjunction with the Labor-Socialists,
and will now support the Government candidate.
And there wasn’t a Kidstonite candidate for the
Charleville seat (YVarrego) last election, nor one
who looked anything like a Kidstonite !
Joseph Carrufchers dropped into N.S.W.
'Parliament House last Thursday to announce
that he is going to London next summer as
N.S.W., representative at the Franco-British
Exhibition. He will leave in March, presumably
at the State’s expense. Now what is Agent-
General Coghlan doing that he can’t represent
N.S.W. at the Exhibition, and how much repre-
senting does N.S.W. require, anyhow?
When the House of Reps, had finished
struggling with the piano problem it fixed the
duties at 25 per cent, on British and 30 per cent,
on non-British imported pianos. As the German
piano, which the importer person sells at £5O or
so, arrives per invoice at from rather under £l5 to
rather under £l9, it will only, after all, pay some-
thing like £4 ss. to £0 duty. The ravenous importer
can pay that out of his 300 per cent profit without
turning a hair.
Things move a little, and even the watched
heretic burns at last. South Australia has con-
sented to the transfer of the Northern Territory
to the Commonwealth, and now it is up to the
Commonwealth to grasp the Lost Province with
both hands, to build in haste a broad-gauge trans-
continental line fit for swift express traffic, and to
get a great land settlement policy going so sud-
denly that this country won’t know where it is.
Customs Minister Chapman lately received
a deputation “in private.” It was a Jap deputa-
tion, come to make a small brown moan about
haying to disclose, per Customs declaration, some-
thing like the real value of its importations.
Heaven knows how this piece of compulsory
honesty affected the brown importer, assuming
that the brown importer is honest; but still Chap-
man promised, as usual, to consider the request.
Presumably that is all he will do; yet, if he
doesn t want to become the victim of unpleasant
insinuations, he will speedily drop the practice of
receiving private deputations. There are plenty
of foreign-trade parasites who will be only too
eager to jump at the chance of maligning the
Customs administration, and those secret deputa-
tions give them the very opportunity they want.
The Federal Statist has been wrestling
with figures concerning Tommy Tanna, the
Federal work of whose re-
patriation will be completed
by February. Some 1400,
who have been granted ex-
emptions, will remain in
Australia as a legacy of the
unwholesome trade in black
labor. The first draft were
induced to come to Aus-
tralia by Ben Boyd, who
used them in and about
Eden as shepherds. But
they took more kindly to
rum and riot, and were
repatriated. The greedy
sugar - grower, who had
visions of the slavery of
Uncle Sam’s cotton fields,
found room for Tommy in
Bananaland. This was in
1868, and blackbirding,
otherwise kidnapping, was
so rife that regulating legis-
lation was passed. Tommy
continued to be an article
of trade for 36 years. During
that term the 81 licensed
vessels employed brought to and fro no less than
60,000 Kanakas, at a cost of £618,000. Of that
number 40,000 were repatriated. No less than
12,987 left their bones in Australian soil. It was
the most shameful enrichment that soil ever had.
When the Commonwealth Government
notified the Hobart Golf Club that it wanted a
slice of the club’s links for defence purposes, that
cheeky body, seeing a fine chance to bleed its
country, demanded, between “haws,” £4500 for the
bit of soil. Deakin and Co. offered £1230, which was
a good deal more than the unimproved value of the
paddock. The club waved its cleek and said it
would see the Commonwealth and Australia’s
defence in a putt or a foursome or something before
it would abate one penny of its claim. After
Crown Solicitor Powers had worn himself out
arguing the point, he took the matter to the High
Court; and Justice Higgins speedily decided that
£1230 was a very fair offer, and ordered the club
to pay all Costs. Seeing that the Commonwealth
is actually buying that land in order to prepare to
protect the Hobart Golf Club and its links from in-
vasion and disaster, it would appear that they
grow choice samples of other things beside apples
in Tasmania—“ hide,” to wit. A stiff progressive
land-tax would do people like that no end of good.
TOO MUCH COUNTER ATTRACTION.
Why the Women's Exhibition could not last
another week.
The days of Reid’s rail-painting policy for
his unemployed are recalled by an incident which
has incensed the .Sydney Trades Hall. Some 50
“free laborers” have been engaged by the
Government to do some necessary painting at the
Newington Asylum at much less than the Union
rates of pay. The excuse of the officials is that
the men need money for the Christmas season.
Because they need money, in short, they get very
little. The same Government officers would look
quite hurt if it were pointed out that a lot of
people would gladly do their jobs at half rates for
the sake of some money at Christmas time.
“ Billy T.” : I clip this from the columns
of a Melbourne weekly, which is reflecting on the
recent coal strike. It appears to me as absolute
and perfect ignorance reduced to its smallest
possible literary dimensions :
It is strange how enthusiastic the poor can be on the
subject of the umvorthiness of the rich. Tne poor rich,
who make the workers possible 1
The rich who make the workers possible ! I defy
any other competitor to make so big an ass of
himself in so small a space. Think of the capi-
talist who made Adam possible in Genesis by
giving him a job at 20s. a week 1
The bluff of the Victorian Fat Landlords
met its match once while they w T ere wrecking the
Factories Amending Bill. Laborite Evans was
protesting against Harwood’s amendment to
exempt shops from the Minimum Wage clauses,
and said that “some of the biggest men in the
city would hang their heads in shame if the wages
they paid were known.” A few rash voices
called “Names! Names!” Evans promptly
looked at his notes, as though he were about to
publish the awful information, when yells of
“No! No! No names!” smothered him, and
Harwood withdrew his amendment in a hurry.
Premier Bent already has plans out for a
subdivision sale of the land whereon Melbourne
gaol stands. If Bent hadn’t the mania for land
dealing, he would lease those blocks, and the
rents would every year snip off something percep-
tible from the public debt. And the further it
went, the bigger would be the snip; for land that
will bring in £5OOO a year now may easily return
thrice as much in 30 years’ time. But then there
would be no beautiful surplus to splash around,
and Bent does love his surplus, and the splash he
makes with it is like a waterfall.
There is already talk about the identity of
N.S. W.’s next expensive imported (State Governor.
According to the precedent of the Canadian
Federation, Australia should be done with im-
ported State Governors, and should content itself
with cheap local Lieutenant-Governors, appointed
by the Federal authority ; but Premier Wade
yearns, as Carruthers did, for the figurehead from
England. The Commonwealth gets its figurehead
from England, and, if the State doesn’t do like-
wise, “ State Bights” will be all busted up. The
Carruthers push would import suburban mayors
from Eugland if it thought that “ State Rights ” t
w r ould gain anything by the proceeding.
Maloney, M.H.R., proposes to submit to
the Australian Parliament a motion as long as
himself. Among other things, he desires that the
roll of members shall be called at the beginning of
each sitting, at every call for a quorum, after each
adjournment, and at the close of each sitting.
Every member who is found to be absent when
the roll is called or when a division takes place,
unless such absence is caused by illness, is to be
fined £l. If this scheme were put into operation,
how would George Reid fare ? It would take all
those “ Big Notes ” that the boy gave him in the
bathing box to pay a month’s tines.
Talking of the State properties transferred
to the Commonwealth, Treasurer Waddell last
week told N.S.W, Assembly the old, unreliable
story that—
The Federal Government was not paying interest
charges on the loan moneys expended in the erection of
the buildings, nor upon the capital value of the properties.
During the last five years the Commonwealth has
returned to N.S.W. its statutory three-fourths of
the Customs and Excise revenue and an average
of £348,782 a year besides. That is enough to
pay interest on £9,005,000 worth of transferred
properties. Yet the mean, whining, little
Twaddell goes round complaining that he doesn’t
get any interest.
Wilks, of Balmain, isn’t the only Free-
trader who grabs all the Protection he can get for
industries in his own electorate. In the glass
duties debate Edwards, of Queensland, voted like
clockwork to have the imposts wiped out or re-
duced, until the item “scientific apparatus”
came along. The Government had placed these
articles on the free list, and the fact made
Edwards ramp. He presented a petition from
some Brisbane people, and furiously demanded a
duty. Then Page, who also had been doing his
little bit to butcher the glass industry, in so far as
the slaughter didn’t harm his State, pleaded with
Lyne to “give them a square deal, and help an
established Queensland manufacturer.” Then
Lyne gave Edwards the brassy laugh, and re-
marked that, as Edwards had voted all day to
destroy the glass industry, he could now have the
whole hog. But for the shameful lack of
patriotism shown by Page and Edwards in voting
to destroy all the industries of the other States,
they would 1 probably have got consideration for
their own industry, but the temptation to give
them the Freetrade they had been demanding for
everybody else was too strong.
“ N.” on strikes :
The comfortable world at large fails to perceive the
growing and terrible significance of strikes. A new era
began with a comparatively little one, at M'Oormick’s
Agricultural Implement Works, Chicago, in 1886. It led
to some loss of life, in resisting the police. Therefore a
public outdoor meeting was held, presided over by the
mayor. It passed off in good order, and the mayor went
away. Then somebody, never discovered, flung a bomb,
which exploded in the midst of a large company of
police, killing several and wounding many. A great
number of anarchists were arrested. Ultimately
four were hanged in 1887. Three were kept jit
prison till 1893, when Governor Altgeld released them,
declaring that there had been no evidence even against
the men who were hanged. It is remarkable that
three chief leaders in the London Dock Strike, 1889—
Mann, Tillett, and Champion—met recently on one Mel-
bourne platform. This strike succeeded through a sub-
scription of £30,000 from Australia. It may just be
recalled how the so-called Australian maritime strike
of 1890 originated with shearers up the bush.
In 1892 was the Broken Hill strike, also that in
Carnegie’s Homestead Steel Works at Pittsburg (U.S. A.).
A peculiarly momentous affair this. Carnegie and Co.
brought in a sort of little army of their own, formed of
Pinkerton’s detectives, to protect non-unionists. The ’tecs
were armed with rifles. The strikers also took up rifles.
A downright battle ensued, with seven killed, and about
30 wounded. The Chicago Pullman car strike (1894)
not only demonstrated again how easily a civil war could
be kindled, but brought the pinch on the general com-
munity. The 24 railroads centring in Chicago were held
up. Next came the pinch with the coal, through the
intensely dangerous anthracite strike of 1902, settled In
Roosevelt, almost by force, as one may say. Yet none o'
these terrors were intrinsically so serious as the Victoria)
railway strike, because that was directed against a
Government, and success appeared to hang in the balance
for a day. I have been informed, upon authority t.la
value of which I cannot tell, that Premier Irvine was not,
the cold, frozen, glassv-eyed man in that case, and that, he
would have given way but for Bent, Railway Minister,
and Attorney-General Davies.
DIABOLUS— THE DEVIL.
Diabolo, it is reported, has invaded the Vatican.
Cardinal Merry del Val, who is an enthusiastic sportsman,
has ordered a diabolo set.
And a very good game for the church , too.
The Victorian Legislative machine is only
a two-speed car; it must either crawl or make a
frantic rush. It being desirable to get the
Licensing Act Amending Bill passed before the
annual licensing courts sat, Bent dashed down
the measure on the Assembly table on November
26, and it was rushed through and sent to the
Rich Landlords early on the 27th. The Land-
lords took one swift glance at it, and sent it back
on the 28th. Governor Talbottle was just leaving
for Gippsland, but Jenkins went in pursuit with
his tail streaming in the wind, and caught him at
Malvern. Between there and Caulfield an Ex r-
ecutive Council meeting was held on the train —
Bent, Talbottle, and Boyd being present —and the
measure was signed. Then the lawyers looked at
it, and said they saw about 14 holes each big
enough to let a herd of elephants pass through,
with Costs.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’s the backbone of the country, and it’s generally
known
He’s its muscle and its marrow, and its sinew and its
bone.
He’s its legs and arms, and whiskers ; he’s its eyes and
ears, and nose,
And the hardened shiny substance on its fingers and its
toes.
He’s its heart and lungs and liver; he’s the blood that
floweth red,
And its skin and teeth and stomach, and the hair upon
its head.
Tho’ I know it’s sacrilegious for a person to express
The contrary opinion in the columns of the press,
Yet I’d like to ray these farmer chaps can’t honorably
claim
To be the Prime Producers, and get credit for the same.
For I’ve never met a squatter yet, nor tiller of the soil,
Who made his own machinery or implements of toil.
He doesn’t make'the boots he wears, his pants, or shirt,
or hat,
Nor does he grow the stump-jump plough, or little things
like that.
His horses are not shod by God, nor did kind Providence
Produce the wire-wove netting that he puts around his
fence.
And the busy hands that cleared his lands I know were
not possessed
By disembodied spirits from the regions of the blessed.
I’ve never been where drills are seen suspended on the
vine,
Nor do I know where waggons grow, or bags, or binder
twine.
’Tis understood, tho’ God is good, lie left some things
undone,
And I’ve no doubt at all but that the harvester was one.
And the patent separator—tho’, of course, He knew
its use,
Was left for some “ consumer ” in the city to produce.
The farmer hops into the shops for what he may require ;
Perhaps a rule, or other tool —some nails or screws, or
wire. ’
With swift intent, his men are sent, like blazes, to the
town,
To find a handy tradesman, when his “cutter’s” broken
down.
There’s not, in fact, about the farm, a thing that wasn’t
made
By a primary producer in his own particular trade !
W. A.
TOM BEASLEY.


£l2/10/0
Gets you a Briton Typewriter, freight paid
anywhere in Australia —and you do not send the £l2/10/0 until you have
tried and proved the machine in every way. Furthermore, if for any
reason the Briton does not fill your requirements in all respects, we pay
the return freight, and the trial does not cost you a penny.
The Briton is a standard Typewriter improved by simplicity. , It has
the Universal Keyboard, printing 81 characters, reversible ribbon move-
ment, perfect alignment, improved cog escapement, and by using this
Type.
Kr-V
solid one-piece type-bar, we cut out 1200 very delicate parts, saving half
the manufacturing cost. It also prevents repair troubles, and makes the
Briton the only compact and portable type-har writing machine on the
market.
-
h*. ~ \
m
a !
m
M .
mm
"SSSa
Remember-our literature, information, and a trial of the machine is
absolutely free, and entails no obligation on your part. Can you afford
not to investigate an offer as equitable as this ?
Southern Sales, Limited,
284 Georoe Street, Sydney (Box 1700).
7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
18 Queen Street, Melbourne.
-MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
REINFORCED MALTHOID has been introduced with the greatest
success for flat roofs in tropical and semi-tropical climates. The flat roof
makes a cool, comfortable resort for Summer evenings. It can be utilised
for a Winter garden or a drying ground in crowded localities. No more
convenient means can be found to thoroughly enjoy the popular open-air
treatment. Write for full particulars.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
Sail Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Makes you look manly
fl
Before
After
CA PILL A RINE !
The Sure
Moustache
Producer.
The surest preparation ever offered for the production
of a full and flowing moustache. It is sure, safe and
quick. Nothing else will do the work like Oapillarine.
It has been sold in Australia for 20 years.
Price, 1016
Post Free Under Cover to
Any Part of the World.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“ SAPOLIX” FLOOR BTAIXS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOI.IX” AI,I!MI\OI EXAMEL gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made ot' metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnisliable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brushit on.
JAPAXKSE GOLD PAIXT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate lor over 20 years.
GERSTENX3ORFER EROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EXAMEL, “«APOLIN” EXAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL. Etc.
• •
WEAR
• •
Bucßley* Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send yoti a
pair ?
Posted,
15/3
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd
MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR OUR BOOT CATALOGUE (ILLUSTRATED).
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME —They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
mcd
m
m
M
coupon
M
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY, and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY*
Therefore, when shopping', say
GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.


“ THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD.’*
The sensation caused by the exhibition of that famous
picture, “ The Light of the World,” by Holman Hunt,
which is still fresh in the memory of the public, has in-
duced A. Saunders, the well-known jeweller of 809 George
Street, Sydney, to specially procure from his London
house a large number of “Garden of the Soul ” prayer
books, with an embossed reproduction of the famous
picture in sterling silver on the cover, as depicted above.
This reproduction, when compared with the original, was
admitted by experts to be excellent. The size of the
book is 3fin. x 2|in., gilt edges with fine, clear type, and
is morocco leather finished. The price is 7s. 6d. and can
only be obtained from A. Saunders, 809 George Street,
who will send it post free to any address. We would
suggest one of these unique prayer books as an appro-
priate Christmas gift for a friend.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Some 15,000 people yielded a£sso “gate ” first
day (Friday) of first test match at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Visitors’ innings opened direfully. Skipper Fane, whose
win of the toss was England’s sixth successive correct
call, had only made two before being caught by Trumper
off Cotter. Gunn (the Notts, pro.), who had been stowed
away in wadding somewhere, and whose presence in Aus-
tralia was unknown to a big section of cricket goers,
followed and provided a huge surprise. Young went
back to the pavilion with the figures two for 18. Already
lightning bowler Cotter had demonstrated excellent
form ; two wickets for 14 stood to his credit. But, by
and bye, the averag-e broke up badly, especially
through his treatment at Gunn’s hands. That bats-
man was also the only one who attempted to paste Arm-
strong. At luncheon the board read three for 106. Time
to resume had passed ten minutes before the actors in
the show appeared again, and subsequent inquiry
elicited that one Australian had struck because
some notice on the door of the room was re-
moved by an association official. The innings closed
for 273 —towards which Gunn brought 119 (embracing
twenty fours, and accomplished in 2£ hours of sparkling
and varied play), before being caught by Hazlitt off
Cotter. All Gunn’s strokes were heavily charged with
power and capitally timed, and when the ball didn’t
go direct to someone in the field it was an almost sure
four. Hutchings and Gunn put on 73 ere the for-
mer left, and Braund and Gunn were together 80min.
for 100. One of Cotter’s catapultic deliveries introduced
a sensation by smashing Barnes’s off stump, and Cotter
pocketed £5 (the gift of an advertising firm) when five
wickets for 95 were opposite his name. Cotter (six) and
Armstrong (three) did the damage. England’s unpro-
mising beginning was followed by a grand effort, then a
complete collapse—mainly through the wicket becoming
sun-baked, and more suited to Cotter’s tactics. The
Britishers lost two for 18, and three for 200, and remain-
ing seven for an additional 73. The Australians’ begin-
ning was worse than that of- t’other side. McAlister and
Trumper opened, and McAlister went pavilionwards,
caught for two, with the total at four ; but at stumps-
draw 50 had accumulated without further loss—3l of
them off Trumper’s bat.
Thousands looked ruefully at the condition of
things when Trumper (bowled off the pad) only added 12
to his overnight score, and full total was 72; but when
Hill and Noble got together they piled up 92. Hill showed
the beauties of the game; albeit the side’s captain
(Noble) notched quite as quickly. Noble was operating
lhr. 18min. for 37, and hit four fours, but his play lacked
the polish of the second N.S.W.-S.A. innings. At 50 Hill
had won an advertising £l, and for every subse-
quent run he got 6d. Thus were the bowlers hit for
“ bobs ” and “ two bobs,” according to the crowd,
till 87 showed. Then Gunn caught Hill luckily, as Braund
did Noble before, and a perfect innings ended. The S.
Australian’s compilation was built up in 2hr. 26min.,
and included eight fours. The two left-handers of the side
(Hill and Ransford) had made exactly half (111) the total
runs so far. Play was dull and weighty, and compul-
sorily so, as every run had to be battled for hard. With
Trumper, Noble, Hill, and Armstrong gone, and the
score 222 for six wickets, every succeeding bats-
man faced the high-strung conditions, and re-
solved to take as few chances as possible, but
they were all done with just inside five hours from the
start of the innings, and with the total 300. Fielder
bowled remarkably—a perfect length—and was never
really mastered, though 33 runs were against him before
he got one wicket. The Englishman’s “ off theory ” had
the Australians troubled frequently, and ably aided by
men in the slips, he bagged six for 82—four of them
caught beautifully by Braund. Turnstiles showed an
attendance of 32,000, and the treasurer reported the
day’s takings as £1470.
•** * *
Happenings of Monday made it plain that the
Britishers are not a power as a batting combination, also
that they have a palpable caudal appendage. With only
three out for 218, nine succumbed for 293, leaving the
side in almost exactly the same position as on Friday,
and, but for fairly heavy rain at night, Aus-
tralia's prospects looked at lease healthy. Some-
where in the neighborhood of 12,000 people watched
cricket that was dreary, though here and there specially
good Strokes stood out from the weighty monotony.
Cotter’s bowling gav.e little trouble, as a rule, but Arm-
strong forced respect always ; eight of his 13 overs were
maidens, and only eight runs were scored off the others.
Rhodes had 59min. of life, during which he notched 29 in
a quiet, unobtrusive sort of way. Fane’s 33 were put
together in lhr. 44min., and but one four figured in the
list. Hardstaff (already dubbed “Hardstuff” by “hill”
patrons) toyed with Cotter’s deliveries, and put some
sorely-needed vigor into the play, though but for Cotter’s
absolute neglect to grasp an easy situation Hardstaff’s
innings (which closed at 63, made in lhr. 38min.)
should have ceased at 47. Hardstaff brought great power
to bear in his strokes. The Gunn-Hardstaff partnership
added 113. Gunn showed the same brilliancy and sturdy
shoulder that his side’s initial innings disclosed, and but
for a difficult catch (missed by McAlister at 47) he never
gave the field a chance. The day ended with the English-
men 266 to the good, and Braund and Fielder
at the wickets. Up to a late stage Cotter
had sent down 37 overs before getting" a wicket
(Gunn’s); he had one for 72 and two for 83, and
101. Noble bagged a second wicket in nine overs—four
of them maidens. Two of his three catches were par-
ticularly good. Saunders had the batsmen guessing
often, and four for 68 says much for his work. Con-
cerning the job set the Australians on Tuesday, the
perambulating cricket record tells that in only one test
match has 300 been made for a fourth innings, and then
when Australia scored 316 for six wickets against
Maclaren’s eleven at Adelaide five years ago. As regards the
story of that Tuesday, it is brief and painful. The English-
men made another seven, and closed with 300—exactly
the record of the Australians in their first innings. Then
Australia swam to the wicket. Trumper made three, and
was bowled by Barnes. Hill made one, and was bowled
by Fielder. Macartney was out for nine. Noble was
holding the fort with 27, and Armstrong was with him on
the raft, and keeping up his end of the shipwreck with
17, when the rain finally washed the game away for the
day. The Bulmtin then went to press.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: This peculiarity of S.A. cricket
becomes almost uncanny as the seasons go by, and still it
never fails. Somewhere, somehow, S.A. wins a match
every season—and never more than one. Almost always
the win is gained against all probability—for the Adelaide
Oval has not seen the S.A. team win a game this century !
This time, N.S.W. has suffered. Before that, for four
seasons Victoria went down always in Melbourne.
Before that, it was N.S.W. again, and when for two
separate years it was neither of them, an English team
came along to get a surprise and a beating. But not since
1894-5 (the season after its solitary holding of the Sheffield
Shield) has S.A. won more games than the one in any
season.
* * * *
The Fijians disappointed with the poorness of
a swimming display at Waverley Club’s Carnival, and
gave a flat contradiction to the hair-raising tales told of
their alleged marvellous performances in the water.
Hundreds of Sydney schoolboys could give them points
and a bad beating; but they made some amends at
cricket. Filing on to the Sydney Cricket Ground the
team showed the physique of wrestlers and the vanity of
women or Roman emperors. Muscular shoulders and
arms, powerful necks and chests and hips were gaily
bedecked with beads, flowers, seaweed, and other inde-
scribable things, while bunches of flowers ornamented the
doormat-like heads of several. The preliminary war-cry
was not a circumstanoe to the ordinary every-
day whoop of a healthy Rugby fifteen. As the
afternoon wore on, sections of the general adornment of
each were discarded until the littered field suggested the
emptying out of a theatrical property room,' and some
stood up clothed only in the briefest of white knickers,
and the already-referred-to thick woollv mops. Fijian
fielding was keen indeed—three or four scooted after each
ball—and returns were usually accurate and speedy.
Every dismissal was the signal for something in the
nature of a war dance. Nine wickets for 410 caused heaps
of leather-chasing, and the N.S.W. innings (finished next
day) totalled 440. The brown men’s effort produced 132,
and when those figures had been brought into existence
by N.S.W. with one wicket down, the match ended.
Ratu Pope is the top-rung bat of the combination—he
belts them well on both sides, and drives capitallv. Ratu
Kadavu has good defence, and Liceni is the 'mighty
smiter of the lot.
* • * *
The abandonment, last week, of the match
England v. an Australian XI. at Brisbane looked a decided
stroke of luck for the Britishers. Australia had only two
wickets down in its second innings, and was then 186 to
the good. Possibly t’other side might have pulled through
—many more unlikely things occur at cricket now and
again— but IS6 would have been a big start on a rain-
soaked wicket, and Heaven only knows what the start
might have grown to if the match had gone on.
* * * *
N.S.W. side to meet Victoria on Boxing and
succeeding days has been chosen. Among the notable
missing cricketers are Blaxland, Hopkins, and Diamond.
Diamond’s latest form justifies his exclusion, though he
did make 138 and 210 in inter-State matches last year,
but Hopkins’ 60 odd against S. Australia should have
opened the door wide. The limelight of big cricket will
be on Sid Gregory once more, and R. N. Hickson has the
opportunity hundreds of admirers have been clamoring
* * * *
Selected second eleven of N.S.W. to meet
Queensland reps, includes junior Whitty, of whom much
is expected. Left-handed, his delivery is high, but with-
out apparent effort, and, for a log-break bowler, he gets
in eye-opening pace from the pitch.
* * * *
From Sydney Evening News of Monday last:
“ The racing pony Rose Amber dropped dead this
morning. A post-mortem revealed the fact that the
intestines were partially eaten away through the use of
certain drugs.” A volume in a few words.
* * * *
What backers of horses have to endure has
rarely been more tellingly evidenced than in True Light’s
running, at Moorefield, last Saturday week, and Rosehill
last Saturday. True Light won the big Moorefield event
so easily that he became a strong tip, and was largely
backed in doubles for A.J.C. Summer Cup on Boxing
Day. Consequently, Rosehill Handicap looked a cer-
tainty for him, and big parcels of coin were unloaded into
Ikey Mo’s satchel till better than 5 to 4 was unobtainable.
But the nag badly disappointed his armv of backers, and
the race went to Royal Star (a 12 and'ls to 1 chance).
This steed had previously won twice in Victoria, and has
6st. 121 b. in Villiers Stakes (next Saturday), 6st. 101 b. in
Summer Cup, and 6st. 71b. in Tatt.’s Cup (New Year’s
Day).
» * * *
Melbourne Age published the other day a long
letter from “ Owner and Trainer,” protesting against the
.action of the V.R.C. in refusing to register Jack Wren’s
racecourse at Ascot. The letter breathed the spirit of
Wren’s “ fight ’’ advertisements, and was full of fine demo-
cratic concern for those poor toilers of the turf who live
by providing “sport” for hard-swearing citizens. It
presented the writer in an attitude of melodramatic
appeal to the amphitheatre, with the limelight flooding
him, and rugged candor written on his countenance.
“ We are owners and trainers battling for bread and
butter—it would be cowardice to attempt to disguise
that fact,” he said, patting himself on the back for his
brave confession of the obvious. “ Racing is my
trade—l know no other—and is it not natural
that I should earnestly desire to see opened
up a wider and richer field in which I might
follow the trade to my own advantage, and to the
detriment or injury of no other man. . . . Horses are to
the favored few but expensive play toys ; to us they are
bread-winners, and it seems to us to be an act of injustice
that man and horse should be compelled to remain in
idleness when thousands of pounds are being competed
for at our very doors”—meaning that once a yeaA £2OOO
stake is put up for a pony race at Wren’s Ascot meeting.
The bitter cry of Wren’s barracker included a lot more
“guff,” utterly at variance with what was said at an
“Owners and Trainers’” social gathering night awhile
ago, when one of the speakers complained Chat a large sum
of profit made out of privately-owned race meetings was
lost to the Turf, whereas it would go to benefit owners if
it went into the treasuries of genuine racing clubs.
As a matter of fact, all proprietary meetings—whether
for “ponies” or full-grown gees—are undeserving of
encouragement. The proprietors personally fatten on
the success of the show. A racing club adds its surplus
to the stakes, but the individual Boss adds his surplus to
his banking account. And as for unregistered meetings
in their other sporting aspects, they are bad in principle.
The Boss of the show is the employer of the handicapper,
judge, starter, and every paid servant on the ground, and
when, as in Wren’s case, he is also (through an agent)
the boss bookmaker, his control of the business is prac-
tically unchecked. To say that Wren’s pony meetings
are run on business-like lines—that glaring malpractices
are punished, and the management is smart and brisk—
is not to offer a satisfactory reason for registering his race-
courses. If they were more decently and honestly conduct-
ed than the meetings of the V.R.C. or A.J.C. the objection
to the principle of personal proprietorship would not be
lessened. Whether the races be thoroughly sporting events
or despicable robberies of the uninformed public, it is the
paying public who provide the bulk of the money. The
larger the amount given in stakes the greater the chance
of honest racing—the better the sport. The support of
the main body of occasional racegoers—as distinguished
from regular followers of the game—is essential to the
biggest race meetings, and it is not conceivable that tens
of thousands of people would again and again pay 10s.
for admission to the grand-stand at meetings controlled
by a Boss who places the bulk of the profits to his own
credit.
* » * *
A third-rate gee-gee named Avalon was gathered
to its fathers the other day, and this matter of no conse-
quence was recorded in Melbourne Age, at the length of
a full quarter column, under bold cross headings A
Notable Racehorse—Death of Avalon.” To the large
majority of Age readers the quarter-column obituary
notice of Avalon would seem a tribute to its achieve-
ments ; to many followers of racing it looked simply
absurd; by a few “in the know ” it was accepted
as an advt. for the animal’s owner. Whereby hangs
an interesting suggestion. The 12-year-old Avalon ran in
183 races, mostly petty events, and won 23 of them, being
unplaced in 118 others—as it appears from Age statistics.
“Like old Proceeder, Avalon had a second in the
Champion to his credit, being beaten byßobadil in 1899,”
said the historian. As a matter of fact, the highly in-
ferior animal started at “ any odds ”—5O or 100 to I—in a
field of four for the champion race aforesaid, and was
beaten by eight lengths. The race took seven seconds longer
than the time limit, and the added money was accordingly
reduced by one-half. So much for Avalon’s one classic
achievement. The explanation of the “Notable Racehorse”
yarn lies apparently in the following portion of it—“He
won the Sunbury Cup a few weeks' ago, and his oivner,
Mr. C. Lenny, on that occasion proudly recalled the fact
that this was the twelfth cup (!) the horse had won during
his remarkable career. Some days ago he was sent to his
owner’s establishment at St. Kilda for a spell, which it
was thought would recuperate him for the rigorous ordeal
of the approaching Autumn campaign.” The owner, Mr.
C. Lenny, at whose St. Kilda establishment the aged gee
passed out, is the “ Squash ” Lenny, whose connection
with “sport” was touched upon in The Lone Hand’s
exposh of John Wren and his law-breaking career. And
this uncalled-for certificate of sporting merit awarded to
“Squash” Lenny by a powerful newspaper has to be
considered in connection with the Argus’s respectful
interviewing of Lenny’s old partner, “Mr. Patrick Board-
man,” at the time of the surrender of the Melbourne Tote*
and with the all-round boosting of John Wren’s name*
which has of late years been so bitterly discouraging
to law-abiding citizens.
* * * *
The luck of it! Well-known crack pony Blue
Diamond was sold at auction in Sydney last week for
£255, and next day won Kensington Handicap (70 sovs.)
and attendant bets up to, it is stated, £4OO for her new
owner. Early this year Blue Diamond, as Imogene, ran
second to the crack northern-owned nag, Garches, in the
New England Cup.
* * * *
Maoriland bookmaker Cleland, who owned
Apologue till after he won Melbourne Cup, complains
that success in that event isn’t all beer and skittles. He
was “ considered fair game by all the cadgers and loafers
in the country.” Personal and written applications for
monetary assistance were without end. One letter
asked for £2OO. The writer had, he said, mortgaged his
house for £lOO and lost the lot on Apologue in the Caul-
field Cup.
* » * *
Whatever the cause, Sydney pony racing—
never a losing venture for promoters—has made marked
progress lately. It comes from a reliable source that
Kensington “gate” last Wednesday was a record, and
entry-fees made up considerably for amount of prize-
money disbursed. Existing clubs look with disfavor upon
the coming into the business from the beginning of next
year of the newly-formed Victoria Park Club, which will
cut down the list of the year’s racing days allowed each club
to 16. Pony-racecourse companies are looking to Mo to
make up the deficiency, and he has been notified of a 50
per cent, increase in fees, and the likelihood of others of
his calling being licensed to bet. Estimated that without
the proposed additions to the betting ring, the increased
tax will bring £920 more annually to each club, thus
swelling the amount exacted from pony “books,” for the
privilege of increasing their bank balances at the expense
of punters, by something over £3680. As might be ex-
pected, Ikey Moses has his back up, and vows (fearful
alternative) that he will go to work first. However, that
threat notwithstanding, the clubs’ latest levy will be paid
and the odds shortened still further to make up for it.
* * * *
It was to be expected that the chosen of 28
N.S.W. bowlers should be defeated by the selected 75
Victorians in Melbourne, especially as playing conditions
there are widely different from those of Sydney; but the
visiting side onlyfinished 11 down in the first match, and
won the second—one to the good—after a tie. In the
circumstances, the proper thing was to leave well enough
alone, and let the same team fight the third “leg” of the
rubber; but emergency men (who had been onlookers
so far) wanted to play, and, though absolute strangers to
the conditions, three of them took the places of others
who had done well and had gained the required experi-
ence. The result was that N.S.W. went under, bud bv
five only.
* •* * *
On Saturday last the Burwood lonas journeyed
to Parramatta (N.S.W.) to do battle for the Western
Suburbs Junior Rugby supremacy. The semi-final the
week previous, between Parramatta Oaks and Liverpool,
had ended in a riot, so on this occasion all parties were
studiously polite at first, and held their caps in their
hands while addressing each other. The game started,
and Parramatta Oaks promptly scored a free kick. An
awful roar from the visitors’ barrackers. “Lie down,
you dogs! ” howled a Parramatta Oaks man, in
reply, and then a fragment of a bottle took him, and he
curled up like a fly on a hot stove. Palings were ripped
from the fence, and the engagement became general.
Amidst howls of fury the Parramatta Oaks dashed into
the fray, hitting, kicking, biting, and swearing.
Lemonade and other bottles were used freely, and blood
literally ran. The police charged. They were powerless
for a time, but biffed steadily away, and getting the
visitors together, fought a way to the train, where the
lonas were embarked and despatched for home and
medical treatment. Someone recently wrote that riotous
football meant clean football. Rugby up Parramatta
way is in a perfectly dazzling condition according to this
doctrine.
■* * * *
As usual Sydney Flying Squadron monopolised
whatever battle and sudden death were lying around on
Saturday afternoon. The first excitement was caused by
Desdemona and Australian running ashore at Bradley’s
Head, which gave first and second places in the first heat
to Eileen and Zena respectively. Having qualified for
the final, Zena promptly capsized, and was still keel up
when that race started. The second heat was won
by Oweenee without any striking episodes, excepting that
Violet bolted, crossed Mona’s bows, and got disqualified.
The final saw a great struggle between Oweenee, which is
a mere skiff, and Mona, which put up a good run to
Taylor Bay. A jibe saw Oweenee have a narrow escape
from capsizing, and already one boat had filled in the
endeavor to keep up the pace ; but the skiff slowly gained
on Mona, and beat the romantically-named craft'by half-
a-second right on the line. Eileen and Australian were
third and fourth.
* * * *
Eight yachts started under the Prince Alfred
Club’s burgee for the Basin Cup race. The course was
from Sydney to Broken Bay and back, a distance of 44
nautical miles, and a succession of catspaws followed by
long calms played havoc with the prophecies of the
knowing ones. Herreshoff was minutes late starting,
and chased the fleet down the Harbor on a fair nor’-east
wind. Nearing the Heads it died away and left
most of the fleet drifting helplessly in the neighbor-
hood of South Reef. Then Herreshoff, bringing - along
the tail end of the breeze, splashed in among
the fleet and drifted helplessly too. Another stir in the
atmosphere saw the squadron scatter. Some went
straight up the coast, others followed Rawhiti far out,
where the big yacht raked sea and sky for the wind that
was not there, and they drifted slowly northward, won-
dering if Lion Island or nightfall would appear first.
Spasmodic puffs and deceptive catspaws kept their tails
up, and it soon became apparent that whatever wind
there was was being caught by Rawhiti, Fleetwing,
and White Wings. They had started level, time
allowances to be adjusted at the finish, and at
seven minutes 12 seconds past three p.m. Rawhiti
struggled round Lion Island nine-and-a-half minutes
ahead of her great rival Awanui, which bad hugged the
coast. Then Awanui, White Wings, Fleetwing, Heather,
and Culwulla followed in that order. Herreshoff dropped
out. The wind freshening a little, something like a run
started for home, but the wind died away again at Long
Reef. Awanui led the way inside with Rawhiti next,
and White Wings, Fleetwing, Heather and Culwulla
following in that order. When the time allowances were
adjusted it was found that Fleetwing had won, with
Rawhiti and Heather second and third.
La Carabine, once Rupert Clarke’s crack yacht,
sailed away in the sunset one day last week, a much
chastened and altered vessel. It has been disposed of
to a South Sea Island trading firm. It has now been
denuded of all its fittings, the state rooms are turned into
a hold, and an ugly Plimsoll mark has been painted on its
pretty sides. Instead of Youth at the prow and Beauty
at the helm, its principal cargoes will henceforth be
copra and niggers.
* * * *.
Hitherto regarded as a sprinter, pure and
simple, Cecil Healy surprised the bulk of the crowd at
Leichhardt Swimming Club’s Carnival on Saturday by
winning the 500yds. State supremacy (the first champion-
ship decided this season) from start to finish, and com-
pleting the distance with a heap of reserve in 6min. 23
l-ssec. Healy looks like filling the gap left by the going
over to professionalism of Dick Cavil], and the death of
Barney Kieran, for, like Cavill (and Kieran in a lesser
degree), he can sprint with the best, and will probably,
ere the season closes, get much nearer Kieran’s world’s
record of 6min. 10 3-ssec. for the “ five hundred.” Healy
used the “ crawl” stroke on Saturday, and turned weli.
Previously his great failing was inability to round smartly
from the basin’s end.
Assisted by the novel spectacle of the simul-
taneous release of 5000 carrier pigeons, more or less
Melbourne Bicycle Club made a valiant effort to recover
the lost glories of the Austral last Saturday and the week
before. The chiffony and frilly crowd was there all right,
some 10,000 in all; but, alas ! they were mostly in the
M.C.C. reserve—otherwise deadheads—and the gross
takings for the two days would hardly exceed £750, if.
indeed, they reached that sum. That means that
the Austral, once worth £5OO, £lOO and £2O to the
three placed men, only panned out about £9O,
£45 and £l5 ; and, as the total prize money
reached £4OO, the club won’t have much left for refresh-
ments after it has paid for the ground and the exes. As
a spectacle, the pigeon flight was a trifling circumstance,
as the birds merely rise in the air and depart hastily, like
the sparrow, or any other pest. Considering the glassy
nature of the grass track, the racing was fair, but to re-
tain popularity bike-racing must guarantee clean sport,
exciting finishes, and high speed—otherwise the thing is
a mere procession of bikes round a paddock, and there is
little joy in it. The first two requisites materialised
on both Saturdays, but the third couldn’t, by
reason of the flat grass circle, wherefore the only
delight was in watching the finishes. The Austral heats
had left in only A. J. Clark, H. Thomas, L. O. Meyer, and
10 other mostly unknown men, and the handicapper had
re-handicapped them as he thought fit. Ikey Mo, in a
surreptitious, modest sort of way, insinuated his desire
to lay 3 to 1 Scott and C. Brown, 4 to 1 Thomas, 10 to 1
others, but very few accommodated him. He gauged
the riders poorly, anyhow ; for though Clark and Thomas
made a game effort to catch the front markers,
they decreased the gap of 200yds. but little, and
chucked it at the sixth lap. Then A. C. Colvin, Meyer,
and E. Birch broke away from the bunch and rode to the
tape in that order. Meyer put in a strong sprint at the
finish, but Colvin stalled him off. Winner, who started
from the 150yds. mark, is a Gippsland youth of 20, and
had previously no notable success to his credit. He
trained on a country road. Time for the two miles,
4.25 2-5, the record for the grass race being still A. C.
Forbes’ 4.19 3-5, from the 30yds. mark, in 1900. Of the
once world-renowned Austral Wheel Race, Ichabod may
now be definitely written.
* * • *
The last race on the first day of the Austral
meeting, the five-mile Burston Handicap—was a quaint
circumstance. With two laps to go, only five of the score
of starters were still plugging away—Hehir, Eavies,
Horder, Plunkett and Millard. As the bell rang, the latter
dropped out, but before he had dismounted Plunkett
skidded on the dry grass, and the other three fell over
him in disorder. Millard promptly got speed up once
more and pedalled in an easy winner. Hehir, though
badly damaged, found his machine good and sound,
and bogged in as best he could, following Millard
at some distance. Horder, whose machine was in an
even worse condition than himself, picked the wreck up
and made a valiant attempt to carry it round to the tape,
but Dobie, last Warrnambool Road Race winner, who had
chucked it up quite a while back, pedalled round smartly
a time or two, and beat the cripple on the post for third
place. The other invalids were assisted off the course
making violent remarks about high speeds on grass tracks.
* * * *
The anticipated clever battle between hard-
punching and tough-hided Sid Sullivan and skilful Tom
Jones, for “fedder ’’supremacy of N.S.W., at Sydney
Gaiety A. C., Saturday night last, was only clever during
three or four rounds. Sullivan treated Jones’ superior
science with contempt, and now and again landed a blow
that compelled respect, though once or twice Jones stood
up and mixed the fighting, to the great delight of a strong
Jones gallery. Some heavy thumping in the fifth round
made Jones wilt, and he used his knee treacherously three
times without suffering more serious punishment than a
caution on each occasion. Another similar breach during
the sixth, and the boxers were ordered to their corners,
when, amid howls and yells in all keys and from all
quarters, Jones elevated the wipe. Crack middle-weight
Ted Nelson was, as referee, badly bothered several times,
but no professional pug ever did figure satisfactorily in
that position.
* * * *
Aunger and Dutton, would-be motor over-
landers, have already had to take to the railway through
the crass stupidity of those who had the depositing of the
supplies of petrol. At Coward, 550 miles north of Ade-
laide, they discovered that the fools in charge had left
the petrol in the sun, with the result that the tins had
burst and the fluid evaporated. So within the confines
of civilisation the desert traversers were stranded for
want of petrol and had to proceed 167 miles by rail to
Oodnadatta, where the next supply awaited them. The
stupidity of some people defies the gods themselves, and
people who leave petrol in the Centralian sun belong to
the class which wrecks the enterprises of Divinity.
THE GREATEST ORGAN IN THE WORLD.
Most people think the greatest organ in the
world is in the Sydney Town Hall. Such, how-
ever, is not the case. The greatest organ is
located in each of our own bodies, and is the liver.
When it gets out of order our whole system
becomes deranged. We are dull and heavy, and
life is a burden. The climate of Australia and
the tendency to over-eat and over-drink are the
principal causes of this great organ getting out of
harmony with the rest of the system. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills reach the liver as no
other remedy does, opening: the clogged ducts,
causing the bile to flow, and aiding in the digestion
and assimilation of food.


KUGEEMANN’S
&
©
w
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid."
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of '
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pe*
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE S 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
▲ND AT ADELAIDE AND BRISBANE.
The only exuberance Buttan Singh, the
black-and-tan wrestler, ever displays is when he
wins a bout, and then he expresses his emotions
by leaping high in the air. Each leap would clear
an ordinary dinner-table. The other day Buttan
had an action for damages against John Wren in
a Melbourne court, and throughout the trial he
sat like a chocolate ornament. The decision was
given against the wrestler, but somehow Buttan
got it into his small, hard, Asiatic head that he
had secured a verdict of £25 damages, and he
started to leap. When he had jumped the wit-
ness box and the lawyers’ table, and was on the
point of bounding on to the exalted seat of the
Judge, he was seized by the Law and others, and
held down while a friend explained the situation.
Then Buttan relapsed into the stolid chocolate
ornament again.
XMAS GIFTS ™ —
For DISCRIMINATING BUYERS
Let the Gift be useful, then it’s
good. The Selections at W. E.
Smith’s are the kind of articles
you would be pleased to receive,
and satisfied to give your best
friend. Considering the quali-
ties, the prices are exceedingly
moderate. Your inspection is
invited.
Newest Shapes and Colors in
Ladies’ Leather Bags and Purses,
Travelling Sets, Desks, Leather
Writing Cases, Fountain Pens, and
Office Accessories.
Headquarters for Unique Xmas
Cards, Art Calendars, Pose Cards,
and Greeting Cards.
W. E. SMITH,
Wholesale Manufacturing Stationer, ITirnßn
Printer and Account Book Maker, BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY, and at Newcastle and London.
Public Notices.
WANTED TO BUY.
THE TOBACCO COY. of S.A. LTD., Adelaide,
South Australia, are .. .
Buyers of Cigar and Tobacco Leaf.
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
All good Australians (by either birth or
adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Apply for petition forms to
JOHN B. STEEL, 192 Oastlereagh Street, SYDNEY
Closer Settlement
In Country Lands.
OUR Printed Register, with Map enclosed,
giving particulars of Properties for Sale,
and information as to Population of different
Districts, Rainfall, Means of Transit, Suit-
ability of Soil, etc,, is now ready for
FREE Distribution.
Call or send for Copy.
HARDIE & GORMAN’S
Country Lands Department Office,
133 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE CRESCENT VIBRATOR
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
The Crescent Vibrator is operated
by electricity.
The current can be obtained from
the ordinary electric light switch, or
from a dry battery which we supply.
It is NOT electric treatment —the
electricity is simply the motive power
—the vibrations being produced by
purely mechanical means.
The stimulus imparted to the body
is most pleasant, soothing and health-
giving. It removes congestion —the
CAUSE of disease, and promotes a
full rich flow of blood. A good cir-
culation is the CURE of disease.
Vibrator and Batteries are self-
contained in a portable case, and the
Battery is inexpensive when it requires
renewing.
The Crescent Vibrator gives from
2000 to 20,000 vibrations per minute,
and is therefore infinitely superior to
hand massage.
OSBORN & JERDAN LTD.
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET, R oSW SYDNEY.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 21,
Return to Sydney of MR. JULIUS KNIGHT, supported
by MISS OLA HUMPHREY, and J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY, in the Famous Romantic Play,
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL.
MATINEE PERFORMANCES ONLY Every Afternoon
at 2 of the Musical Dream Plav,
BLUE BELL IN FAIRYLAND.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SVDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON. ■
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 21,
Return to Sydney of the ever-welcome and popular
organisation,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In their Latest and Greatest Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH- SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND.
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d. —To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, lid.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction op Edwin Geacii.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 21,
RETURN OF THE EVER POPULAR
FRANK THORNTON
AND HIS NEW LONDON COMPANY
IN
WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD.
Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Plan at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 21.
CINDERELLA.
WILLIAM ANDERSON and JOHN F. SHERIDAN have
combined to give Sydney playgoers a Mammoth Organisa-
tion, comprising 161 Capable Artists, Comedians, Vocalists
and Dancers, presenting the Favorite of all Fairy Legends.
POPULAR PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, and ONE SHILLING.
Earl}’ Doors, 6d. extra. Booking Fee, Is.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at S.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
Re-opening of the Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ The Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million —6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
MARTIN HENDERSON, the Blind Musician, the
World’s Leading Concertina Soloist.
THE FOUR EUGENES, The Incomparable and Perfect
Aerial Gymnasts.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
LA SYLPIIE, London’s Greatest Lady Dancer.
CLARENCE TISDALE. ERNEST PITCHER.
URBAN BIOSCOPE, showing Weiss v. Roberts
Billiard Match.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicial Artists.
LA MARTINE, Eccentric Dancer, Baton Spinner, Vocalist.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy Artists.
MADAME RHODESIA, Society Lady Juggler.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
TERRY' and BENTLY, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. OS' PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 21,
GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, BERT BARTON,
HARRY PHY T DORA, FLORENCE YOUNG,
MAUDE THORNE, IRENE DILLON.
Box Finn at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
STILL DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn's New and Powerful Co.,
including- lIARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH,
—in—
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
ORINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Lessee : Allan Hamilton.
BONING NIGHT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26,
HERBERT FLEMMING’S
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
In the latest London Success,
THE MUMMY and the HUMMING BIRD
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual.
U#IRTH’S O L Y M P I A
* * Lesse and Manager : Mr. T. J. West.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 21,
THE WORLD-RENOWNED and FAMOUS
WEST’S PICTURES THE B O E P S I LL .
EVERYTHING ENTIRELY NEW.
The LATEST & Most UP*TO-DATE CINEMATOGRAMS,
introducing- Extraordinary Novelties and Surprises in
ANIMATED PHOTOGRAPHY.
Full Military Band. Popular Prices.
Missing- Friends.
Re .TAMES EVANS, late of Echuca, Victoria,
gentleman, deceased.
TN FORMATION is desired by the undersigned
as to the whereabouts of WILLIAM
EVANS, a son of the above-named deceased,
who is supposed to be in'Western Australia, and
is interested under his father’s will.
MITCHELL and MUELLER, Echuca Victoria,
Proctors for the'Executors.
WESTMORE, WILLIAM WESTCOTT,
last heard of in Melbourne in 1892, and
said to have been seen in Sydney May last.
Information of present whereabouts urgently
required, or if dead anybody able to give informa-
tion please communicate with ERNEST N. W.
WESTMORE. c/o Welch. Perrin and Co.,
Melbourne; or BLOSSE R. ARMSTRONG,
Solicitor, 32 Dartmouth Road, Forest Hill,
London, S.E.
ILL!AM F. BROWN, formerly of Liver-
pool, England, who came to Sydney
many years ago, and when last heard of was
residing in Brisbane, Queensland, or any person
having any knowledge of his whereabouts is
requested to communicate with
Messrs. THYNNE & MACARTNEY,
Solicitors,
A.M.P. Chambers, Brisbane,
Queensland.
W. P. HIGGINS.
LMHOULD the*above notice this or any person
Uj> knowing his address kindly communicate
with Mr. C. F. JUCHAN, Murrurundi —re
family matters.
SALISBURY. —If Edward John, Swanwick
Salisbury who was last heard of at Blackall
(Q.) in 1888 will communicate with Messrs.
MORRIS & FLETCHER, Solicitors, Brisbane, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
INFORMATION required as to the where-
abouts of JOHN STRAUSS, if living ; or, if
dead, particulars of death. Strauss was formerly
a bootmaker, residing at Forbes, N.S.W., and
is said to have left there in 1866. Reliable
information and details will be paid for by the
undersigned.
FREDERICK CROMMELIN,
Solicitor,
Grenfell, N.S.W.
HENDERSON.— Will Charles Henderson,
son of James Henderson, formerly of
Glasgow, who died in New Zealand, communicate
with the undersigned to his advantage. The
said Charles Henderson, about sixteen years ago,
was at Numurkah, Victoria. Any persons able to
give information regarding the said Charles
Henderson are requested to kindly communicate
with R. G. C. ROBERTS, Solicitor, 5 Moore
Street, Sydney.
JU
f
m
m
KEEP TO
THE RIGHT
y
1
J !f!
/
i*
l *//
2:
t.
m
s*
ay —O
\
K\
R


* GIFTS FOR XMAS. *
There are only a Few Shopping Days to Xmas. Our Illustrated Catalogue will help you.
Don’t Wait till the last Moment, when Our Showrooms will be so Crowded.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set fine Pearls.
£5. Diamond centre, £7/10/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, pure Silver-plated on White Metal,
richly embossed, 20 /•
Other styles, 5/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SOUNDERS.
9ct Gold Heart and
Dumb-bell LINKS,
12/6.
15ct Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
LET US SEND
YOU OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
WRITE FOR
A COPY NOW.
A. SAUNURKS.
9ct Gold Nugget RING,
2 5/.
15ct Gold, £2.
18ct Gold, £2/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver. Hunting, Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, 25/'.
Higher Grade, 30/, a a/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5, £0/10/,
£7/10/, £10, £12/10/, £15, £20.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Necklets, 15/, 17/6, 20/; cheaper styles,
10/6, 12/6. 15ct gold, 25/, 30/, 40/'. 9ct Gold Muff
Chains, £2/10, £3, £3/10/, £4. Cheaper styles,
£2, £2/5. 15ct gold, £4, £4/10, £5, to £10.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Shield and
Dumb-bell LINKS, 21/-
15ct Gold, 40/. Silver, 4/6.
WE SEND
ALL GOODS
CARRIAGE FREE
TO ANY
ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
WE CAN SERVE
YOU SAFELY
BY MAIL.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3-
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Crescent BROOCH, set pure white Pearls,
£5/10/.
Size larger, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PEGGY-BAGS, Black Morocco Leather, nicely
fitted throughout, 8/6-
Larger, 10/6, 12/6. Other styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT, set fine
white Pearls and Amethysts,
£4/4/.
Set Tourmalines and Pearls,
£5/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH BOX,
hand-engraved, S/(».
Larger, 10/. Other styles,
‘5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety Chain, £2.
Larger, £2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls, £2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold 3-Bird BROOCH, set Pearls, 20/*
A. SAUNDERS.
Cloth or Hat BRUSH, solid Silver, richly embossed,
long white bristles, 77(>.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Please
mention tHis
paper when
ordering.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold NECKLET and PEND-
ANT, set Pearls and Amethysts,
£5/5/-
Pearls and Tourmalins, £5/10/.
Diamonds and Sapphires, £2O.
A. SAUNTERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Diamond, Pearls, and
Rubies, or Sapphires, £3•
15ct Gold, £4/15.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Lily of the Valley Spray BROOCH,
set Pearls, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Buckle BROOCH, fine Pearl-set Buckle,
35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Ebony HAIR-BRUSH, solid Silver Mounts,
extra long, fine, white bristles, 10/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT, set
fine white Pearls, £5/5/.
Set Pearls and Diamond
Centre, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Wishbone PIN md
CHARM, 7/6.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6, io/.
OPEN
FACE,
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewelled, patent adjusted balance, dust-proof
cases, 20/.
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Cheaper Grades, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Heart and Lover’s-knot BROOCH,
set Ruby or Sapphire, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Half-hoop RING, diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3/10/-
5 Diamonds, £5.
■
mmm
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Cross-over RING, set fine, pure,
-double-cut Diamonds, £2O-
All goods
sent
Post Free
to any
Address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN-
PURSE, 10/-
9ct Gold, £2/12/6.
15ct Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure
double-cut Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10, £3. -
5*
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, pure double-cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, £B/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Cluster RING, set fine Diamonds
and Emerald, £7/10-
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent/s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2-
Higher Grade, £2/10, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5.
Gold Cased, £4/4, £5/5, £O/6.
Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sjydney-


SELECTING GIFTS by MAIL
Our Mail Order Department makes it easy to shop from any distance.
No matter where you reside, you are perfectly safe in doing business
witb us by Mail. • • • • Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR,
Silver-Plated, Richly Embossed.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles,, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
FREE CATALOGUE
On t equest we will gladly send
you our Illustrated Catalogue POST
FREE to any address. Write for a
copy. It’s yours for the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Black Morocco Leather,
Silk Lined.
Post 8/6. Free.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S SOLID SILVER PURSE and CARD-CASE,
Handsomely Embossed.
With Solid Silver Extension Frame; size, sin x 3in.
Post £3. Pree.
Other Styles, £2/5/, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/-
FREE CARRIAGE
Our system of FREE CARRIAGE on
all goods to any part of Australasia
means a big saving to you. Goods
packed to ensure tafe delivery.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHAIN PURSE,
Seal Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 12/C, 15/, 17/0, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free.
Other styles,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TAMP DAMPER, Solid Silver.
Crystal Glass Roller.
Post 7/6. Free.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH,
Buckskin, Silver
Shield, Rubber Lined.
Post 4/6. Pree.
)ther styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/.
m
MSB
A. SALiiNDEKS.
TOILET POMADE POT,
Silver Mounted, Cut Glass.
Post 7/6. Free.
Larger, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Silver,
Steel Blade.
Post 3/6. -Free.
Glove Hook, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Finest Quality Bristles, complete in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Post £lO. Eree.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/ 10/, £7/10/, £lO, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWAN PINCUSHION,
Solid Silver, Velvet Top.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
'
bwwwbb®Kl
omc*#
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS THIMBLE,
Steel Lined.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco, Leather Strap PURSE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 8/6. Free.
Other styles, 4/C, 7/6, 8/C, 10/6, 12/0.
il.i
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richly
Embossed, Fine Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free,
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK INKSTAND, Polished Nickel Mounts,
Crystal Glass Bottles, Solid Oak Base,
Post 15/6. Free.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE. Pure Silver Mounts and Sere
Amber Stem.
Post 12/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver Mounted.
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 15/6, 18/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET-BOOK, Black Morocco, Silk Lined,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 12/6. Free.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASS, Rapid Adjustment,
Large Field, with Sling and Case.
Post £2. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH. Solid Nickel. Highly
Burnished, Badger Bristles.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6. 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver,
Embossed Handles, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 6/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER CLOTH OR HAT BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Long Bristles.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
&tres
2~
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S COLLAR STUD BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Pierced Design.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, >/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco Covered,
Silver-plated Mounts.
Post 10/6. Free,
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Write for Price List
end Catalogues
to tHe *Sole Agents,
SOHVId ddll
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability.
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free,
MELBOURNE!
SYDNEY t
ALLAN & CO. PROP., Ltd. W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd
276-8 Collins Street.
338 George Street.
ft ? SOP tells about a man who could
give a skilful imitation of the night-
ingale. One man refused to listen
because, as he said, “I have heard a real
nightingale.” Nobody ever learned much
about the Edison Phonograph by reading
about it. U ntil you have heard the Edison
you do not know the possibilities of a
singing, playing, talking machine.
It may be because the Phonograph is Mr. Edison’s favorite inven-
tion and because it still has his personal attention that it is so good.
-Anyway there is more real amusement in an Edison Phonograph than in
any other device for making the hours pass quickly and pleasantly.
Why not instal one in your home this Christmas ? You have
probably promised yourself that you would buy an Edison Phonograph,
and there’s no time like the present.
Write us, and we will send you a batch of booklets and the name
of your nearest dealer.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia. Ltd..
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Price 10/6 Post Free.
Xmas Gift for a Gentleman Friend
The PLTJM RAZOR is an ideal gift for a
Gentleman Friend—we sold a great number of them
for Gifts last season, and enclose notes or cards
for the giver.
the Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Initials placed on Case of Plum Razors 1/- extra.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 25 Years.
&
WHEN YOU
BUY YOUR BICYCLE
SPECIFY B.S.A. FITTINGS —
Don’t, however, stop at specification—see that your instructions are carried
out—look for the mark of the Piled Rifles on every component part—that,
and that only, is your guarantee. Unscrupulous dealers will probably offer
you “8.5.f1. pattern”—describe the machine built therefrom as “just as good,”
but don’t be misled—there is nothing "just as good”—there may be something
which at first sight looks the same, but test will reveal its inferiority.
We place the mark on every part for your protection—insist on its appearance
every time. The 8.5. H. Handbook will tell you exactly where to look for it
—send for it to-day.
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS CO. LTD.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.


NOUPAYS “BY THE SAP SEA WAVES”
Of in the tricky little Scrub Camps adjoinii lg,
are of only temporary interest if the Kodak
is left behind. Therefore
Taße a KODAK
With You
every time, and perpetuate the pleasant (■
memories. Kodaks are the easiest to carry, >
and the simplest to use of all Cameras. You /
do not require to learn Photography for the
purpose of using them, and you do not need a
dark room in which to develop the pictures*.
u
Everything
is Done in
Daylight.
■
ipsar.*?
--^l'
NgBSRg;
V
«A*f
C\
?•?
C,
,^5SB9^
•; -.-.
/-
t « M
>W2
’Wr
e*/^*
jpßifia
*SS*
m
&
»>.
-*■
..
±TZ
w,
m
&£L
>
_fc
This represents the Kodak, one of the handiest of the
series, giving- pictures x inches
THE NO. 3A or POST-CARD KODAK, Pictures
5}4 x. 3 % inches
Price £5 Postage 1/3.
Price £6 Postage 1/3.
BAKER & ROUSE Proprietary Limited
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR KODAK LIMITED
The Largest Importers and Manufacturers of Photographic Materials in the Commonwealth,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
BILIOUSNESS * HEADACHE REMOVED
THE EFFECTS OF A BAD LIVER.
The brilliant work of Pawlow and his pupils has brought
to light many important facts concerned with the action of
the liver. His investigations go to prove that in many
diseases the battle is lost or won according as the safety-valve
functions of the liver rise and fall. The consequences which
follow liver derangement are very extensive. The symptoms
are pale and sallow complexion, headache, a bitter taste,
coated tongue, depression of spirits, languor, cantankerous
moods, insomnia, loss of appetite, flatulency, acrid eructations,
irregular bowels, usually constipated, and pain between the
shoulder-blades. To a sluggish liver is to be ascribed the
mental deterioration, the loss of memory, and gradual extinc-
tion of the intellectual powers. When liver trouble arises
from any cause take a dessertspoonful of Kutnow’s Powder
in the morning before breakfast. The action of this refresh-
ing corrective is materially hastened by a cup of hot tea
taken about ten minutes after ; in twenty or thirty minutes
the desired effect is attained, and the entire system is
cleansed and invigorated. You can try it free of all cost!
gasHßSegEgg
‘•KUTNOW’S
POWDER.
Hirjchensprung, or Deer Leap
LONDON i
♦I PRAHINCDON ROAO,
The EXPERIENCE of PUBLIC MEN.
A FAMOUS NOVELIST
WRITES :
“ 31 Gatton Road, Bristol,
“ August 14th, 190 G.
“ Dears Sirs, —For a considerable
period I suffered from severe head-
ache and mental depression,' no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary
occupation as a novelist, but I ijiow
always fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent,
which never fails to afford instant
and pleasurable relief. It truly is
amarvellous and efficacious remedy,
and I do not wonder at its enormous
sale. “Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
AN ARMY OFFICER
WRITES :
“104 Seymour Place, W., '
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much plea-
sure in stating that I have derived
much benefit from Kutnow’s Pow-
der, and, after taking four bottles,
am completely cured of abscess on
liver, contracted after a residence
in an Eastern climate of twenty
years. I now take a dose once or
twice weekly, and would not be
without a bottle.
“I am, yours truly,
“C. ANDERSON,
“(General, Retired).”
How to Detect Fraudulent Substitutes.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently cause
irreparable injury. The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is
strongly recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach,
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which
you can obtain at all conscientious chemists throughout the world.
Examine the package (shown in the reduced illustration) and see
that it bears the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow and Co. Ltd.,”
and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap.”
You will then avoid imitations, and know
How to secure Genuine Kutnow's Powder
The British
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“It is gentle, effer-
vescent, and is a very
efficient and agreeable
aperient.”
Prof. I. N. LOVE, M.D.,
i ’
WROTE :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., himself a
sufferer from a gouty diathesis, found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to himself personally and in his practice, and this remedy is
one of the few he conspicuously endorsed over his own signature.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels and
kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a tumblerful of water taken
immediately on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels, acts as
a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no better eliminator
than Kutnow’s Powder.”
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children
and Hygiene, Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.)
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH!
■ i • : , . "y■
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdort Road, London, E.C. „ tt .


FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Bilionsness.
■ 000
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE.—The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
Hypnotism
l Header, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziaess, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ”or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords ma el welcome relief
in a very short time.
S?'
❖
.V
1
K
guarantee
m
r/i
years
8
w
MSS
as
ag
BNHGS
MANUFACTURED BY
THE ATLANTIC REFINING It
C-’
C LEV ELAN D/OHIO.
u. s.a. r
hsi&kk
r*
/ATI
.>
a/4
V
CLEVELAND. O.
Dalgety & Co,
W. D. Moore
Write for Samples and Further Particulars*
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
, Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane & Adelaide; Tasmanian Woolgrowers Agency Co., Launceston, Tas.;
& Co., and Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Fremantle; J. S. Munro & Co., Zeehan, Tas*
Head Office: The Atlantic Refining Co., Melbourne.
The GRANDEST DIVER PIED in the WORLD
“ Take a Cockle’s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS


mm pmmmmmMm
FOR MEN,
WOMEN,
and CHILDREN
Are made with Chrome Soles, they are pliable as rubber, will
wear twice as long as ordinary leather, and the soles will not
come off.
Having Leather Inner Soles, they can be re-soled at a small
cost.
One Pull of the Lace tightens the whole shoe to the foot.
Made in Black, White, Tan and Red, out of Best Material
only, they will outlast any two pairs of ordinary shoes that cost
twice the price. Made also out of Patent and Glace Kid for
Sunday wear. No straps or buckles to pull away, as in
ordinary sandals. As a Lady’s House Shoe, they will last for
years, are noiseless, do not slip at heel, and can be worn
outdoors as well.
For Children, they will save three-fourths of the Boot
and Stocking Bill.
Absolutely the Best and
Cheapest Footwear on the Market.
PRICES—
Sizes 4 to 6
BLACK
3s 6d
4s Od
4s 6d
5s 6d
6s 6d
WHITE OR TAN
3s 9d
4s 6d
4s 9d
5s 9d
6s 9d
„ 7to 10
„ 11 to 1
~ 11 LU 1
„ 2to 7 (Women’s)
„ sto 10 (Men’s)
Smith’s
Patent
4723
'V
\
or/yStine
Sydney
*fe/6
ourne
vAdeintde
HEAP,
OOL,
[OMFORTABLa
,ANO
.DURABLE
(kfitS
V'
v
pits bptf\'
l\ ET
PoCKeT.
For
I SCHOOL &
fIOU DAY wear
YACHTING
*SEASIDE.
Boating,
CYCLING.TENNIS
& HOME USE.
ravan-
All Healthy Children
Sold by ALL BOOT and SHOE STORES.
Over 100,
The
000 Pairs were sold during the past year, & all giving perfect satisfaction.
IF NOT OBTAINABLE FROM YOUR REGULAR DEALER, WRITE DIRECT TO
“ Shoe-ette Proprietary,” Box 663, G.P.0.,
And add SIXPENCE postage. SYDNEY.
\' : >
WE have gone all through our stock and compiled a List of about a hundred suggestions for gifts.
Counting the full range of prices for each article mentioned, the number would be multiplied many
times. Of course there are hundreds of things in our stock which we do not mention here at all,
but thev are ’in most cases, akin to those named, and as you read you will think of them. Read this List
for suggestions, and then come to STEWART DAWSON'S, where quality is assured, and where
price is always moderate.
Gifts for Women
Gold-mounted Hair Combs, 21s.
Gold Bangles, 18s 6d to £25.
Gold Brooches, say 6s 6d to £5O.
Gold Neck Chains, 6s 6d to 50s.
Drop Necklets, £7 to £l4 10s.
Paste Back Combs, 7s 6d up.
Peggy Bags, from 7s 6d to 50s.
Diamond Rings, £5 os to £2O.
Powder •Tiirs, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, to 40s.
Waist Belts in Silver, £2.
Silver Mirrors, 25s to 50s.
Manicure Sets, 21s to £6 6s.
Silver Plated Calendars, 30s.
Jewel Boxes, from 13s 6d to £3 10s.
Silver Photo Frames, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
Cable Bangles, £2 to £2l.
Gold Crosses, 2s 6d, all the way up to £b 10s.
Pearl Necklets, 90s to £25.
Cold Muff Chains, £3 to £lO 10s.
Gold Snake Bangles, £6 6s.
Silver Dorothy Bags, £3 to £7 10s.
Shoe Lift and Button Hook, mease, 6s 6d to 10s bd.
All Silver Salts Bottles, 17s 6d.
Silver and Glass Pin Boxes, 14s 6d.
Silver Hat Pin Stands, 4s 6d.
Hair Tidies, Silver-mounted, 17s 6d.
Sets of Silver Blouse Buttons, 6s to 12s 6d.
Evening-wear Handkerchief Ring, 10s 6d.
Gifts for Men
Tobacco Boxes, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 255, 30s.
Tobacco Pouches, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
If Gold-mounted, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s 6d.
Hair Brushes, 9s 6d, 11s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
Shaving Brushes, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d.
Shaving Tidies, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s.
Silver Note Books, 8s 6d.
Plated Ash Trays, 2s 6d.
Gold Tie Clips, 21s, 22s 6d.
Silver Cigarette Cases, 255, 27s 6d, 355.
Silver Match Boxes, 7s 6d to 255.
Gold Links, 12s 6d to £lO or more.
Silver Card Oases, 18s 6d.
Gold Watch Chains, £3 up.
Shaving Strops, 11s 6d, 14s 6d. 27s 6d.
Shaving Mugs and Brushes, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d.
Stud Boxes, 8s 6d, Satin-lined.
Clothes Brushes, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 355.
Letter Cases, Silver Shields, 12s 6d to 21s.
Silver Cigarette Tube Cases, 14s 6d.
Silver Swan Fountain Pens, 355, 455.
Gold Filled Fountain Pens, 40s, 50s.
Silver Sovereign Purses, 10s 6d, 13s 6d.
Gold Scarf Pins, 13s 6d to £lO.
Gold Collar Studs, 6s 6d to 17s 6d.
Gold-mounted Pendants, 9s 6d to 50s.
Gold Lockets, 20s to £8 10s.
THE- POCKET MANICURE.
Every man and boy who values the appearance of their nails should carry one of thesa To be had in this quality
fom STEWART DAWSON & CO. only. The Pocket Manicure—Nail Cutter, Nail lile, and Nail Cleaner
combined. Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, and good for 20 years’ use. Price, 2s 6d.
BAND COUHLH 'IiLOHce
48 Page
Xmas Catalogue
free on request.
Gifts for Girls
Silver Jap. Bangles, 2s fid.
Silver Geisha Bangles, 6s 6d.
Gold Lace Pins, 5s fid to 10s fid.
Silver Pin Trays, 6s 6d to 10s fid.
Glass and Silver Smelling Salts, 3s fid.
Dainty Trinket Boxes, 4s fid, 7s 6d, 10s fid.
Silver Hair Brushes, 12s fid, 15s 6d.
Silver Combs, 3s fid, 4s to 10s fid.
Gold Safety Pins, 3s fid, 6s fid, 8s fid, 9s fid.
Purses as low as 3s, as high as 40s.
Hat Pins, Is 6d, 2s, 3s, all in Silver.
Plated Waist Belts, 7s 6d, 12s fid, 17s fid.
Leather Belts, choice colors, 9s fid. '
Manicure Sets, 11s fid, 21s, 255, 32s 6d.
Chatelaine Note-Books, 2s.
Silver-plated Trinket Trays, 3s.
Serviette Rings, Is fid, 3s, 4s 6d, up to 12s 6d.
Gold Scarf Pins, 2s 6d, 5s fid, 6s 6d.
Gold Medal Pendants, 10s fid, 15s fid, 21s.
Silver Bangles, plain and heavy, 4s 6d to 5s fid.
Silver Glove Hooks, Is fid to 2s fid.
Silver Book Markers, 3s.
Hymn and Prayer Books in Silver Case, 10s fid.
Catholic Prayer Book, Silver Mounted, 6s 6d.
Gifts for Boys
Silver Watch Chains, 6s fid, 8s fid, 10s 6d.
Silver Pencils, 2s fid, 3s, 4s 6d, ss.
Silver Tie Clips, 2s 6d, 3s.
Serviette Clips, Is, 2s, 3s 6d.
Stud Boxes, 4s fid, 7s fid, 8s 6d.
Strong Silver-plated Serviette Ring, Is fid.
Pocket Knives, Is fid to 5s fid.
Silver Pen-holders, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Silver Links, 3s to ss.
Silver Collar Studs, Is, Is fid.
Leather and Silver Fob Chains, ss.
Gold and Leather Fob Chains, 14s fid.
Silver Fruit Knives, 3s to 6s 6d.
Leather “ Tram Fare ” Purse, Is.
Ebony Hair Brushes, 9s 6d.
Silver-plated Pocket Manicure, 2s 6d.
Silver Medals, 3s 6d to 7s 6d.
Good Watches, 12s fid, 14s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s and 255.
Gold Links, 12s 6d, in 15ct. Gold, £1 ss.


Father Tells of Child’s Suffering
from Eczema—Was in Despair
When Doctors, Infirmary, and
Hospitals Failed —Tried Cut ! cura,
ECZEMA SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY CURED
“I feel I should not be doing my duty
to others if I refrain from telling you
how Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment saved my boy’s life. My boy ig
five years old, and for the last eighteen
months his mother and I have been
worried a great deal, owing to eczema.
I have tried all kinds of remedies for
the boy without any result. Under
doctor’s treatment he seemed to get
worse. I took him to the infirmary
and also to the hospital, without obtain-
ing any benefit. We gave up all hope
of the boy being cured, until we saw
an advertisement of the Cuticura Rem-
edies and the wonderful results that
they had performed, so I determined
to give the Cuticura Remedies a trial.
After the use of one cake Cuticura Soap
and one box Cuticura Ointment the
improvement was marvelous, and after
using another oake of Cuticura Soap
and one box Cuticura Ointment he was
thoroughly cured, and still remains so.
I cannot speak too highly of the won-
derful cure by the Cuticura Remedies.
You are at liberty to use this testimonial
for the good of other sufferers. W. Salter
Postman, 18, Waverley St., Baptist
Mills, Bristol, April 2, 1906.”
ITCHING TORTURES
m
Speedily Cured
by Cuticura.
A warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and a
single application of
Cuticura Ointment, the
great Skin Cure, will
afford immediate relief,
permit rest and sleep,
and point to a speedy
cure of the most dis-
tressing forms of tor-
turing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
tetters, rashes, itchings, and irritations
of infants, children, and adults when all
other remedies and even physicians fail.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Rills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
&Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug'and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
oar Post-free. Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
The Bushman.
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA—
Lever
14/6.
Watch
14/6.
'pH IS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas, We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is, a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can hare the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
DUNKliNG, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
T11HE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
115,000
The WaybacK Series.
Australia laughed ! ! !
and keeps laughing.
No. 3.
Red Harry 1s.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Next Annual Distribution of Surplus,
as at 31st DECEMBER, 1907.
Every Participating- Policy taken out previous
to the CLOSE OF THIS YEAR will share in
the profits to be then divided.
Over £654,°00 distributed in Cash Bonuses for the year 1906,. representing considerably
more than a third of the total premiums received during the year. Bonusks Declared b i This Society Larger than
those of any other Life Office. TOTAL CASH BONUSES divided to endiof 1906, £12,888,262.
Now is the time to effect an assurance, or a further assurance, on your life in order to reap the benefit of this year’s
Bonus. Policies can be secured for any sum up to £lO,OOO. Write at once for full particulars to the Head Office:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or any District Office or Agent of the Society
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker DeDutv-Chairman • Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon.F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.TJames Burns X"’ James O
Pairfax, Esq. Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. ’ 1 ’
Sydney, 21st November, 190/. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Lady’s Smart Glace
Oxford Kid Shoe,
One of the finest shoes at present on the
market. For comfort in walking it is un-
equalled, and in appearance extremely
stylish. Fitted with the up-to-date Cuban
heel, and three-quarters goloshed, its price
is only 18/6. Postage in Victoria 9d. extra ;
to any other State 1/-
W. LEEMINQ,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 1 and 3 Errol Street, North
Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
Bootmaker to His Excellency the Governor-General.
THE VERY BEST XMAS GIFT r, THE ”
COLUMBIA GRAPH-o-phone.
Such a
Gift
would
bo a
LASTING
source
of
amuse-
ment
for
them.
—
Send for
FREE
Cylinder
and Disc
Machine
Catalogue
“ B.”
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO* GEN'L,
STREET, SYDNEY. London,
Berlin, Milan, St. Petersburg.
The Perfect Breakfast
The breakfast problem is solved with PLASMON
COCOA and a bowl of delicious, steaming
PLASMON OATS. You get the best cocoa
and the best oats, increased tenfold in dietetic
value by the PLASMON mixed with them.
nfj
The taste is delightful; your appetite is stimulated, and you make a
good meal; a meal that is good for you, because it upbuilds you,
strengthens you, fits you for a good day’s work. You get nothing but
nourishment from PLASMON Oats, because they are free from husks, j
WHAT PLASMON IS;
PLASMON is the best part of
the best milk, in the form of a
tasteless powder. It can be
added to any food. It enriches
the nutritive value tenfold, and
makes all food more digestible.
U is the mainstay of health.
Ask your grocer for
Plasmon Cocoa
or Chocolate
Plasmon Oats
Plasmon Biscuits
Etc-, etc., etc.
\ JkJ
m
1357
TRADE MARK
By Appointment to
H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince
of Wales.
By appointment to
H.M. The King of
Spain and
H.M. The King of
Portugal.
SALT
“The
substances
S THE LANCET ” of March 16th, 1907, says:—
definite proportion of phosphates in CEREBOS SALT adds v
of DISTINCT DIETETIC IMPORTANCE.”
Agents—Harrison <sr» Attwood, Sydney.
Canada’s Immigrants.
“ W.” writes :
In the last eight months, according to cabled statistics,
216,865 immigrants went into Canada. In the 1906-7 year
there were 250,000 ; in 1905-6, 189,064 : in 1904-5,146,266 ;
in 1903-4, 130,331 ; in 1902-3, 128,364; and in 1901-2,
67,379. Apparently for 1907-8 there are going to be four
times as many as there were six years earlier. And the
London Daily News makes this a text for a sermon which
“ vehemently assails Australia for having failed to realise
that population is the basic note of great, enduring
States.” But something else besides mere numbers must
be reckoned when Canada’s vast increases of population
come to be considered. An immense proportion of the
increase is brought by a European syndicate, which
receives £1 per head for every immigrant which it
is able to induce to leave for Canada, and the
result is that the quality of the new population
is steadily deteriorating. The United States, which
still attracts immigrants in a vastly greater num-
ber than Canada does, have lately found that they are
recruiting their people more and more from the less
virile and more illiterate Eastern European races, and
less and less from the superior Western Europeans. In
1882 the United States received —from Western Europe,
563,174 ; from Southern and Eastern Europe, 83,637. In
1905 the numbers were—Western Europe, 215,863 ; S. and
E., 808,856. There was an enormous falling off in the
better class, and an enormous increase in the worse class,
of new citizens. Canada is beginning to share the same
experience. Of its 250,000 immigrants for 1906-7, only
91,263 were British and Irish, and the remainder were a
very miscellaneous lot. Last May, a big batch of Galician
immigrants arrived at Winnipeg clothed in sheepskins.
A sheepskin may be a cosy sort of dress, and suited to the
climate of the frosty Dominion ; but if too many of the
sheepskin variety of immigrant come into a country
the danger is that the people already there may
have their wages forced down to the sheepskin level.
One of Canada’s immigrant colonies is filled by the
notorious Russian Doukhobors—the crazy religious vege-
tarians who periodically abandon their farms and march
to Winnipeg to convert the world. They went in a body
in 1902 ; and in 1905 they went forth naked, and had to
be arrested and gaoled until their reason returned. Their
last outbreak was in July, 1907, when 50 men, women and
children set out to find a country “ where the sun always
shone, and work was unnecessary.” Jesus was leading
them there ; and, meantime, they lived on wild straw-
berries and such bread and onions as they could beg'.
Does anybody want Australia to be stocked with lunatics
like these? Moreover, it was recently asserted (London
Times, August 30) that there were 8000 Japanese in British
Columbia, and that 2500 more were “ expected within a
few months.” A single steamer, the Monteagle, brought
900 Hindus to British Columbia in September, and two
other steamers were “ due shortly ” with more black
citizens. The population of Canada increased by
li million in six years; but what a piebald
increase it was! The leader of the Canadian Oppo-
sition, Mr. R. L. Borden, is now campaigning on a
good democratic platform, which includes the more
effective public control of railways and similar monopolies
(the Pacific Railway practically runs Canada), the
nationalisation of telegraphs and telephones, the diversion
of unearned increment in land value from private lauds,
and a more effective promotion of home industries bj 7
Protection ; and this programme has as its first plank a
more careful selection of the sources from, which immi-
grants shall be sought, a more rigid inspection of immi-
grants, and the abolition of the bonus system except in
very special circumstances and for the purpose of obtain-
ing particularly desirable classes of settlers. In fact,
Canada begins to fear that it is becoming a dumping-
ground for “citizens” who will be bad workmen, cutters
of wages, and corrupt electors. There is no “ basic note
of great endurance” in that sort of person. Canada
is regularly held up before Australia as a State to
be envied because its people are increasing so
rapidly. The lesson to this continent is something
different. The immigrants whom we want are not
the riff-raff whom we can obtain at £1 a head, but the
sturdy Europeans of the Nortli and West, who will be
attracted by our conditions of life and la.bor. Unlock,
by taxation, the lands that the grabbers have monopo-
lised ; make Australian workshops boom by a Protective
tariff ; and then the pick of the world will want to come
here. What we are looking for in Europe is its best, not
its worst ; and Canada, like the rest of America, seems to
be getting a dangerous quantity of the bad along with
the good.
And, apropos of this, the new Canadian Immi-
gration Act, passed last year, is now in full
operation. It is built on the lines of the
Australian and American laws, but appears to
be a lot more stringent than either of them.
And yet the English papers quote the prin-
cipal provisions without either favorable or un-
favorable comment. Tlie Act, amongst other
things, shuts out the following :
(1) The feeble-minded, idiots, epileptics, insane, or
those who have been insane within five years, the deaf-
and-dumb, dumb, blind, or infirm (unless the infirm one
comes with a family which gives solid security for his
support).
(2) Those with a loathsome or dangerous disease.
(3) Paupers, beggars, vagrants, people who are likely
to become a public charge, criminals, and prostitutes.
If a prohibited person gets ashore, he may be shot
out any time within two years afterwards. The
Cape Colony Act is stricter still. It has, in ad-
dition to most of the Canadian provisions, prac-
tically the same education test as we have ; and
in addition to all the rest nobody is allowed to
land unless he has at least £2O on him. Yet there
has been no yell, either in Canada or Cape
Colony, of outraged anguish such as our Tory
politicians and press raised here when our Act
was passed. It seems as if Australia has the mis-
fortune to possess a unique brand of Stinking-Fish
—something peculiarly its own, as is the platypus.
A few specimens might be trapped and preserved
for future reference.
A Typical Misrepresentative Australian.
Quaint fact it is, but indubitable, that the send-
ing of G. Reid to London as High Commissioner
is being canvassed with much hopeful enthusiasm
in importing circles just now. There is no one
anti-Australians would rather see represent Aus-
tralia abroad. And with good reason. G. Reid
has stood always stoutly for their cause. He
was the main exploiter of the “Hatters”
lie, which did more, during its cur-
rency, to head off desirable immigrants
from these shores than the Big Drought; also
he was the politician who for party ends did not
scruple to paint Australians as murderous people
with a mania for pushing ship-wrecked mariners
over cliffs; and later he helped the yarn, now
blazoning to Australia’s detriment in the British
and American papers, that a sovereign will purchase
locally only 15s. worth of goods. That G. Reid has
bottled his venom against tariff and democratic
legislation in the last two months is condoned
by the majority of his supporters. Recognisedly
it were foolish on his part, while the appointment
hangs in the balance, to alienate Labor or Protec-
tionist sympathy. It’s a depressing circumstance
—because insulting to their collective intelligence
—that Nationalists are understood to be blind to
manoeuvres of that sort. Primarily any Australian
Commissioner will need to be Australian in
spirit; he must be at one with the general trend
of feeling throughout the Commonwealth ; and
he must have the confidence of the bulk
of the people in the country on whose behalf he
speaks. It is a noticeable circumstance in con-
nection with G. Reid that he fulfils none of these
conditions. He is a belated Freetrader in a
land which is mostly Protectionist; a State-
Frighter amidst Nationalists; the leader (and
the discredited and distrusted leader at that) of the
forlorn Anti-Sosh band which is regarded through-
out the Commonwealth as a mild joke. G. Reid as
Australia’s London representative would be about
as humorous as J. Neild as Commonwealth Com-
mander-in-Chief.


An Ideal Xmas Gift.
Gigaret
Manufactured in LONDON by ARDATH TOBACCO CO.
FOR DISCRIMINATING
SMOKERS
No. 555
(Standard Grade)
Astorias
(Billiard Room Size)
No. 999
(Extra Quality)
Sold Everywhere,
ZEISS
Prism Field Glasses
with enhanced stereoscopic effect.
New Models * or Army-Marine-Travel-Sport-Stalking,
X 6, £6. XB, £6 10s. Xl2, £9 ss. X 6, Stalking, £7 10s.
Ocular distance.
Enlarged objective distance.
(^ARLZEjs!}
1 JEN A)
Brilliant Definition
Extensive Field
The recognised Features of the Zeiss Prism Field Glasses:
Great Light Intensity
EVEechanical Precision
embodied in the new models in a higher degree.
Stability
Tropics-proof
caRL ZEiss
JENA
Special prospectus gratis and post free.
CARL ZEISS, LONDON W.
JENA.
Obtainable from all Opticians, and from
29 Margaret Street, Regent Street.
CO
I I I
tarin
LU
BRONCHITIS
CURE
Tin© Famous Remedy fox*
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, «fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where " Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. JNo house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
* :
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
THe
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £2O,
Gr Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BLICH £.lO <a £.12.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374. GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a :
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below-
Marmjacturedby BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co-,
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by:
G. E. CRANE & SONS Ltd., /
Sydney. /
JOHN SANDERSON & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne. /
GEORGE WILLS & Co., /
Brisbane. /
r^AVVjI
? n of)
linn
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEYS MEDICATORcures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’ treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-USTeW
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. Thb Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.


Shipping..
LUND’S BLUEJNCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Atnd Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mm, bourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bonkers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59.000 0 0
Interminable ueposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial ||)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hf,ad Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Beui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOT' T, CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. i,
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
♦
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
||)oiit deplete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE*
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. i.n Australia*
Directors—Sydney: Hon, A,. W. M: v ss, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.),.Sir John See,. 1L0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq.,. J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne H.on. P. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; Joint Grice, Eeq.;
lion. J. M. I’ratc, M.L.C.; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES UOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“ ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
Jj “ Bust book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
Shipping.
UXT. 33. Ij.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
MAN ILA Hth FEBRUARY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 10th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Rogal Bank of Queensland
TIMITKI)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve F(JND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
„ £710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
3t BODGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
10 Brunches in Queenslcind. Agents und Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to sail about 24th December.
MEDIC, to sail about 22nd January.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€6N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
*MILTIADES . lA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Jan. 4
MORAVIAN .. |A. Simpson .. Noon. Jan. 31
*MARATHON .■| N. Allan .. ..I Noon. Feb. 26
* Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
/
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, FHiLP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
The Magnificent New Twin-Screw Steamer
M ARAM A
leaves Sydney, March 16; Brisbane, March 18.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streeb, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
A MIRACLE OF CHEAPNESS
MAGAZINE CAMERA
And Photo Outfit
Complete with Chemicals, Dry Plate, Print*
ing Frame and Book of Instructions.
2/6 the Lot -Only 2/6
and we pay carriage.
PHOTOGRAPHY i>
A one of the most
fascinating: hobbies,
but hitherto the cost
of the apparatus and
the trouble of manag-
ing it have kept many
from indulging in the
art. Now, however,
with a Quarter-Plate
Magazine Camera and
Outfit of chemicals to
be had for the mar-
vellously low price of
2s. 6d., photography
may be adopted by
anyone. What can be
more interesting than
taking portraits of
your friends, views of
places you visit, pic-
tures of all kinds and
snap-shot* of quaint event* and curious characters? The
lens is of good quality, the plate carrier exposes one plate
after another without risk of failure, and the time and instan-
taneous shutter is very simple and reliable. The outfit in-
cludes Developing and Fixing Chemicals, Dry Plate and
Book of Instructions, fully explaining how to use the
Camera, how to take pictures, how to develop, nx, print, tone
and mount, also directions for enlarging ana bromide work.
Having purchased at auction at far less than cost prices
the entire stock of an importer, we can sell these goods at
this hitherto unheard of figure. There are onlv about one
hundred Printing Frames, and these will he given free with
the first one hundred orders ; you should, therefore, not
delay. Send 2s. 6d. at once by postal note of any State to
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can bin' for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth,
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBI NS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHil Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
. the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
fIEORGE HOTEL,
<St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Business Announcements.
GET RICH QUICK.
RODS
—For Locating MINES)
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps,
Edw. NORTON. 64 Hunter Street. SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
i: m
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, klO, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
Publications.
Translated French Novels (Some Illustrated).
Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue Free on receipt of 2£d. (letter postage),
A. DE SAILLE, 20 Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
Shipping.
T HEA DEL AID E STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral! an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. /
S. S. Yongala, Friday,
December 20.
S.S. Grantala. Saturday,
January 4.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norlh to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, Dec. 21.
S.S. Yonjjala, Dec. 28.
Jiest and Cheapest ltoate to (loldllelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES j^ARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 pjtt Street.
F.—H. —S.
F ederal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“ ESSEX ”
11,000 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 21st December
» >, ~ Melbourne ~ 25th December
» ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 30th December
FOR
London &, Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stew ardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL} 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking- passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 12 noon, SATURDAY,
December 21.
PEREGRINE, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, December 28.
BOMBALA, 12 noon, SATURDAY,
January 4.
BURRUMBEET, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, December 31.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY. December 21.
KONOOWAURA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, December 24.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 28.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WH ARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 170 S.
Business Announcements.
lIII^BIIIIIIIIIIIIBBIIIIIIHHIIIMBIIIIIIIHIIIIMIIIIHHIIIIIIMIIHiiiiiniIIBWiiiiniini
Dalli
For Household Use To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
be used anywhere. Non-Inflummabie fuel
without noxious fumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dallinette
(A Smaller «Dalli.”)
For light work and travelling only.
For general household work use the “Dalli.”
Having a larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked by:
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.


Absorbing natural history item from.
l T!, SK number
beast, or rather a numoer gha a we ll-fed banana,
with on’^pair” of wiigs of the moth family, and a subsi-
with one pair oi Of h Qf the brand affected by the
diar> brac ®> “" )h , ck beetle. Most of these birds are
”some°o them mot so" They seem to be harmless,
but disp ay a “Jimmie Pannikin 11 disposition when
writer’s pen. The female insect (it might be
the male for all I know) wears a couple of dainty aigrets,
2Mn long in its hair. The male is afflicted with the
Methody face, as per Norman Lindsay, which it vvears-
the not Norman— immediately m front of its com-
Mned anatomy, the same being made up, for the most
part, of body and legs. Aboliars will doubtless have
met these" creatures whilst sitting on the gates in the
“West of Beyond,” but they are apparently unknown
here, for on showing them to a local naturalist, he said,
after a close inspection, “ Cripes ! ” (This is Benallese for
“ something unique.”) They fly in flocks, numbering from
one hundred to one, but always in the same direction—
viz., two points east of south. If they meet an obstacle in
their flight] they will not deviate from their line, but will
rise till they go over it, be it bush, tree, building,
telegraph-pble Or elothes-prop. The engineer on the
works here computes their rate of flight at about one
mile an hour, and, after calculating the number of
trees, hills and other obstructions between Benalla
and the sea, reckons they Will reach the coast in
time to see the first Australian-made cruiser steam round.
The question is : Are these a new pest ? Or, if not, what
are they? It they fly continually in one direction, how
do they provide for the propagation of their species ? Do
they lay their eggs further south and send them round by
train, or what ? It strikes me as forcibly as one of Jimpan’s
anathemas that they are something new, and require the
earnest attention of our prominent Abo. experts.
“Cornstalk”: How’s this for a neat
dodge ? A stockowner, in a small way up North,
determined to down a pastoralist in the local shire
class for best 2-tooth merino ewe, so he fattened
up a fine-looking 4-toother, had a dentist remove
the extra teeth, entered the veteran in the 2-tootli
section, and won the prize. .
“Philo”: “Aimee” is mistaken in
quoting Blayney (N.S.W.)as the bleakest town on
any line. Oberon is. Oberon is an insignificant
township somewhere on the top of the Blue
Mountains, and all the cold draughts in the world
amalgamate there. “ Aimee ’’ reckons that Blay-
ney doesn’t know how cold it could be because it
hasn’t really tried yet. Blayney is no sport, any-
how. Oberon couldn’t possibly be any colder
than it is, but it is always endeavoring to be
colder than it can be, and to enhance its reputa-
tion by adding a fraction of a freeze to its own
record. And occasionally it succeeds.
I
m
3
*
a
If
are
yo\i
thirsty
*
try
«r
glass
&
of
*
©
LIME
JUICE.
“ MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes t and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS'-'
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Linte Juice Cordial.
READ, MARK, LEMN
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG
HOW
NOT TO
GROW
OLD.
TWAIN’S
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role played by the
GREAT HUMORIST. But ordinary men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire lo retain their youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOCKYER'S
HAIR
RESTORER
In bottles 1/6, of all chemists and stores.
Fascinating ! Delighting t
MIFIIBTO
THE SPINNING SPOOL
The Game that has taken the World by Storm
PLAYED SINGLY OB IN PAIRS, BY CLUBS OR TEAMS
GAMES AND MATCHES AND TOURNAMENTS
EXCELLENT SPORT FOR PICNICS & PARTIES
•• Do you know, (
; Have played
foil, but I bad
t much more
difficult to ex-
prew my true ,
feeling* about
thi* game of—
ahem ' Bee lie- 1
bub." i
Mephisto is a game that for some
months past has been “all the
rage" in England, and throughout
Europe and America, among all
classes of people Anyone can play I
it It needs no previous know-
ledge, yet it produces experts with
wonderful skill, whose performances
cause the most eager emulation,
that not only gratifies the players,
but excites and delights the on-
lookers. Meph>9to has spread with
amazing rapidity through all parts
of England. Europe and America
THE EXPERT
Its devotees are found in the circles of the nobilitv as
well as among the rank and file of the people; all are
Mephisto-bewitched, in the Old World and the New the
spell-binding fascination of the game is absorbingly potent.
As usual, we are first in the field. We have just
received an advance shipment of the Game, which con
sists of a polished and decorated cone or bobbin and two
polished wands, with a smooth and flexible cord, of excellent appear
ance, strong and serviceable. The price, with full printed directions
(or playing, is enly 1/0 BOS- Set, carriage paid to any address,
or Two Sets for 3/- Order at once, and be the first in your
neighbourhood to play Mephisto The •demand will be enormous; send
.jt ot you may be disappointed
Th* Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
, ' . - UViWcflled for the ebmplexion. . -7 /
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALOPERMA-JELLY * KALOPERMA-POWPER
■
ir
m
m
a .
U’‘Wm
* %
m
Karlsruhe
bole Agents i
LOHMANN & CO.,
'Melbourne A Sydney,
Qf all Chemists. Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Go sure you get WOLFF'S,
&
(238)
A Gift of an
Oil Engine
is one that would be appreciated by
anyone requiring power.
An “ 1.H.C.” Gasoline Engine will
—as compared to a kerosene engine-
save in fuel cost alone, and in less than
four years use, enough to cover its
entire purchase price
It will thus return to its owner in
daily installments its entire first cost,
and make itself literally “a gift.”
After it has paid for Itself by its
saving In fuel It will go on for years
paying dividends on a capital that has
long since been returned to the investor
It Is literally true that were you to be ottered
on the one condition that you use it FULL. PRICE FOR AN “1.1 1. c."
MONEY BY DECLINING THE GIFT AND PAYING FULL PRICE FOR AIN
GASOLINE.
_ 2 -“ ; “
weeks of 48 hours.
An “ 1.H.C,” engine STARTS IN 20 SECONDS.
An “ 1.H.C.” once started literally requires no attention tor at least tour hours.
Owing to its burning a cleaner tuel, and - 1.H.C.” requires much less time
to keep clean than does a kerosene engine.
We are PREPARED TO PROVE to you every word of the foregoing if granted
an opportunity.
We make far more explosive engines than any other concern in the
WORLD. . _
The price of the “1.H.C.” is no greater than the price of a kerosene eng n ,
and the terms are the most favorable ever offered.
We have these engines coming forward literally “by the hundred” yet
nearly all are sold prior to their arrival.
Persons likely to require during 1908 explosive engines in units from 2
to 20 Brake Horse Power should place orders now and avoid disappointment.
New Catalogue ready December 10th, 1907—yours for the asking.
Remember that “The Man behind
the Qun” Is Important principally
because he CONTROLS POWER.
Get an “ 1.H.C.” Gasoline engine,
control power and add to your
Importance and profits.
International Harvester
Company of America
(inoobpohated)
Roma Street, Brisbane ; 37 Broadway, Sydney;
345 Bourke St. Melbourne; Bank St. Adelaide;
York St. Launceston.
And at Christchurch and Dunedin, N.Z.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
s
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by C hemists, etc., everywhere.


SULPHUR
BITTERS
IT—WjLL drive the humor from
your system, and make your skin
clean and smooth. Those Pimples and
Blotches which mar your beauty are
caused by IMPURE BLOOD.
They can be removed In a short
time, if you are wise and use the
great blood purifier, Sulphur Bitters,
TRY A BOTTLE TO-DAY.
“Why suffer with Boils ? Why rave
with that terrible Headache ? Why
lay and toss on that bed of pain
with RHEUMATISM? Use Sul-
phur Bitters. They will cure you
! where all others fail. The dose is
Bmall—only a teaspoonful. TRY JI
and you will be satisfied. The young,
the aged and tottering are soon made
well by its use. Itemember what
Jrou read here, it may save your life,
t has SAVED HUNDREDS.
If you are suffering from Kidney
Disease, and wish to live to old age,
use Sulphur Bitters. They never'fail
to cure. Get it of your Druggist.
DON'T WAIT. CET IT AT ONCE.
Sulphur Bitters will cure Liver
Complaint. Don’t be discouraged;
IT WILL CURE YOU.
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
A bundant hair
grows out of
loose,
pliable,
fleshy
scalps.
Baldheads
have tight, dry, thin scalps.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
nourishes starved scalps. It re-
builds them the same as good
food rebuilds the body.
Nourish the source from which
your hair grows. Build up
your scalp with Tri-coph-erous.
Be sure you get Barry’s.
Renter’s Seap Cures Blackheads
PATERNOSTER’S
M PILLS BM
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
WHY DRUGS FAIL
AND ELECTRICITY CURES I
DRUGS cure acute diseases because the latter are of poisonous origin,
and the poison in drugs counteracts or neutralizes the poison
in the body. They fail to cure chronic diseases
or make strength, as you who have tried them know. Chronic
ailments are caused by depletion of the nerve tissues, lack of recreation,
of fresh air and of exercise, the non-assimilation of food, and often by
excesses in eating, drinking and numerous other excesses and violations
of the laws of Nature which result in weakness of the various organs.
It goes without saying that the taking of poison into the body will not, cannot
cure these conditions, for poisons do not give nourishment.
What must be the means of cure? It certainly must be something which
replaces and reinstates the lost or wasted vitality. It must be a natural element of
the body, not an unnatural one. No one will claim that poisons are natural elements
of the human body, for it revolts every time they are taken. An experience of
more than twenty years with drugs and Electricity has convinced us that
Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will replace and renew lost energy
and vitality. Thousands of grateful letters from cured people tell us that drugs
failed to cure, and that Electricity, as given by the new improved
Dr. McLAUGHLIN S ELECTRIC BELT
*
is the only successful means of cure. These people will tell you they have been cured by our Belt of Weak-
ne s, Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Stomach Troubles, and Liver and Kidney
Ailments after spending large sums ot money fruitlessly in drugs and other treatments. Electricity cured them by
exercising the relaxed nerves, muscles and organs and putting back into them the ,element which was lost, and which
is the foundation of strength. . . . Ours are the original and standard,Electric Belts of Australasia, and our
price is as low ; S £1 in many cases
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your inus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you/ postpaid, our new te'ree BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel j
liKe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
THE McLAUGNLIN CO., >
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlcrcagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY, j
Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McfUUCHLIN CO.,
i Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
• j \
Name ;
Address
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The Immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
nave ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got come from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
tolds. The othicr bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my hjusband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
t
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of tho Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
v/ondorful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new*lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“ Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that J am—that ‘ Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A, B. PEDEN,Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.” .
M. M'CALLUjM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For cate by leading Chemists and Storekeaporc. Retail price, 1/G. *lf your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get tltcm for you. tf not obtainable locally (
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Kcarne, Uherflist, Geeiong, Victoria.
NOTICE.—The materials in FROOTOIDS are. of the VERY BEST QUALITY and consist,
amongst other ingredients, of the active principle of each of FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS
and ROOTS, so combined and proportioned in a particular way that a far BETTER resuit is
obtained than from an ordinary aperient. • - / *


09
Zam-Buk Soap
brings out . . .
the Skin’s . . .
Natural Health
and Beauty . .
20 Drake Street, Freeman’s Bay,
Auckland, N.Z.
Dear Sirs,—l wish to convey to you the
great benefit I derived from the use of
Zam-Buk Soap. My face was very rough
and skin blotchy, but after using the sample
sent me, and one cake of soap, my skin was
wonderfully clear and soft. It is the only
soap that ever proved beneficial to me, and
I shall be always grateful for having re-
ceived a sample of your valuable soap.
Miss E. A. HARROD.
With its regular use
Skin Chafings, irrita-
tions, Rash, Pimples,
Blotches, and other
Skin Affections are en-
tirely prevented. It is
a powerful germicide
and antiseptic. .
Cold in dainty tablets and boxes by
TCSE ZAM-BUK MFC, CO-,
1
»' \\\ \>\WWw
vr .u.
UL
72 \* %&
To&*K
4>
II
\
7
/ill i
i
CIS'
1
fiummiTi)'
Zam-Buk Soap
gives new Life
and Vitality . .
to the Skin’s .
Functions . . .
Meade Street, Exeter,
S. Australia.
Dear Sirs,—l have used Zam-Buk Soap
ever since I received a sample, and if
people only knew the great merits of your
beautiful soap, I am sure they would use
no other. I have tried almost every other
soap but have found none to equal it. It
not only softens and cleanses the skin, but
entirely prevents skin affections, and I can
recommend it as a real beneficial soap.
Mbs. H. TRAEGER.
Each application im-
proves the health, purity
and texture of the skin.
Zam-Buk Soap purifies
and acts as a Natural
Tonic for the Hair and
Scalp. . . ... .
Chemists, Stores, or post free from
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Westralian timber merchants engaged in the
sandalwood export trade are fearful lest the Chinese re-
form movement, now going strong at Singapore and
thereabouts, should spread to China. It is the custom
of the Chinese to burn sandalwood to gratify the spirits
of their ancestors, but the Chows of Singapore have
decided to save the money and let their ancestors scratch
for themselves. Should the great aggregate Chow decide to
do likewise, the sandalwood export trade will be almost
ruined. This wood is also employed for making boxes,
and for coffins for affluent Johns, but that won’t keep the
business going. #
A journalist recently took a tour through the
Maoriland Mercantile and Bankruptcy Gazette, and was
astounded to find that, in spiteof the Advances toSettlers
Office, farmers were borrowing sums as low as £l7 at 20
per cent, interest, while for furniture loans nothing less
than 20 per cent, w'as even considered. In some cases the
rate soared above that, but 20 per cent, seems to be
regarded by the Christian Gentleman whose object is to
Aid and not to Squash as a fair thing And now sundry
newspapers are remarking that the only e ®® ct .'J e Yf'LL
suppress the usurer is to gaol the brute. The ideais v y
simple. Fix a maximum interest rate by law, and tor
every pound taken in interest above the maximum let t le
shark do a week in prison. And if he tries to dodge the
law by calling the extra interest b nus, or by purchasing
the goods and selling or hiring them back to the borrower,
let him still do a week in prison for each £, and seven
days solitary for his ingenuity. #
Pericles and Lycurgus, of the green peas and
icecream barrow, are having a bad time with the Bure
Foods Act (Vic.). They have received a circular stating that
Icecream must not have more than 14,000 000 micro,
organisms to the cubic millimetre, or words to that
effect. “Me give' uppa de icecreams. No time to
counts, and de micker-organisimo—l do not know him it
I see him." ~
“Quartpot,” from Ingham (Q.) : The C.S.R.
Co. runs this district. The Ingham Council, having got
into trouble some years back, handed over the tram to
Lucinda Point, under a slipshod agreement by which the
co. carries passengers and mails for nothing, the council
collecting fares from passengers. Co., however, refuses
to wait for mails at Lucinda, and on a recent Monday
evening, although it was known that the mail-boat would
arrive from Townsville at 7 p.m., the tram left at 5.30
p.m. so about 20 passengers had to “doss” for the night.
Mails did not reach Ingham till mid-day on Tuesday, the
result being that places outside were delayed a week in
their correspondence. Some time back the council moved
to get control of the line again, but the Octopus was too
strong, and the movement fell through. The postal
authorities should certainly take steps now'. Kates for
goods are very high, and discontent is general, but the
growl is very low, for the Monster has long eais and
sharp claw's. » * *
From the land of Monkey tricks : “There are
dark days ahead in Japan, and the Japs are not going the
right way to light them. Their one idea is to get money,
and get it quickly ; consequently, some of the goods they
are sending abroad are rubbish, which may' take in a
customer once, but not twice. A short time ago a Japan-
ese firm unloaded a tremendous amount of J. and B.
Coats’ ’ cotton on the Chinese. When the Chows came to
use the pirated stuff they found that the reels were solid
bits of wood with about 12ft. of cotton on them . This is
only one instance among a thousand. The latest case is
an infringement of Chambers’ trade mark—the Japs have
been turning out Chambers’ school books wholesale.
* * * *
The Union Steamship Co. intends to be the
first down south co. to own a “turret” cargo-ship. An
occasional one or two of these craft have crept into Aus-
tralian ports, and they haven’t improved the shipping
landscape. The upper part of them is built very much
after the ordinary pattern ; but at or about water-level
they bulge out, so that their holds are almost globular—
“turret’’-shaped, in fact. On account of these wings,
their decks are feet away from the wharf. They are slow
but steady, cheap to build, and their stowage capacity is
enormous —about twice as much as you would it to
be, looking at the part of the ship that stands out above
the water. # #
The fish agents of Sydney have their own ideas
about the law of supply and demand. If the public gets
cheap fish to-day, the agents say, it will probably want
cheap fish to-morrow ; so they would rather pour a sur-
plus down the nearest drain than let the public have the
food at a reduced price. A while ago there was a very big
haul of small mullet in the Harbor, and 100 baskets were
landed at Woolloomooloo Bay wharf; but when the fisher-
men interviewed the agents the latter said they liaa
their usual supply on hand, and refused even to send
carts to take the surplus into cold storage. Most of that
catch had therefore to be either thrown back into the
Harbor or given away around the jetty.
* * * *
“ Philo ” : Saw a bumptious joker neatly taken
down by a Sydney tram-conductor. He boarded the tram
with a friend at'King-street, and, handing up a shilling,
requested the conductor to take for two. When asked
how far he desired to go, he replied ‘ To hell, and
winked extravagantly to his companion. The conductor
handed him two fourpenny tickets and fourpence change.
“These are not what 1 want,” said the funny man.
“ Well, we only go as far as Botany,” replied the matter-
of-fact conductor, and went on collecting' fares. The
ruined humorist alighted at the Haymarket.
“ Trag.” : Just came back after spending a real
good time in one of the outlying districts attached to
Newcastle. There I dispensed mixtures, pills and
powders for a local medico. I came across some hard-
faced, good-natured people in this part—which has been
the case in all the mining towns I have visited. Patients
who called on the doctor were ordered to bring a
bottle, in case the medico should prescribe a liquid.
Some came on spec without the bottle, expecting pills.
Those persons usually got an empty from Bung in the
same street, for 3d. The people in the little township
drink medicine like whisky. One day, the doctor said to
me, “ Always give them something.” It was hard to kill
some of them. Well or ill, they all came along. They nearly
all asked for cough mixtures, or something strong. In
nine cases out of ten they would bring along a whisky,
brandy or sauce bottle, to carry away their remedy. On
one occasion, I gave a big buxom lady a mixture in
appearance much like water. Before leaving, sue
reckoned it was not like the original. Next day,
she called and told me she had by accident
broken the bottle, and asked for something like the
original. She reckoned what she got from the last dis-
penser would cure any pain if taken in large quantities.
I concocted something* with the sparkle and color of
<r o od whisky. Siie smiled, thanked me, and often
called again. Something, to warm the palate, I found,
was in most cases a certain cure. There was a big de-
mand for headache powders, and clients took large doses of
cough mixtures as sleeping draughts. Liniments they
usually wanted in large quantities. They often asked me
to put an extra dose of ammonia in. Everything had to
be full strength and far above normal. I never neglected
to tell them to rub it well in, and to keep the bottle well
corked. Some day I shall again call at this dispensary',
just to inquire if the people are still going strong and
rubbing the stuff in hard.
* * * *
“ Polstan ” : It’s a trick of some grain mer-
chants to fault a number of bags of grain in a consign-
ment on account of alleged bad condition of the sacks.
The pirate re-bags the grain in sound, second-hand bags,
and charges the vendor with labor and cost of new sacks,
and keeps the old bags. Any sack that will carry wheat
will make a good chaff bag, and a dozen would be worth
3s 6d. Sometimes a victim kicks, and demands the old
sacks back. When that happens the pirate sends along
a dignified reply to the effect that it isn’t customary to
return the rejects. Mostly the victim subsides, although
if he knew enough to blot himself when he gets wet, he
w'ould threaten proceedings. Then the merchant-shark,
rather than have his profitable little side-show exposed,
would disgorge in a fearful hurry'.
* * * *
“Nomad”: I’m an insurance agent. The
other evening I was bailed up by one of those no-license
chaps. He knows me pretty well, and being evidently
enthused right up to the sticking point, opened fire with
“ Say ! are you going to vote no license ! Well, 1
said, “I hardly know. To tell the truth I m not very
much interested in the matter.” “What? he shrieked.
“Not interested in thousands of homes being wrecked _
thousands of wives and children starving— thousands—
I saw right here that I was in for it, and proceeded to
strike the first blow. “Yes, old man,” I interrupted, lam
interested in those very matters. No man worth calling a
man should stand by and see homes wrecked and women
and children starving. Now, how old are you ?
three,” said the no-licenser, wondenngly. Well, said
I, “ it would cost you under £2O a year to insure tor
£lOOO, to be drawn when you’re too old to graft, or for
vour wife and children if you go under before that. Now
I know you’re not insured, and leaving out the thousands
of homes belonging to other people that are being
wrecked, and the thousands of other people’s wives and
children who are starving, just you insure yourself and
look after your own little lot first. What ? Too busy
just now' to save your wife from starvation ? Well, pop
in any time you’re passing, and we can have a chat over
that no-license. Good night.” He hasn’t popped yet.
I don’t think he will pop. Yet I want to insure that
man.
“ G. 8.” : One firm, which was not in a moder-
ately recent financial smash, got in out of the wet because
the boss’s raffish son paid more attention to private
theatricals than to business. Years ago the firm did a
good deal of business with the person who is financially
gone, and the old man had the faintest possible suspicion
that all was not as it seemed with his customer. He
mentioned this to his raffish son, who was thinking
vacantly of dogs and ballet girls while he yawned in the
face of some simple mechanical work that the office-kid
might have accomplished. The son said he would find
out something about the position, and the old man
scoffed ; he had found out many things about his son,
but his son had never been known to find out
anything save girls. Nevertheless, the doggy youth
presented his father, a few weeks later, with a memo of
the exact size of the customer’s overdraft, and on the
strength of that the old man cautiously got from under.
And the son says that he would have got the memo much
sooner, only he waited for a specially gloomy day so that
his get-up as old Smith, peering into the ledger-keeper’s
den at the Bank of Jerusalem and asking how his account
stood, might not have to endure too close a scrutiny.
* » * *
“Sr”: Such a nice young lady called at our
place, the other day, and left a book for me to read. As
it wasn’t washing day, I read it. It was entitled, “ Saved
from Dishonor.” It was worse than pickled melodrama.
It was crowded with murders, suicides, and accidents,
and every second page was red with human blood, same
as the snow at Hohenlinden after the furious Frank and
fiery Hun had left off. It ended with a chapter wherein
the heroine was about to be unjustly hanged, and, at the
psychological moment when the hangman had tied the rope
round the alabaster interference between her head and her
shoulders, and was about to ring' the door-bell of Heaven,
the chapter abruptly ended with (“ For the continuation
of this thrilling story purchase the full instalments from
our traveller ”). Father had the frontispiece for his shav-
ingf paper, I wrapped up some sandwiches with the
last chapter (the sandwiches went bad), and the remaining
murders lit the morning fire. About a week later the nice
vounglady again called. Had I read the paper? Yes. Would
I buy the 58 other instalments at 3d. each, and obtain
coupons in their cash prize system, and find out what
happened to the heroine. No. “ Will you kindly return
my book? ” she next asked. I went inside and didn t find
the book, of course. The way that young lady went on
was a caution. Next day, a bell-toppered, be-frocked
male came and threatened law and police and gaol ana
insecticide and aggravated dog-tax if I didn t give the
book back, and said the easiest way out of the difficulty
was to purchase the series. I didn’t and I m not in gaol
yet. Is this another dodge employed by the people who
publish these threepenny “dreadfuls” to get on their
musty stock? For my own part, I hope the heroine was
hanged and is suspended even unto this day.
* * * *
THE RULING PASSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O’Fizz is as silent
A man as you’d meet,
A man you’d not note
As he went up the street;
His trousers are frayed,
And his coat shabby-grey,
And you’d never believe
He has Prospects to-day ;
But wait till you whisper
Of Copper a while,
And you’ll find that he’s just
On the verge of a Pile.
M'Thirst is a Scot
Who is certainly dense
In the densest of ways,
Though he’s keen on the pence ;
There’s no reason to think
He has aught in his head,
For his talk is inane
Till you try him with Lead ;
Then there glistens a light
In his dull eye of blue,
And there’s a fortune
Awaiting him too !
And Ward is a Yank
Who is getting quite old,
And who’s fond of a cocktail
To keep out the cold ;
His cheek is of parchment,
He’s fleshless and thin,
But he almost grows portly
If once you say “ Tin ! ”
And you’ll find he has Riches
Galore in his view,
And he’s just a few rods
Behind Rockefeller too!
Appearances mostly
Are prone to deceive ;
It is sad to mistrust,
It is sweet to believe ;
If Delusion is riding
My poor fellow-man,
I pity his folly,
And smile —as I can —
For you see I’m a bit of
A Croesus myself,
If Silver goes up I’ll
Have millions in pelf!
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.
THE WILD CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sunset time at “ Dingo Diggin’s ”
(Felisferox generis)!
And I stood on Mother Higgins’
Pub verandah, wrapt in bliss. t
Ruby-red the sun was lying
On a ragged mountain peak.
“ It’s the blooming dust a-flying,”
Ventured Micky from the creek.
All the barren plain was flooded
With a wealth of liquid gold ;
Yea, the very hills were studded.
Gemmed with treasuries untold.
And I turned around, ecstatic,
To the oldest r#sident-
(How he lived was problematic,
Where he lived was in a tent).
“ See,” I cried, “ yon golden glories 1 ”
But he spat, and turned to town,
And remarked, with several “ gories
“ Blarst the stuff ; it don’t go down ! ”
VON KOTZE.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N..V. W.
SVje LEADING
HOUSE ->*
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
ail parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
CANT
BEAT
Our SPECIAL SNAP
mmmmm
wwiui
Best Selected SilKworm Out. Hand Polished.
The “RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d. ; l’adron No. 2,14 in., 9d. ; Padron No. 1,16 in., Is 3d; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
N°. 328 Sparrow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—•
5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 21/6 each
5x15, do. do. 26/-ea.
5 x 20, do. do. 31/6 ea.
5 x 25, do. do. 38/6 ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 42/ ea.
No. 329— Bat Folding- Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
Bridles
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
H9IISF,, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Sd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book 0/ Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, ll s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all' Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS F REE I 1 ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, imt about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOV'S,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, ‘2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. Frf.ncii
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No HVlatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pp- Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush So.no,s, is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clou Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Eovk and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all '.Agrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Sd
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvashk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
is the great face cream
that is making so
many English com-
plexions clear and
beautiful.
A year ago Oatine was unknown in Eng-
and, now it is used by every woman who
values a good complexion.
Merit alone has built up its enormous popu-
larity. Oatine is a pure face cream, cooling
and refreshing, free from animal fat and
dangerous minerals. It removes the dust
and dirt that soap and water cannot reach
from the pores, and keeps the skin soft,
delicate and clear. It does not grow hair.
Being made from fresh pure oats, heat does
not cause it to go bad.
It is the ideal face cream for Australians,
and will enable any woman to keep a fresh
clear complexion in the dry Australian
climate. Men uso it after shaving.
In jars f/9, or large size, four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained ax all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
druggists.
Grocers and
Hardware
Sealers,
among whom aro
Sydney— Anthony Hordern & Sons: Elliott Bros., Ltd..
O’Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O'Connell St.;
Washing. H. Soul Pattenson & Co., 2fiB, Pitt St.;
Australian Drug Co., O’ConneP St.; Sayers Allport
fronrietary, O’Connell St.: S. Hoffnung & Co.. Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co., Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., D.S.A’
DYSON’S “Faot’ry ’Ands,” 4s. (jd. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONLY.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World S
1
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
d. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng:.
U/ye BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET 0? TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
== Britisl)-Jfustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper,
bio fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
in
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabric for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CCX,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Sole Agents in N.S.W.), 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
ASK YGTO CHEMIST
rSo MaskrcMS
cum
V
FAT PEOPLE!
Thousands go on suffering, carrying from
two to eight stone weight in superfluous fat,
wearing out their vitality, and at all times
liable to death from heart-failure and fatty
degeneration, needlessly undergoing all this
unsafe inconvenience and hardship when
“ FATCURE”
safelv, permanently and without any ill or unpleasant after-effects, reduces fat by as
much as five pounds a week. In every case the general health benefits marvellously as the
result of the treatment. Thousands are using “Fatcure” with gratifying results.
Obtain full particulars at once. “Fatcure” is not a patent medicine, and contains
no poisonous or deleterious ingredients. The fat, once reduced by this method, does
not return. This is the only method of reducing fat that is absolutely non-injunous.
TOTAL LOSS, OVER SEVEN STONE.
Manager, Watworth Co. . , , , Swan Creek, Q Id.
Dear Sir. When I began to use your treatment some months ago I weighed 18 stone. During the first
13 days I lost 15 pounds, and in the first month I had lost 22 pounds. During the first three months I lost
three stone eight pounds, and since then have been reduced to normal.
My health is better now that lam no longer fat. Yours truly, Mrs. McCLURE.
Send us a 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE SAMPLE ,
Write to us enclosing 2d. stamp, and let us send you—under sealed cover and free from prying eyes—a
Free Sample of “ Fatcure,” and our Free Booklet, which carefully explains our method. Do not delay.
Our treatment in all cases is sent in plain wrappers so that contents are unknovm.
If convenient, call for Free Sample and Consultation. HOURS : 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
THE WATWORTH CO., SUITE J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
The Night-Relief.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAVE you never heard the Night-Relief
Marching along the lonely coasts—
Waves that mourn for mermaids’ grief,
Their pathway crossed by pallid ghosts ?
At every port, with a challenge deep.
They take and they leave a squadron white
To guard the bars while the steamers sleep,
To keep them safe from the waves of night.
At all the ports are the White Patrols,
And the Night-Relief must make the rounds,
Where the channel-bell on a sandbank tolls ;
Where the hills drop sheer to the silent sounds,
Have you never heard the Night-Relief
Its tramping march—its challenge brief ?
'Neath the quiet moon the White Patrols
Have swaggered and swung along the bar
That lies between the wide-set moles,
Where the drowsy, crimson port lights are.
There is never a breeze since the sun went down.
Seaward away the sea is glass,
With only a ripple towards the town
Where the tugs that toil in the darkness pass;
No wavelets beat on the silver sand.
Ashore there is scarce a fluttering leaf.
Till a slow wind blows on the heated land,
Bringing the sound of the Night-Relief,
Marching in harness black and green,
To ask of the guards what they have seen.
The White Patrols that challenge them
Hear the countersign, and reply
“ Never was such a diadem
On the brows of night as burns in the sky.
Scarcely a sound have we heard since dusk,
Nor has aught stirred since long ago
When a black-fish blew with a scent of musk,
And a whistle, such as the steamers blow.” . . .
The sentries change, and the new-set guard
Are warned to remember the thing they saw
As they marched along—a ship held hard
Struggling still, in the Night Waves’ maw ;
Then the Night-Relief, with a last “ goodnight,”
Leaves the port to the watchmen white.
A gale has blown since the hour of noon,
And now that the cloak of night has come
In the streets of the quiet town, leaf-strewn,
Are only men who hurry home ;
But out on the bar a dreadful fight
Is raging between Night Waves that leap
And the cheery, sturdy watchmen white
Who drive them back with swinging sweep—
Parrying lunge and reckless charge
With valor born of their firm belief
That somewhere out on the ocean’s marge
Is coming the welcome Night-Relief—
All black and green their strong ranks roll
To double the ranks of the White Patrol.
Have you never heard the Night-Relief
Marching along the silent coasts,
When there’s scarce a breeze to stir a leaf
Of the creepers on the verandah-posts?
There’s never a silver shoulder-strap,
Or a band of gold in their grim array ;
No drums to clatter, and throb, and tap—
No bugles blown as they march away,
On their rounds to relieve the White Patrols.
Hear the challenge 1 The gruff reply !
The channel-bell at its moorings tolls,
Rocked in their wash as they swagger by.
Marching in harness black and green,
To ask of the guards what they have seen.
MAORIIiAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury.
HELEN LEIGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN ancient Canterbury, the Canterbury of horse-
back and waggonette, the traveller from
Christchurch toiled the best part of three
days across the wilderness of wind-swept plains
that lies beyond Rakaia before a curve in the road
led round a terrace and showed the woodlands
and green fields of Rangihape Station nestling in
a basin of the hills. It was a beautiful sight, and
on eyes made weary with a journey across that
howling wilderness it burst like a gleam of
Heaven suddenly revealed. So the Leigh family
changed the original name, which had been that
of some out-of-the-way English village, to Rangi-
hape, which, being translated, means “ The
Heavens Opened.”
The fringe of forest that had once grown
over the terrace on which the homestead stood
had supplied the timber for the station buildings,
the homestead itself, and also the posts for miles
and miles of fencing. When it was exhausted
from a timber-yielding point of view it was a
vast park, in which the masses of convolvuli
climbing over trees and shrubs made ideal shelter
for sheep.
The family consisted of the old people, two
daughters, Helen and Geraldine, and Roland and
the twins, Arthur and Harold, mere children.
Old man Leigh grew suddenly tired. He had
founded the place, built a fine homestead, stocked
it with first-class sheep and cattle; and he became
so obsessed with admiration of his own handiwork
that he could only sit, with a tobacco-jar on his
left hand and a cask of home-brew on his right,
and admire it.
So Roland Leigh came home in a hurry from
the college at Christchurch, where he was finishing
his education, and started out to manage the place
in his father’s stead. He learned amazingly, and
in two years was considered a smart pastoralist,
and in five years he was the most scientific squat-
ter among them all.
Lie had imported a scientist to teach him
chemistry, and study with him the relationship
between soil and fine wool. Also, he had im-
ported quite a little colony of European gover-
nesses to educate his sisters, and those two
beautiful girls had grown up on the Rangihape
Station, with the wonderful health and vitality
that belongs to the first generation on those
breezy plains, and with all the accomplishments
that are taught in the best seminaries of England
or France.
Roland Leigh was an ambitious young man.
He went on piling up the acres and the bank
account, but, unlike many of the squattocracy,
every acre of land that he grabbed he treated
scientifically to make it carry more and more
sheep. Roland used to boast openly that his
object was to make his family the wealthiest
in all Maoriland, and, perhaps, if a bachelor
Governor came in place of Hori Grey, to marry
one of the girls to him. As for himself, he
intended to become a great statesman and devise
some means of turning the rivers that rolled
through Canterbury to the generation of power,
so that in the long run, when the squatters and
their sheep stations bad passed away, as he held
they must pass, Canterbury would be the manu-
facturing centre of the southern hemisphere.
The squatters to whom he expressed these
views used to smile and inquire who was going
to wipe them out. They could not pass unless
someone pushed them. “We are the neo-
Barons,” said Greville of The Wilderness, and
when Otago and the North swamp us in the
House, we’ll vote with the rifle, and this land
will remain ours and our children’s for ever.”
“Well, the Barons of England w'ere stronger
than we, and somebody pushed them over the edge
of the board, or they fell over, or something. Any-
how, where are they now ? ”
“Well, some of them are here,” said Master-
ton, waving his hand round the lawn at Rangi-
hape, where the tennis tournament was in full
blast.
“ This insane feudal craze will be our ruin, you
see if it isn’t ! ” snorted Leigh of Rangilmpe.
* * * *
The homestead at The Oaks was rocking in the
wild nor’-wester that was blowing away cornfields,
rooting up plantations, and overturning churches
(the nor’-west wind in Canterbury is always pecu-
liarly destructive on churches) when Mrs. Collier,
as she watched her beautiful trees crashing down
in the moonlight, suddenly gasped at the sight of
a lady riding up the carriage-drive. The girl
clung to the pommel, and swayed in the saddle,
and looked as though she were in the last stages
of exhaustion.
“ It looks like Helen Leigh, but she’d never
ride all this way by herself, and through a nor’-
wester, too.” _ 0
Mr. Collier hurried out, and catching the girl
in his arms as she tried to dismount, half-carried,
half-dragged her inside.
‘ ‘ Give me shelter. Roland has turned me out! ”
“ Oh, this is too ridiculous ! He can’t turn
you out. It is as much your place as it is his.”
“ But he threatens to shoot me, and, in his
present state of mind, he would do it. I’d have
stayed, and called out the men, and fought him,
but Geraldine howled, and begged me to go ; so I
threw myself on Saladin, and galloped away.
I’m sorry now ; at least half the hands would have
followed me, and the shooting would not have
been all on one side ! ”
“That’s more ridiculous than the other
absurdity,” said Mr. Collier. “ I’ll ride across to
Rangihape to-morrow and talk sense to Roland.”
“ No, don’t do that. I’ll stay here a week,
and if in that time he doesn’t write or show his
hand, I’ll go back and talk sense to him in a way
he cannot ignore,” said the dark-haired, brown-
eyed Helen, her thin, exquisitely-chiselled features
quivering with passion.
‘ ‘ Well, dear, you come and have something to
eat now —they’ve laid it in the morning-room. I
never thought Roland would have made such a
fuss.”
“ Says it has wrecked all his ambitions —seems
he wanted to marry us to a Governor, so he said ;
and besides, he says it will be thrown at him
when he enters Parliament.”
“ Oh, rubbish ! What does a gentleman want
in Parliament anyhow ? It’s a dreadful waste of
time.”
With the dawning came Roland Leigh to take
his sister home, on condition she would disclose
the name of the man. Helen was adamant, and
announced her intention of returning to Rangihape
in spite of Roland. Roland made fearsome
threats. Helen laughed.
“ It’s no good talking like that, Rangihape,”
said Collier. “ She’s your own sister, and is just
as full of fight as you are. I feel certain that if
you stick out she'll try to force her way in. She
says half your people would follow her.”
“ They would, too, if it came to a row ; but it
won’t. I’m not fool enough to let it go so far.”
“ Well, give in gracefully while you may. Why,
you're acting as though we were shopkeepers, or
some such scum. Damn it, have some reason,
and come in and have breakfast. Much damage
done on the road ? ”
“All right—yes, the country’s blown away.”
In six years time, but for the presence of little
Esmeralda, Helen’s lache would have been for-
gotten ; but she resolutely refused to part with
her child, and was not ashamed of her. And she
had no reason to be ; for the child was more
beautiful than the mother—and that was saying
much.
The squatters had no objection to a love-child,
and the presence of Esmeralda in the world and
at Rangihape did not prevent Helen receiving
offers of marriage from various squatters. All
these offers she refused with quiet determination.
Then they wove romances around her. She
was devoted to the father of her child, but he was
a married man, and she had vowed to wait for
him, unwed, at Rangihape till he should be free
to claim her. But no one could give the slightest
indication of whom this well-beloved individual
might be.
The Hon. Westby Valentyne, who had
accepted the position of Surveyor-General of the
Provincial District of Canterbury, was bound to
be, if he lived long enough, a full-blown earl.
Just at the time Esmeralda was five years old he
arrived at Rangihape while superintending the
geodetic survey of the Provincial District.
Esmeralda was staying with friends beyond the
Rangitata. So during the three weeks that he
stayed at Rangihape and became hopelessly
infatuated with Helen Leigh, he never understood
that the Esmeralda they talked of unceasingly was
Helen’s daughter.
One day he asked Roland’s permission to pay
his addresses to his host’s sister, and received it as
a matter of course. But when he asked Helen to
(Continued on next page.)


STOP
“Every
Picture
Tells u
Story J*
The easiest time, the right time, the only safe time to pro-
tect yourself against fatal kidney complications is when
the first sign appears, for kidney complaint comes on un-
noticed, and it is bound to end fatally if neglected. Take
no risks with your health, but begin with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills at the first sign of anything wrong. Doan’s
Pills are a special medicine and a sure cure for every dis-
order of the kidneys or connective system.
Sydney Women Cured.
ARTARMON.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road,
Artarmon, Sydney, says :—“lsuffered
for a long time with severe pains in my
back. They were so bad that I could
scarcely move about. Rest was out of
the question. I would be tossing about
all night, moaning with the pain. I
could not bend my back, and I had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill,
and would be confined to bed for days at
a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised as a cure for backache,
and got a box. After a few doses I got
relief, and then gradually I got better,
until I was quite cured. There is no
doubt about it being a cure, for it is two
years since I stopped taking the pills,
and I’ve not had the backache all that
time.”
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says “ I can
strongly recommend Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for curing pains in the
small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it
was difficult to move about at all. I
blame sitting too close at work for
causing the trouble. The pills effected
a permanent cure, for there is no sign
of the ailment now.
Mrs. Lawson makes a second state-
ment four years later:—“ The above is
quite true, and time has proved that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills not
only cure, but cure permanently.
There would be less suffering in the
world if people only knew the value of
this remedy.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling
Street, Sydney, says:—“My mother
suffered with severe pains across the
back, and in her legs. For six months
she was very bad, and some days
would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did
her no good. We saw Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, and
thought we would get some and give
them a trial. After taking the first
half-box, we knew they were good, for
she felt a little better, and from that
on the improvement was marked, and
eight boxes completed the cure. She
is now splendid, and can get about
easily. It is twelve months since her
cure, and during that time she has not
needed to take a single pill. We feel
sure that she is cured for good.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney, says:—“l used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for aches
and pains in the limbs, which I fancied
were caused by kidney trouble. The
pains had troubled me for years, defy-
ing all treatment. I found it very
difficult to get up and down stairs, and
fits of giddiness, which often came over
me, made it more distressing. Some-
times I would be laid up. Soon after
I started using Doan’s Pills relief came,
and when I had taken six boxes the
aches and pains and giddiness had dis-
appeared.”
Three years later, when asked about
her cure, Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I
am still quite well; none of the dis-
tressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or -will be posted on receipt of price by
FOSTER-McIiFLLAN CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\
marry him she turned her dream-like face away,
and refused.
He took it very quietly, and rode away into
the fastnesses of the Southern Alps for six weeks ;
then he called in at Rangihape again and had a
chat with Roland.
Roland Leigh’s great weakness was that he
could do anything rather than fail. The prospect
of marrying his sister Helen to the man who
would one day be Earl of Humber brought out
his weakness in its worst form. It was such a
splendid opportunity to retrieve the disaster of
six years ago.
The Hon. Valentyne proposed, and —as usual—
was coldly rejected by Helen. But Valentyne
was sufficiently man of the world to know that,
although she refused to marry him, the girl was in
love with him.
He had a yarn with Roland, and again rode
away into the fastnesses of the Southern Alps for
six weeks. In that time Roland deceived his
sister with a tale that he had explained about
Esmeralda to Valentyne, and he had agreed that,
providing she would marry him at once and give
him six months to accustom himself to the idea of
Esmeralda, he would adopt the child as his own.
But for the time her name was not to be men-
tioned. And Helen consented. His offer to
adopt the little girl as his own had won her heart
right over.
* * * *
That wedding was the most gorgeous show
Canterbury had ever seen. The Wool Barons
were there in all their pomp and their strength,
and Rangihape could not accommodate them, so
tents were erected in the great park. There were
coursing matches, several days of shooting, Cale-
donian sports, and horse racing. At nights there
were Chinese lanterns, torchlight processions, and
music. On the day of the wedding Helen walked
over a rose-strewn path to the little station church,
built of gray boulders ; and when she drove away
on her honeymoon three hundred mounted men
fired a royal salute, and a guard of honor saw her
safely out of the county.
Alter her honeymoon was over, she went to live
in Christchurch. A strange change came over
Roland Leigh. He became frighttully irritable,
and whenever he left the homestead, if only for a
few hours, his first question on his return was :
“ Any word from Helen, Geraldine?”
Geraldine grew worried. Why did her brother
always ask for news—did he expect bad news?
But his manner was so grim that she dared not
ask him. The only person towards whom he had
not changed for the worse was little Esmeralda,
who was broken-hearted at her mother’s depar-
ture, and was fretting herself to a shadow.
Down at an old out-station, close to the ter-
races of the roaring Rangitata, was a ruined
garden with wild strawberries in it. The previous
year Esmeralda’s birthday picnic had been held
among the flowering kowbi groves behind the old
out-station, and she and her mother had wan-
dered into the desolate garden and found those
wild strawberries. And now the little girl re-
membered those strawberries, and desired them.
* * * *
The waggonette rolled clear of the plantations,
and sped down the Main North Road to where
the track branched off to the old out-station.
Esmeralda saw a cloud of dust approaching.
“ I wonder if it is anybody with a letter from
my mamma ? ” she said wistfully.
“ We’ll wait and see, darling,” said Roland,
pulling the horses off on to the tussock beside the
road, where he let them graze.
The cloud of dust came closer. It was evi-
dently a hired vehicle of some sort, and must
have come a considerable distance. There were
no vehicles for hire round that part of the country.
Esmeralda, standing up on the seat, holding on
to her uncle’s head, suddenly broke out with a
shriek of delight:
“Oh, uncle, it’s my mamma—it’s my mamma!”
As the vehicle drew up, he sprang from the
waggonette with Esmeralda in his arms.
“ Oh, mamma, have you come back to me ? ”
said Esmeralda, with a sob.
“ Yes, darling, and never to leave you again,”
said Helen, hugging her frantically.
“ So, Roland, you lied to me. That man
knew nothing of Esmeralda, and, when I men-
tioned her, he thought that I had gone mad. So
I told him of her, and he raved. He called me
names, Roland ; and he called Esmeralda a
name. I rushed for a pistol, but he had gone.
I took a hammer, and I pounded every bit of
jewellery he had given me to fragments. I
smashed the great opal portrait of myself in my
wedding dress ; and I wrecked the silver toilet
articles, and the Chippendale furniture in my
boudoir, that he gave me for my own. I tore to
fragments the dresses that were paid for with his
accursed money, and came home in not one gar-
ment he had ever seen me in. And I’ll kill him
if he comes here after that name he called
Esmeralda. And it’s all your fault, Roland —just
because you didn’t tell the truth.”
And Roland Leigh went down on his knees to
his sister, and begged for forgiveness.
West by Valentyne rode up to the back gate of
Rangihape Station the next evening. He put his
horse into the loose-box himself, and then walked
up through the kitchen-garden, across the tennis
lawn, where he met the most beautiful child he
had ever set eyes on.
“Is your name Esmeralda?” he said, gently.
“Yes, I am Miss Esmeralda,” said the little
lady, affably.
He picked her up in his arms and kissed her.
Esmeralda was not accustomed to this sort of
tiling, and struggled.
“Oh, you can’t get away from me,” said the
man pleasantly, carrying her towards the front
carriage drive, presumably on his way to the front
door. But the poor child thought he was going
to carry her away down the drive, and shrieked
for her mother.
Helen heard the cry. She saw the man with
her daughter in his arms, and she recognised her
husband. She swept out, grasping in her hand a
little pistol. When he met her eyes sullen anger
blazed up within him, and he spoke harshly.
“Put my child down,” said Plelen. “How
dare you ? ”
The Hon. Valentyne laughed aharsh, ugly laugh.
“ What do you mean by making me a public
show ? How dare you break up my home and
walk out of it, leaving me to be a laughing-stock !
How dare you, you vile woman ! As for Esmer-
alda, I’m ”
Bang !
The Hon. Valentyne lurched forward, his arms
tossed up, his head back between his shoulders.
* * * *
Canterbury was paralysed, and wondered, in a
dazed sort of manner, what would happen next.
At least one woman had been hanged in the colony
for killing her husband, but she was not a lady of
the Canterbury squattocracy. Still, the Hon.
Westby Valentyne was too big a man to be killed
with impunity, and, although the Law usually
allowed the Wool Barons to settle their own legal
squabbles in their own peculiar fashion, it was felt
that something was sure to happen.
The Law never faltered. It sent a detective
with two mounted troopers to arrest Helen Valen-
tyne on a charge that she did feloniously kill and
slay, etc., etc.
The hungry eyes of the police party had just
been gladdened by the sight of Rangihape,
nestling in the arms of the mountains, when it
was confronted by an armed party, under a tall,
burly man, whose check knickerbocker suit,
silver-plated bit and stirrups, and gold-mounted
hunting crop, proclaimed him the squatter. He
ordered them out of the county at once.
“ You don’t seem to understand, sir,” said the
officer, “ that I have the Queen’s warrant.”
* ‘ If you bring the Queen's warrant to Rangi-
hape I’ll bury it with you in the glacier up in the
gorge there ! ” said the squatter, waving towards
Mount Somers.
“ You don’t mean to say you defy the Queen’s
warrant ? ”
“ I do—you will have to storm Rangihape
homestead before you arrest the Hon. Mrs.
Valentyne ! Every man on the place will die
with me before you do that. These are some of
them. Ask them.”
The officer looked inquiringly at the men.
“ You bet your life,” they snorted.
“ How many men like these can you put up,
Mr. Leigh ? ”
“Just as many as it requires to protect my
sister. You see all this was my fault, and I’m in
honor bound to protect her from the results of my
action.”
“Well, sir, I admire your spirit, but kindly
allow me to point out the uselessness of it. Sup-
posing you have all the district behind you—well,
you’ll be declared rebels, and Governor Grey will
try first with the local forces ; and if you defy
all the rest of Maoriland, behind the Governor,
my dear sir, looms up the armed force of the
British Empire. Be reasonable, Mr. Leigh.”
“ Well, come what may, I fight to a finish.”
‘ ‘ Any good waiting a few days to see if you
change your mind, sir ? ”
“ No, none whatever !”
* * * *
Three attempts to storm Rangihape homestead
by the mounted police had been repulsed, and
there were dead men scattered among the shingle
ridges. Hori Grey was hurrying from the North,
and a proclamation declared all who aided and
abetted Roland Leigh to be rebels, and threatened
death and confiscation. Then the squattocracy
fell away, and left Rangihape to fight his own
battle. He had tried to make a dash to the sea-
coast, but had been driven back into the Rangi-
tata gorge, where a pitched fight had resulted in
somewhere about a score of men, mostly troopers,
being killed and wounded. After that Roland
fell back on his homestead, preparatory to taking
up an impregnable position among the fastnesses
of the Alps. Then Helen Valentyne did some-
thing. Tired of the slaughter, and realising the
hopelessness of the struggle, she tried to treat
with the Law. She offered to surrender if her
brother were pardoned. The Law would make
no such compromise. She must surrender uncon-
ditionally, and trust to the Law’s mercy. Secretly
she saddled Saladin herself, and leaving a note
for her brother, stole out and galloped off to the
Police Camp, and gave herself up unconditionally.
The astounded police saddled up, and made off with
their prisoner through the sunset that filled the
Rangitata gorge with tints of purple and gold.
Darkness fell upon them while they still struggled
through the shingle and between the groves of
sweet-scented cabbage trees. They camped in a
patch of yellow-blooming kowhi to wait for the
moon.
It came at nine o’clock, and with it the tramp-
ling of many horses. From the shingle-bars in
front and behind burst a spluttering fire, and in
five minutes the police hadn’t a horse left.
“ Will you surrender the lady ? ” a voice called
through the roar of the swirling waters and the
crash of rolling boulders.
“No, damn you !” shouted the angry officer
in charge.
Again the spluttering fire, and the police, lying
on their faces among the kowhi trees, saw the gray
ring of the squatters and their men, creeping from
shingle-ridge to shingle-ridge, closing in for a final
volley. Although the police were trapped they were
in the best position, and those squatters were evi-
dently in a desperate hurry. Perhaps, even then,
Hori Grey was coming with his veterans, and the
police lay still and shot coolly and effectively, till
that ring widened out again.
At last the moon went down behind the mighty
terrace, and gloom filled the gorge. The roar of
the river and the grinding of the rolling boulders
drowned all sound of steps among the shingle,
but the attacking force could be seen by the light
of the stars drawing closer.
Then there was a sudden rush. Shots rang out,
and the police, forming close, poured in a volley.
The squatters recoiled, and did not charge again.
Far down the river-bed strange lights were Hash-
ing, and as the dawn broke suddenly in the east
the squatters streamed away up the sheep track
that scaled the northern terrace, and vanished into
the tussock. Then across the shingle that
gleamed like silver in the rosy morning light rode
Governor Grey and his mounted riflemen. On
the top of that impregnable northern terrace a few
scattered horsemen watched his arrival, and then
vanished. The Governor’s party collected the
dead—the squatters had carried off their wounded.
Roland Leigh’s body, riddled with Snider
bullets, lay at the edge of the clump of kowhi,
where he had fallen while leading that desperate
charge. And it was all so unnecessary, for a jury
acquitted Helen Leigh on the ground that the
pistol went off by accident.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


‘‘Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S % arsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Aver's Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will icket; C °When'"you
of our colored and high art Post v‘m f >r vour trouble any present
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and wc wm sen ■ ..ohtiiniio"- the sale
you may choose from the list of ieweileirw neh we 1 , ' Remember, we
of our cards you can earn a Laches or Gen full satisfaction,
want to do business with vau again, and to do this - . , connection
We take all the Risk. You can return the cauls it notiso tj 8 ‘ v
We are the largest dealers in post cards ini Australia, . 1 «ell at once wherever
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cauls sell at once, *
with any other firm,
could not make you
seen.
HWJdm
RE-GAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
FOR THE MAN
WHO SMOKES
you can hardly suggest a better present
than a case of pipes, and the one illustrated
here we have found extremely popular.
The case is a handsome one —contain-
ing two high-grade French Briar Pipes—
silver-mounted —with straight or bent
stems as preferred—and mouth-pieces of
vulcanite.
PRICE; 17/6
Post Free to Any Address.
You may prefer something else suit-
able for a smoker, and you will find quite
a number of articles fully illustrated in the
new “A. & C.” Christmas Catalogue,
which also contains details of some 800
other articles specially selected for Christ-
mas presents. Will you write for a copy,
now ?
We.pay the postage on anything pur-
chased here, and if on receipt of the parcel
you are in any way dissatisfied with your
purchase, you may return the goods and
we will cheerfully refund your money.
ANGUS CSL COOTE,
“ The Store where Quality Counts,”
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
George Street, Corner Koyal Arcade, Sydney.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.Y. Markets.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTEY.
DR. J. COUIB BROWNE'S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing' Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price •• -• .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual orice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . ..£0139
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
GARDEN SEEDS. £lOOO.
No Money Wanted.
In order to introduce our ttign urane i— - -r->—-
everv home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Name ana Aadress, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable such
as Sweet William, Poppv, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail anv nresent
vou may select from our grand list.
We trust you —the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will lind the task of gell-
ing them ridiculously eas . for they are splendid value.
Don’t dela'v send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Florists’ seed Supply Go.
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
8:8%
P§S.!§
Overcome Your Doubt
Don’t hesitate to put your faith in the world famous Beecham’s
Pills, the best, safest, surest and most reliable remedy for all
stomach, liver and kidney troubles. When your stomach is out
of order, it needs help, it must be thoroughly cleansed, strengthened
and settled. Give
EEECHAMS
PILLS
a chance. Let them prove that they can do for you what they
have done for thousands of others during the past half century.
They will promptly and effectively remove all the discomforts
which arise from undigested food; will put your system in good
condition and make life worth living. Any troubles arising from
derangement of the digestive organs will be quickly corrected by
taking Beecham’s Pills. They will without a doubt promptly
Cure and Convince.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price lll\ {56 pills) & 219 {l6B pills).
v ,
OFFER TO MEN !
1
WE have always given proof of anything that we
claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more-for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you want
a remedy which will cure you, it seems wise for you to
take the one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and w©
will pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever
used a testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
Tired Feelings, Sleeplessness, Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys. We don t ask any man to
buy our appliance on a speculation. We know that it
wiil cure these troubles, and we want our pay only when
the cure is complete. If we fail in our task it’s our loss,
not yours. All you lose is your time, and if our Belt
fails to cure vou, you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the best strongest and
finest electric body appliance in the world-one with 50,000 cures to its credit-has failed, and
that there is no cure for you in electricity. Remember our terms are
PAY WHEN CURED.
A FREE BOOK.
—We have iust completed our Beautiful Illustrated Boole, descriptive of
It is worth reading. We will send it free upon request. Write to-day.
our treatment
THE DR. AUSTIN /M PROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.„
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. H
WYSE & WHITE,
Squatters’ Agents for Employment
and General Station Supplies,
No. 1 London Bank Chambers,
Pitt & Market Sts., Sydney.
Coming direct from the Outer
Darling, we know your wants and
are in a position to supply them.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
■v ... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
FIRE
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/t $& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
WTWZ i I L Jfl
Ml MJ
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
1 can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
MEN
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
_ . from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr Martin now a copv will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. Trie most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide tor al
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised frei
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long
standing chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. JV r o similar book has ever been published.
A 50-pave specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored mate
givin< r a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is fid (stamps). Note Address :
FREE
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
pieosp mention this oaoer when writing.
“Elmley House,”
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Use Your
Hose —Now
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’llgetmoreout
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
{rood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau RubberCo, Ltd .
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
b ° V^CUtilIUSt^ eS * he v . L,TTL = WONDER S,DE VALVE DR,LL > a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill ,or
Mines or (Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
?0 ~~. TS: w. & J. lEMPRIERE,
506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ckwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
“Be of
Good
Cheer.”
Drink.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
and
Be Merry
The beverage
tbat benefits.^
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fisa, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, is.
Ssnd
_ for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 313. 8.P.0.. SYDNEY.
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes, li to 25 IC.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog PltKE.
Our Special 3 H.P. Marina Motor - £21
n 11 „ „ * £52
Freight charges prepaid.
PALMER BROS.,
Correspondence invited from thoroughly reliable firms to
take up Sole. Agency in Australia and New Zealand
for Palmer Gasoline Motors.
MOTOR CARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables : “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference—F. G, CROUCH, Esq., Randwick.
Svdnev, N.S.W.
UNS
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps
' The BEST SHOOTING
Gwn in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
Woolgrowers of New South Wales!
Established at
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
LONDON
You naturally desire to obtain the highest possible price for your Wool Clip. To do so it is not sufficient to carefully class it, before dispatch tornarket
It must be judiciously lotted and attractively displayed to command the attention of the army of buyers who annually constitute the buying strength of the
Sydney market. We undertake this important work for owners, and if you have not yet given us a trial, we cordially invite vou to do so this season - we will
spare no effort to give you satisfaction. Prompt attention, careful weighing and quick returns are features of our business. ’
Write for way-bills and any information required.
Expert valuations furnished when desired. |\f| LmHTIT? E
' (This Address is quite sufficient.)
PARKE & LA
vfJX*
LTD
m&it
.
I
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents in N.S.W, for
“ATLAS” ENGINES AND BOILER .
Engines carried in Stock.
The “Atlas” manufactures represent the highest de elop-
ment of their several types; while the prices are si ictly
reasonable. References giveii to local users. Please vrite
for prices and particulars.
The “CARD”
Gives Satisfaction.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Block 10 Co. Ltd.,
Broken Hill, November 20th, 1907.
The Manager.
N. Guthridge Ltd., Melbourne.
Sir, —I have pleasure in informing you that the 20 “ CARD ”
TABLES which have been installed in the Ore Dressing Mill belonging
to this Company have been working most satisfactorily and are giving
excellent results. Yours faithfully,
N. F. Stanley Low, General Manager.
> y'--" •' V
